                                            ABSTRACT
  The disclosure relates to a method for gradually coloring hair comprising the steps of:        a)
  applying an air oxidation haircolor composition to hair; b) removing the air oxidation haircolor
5 composition from the hair directly after application; and c) repeating a set comprising the steps
  a) and b) in multiple spaced intervals. The air oxidation haircolor composition can include: 1)
  at least one primary oxidation dye intermediate; 2) at least one aromatic triol; and 3) water.

                                          -1
 GRADUAL HAIRCOLOR COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS OF USING
                                     THE SAME
[0001] This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
2015209222 filed on 23 January 2015, the contents of which are to be taken as
incorporated herein by reference. Australian Patent Application No. 2015209222
claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/931,174, filed 24
January 2014, the entire contents of which are also incorporated herein by
reference.
                                 BACKGROUND
Field
[0001a] The disclosure relates to air oxidation haircolor compositions and
methods of using the same, including a method for gradually coloring hair, a
method for simultaneously cleansing and gradually coloring hair, a method for
simultaneously conditioning and gradually coloring hair, and a method for
cleansing, conditioning and gradually coloring hair.
Related Background Art
[0002] Permanent (or oxidation) hair coloring products constitute the majority of
hair coloring formulas used in modern times. These products have the ability to
change the color of gray or pigmented hair, as they permanently alter the hair's
natural coloration. Reapplication occurs as new hair growth becomes noticeable.
Oxidation hair dyes are normally sold in the form of a two-component kit. One
container comprises an alkaline composition with oxidation dyes and an
appropriate vehicle. The other container comprises a developer composition that
utilizes an oxidizing agent, usually hydrogen peroxide. The two compositions are
mixed immediately prior to application to the hair. The alkaline pH of the
resultant mixture causes the hair shaft to swell, allowing the dye precursors to

WO 2015/112789                                                         PCT/US2015/012574
                                              -2
    penetrate into the cortex of the hair. These dye precursors are then oxidized and
     combine to form larger molecules. These larger molecules contain a significant
     level of conjugated double bonds, hence producing a colored product that is
    visible from the exterior of the hair. After an appropriate development time
     during which the composition dwells on the hair, the mixture is rinsed from the
    hair. The color of the hair is then permanently altered. Depending upon the pH
    of the mixture and the strength of the developer, these systems can either have the
     capability to simultaneously lighten the hair's natural pigment and deposit color,
    or to just deposit color. The so-called "deposit only permanent colors" have
    played a minor role in retail women's products marketed in the past 30 years, but
    have a significant share of the professional market. They also make up the
    majority of men's hair colorants sold today.
     [0003] Attempts have been made to replace or eliminate the harsh developer
    portion of oxidation dye products. Several advancements involve the use of
     enzymes or solutions of chlorites as replacements to hydrogen peroxide. These
     systems still require two separate components that are mixed immediately prior to
     application. Although these alternative formulas are milder and reduce damage
    to the hair, they do not offer any great advantages in relation to improved
     convenience, messiness, ease of use or color delivery. However, the air oxidation
     dyes or auto oxidation hair dyes, as they are called, eliminate the need for the
     addition of a developer and a mixing step. As the name implies, these
     compositions rely on atmospheric oxygen for color development. No mixing is
    required. Formulas containing these dyes are conventionally applied to the hair
    by using leave-in formulations that are removed the following day by traditional
     cleansing methods. Full color coverage is then permanently imparted.
     [0004] The first practical applications of this technology are discussed in U.S.
    Patent Nos. 3,920,384, 4,054,413, 4,529,404 and 4,297,098. Traditional primary
     dye intermediates were combined with dye couplers that had a high degree of
     electron donating groups on the aromatic ring. The most popular of these
     couplers include: 1,2,4-trihydroxybenzene, 2,4,5-trihydroxytoluene, and
    pyrogallol. These dye intermediates may be included within a vehicle that
     contains styling properties and can be delivered from an aerosol can in the form

                                            -3
of a foam. The aerosol container also affords an anaerobic environment to
preserve the stability and hence efficacy of the formula. The product is then left
in the hair until it is removed, generally about one or two days later. Full color
coverage is then provided.
[0005] However, there have not been any truly successful attempts in finding a
means of gradually coloring hair; in other words, a means to gradually develop
color build-up on the hair a little at a time upon multiple applications, so that hair
coloring is less noticeable day by day to others. Until recently, lead acetate
compositions were the only effective means of accomplishing this coloration.
These types of products develop and maintain partial gray coverage.
[0006] Also, while there are products that can be used to shampoo, thicken,
regrow and/or condition and impart a permanent hair color, these products do not
accomplish their goal via application of a single composition. For example, these
products employ consecutive treatment formulas (see e.g., U.S. Patent No.
6,758,867) and/or, more specifically, require a shampoo or cleanser with typical
oxidation dye intermediates at high pH, which is applied to the hair and removed,
followed by a conditioner or, after treatment at an acidic pH, an oxidizer, such as
hydrogen peroxide, to develop the color.
[0006a] The discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles and the
like is included in this specification solely for the purpose of providing a context
for the present invention. It is not suggested or represented that any or all of
these matters formed part of the prior art base or were common general
knowledge in the field relevant to the present invention as it existed before the
priority date of each claim of this application.
[0006b] Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising"
are used in this specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as
specifying the presence of the stated features, integers, steps or components, but
not precluding the presence of one or more other features, integers, steps or
components, or group thereof.
                                      SUMMARY
[0007] To address the shortcomings of conventional hair coloring products and
methods, provided herein are hair coloring compositions incorporating air

                                          - 3a
oxidation dyes that can be used to achieve a gradual (or progressive) change in
color of hair and can be regularly and easily included in an individual's daily
grooming discipline. Such compositions are used in personal hair and body care
products including, but not limited to, shampoos, conditioners, conditioning
shampoos, hair thickening and regrowth compositions, body washes, and cleanser
compositions in general, wherein the compositions can simultaneously provide
their normal daily grooming function and gradually color hair with repeated use.
[0007a] In one aspect, the present invention provides a method for gradually
coloring hair comprising the steps of: a) applying an air oxidation haircolor
composition to hair; b) removing the air oxidation haircolor composition from the
hair directly after application; and c) repeating a set comprising the steps a) and b)
in multiple spaced intervals, wherein the step of removing the air oxidation
haircolor composition is performed within 1 hour after application, wherein the air
oxidation haircolor composition comprises: 1) at least one primary oxidation dye
intermediate; 2) at least one aromatic triol; 3) water; and 4) a grooming agent
selected from the group consisting of at least one cleansing surfactant and/or at
least one conditioning agent, where a conditioning agent content is 0.5% to 15%
weight by weight.
[0007b] In another aspect, the present invention provides a method for gradually
coloring hair and simultaneously cleansing and/or conditioning hair, the method
comprising the steps of: a) applying an air oxidation haircolor composition to hair;
b) removing the air oxidation haircolor composition from the hair directly after
application; and c) repeating a set comprising the steps a) and b) in multiple spaced
intervals, wherein the step of removing the air oxidation haircolor composition is
performed within 1 hour after application, wherein the air oxidation haircolor
composition comprises: 1) at least one primary oxidation dye intermediate; 2) at
least one air oxidation dye coupler; 3) water; and 4) a grooming agent selected
from the group consisting of at least one cleansing surfactant and/or at least one
conditioning agent, where a conditioning agent content is 0.5% to 15% weight by
weight.

                                         - 3b
[0007c] In yet another aspect, the present invention provides air oxidation hair
color shampoo composition comprising: 1) at least one primary oxidation dye
intermediate, where a primary oxidation dye intermediate content is 0.1% to 30%
weight by weight; 2) at least one aromatic triol, where an aromatic triol content is
0. 1% to 3% weight by weight; 3) water, where a water content is 40% to 98%
weight by weight; and 4) at least one cleansing surfactant; wherein the air
oxidation haircolor shampoo composition cleanses hair; and wherein the air
oxidation haircolor shampoo composition gradually colors hair with repeated use.
[0007d] In a further aspect, the present invention provides air oxidation haircolor
conditioner composition comprising: 1) at least one primary oxidation dye
intermediate, where a primary oxidation dye intermediate content is 0.1% to 30%
weight by weight; 2) at least one aromatic triol, where an aromatic triol content is
0. 1% to 3% weight by weight; 3) water, where a water content is 40% to 98%
weight by weight; and 4) at least one conditioning agent, where a conditioning
agent content is 0. 1%to 150% weight by weight; wherein the air oxidation haircolor
conditioner composition conditions the hair; and wherein the air oxidation
haircolor conditioner composition gradually colors hair with repeated use.
[0007e] In yet a further aspect, the present invention provides an air oxidation
haircolor composition, comprising: at least one primary oxidation dye
intermediate; at least one air oxidation dye coupler; and water, wherein the air
oxidation haircolor composition comprises a lamellar phase.
[0008] In particular, a method for gradually coloring hair as disclosed herein can
comprise the steps of: a) applying an air oxidation haircolor composition to hair; b)
removing the air oxidation haircolor composition from the hair directly after

WO 2015/112789                                                         PCT/US2015/012574
                                              -4
     application; and c) repeating a set comprising the steps a) and b) in multiple
     spaced intervals, wherein the air oxidation haircolor composition comprises: at
     least one primary oxidation dye intermediate; at least one aromatic triol; and
    water. In certain embodiments thereof, a primary oxidation dye intermediate
     content is about 0.010%to about 5% weight by weight of the air oxidation
    haircolor composition; an aromatic triol content is about 0.01% to about 5%
    weight by weight of the air oxidation haircolor composition; or may be a
     conditioner composition and/or a cleanser. In another embodiment: 1) the
    primary oxidation dye intermediate content of the air oxidation haircolor
     composition is about 0.1% to about 30% weight by weight of the air oxidation
    haircolor composition; 2) the aromatic triol content is about 0.1% to about 30%
    weight by weight of the air oxidation haircolor composition; 3) a water content is
     about 40% to about 98% weight by weight of the air oxidation haircolor
     composition; and 4) a cleansing surfactant content is greater than 5% to about
     50% weight by weight and/or a conditioning agent content is about 0.5% to about
     15% weight by weight of the air oxidation haircolor composition.
     [0009] An embodiment of the disclosure is a method for simultaneously
     cleansing and gradually coloring hair comprising the steps of: a) applying an air
    oxidation haircolor composition to hair; and b) removing the air oxidation
    haircolor composition from the hair directly after application, wherein the air
    oxidation haircolor composition is an air oxidation haircolor grooming
     composition comprising: 1) at least one primary oxidation dye intermediate,
    where a primary oxidation dye intermediate content is about 0.010%to about 50%
    weight by weight; 2) at least one aromatic triol, where an aromatic triol content is
     about 0.010%to about 50%weight by weight; 3) water, where a content is about
    40% to about 98% weight by weight; and 4) at least one cleansing surfactant,
    where a cleansing surfactant content is greater than 5% to about 50% weight by
    weight.
     [0010] Another embodiment is a method for simultaneously conditioning and
     gradually coloring hair comprising the steps of: a) applying an air oxidation
    haircolor composition to hair; and b) removing the air oxidation haircolor
     composition from the hair directly after application, wherein the air oxidation

WO 2015/112789                                                         PCT/US2015/012574
                                              -5
    haircolor composition is an air oxidation haircolor grooming composition
     comprising: 1) at least one primary oxidation dye intermediate, where a primary
    oxidation dye intermediate content is about 0.010%to about 50%weight by weight;
    2) at least one aromatic triol, where an aromatic triol content is about 0.01% to
     about 5% weight by weight; 3) water, where a content is about 40% to about 98%
    weight by weight; and 4) at least one conditioning agent, where a conditioning
     agent content is about 0.1% to about 150%weight by weight.
     [0011] A further embodiment is an air oxidation haircolor shampoo composition
     comprising: 1) at least one primary oxidation dye intermediate, where a primary
    oxidation dye intermediate content is about 0.1% to about 30% weight by weight;
    2) at least one aromatic triol, where an aromatic triol content is about 0.1% to
     about 3% weight by weight; 3) water, where a content is about 40% to about 98%
    weight by weight; and 4) at least one cleansing surfactant, where a cleansing
     surfactant content is greater than 5% to about 50% weight by weight; wherein the
     air oxidation haircolor shampoo composition cleanses hair; and wherein the air
    oxidation haircolor shampoo composition gradually colors hair with repeated use.
     [0012] A still further embodiment is an air oxidation haircolor conditioner
     composition comprising: 1) a primary oxidation dye intermediate content of
     about 0.1% to about 30%weight by weight; 2) an aromatic triol content of about
     0.1% to about 3 % weight by weight; 3) a water content of about 4 0% to about
     98% weight by weight; and 4) at least one conditioning agent, where a
     conditioning agent content is about 0.1% to about 150% weight by weight;
    wherein the air oxidation haircolor conditioner composition conditions the hair;
     and wherein the air oxidation haircolor conditioner composition gradually colors
    hair with repeated use.
                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
     [0013] Air oxidation haircolor and air oxidation haircolor grooming (e.g.,
     cleanser and/or conditioner) compositions are disclosed herein that can be used to
     achieve a gradual (or progressive) change in color of hair and can be regularly
     and easily included in an individual's daily grooming discipline. Products
     containing these compositions include, but are not limited to, shampoos,

WO 2015/112789                                                         PCT/US2015/012574
                                               -6
     conditioners, hair thickening and regrowth compositions, body washes, and
     cleanser compositions in general, wherein the compositions can simultaneously
    provide their normal daily grooming function and gradually color hair. These
    products are designed to gradually impart color to hair by oxygen activation of
     dye precursors in the formula when used repeatedly until the desired color is
     achieved.
     [0014] An air oxidation haircolor composition or air oxidation haircolor
     grooming composition as used herein refers to a composition that does not
    require mixing or contact with a separate oxidant (other than air or atmospheric
    oxygen) prior, during or after application to hair to color the hair. Thus, the air
    oxidation haircolor compositions disclosed herein can cover gray and enhance
    natural pigmented hair without oxidative hair damage.
     [0015] The air oxidation haircolor composition as disclosed herein that, in
     addition to coloring hair, can also perform a grooming function, such as cleansing
     and/or conditioning the hair, can do so without being combined with any
     additional component (other than atmospheric oxygen or air to develop the color
     and possibly water) before, during or after application to the hair. That is, it is a
     single composition (e.g., liquid, cream, gel, emulsion, lotion, foam) that contains
    ingredients in sufficient amounts to provide both grooming and coloring
     functionalities in a single application, and it need not be combined with any other
     composition.
     [0016] Thus, the air oxidation haircolor composition can be applied from a
     single container to achieve the intended result with short dwell times. This is
     different from, and more advantageous than, application of multiple compositions
     from different containers, which are applied to and combined on the hair, or
    mixed (or pre-mixed) shortly before being applied to the hair.
     [0017] Because these air oxidation haircolor compositions use air as the oxidant,
    they are milder and less damaging to the hair and have better color retention than
    traditional multi-part systems. The air oxidation haircolor compositions
     disclosed herein are very efficient dye carriers which allow for unexpectedly
     quick dye penetration into the hair shaft. This may be accomplished within a

WO 2015/112789                                                           PCT/US2015/012574
                                               -7
    minute or two of application, which is a typical use time for many conventional
    types of grooming products.
     [0018] In order to achieve fast dwell times and other benefits of the air oxidation
    haircolor compositions disclosed herein, dye couplers that are used should have a
    high degree of electron donating groups on the aromatic ring, such as 1,2,4
    trihydroxybenzene. Unlike conventional dyes, the air oxidation haircolor
     composition as disclosed herein can be formulated within the typical pH range
     expected for the underlying grooming product, which further provides for an
    improved mild product.
     [0019] The methods for gradually coloring hair as disclosed herein employ these
     air oxidation haircolor compositions.
     [0020] Thus, the air oxidation haircolor compositions disclosed herein may be
    used as a daily hair care product, in place of one's shampoo, conditioner or
     cleanser, and can be removed after the same amount of time as the conventional
     grooming products like which they are formulated to function in addition to
     coloring hair, even in as little as 1 minute or in as long as 1 hour. The daily use
    of these compositions gradually increases the color deposit, whereby the
     consumer can change frequency of use from daily to weekly, or even less
     frequently, once the desired color is obtained in order to maintain the color. By
     developing the hair color gradually and then using the formulas to maintain a
     specific degree of coloration, an added benefit of little to no visible regrowth can
    be achieved. With conventional full color compositions that are applied monthly,
    the appearance of regrowth or untreated hair is considered an undesirable effect.
     [0021] One embodiment is a method for gradually coloring hair comprising the
     steps of: a) applying an air oxidation haircolor composition to hair; b) removing
    the air oxidation haircolor composition from the hair directly after application;
     and c) repeating a set comprising the steps a) and b) in multiple spaced intervals,
    wherein the air oxidation haircolor composition comprises: 1) at least one
    primary oxidation dye intermediate; 2) at least one aromatic triol; and 3) water.
     [0022] Gradually coloring hair, as used herein, refers to providing less than
     complete coverage with one use of the air oxidation haircolor composition.
    Preferably, gradually coloring hair is achieving about 30% or less, about 20% or

WO 2015/112789                                                          PCT/US2015/012574
     less, about 15% or less, or 10% or less, of color development of one's natural
     shade with every application. Thus, with gradual coloring, each successive use
    provides additional coverage, imparts further coloring to the hair, and develops
     color build-up on the hair. Thus, one air oxidation haircolor composition is able
    to achieve multiple different shades of one hair color, and with each application
    to the hair, the shade of that color darkens.
     [0023] Application of the air oxidation haircolor composition may be achieved
    by any means known in the art, including, but not limited to, by hand or brush.
    The air oxidation haircolor composition may be applied to wet or to dry hair, and
    preferably, to wet hair.
     [0024] Application and removal in multiple spaced intervals refers to multiple
     sets of applying to and then removing from the hair the air oxidation haircolor
     composition to achieve the gradual coloring, i.e., gradual build-up of color on the
    hair, and the intervals of time between each set of applying and removing may be
    the same or different, including bi-monthly, monthly, semi-monthly, weekly,
     semi-weekly, daily, hourly, a minute or a few minutes, or any combination of
    these intervals.
     [0025] Preferably, the air oxidation haircolor composition is applied more
     frequently upon initial use of the product until the desired color is achieved, and
    then the frequency of use is reduced to simply maintain the desired color. For
     example, the air oxidation haircolor composition may be applied daily for the
     first 1-2 weeks, every other day for the third week, and then once a week
    thereafter. As another example, the air oxidation haircolor composition may be
     applied once a week or twice a week until the desired color is achieved and then
    it may be applied monthly or semi-monthly to maintain the desired color.
     [0026] Removing the air oxidation haircolor composition may be conducted by
     any means known in the art, including, but not limited to, rinsing or wiping off.
    Preferably, rinsing is conducted using water. The removal, preferably, is the
     same as that for the type of grooming product the air oxidation haircolor
     composition is formulated to function. That is, for example, if the air oxidation
    haircolor composition is a shampoo, it is preferably rinsed off the hair with water.

WO 2015/112789                                                         PCT/US2015/012574
                                               -9
     [0027] Removing the air oxidation haircolor composition may be done directly
     after application. Removal directly after application as used herein refers to the
    removal regimen or procedure traditionally followed by consumers for the type of
     grooming product that the air oxidation haircolor composition is formulated to
     function. For example, if the air oxidation haircolor composition is a shampoo,
    the air oxidation haircolor composition may be removed in accordance with the
     consumer's usual procedure for removal of shampoo, and if the air oxidation
    haircolor composition is a conditioner, the air oxidation haircolor composition
    may be removed in accordance with the consumer's usual procedure for removal
    of conditioner. For example, directly after application may refer to a time period
    that is about 1 hour or less (i.e., within about 1 hour). With respect to cleansing
     and shampooing, removing may occur, for example, within about 15 minutes,
    within about 10 minutes, within about 9 minutes, within about 8 minutes, within
     about 7 minutes, within about 6 minutes, within about 5 minutes, within about 4
    minutes, within about 3 minutes, within about 2 minutes, within about 1 minute
     after application, or within any time period in between. With respect to
     conditioning, removing may occur, for example, within about 1 hour, within
     about 45 minutes, within about 30 minutes, within about 15 minutes, within about
     10 minutes, within about 9 minutes, within about 8 minutes, within about 7
    minutes, within about 6 minutes, within about 5 minutes, within about 4 minutes,
    within about 3 minutes, within about 2 minutes, within about 1 minute after
     application, or within any time period in between. For example, removing
     directly after application may take place from about 10 minutes to about 15
    minutes after application, or from about 3 minutes to about 5 minutes after
     application.
     [0028] As noted above, the air oxidation haircolor composition may be in the
     form of an air oxidation haircolor conditioner composition or an air oxidation
    haircolor cleanser composition. An air oxidation haircolor conditioner
     composition simultaneously gradually colors and conditions the hair to which it is
     applied. An air oxidation haircolor cleanser composition may be, for example, a
    body wash, a face wash and/or a shampoo. An air oxidation haircolor cleanser

WO 2015/112789                                                        PCT/US2015/012574
                                             - 10
     composition as disclosed herein can simultaneously gradually color and cleanse
    the hair to which it is applied.
     [0029] Hair refers to any hair on the body, including, but not limited to, head,
     face, and body hair. Preferably, the hair is head hair.
     [0030] Any primary oxidation dye intermediate or a combination thereof suitable
     for an air oxidation hair dye may be used in the air oxidation haircolor
     composition disclosed herein. Oxidation dyes are primarily aromatic compounds
     and typically have a low molecular weight. Oxidation dyes form the basis of hair
     dyes and are generally categorized under two groups: oxidation base (primary
    intermediate) and coupler (secondary intermediate). Thus, the primary oxidation
     dye intermediate forms the base of a permanent hair coloring product.
     [0031] In a certain embodiment, the primary oxidation dye intermediate is
     selected from the group consisting of: p-phenylenediamine, N,N-bis(2
    hydroxyethyl)-p-phenylenediamine sulfate, p-aminophenol, 2,4,5,6
    tetraaminopyrimidine, p-toluenediamine, 2-chloro-p-phenylenediamine, N
    phenyl-p-phenylenediamine, p-methylaminophenol, 1-amino-4-(2
    methoxyethyl)-aminobenzene, 2-(hydroxymethyl)-p-phenylenediamine, 3
    methyl-p-aminophenol, 2-(2-hydroxyethyl)-p-phenylenediamine, 4,4'
     diaminodiphenylamine, 1,3-dimethyl-2,5-diaminobenzene, 2-isopropyl-p
    phenylenediamine, N-(beta-hydroxypropyl)-p-phenylenediamine, 2-methyl-p
     aminophenol, N-2-methoxyethyl-p-phenylenediamine, 2-hydroxyethyl-p
    phenylenediamine, 2,6-dimethyl-p-phenylenediamine, 3-methyl-p-aminopheol, 2
    propyl-p-phenylenediamine, 2-(2'-hydroxyethylaminomethyl)-p-aminophenol, 2
     (methoxymethyl)-p-aminophenol, 2-methyl-4-dimethylaminoaniline, 5
     aminosalicylic acid, 2,3-dimethyl-p-phenylenediamine, 2,6-diethyl-p
    phenylenediamine, 2,5-dimethyl-p-phenylenediamine, N,N-diethyl-p
    phenylenediamine, N,N-dipropyl-p-phenylenediamine, 4-amino-N,N-diethyl-3
    methylaniline, 4-N,N-bis(2-hydroxyethyl)-amino-2-methylanilin, 4-N,N-bis(2
    hydroxyethyl)-amino-2-chloroaniline, 2-(2-hydroxyethyl)-p-phenylenediamine,
    2-fluoro-p-phenylenediamine, N-(2-hydroxypropyl)-p-phenylenediamine, 2
    hydroxymethyl-p-phenylenediamine, N,N-dimethyl-2-methyl-p
    phenylenediamine, N-ethyl-N-(2-hydroxyethyl-p-phenylenediamine, N-(2,3-

WO 2015/112789                                                        PCT/US2015/012574
                                              - 11
     dihydroxypropyl)-p-phenylenediamine, N-(4'aminophenyl)-p-phenylenediamine,
    2-(2-hydroxyethloxy)-p-phenylenediamine, 2-(acetylaminoethyloxy)-p
    phenylenediamine, 2-methyl-1-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-p-phenylenedamine, 4
    methyl-o-phenylenediamine, a salt thereof, and any combination thereof.
     [0032] In certain embodiments, depending on the desired shading and depth of
     color, the primary oxidation dye intermediate content is about 0.010% to about 50%
    weight by weight, preferably, about 0.l1% to about 3.0% weight by weight, more
    preferably, about 1.0% to about 3.0% weight by weight, and most preferably,
     about 0.5% to about 2.0% weight by weight of the air oxidation haircolor
     composition. Preferably, the primary oxidation dye intermediate may be N,N
    bis(2-hydroxyethyl)-p-phenylenediamine sulfate, or a salt thereof. In other
     certain embodiments, the air oxidation haircolor composition comprises about
     0.01% to about 5% weight by weight, preferably, about 0.l1% to about 3.0%
    weight by weight, more preferably, about 1.0% to about 3.0% weight by weight,
     and most preferably, about 0.5% to about 2.0% weight by weight of N,N-bis(2
    hydroxyethyl)-p-phenylenediamine sulfate, or a salt thereof.
     [0033] Any aromatic triol or a combination thereof that can function as a dye
     coupler in an air oxidation hair dye may be used. The aromatic triol controls the
     speed at which the dye intermediate oxidizes in the presence of atmospheric
    oxygen. The aromatic triol(s) and primary oxidation dye intermediate(s) in
     combination form the oxidation condensate, which, upon application, becomes
    trapped within the structure of the hair and rapidly oxidizes upon exposure to
     atmospheric oxygen.
     [0034] In a certain embodiment, the aromatic triol is selected from the group
     consisting of: 1,2,4-benzenetriol, 2,4,5-trihydroxytoluene, pyrogallol, and any
     combination thereof. Depending upon the desired depth of color and speed of
     coloration, the aromatic triol content is about 0.010%to about 50% weight by
    weight, preferably, about 0.l1% to about 3.0% weight by weight, and more
    preferably, about 0.2% to about 1.5% weight by weight of the air oxidation
    haircolor composition. In a preferred embodiment, the aromatic triol is 1,2,4
    benzenetriol, and its content in the air oxidation haircolor composition is about
     0.01% to about 5% weight by weight, preferably, about 0.l1% to about 3.0%

WO 2015/112789                                                         PCT/US2015/012574
                                             - 12
    weight by weight, more preferably, about 0.2% to about 1.5% weight by weight,
     and most preferably, about 0.5% to about 0.9% weight by weight. In an
     embodiment, the aromatic triol, such as 1,2,4-benzenetriol, has a purity of greater
    than about 95%, preferably greater than about 97%, and more preferably greater
    than about 98%.
     [0035] The air oxidation haircolor composition comprises water, which may be
    present in the amount of about 40% to about 98% weight by weight of the
     composition. The water content may also be about 70% to about 98% weight by
    weight, and more preferably, about 70% to about 85% weight by weight of the air
    oxidation haircolor composition. The water content of the composition
     (including the aqueous portion of surfactants) should be sufficient to allow for
     efficient transference of dye intermediates from solution to the interior of the hair
     shaft. As with other ingredients, the amount of water may be guided by what
    type of composition the hair dye is formulated to function. For example, high
     lather shampoos preferably have a lower water content than a light conditioner,
    which typically contain at least about 90% of water (including the aqueous
    portion of surfactants).
     [0036] The air oxidation haircolor composition may also comprise at least one
     cleansing surfactant. Surfactants are added to reduce the surface tension of water
     and also the interfacial tension between oil and water. Thus, they have the ability
    to quickly wet out the hair surface. Surfactants can produce a lather and can
     allow for ease of rinsing. The surfactant content in the product varies by the type
    of grooming product, amount of water, and the other ingredients in the grooming
    product. Shampoos, cleansers, and body washes contain the highest surfactant
     levels. The cleansing surfactant content is preferably from greater than 5% to
     about 50% weight by weight, preferably about 7% to about 45% weight by
    weight, and more preferably about 10% to about 40% weight by weight of the air
    oxidation haircolor composition. For a shampoo, preferably, the surfactant
     content is about 6% to about 40% weight by weight, and more preferably, about
     10% to about 20% weight by weight of the air oxidation haircolor composition.
    For a body wash or other cleanser, the surfactant content may be the same as that
     for a shampoo, but preferably, the surfactant content is greater than 5% to about

WO 2015/112789                                                            PCT/US2015/012574
                                               - 13
     30% weight by weight, and more preferably, about 6% to about 15% weight by
    weight of the total air oxidation haircolor composition.
     [0037] The surfactants used in the air oxidation haircolor composition disclosed
    herein can be any cosmetically acceptable surfactant. If the composition is
    intended, for example, to be a cleansing composition, the surfactant may be any
     anionic, amphoteric or nonionic cleansing surfactant, or any combination thereof.
    In a certain embodiment, the cleansing surfactant is selected from the group
     consisting of: alkyl sulfate, alkyl ether sulfate, fatty acid soap, alkyl glyceryl
     ether sulfonate, methyl alkyl taurate, fatty alkyl glycinate, N-alkyl glutamate,
     alkylisethionate, alkyl ethoxysulfosuccinate, alpha-sulfonated fatty acid, alkyl
     ethoxy carboxylate, alkyl phosphate ester, amphoacetate, alkyl polyglycoside,
     amphodiacetate, amphohydroxypropylsulfonate, amphopropionate, amidopropyl
    betaine, sultaine, alkylamidopropylamine oxide, alkylamine oxide, alkanolamide,
     sulfocuccinate, alkylamphopropionate, ethoxylated fatty alcohol, fatty ester and
     ethoxylate thereof, propoxylated fatty alcohol, glycerolated fatty alcohol, fatty
     diol, fatty alkylphenol, fatty amide, methylacyl taurate, fatty acyl glycinate, N
     acyl glutamate, alkyl ethoxysulphosuccinate, alkyl phosphate ester, ethoxylated
     alkyl phosphate ester, acylsarcosinate, triglyceride with an inserted
    polyethyleneglycol chain, ethoxylated mono and di-glyceride, polyethoxylated
     lanolin, ethoxylated butter derivative, alkyl betaine, and any combination thereof.
     [0038] Surfactant molecules in water have the ability to self-assemble at
     concentrations greater than a critical micelle concentration (CMC) into several
    types of supra molecular aggregates called micelles. The lowest concentration at
    which micelles are formed is the CMC. A micelle typically forms with the
    hydrophilic "head" regions in contact with surrounding water sequestering the
    hydrophobic single-tail regions in the micelle center. Surfactant aggregates
    include spheres (micellar phase), cylinders (hexagonal phase), or bilayers
     (lamellar phase) depending on the amount and type of surfactant that is
     employed. Formulations having spherical micelles tend to have low viscosity
     and Newtonian flow properties and may not have properties that are desirable for
     a shampoo. Cylindrical micelles are generally larger in size than spherical

WO 2015/112789                                                          PCT/US2015/012574
                                              - 14
    micelles. Formulations with cylindrical micelles are more viscous because
    movement of these larger micelles is restricted.
     [0039] Most conventional shampoos are cylindrical phase emulsions as the
    production of these formulations is cost-effective and the viscosity can be
     achieved by adding salts that increase the size of the micelles. However, both
     spherical and cylindrical micellar formulations do not have the ability to hold
    oils, actives and other particulate materials. In addition, due to the small size of
     spherical micelles, the micelles may penetrate into the skin stratum corneum or
     eye membrane and thus cause undesirable irritation and harshness of any
     grooming product containing these formulations.
     [0040] Surfactant mixtures in water can also form stacks of ordered bilayers
     called a lamellar phase. Within the lamellar phase, the surfactant molecules are
     arranged into bilayers that are separated by water layers. Lamellar phase
     compositions have high zero shear viscosity due to the close packed layered
     arrangement. The layers are flat and each parallel layer can slide over adjacent
     layers, which results in the shear thinning behavior of lamellar phase
     compositions.
     [0041] Preferably, at least about 80 weight %, more preferably at least about 85
    weight %, still more preferably at least about 90 weight %, still more preferably
     at least about 95 weight %, still more preferably at least about 98 weight %, still
    more preferably at least about 99 weight %, still more preferably about 100
    weight % or all of the surfactants that are in the air oxidation haircolor
     composition can form bilayers. Without wishing to be bound by a theory, it is
    believed that, in the lamellar phase, the hair dye molecules are trapped between
    the layers creating an encapsulated effect, which protects the dyes from exposure
    to air and imparts superior properties to the grooming product. Such properties
    include a creamy texture, decreased staining and increased stability during
     storage (i.e., reduced premature oxidation). Thus, cleansing surfactants that form
    these bilayers may be employed in air oxidation haircolor compositions to reduce
    or prevent staining by the dye of skin or other surfaces, and provide enhanced
    protection against premature oxidation of the colorant. In a shampoo
     composition, such surfactants improve the stability of the dye(s), create a superior

WO 2015/112789                                                          PCT/US2015/012574
                                              - 15
    texture and also make the composition appear more like a premium conventional
     shampoo in terms of color, appearance, moisturization and conditioning.
     [0042] In an embodiment of the air oxidation haircolor composition disclosed
    herein, the cleansing surfactant forms a lamellar phase. Preferably, the cleansing
     surfactant, which forms a lamellar phase, is selected from the group consisting of:
     at least one anionic cleansing surfactant selected from the group of
     sulfosuccinates and isethionates, at least one amphoteric cleansing surfactant
     selected from the group of sultaines and betaines, and at least one nonionic
     cleansing surfactant selected from the group of alkyl poly glucosides, and any
     combination thereof. Preferably, this cleansing surfactant also comprises at least
    one fatty derivative or mixture thereof. Preferably, the fatty derivative may be a
    mixture of a fatty alcohol (e.g., cetearyl alcohol, cetyl alcohol, stearyl alcohol,
     lauryl alcohol, capric alcohol) and fatty acid ester, or a mixture of a fatty acid and
     a fatty amide. Preferably, the sulfosuccinate may be selected from the group
     consisting of dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate, disodium lauryl sulfosuccinate,
     disodium laureth sulfosuccinate, disodium oleamide MEA sulfosuccinate, sodium
     dialkyl sulfosuccinate, and any combination thereof. Preferably, the betaine may
    be selected from the group consisting of cocamidopropyl betaine,
     lauramidopropyl betaine, coco betaine, lauryl betaine, cetyl betaine,
    babussuamidopropyl betaine, wheatgermamidopropyl betaine, oleamidopropyl
    betaine, capryl/capramidopropyl betaine, tallow dihdroxyethyl betaine, and coco
     alkyldimethyl betaine, as well as any combination thereof, and the sultaine may
    be selected from the group consisting of cocamidopropyl hydroxysultaine,
     lauramidopropyl hydroxysultaine, lauryl hydroxysultaine, capryl
    hydroxysultaine, cetyl hydroxysultaine, caprylamidopropyl hydroxysultaine, and
    oleamidopropyl hydroxysultaine, as well as any combination thereof. Preferably,
    the alkyl poly glucoside may be selected from the group consisting of decyl
     glucoside, cetyl glucoside, cetearyl glucoside, lauryl glucoside, coco glucoside,
     and any combination thereof. Preferably, the isethionate may be selected from
    the group consisting of sodium cocoyl isethionate, ammonium cocoyl isethionate,
     sodium lauroyl isethionate, sodium lauroyl methyl isethionate, and any
     combination thereof.

WO 2015/112789                                                           PCT/US2015/012574
                                               - 16
     [0043]    In an embodiment, the cleansing surfactant is a combination of at least
    one anionic cleansing surfactant selected from the group of at least one
     sulfosuccinate and at least one isethionate, at least one sultaine, at least one alkyl
    poly glucoside, and at least one fatty derivative. In another embodiment, the
     cleansing surfactant is a combination of at least one sulfosuccinate, at least one
     sultaine, at least one alkyl poly glucoside, at least one isethionate, and at least one
     fatty derivative, and the content of this combination in the air oxidation haircolor
     composition is about 3% to about 50%, greater than about 5% to about 45%,
    preferably greater than about 5% to about 10% weight by weight. In an
     embodiment, the air oxidation haircolor composition comprises about 3% to
     about 7% weight by weight, preferably about 4.5% to about 5.5% weight by
    weight, of at least one sulfosuccinate, about 0.5% to about 5% weight by weight,
    preferably about 1%to about 30% weight by weight, of at least one sultaine, about
     1% to about 5% weight by weight, preferably about 2% to about 30% weight by
    weight, of at least one glucoside, and about 0.5% to about 4% weight by weight,
    preferably about 1.5% to about 2.5% weight by weight, of at least one
    isethionate. The fatty derivative may be present in about 1%to about 50% weight
    by weight, preferably about 2% to about 4% weight by weight, of the air
    oxidation haircolor composition. In a certain embodiment, the fatty derivative is
     a fatty alcohol, and preferably may be cetearyl alcohol.
     [0044] The air oxidation haircolor composition may also comprise at least one
     conditioning agent. The conditioning agents may be present in a shampoo,
     cleanser or conditioner type air oxidation haircolor composition. Any
     conditioning agent may be used. In a certain embodiment, the conditioning agent
    is selected from the group consisting of: quaternized gum, quaternized polymer,
     quarternary ammonium salt, synthetic oil, plant oil, natural or synthetic wax,
     silicone, fatty amine, cationic and aminofunctional polysiloxane, quarternized
    protein, quarternized polysaccharide, polyamine, polyaminoamide, cationic
     cellulose, quaternary polymer of vinyl pyrrolidone and vinylimidazole,
    polyalkylenimine, and any combination thereof. The conditioning agent content
    may be about 0. 1% to about 15% weight by weight, preferably, about 2% to
     about 10% weight by weight of the air oxidation haircolor composition.

WO 2015/112789                                                         PCT/US2015/012574
                                             - 17
     [0045] The air oxidation haircolor composition may also comprise a grooming
     agent selected from the group consisting of: at least one cleansing surfactant; at
     least one conditioning agent; and any combination thereof. In an embodiment
    thereof, a cleansing surfactant content is greater than 5% to about 50% weight by
    weight, and a conditioning agent content is about 0.5% to about 15% weight by
    weight, or about 0.l1% to about 15 % weight by weight.
     [0046] The air oxidation haircolor composition may also comprise at least one
     auxiliary oxidation dye coupler. The auxiliary oxidation dye coupler is used for
     developing the shade and achieving a broader spectrum of color imparted by the
     air oxidation haircolor composition. The auxiliary oxidation dye coupler may be
     selected from the group consisting of: resorcinol, 4-chlororesorcinol, 2
    methylresorcinol, m-aminophenol, 1-naphthol, 1,5-naphthalenediol, 2,7
    napthalenediol, 2,4-diaminophenol, hydroxybenzomorpholine, 1-hydroxy-3
     dimethylaminobenzene, 4-amino-2-hydroxytoluene, 2-methyl-5
    hydroxyethylaminophenol, 1-methoxy-2,5-diaminobenzene, phenyl methyl
    pyrazolone, 2,4-diaminophenoxyethanol HCl, 4-ethoxy-m-phenylenediamine, 1
    hydroxy-3-amino-4,6-dichlorobenzene, 1-hydroxy-2,5-diamino-4
    methoxybenzene, 4-amino-m-cresol, 6-amino-m-cresol, 2-amino-4
    hydroxyethylaminoanisole, 5-amino-6-chloro-o cresol, 6-amino-o-cresol, 4,6
    bis(2-hydroxyethoxy)-m-phenylenediamine HCl, 5-amino-4-chloro-o-cresol, 2
     ethylamino-p-cresol, 2-amino-5-acetaminophenol, 2-methyl-i -naphthol, 1
     acetoxy-2-methylnaphthalene, 1-hydroxy-6-aminonaphthalene-3-sulfonic acid,
    thymol, 1,5-dihydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalene, 2-chlororesorcinol, N,N
    bis(hydroxyethyl)-m-phenylenediamine, 2,6-diaminotoluene, N,N
    bis(hydroxyethyl)-2,4-diaminophenetole, 4,6-bis(hydroxyethyl)-m
    phenylenediamine, 6-hydroxybenzomorpholine, 2-hydroxy-4
    hydroxyethylaminotoluene, 4,6-dichloro-m-aminophenol, 2-methyl-m
     aminophenol, 2-chloro-6-methyl-m-aminophenol, 2-hydroxyethoxy-5
     aminophenol, 2-chloro-5-trifluoroethylaminophenol, 4-chloro-6-methyl-m
     aminophenol, N-hydroxyethyl-4-methoxy-2-methyl-m-aminophenol, 5-amino-4
    methoxy-2-methylphenol, 2-dimethylamino-5-aminopyridine, 6-methoxy-8
     aminoquinoline, 2,6-dihydroxy-4-methylpyridine, 2,6-dihydroxy-3,4-

WO 2015/112789                                                           PCT/US2015/012574
                                               - 18
     dimethylpyridine, 5-chloro-2,3-dihydroxypyridine, 4-hydroxyindole, 5,6
     dihydroxyindole, 7-hydroxyindole, 5-hydroxyindole, 2,3-dihydroxynaphthalene,
     5-methyl-o-aminophenol, 6-methyl-o-aminophenol, 2-amino-5-acetaminophenol,
     1,7-dihydroxynaphthalene, 1-hydroxy-6-aminonaphthalene-3-sulfonic acid, 2,3
     dihydroxy-1,4-naphthoquinone, 3,4-methylenedioxy- 1 ((beta
    hydroxyethyl)amino)benzene, 3,4-methylenedioxyphenol, 1-methoxy-2-amino-4
     ((beta-hydroxyethyl)amino)benzene, 1-naphthol-4-sulfonic acid, m
    phenylenediamine, 2,6-diaminotoluene, N,N-bis(hydroxyethyl)-2,4
     diaminophenetole, bis(2,4-diaminophenoxy)- 1,3-propane, 1-hydroxyethyl-2,4
     diaminobenzene, aminoethoxy-2,4-diaminobenzene, 2,4-diaminophenoxyacetic
     acid, 2,4-diamino-5-methylphenetole, 2,4-diamino-5-hydroxyethoxytoluene, 2,4
     dimethoxy-1,3-diaminobenzene, 2,6-bis(hydroxyethylamino)-toluene, 2-hydroxy
    4-carbamoylmethylaminotoluene, 2-Chloro-6-methyl-m-aminophenol, 2
    hydroxyethoxy-5-aminophenol, N-cyclopentyl-3-aminophenol, N-hydroxyethyl
    4-methoxy-2-methyl-m-aminophenol, 5-amino-4-methoxy-2-methylphenol, 6
    methoxy-8-aminoquinoline, 5-hydroxy-1,4-benzodioxane, 3,4
    methylenedioxyphenol, 4-hydroxyethylamino-1,2-methylenedioxybenzene, 2,6
     dihydroxy-3,4-dimethylpyridine, and any combination thereof. Depending upon
    the desired resulting depth of shade, the auxiliary oxidation dye coupler content
    may be about 0.001% to about 5% weight by weight, preferably, about 0.001% to
     about 3% weight by weight of the air oxidation haircolor composition.
     [0047] The air oxidation haircolor composition may also comprise at least one
     antioxidant. The antioxidant content in the composition may be adjusted to delay
    the onset of color in order to minimize potential staining of the skin, or simply
     added in small amounts to increase the absorption of the dye on the hair. When
    used, the antioxidant content may be about 0.02% to about 1% weight by weight
    of the air oxidation haircolor composition. Increasing the antioxidant content
     further may result in poor color deposition in the hair. Any antioxidant or
    reducing agent, or a combination thereof, may be used, including, but not limited
    to, sodium sulfite, bisulfite salt, thioglycolate salt, erythorbic acid, ascorbic acid,
    thiosulfate salt, ascobylated compounds, cysteine, sodium hydrosulfite, thiourea,

WO 2015/112789                                                          PCT/US2015/012574
                                               - 19
    thiolactic acid, glyceryl monothioglycolate, thioglycerol, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic
     acid, zinc formosulfoxylate, and any combination thereof
     [0048] The air oxidation haircolor composition may also comprise at least one
     catalyst. A catalyst may be added to speed up the oxidation process. The catalyst
     content may be about 0.01% to about 1.0% weight by weight, preferably, about
     0.050% to about 0.50% weight by weight, and more preferably about 0.l1% to about
     0.4% weight by weight of the air oxidation haircolor composition. In a certain
     embodiment, the catalyst is a water soluble transition metal such as copper,
     cobalt, zinc, silver, nickel and/or iron. In another embodiment, the catalyst is a
    metal, a metal salt and/or a metal complex, wherein the metal is selected from the
     group consisting of: manganese, copper, cobalt, zinc, silver, nickel, chromium,
    vanadium, molybdenum, osmium, ruthenium, rhodium, palladium, platinum,
     cadmium, iron, and any combination thereof. The salt may be selected from the
     group consisting of: sulfate, chloride, nitrate, carbonate, phosphate, fumarate,
     citrate and/or tartrate. Preferably, the catalyst is a manganese salt.
     [0049] The pH of the air oxidation haircolor composition is preferably from
     about 4 to about 9, and, more preferably, from about 5 to about 8. Thereby, the
     composition is milder and less irritating than dyes presently on the market.
    Because of the more neutral pH, the composition disclosed herein may be used
     frequently, and even daily, by consumers with minimal to no irritation and
     dryness of the skin or scalp.
     [0050] At least one acid or alkalizer may be added to the air oxidation haircolor
     composition to achieve the desired pH. Any acid or alkalizer suitable for
     application to hair may be used. The acid or alkalizer content may be about
     0.010%to about 5.0% weight by weight, preferably from about 0.10% to about
    2.0% weight by weight of the air oxidation haircolor composition. The acid or
     alkalizer may be organic or inorganic. In a certain embodiment, the air oxidation
     dye composition comprises an alkalizer selected from the group consisting of:
     ethanolamine, triethanolamine, aminomethyl propanol, ammonium hydroxide,
     carbonates, bicarbonate, isopropanolamine, propane- 1,3-diamine, oxyethylenated
     and oxypropylenated hydroxyalkylamine and ethylenediamine, polyamine,
     sodium and potassium hydroxide, alkali silicate, alkali metasilicate, and any

WO 2015/112789                                                             PCT/US2015/012574
                                                - 20
     combination thereof. In another embodiment, the air oxidation dye composition
     comprises an acid selected from the group consisting of: hydrochloric acid,
    tartaric acid, citric acid, ascorbic, acid, acetic acid, lactic acid, sulfuric acid,
     formic acid, phosphoric acid, etidronic acid, boric acid, nitric acid, phosphorous
     acid, oxalic acid, and any combination thereof.
     [0051] To achieve adequate viscosity and desirable rheological properties to
     allow for ease of application of the composition and adherence to the hair, at least
    one thickener may be added to the air oxidation haircolor composition. The type
    of thickener that may be used is not particularly limited but should be suitable for
     application to hair. The thickener may be selected from the group consisting of: a
    nonionic, anionic, cationic, or amphoteric polymer, a saturated or unsaturated
     long chain fatty acid, carboxmethylcellulose, sodium alginate, a crosslinked
    homopolymer of acrylic acid or of acrylamidopropanesulfonic acid or associative
    polymer, hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, guar gum, xanthan
     gum, scleroglucan gum, and quaternized version of hydroxyethyl cellulose,
    hydroxypropyl cellulose, guar gum, scleroglucan gum; a saturated or unsaturated
     long chain fatty alcohol having from about 11 to about 18 carbon atoms alone or
    in combination with an ethoxylate or a propoxylate of a long chain fatty alcohol;
     and any combination thereof. The thickener content may be about 0.10%to about
     8% weight by weight, preferably from about 1.5% to about 6% weight by weight
    of the air oxidation haircolor composition.
     [0052] The air oxidation haircolor composition may also comprise at least one
     chelating agent. A chelating agent may be added to increase the stability of the
    product by decreasing the presence of metal ions, which otherwise, if present,
    might cause damage to or undesirably color the hair. The chelating agent may be
     selected from the group consisting of: EDTA, a sodium salt of EDTA, HEDTA,
     etidronic acid, citric acid, aminopolycarboxylic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid,
     dimercaptosuccinic acid, iminodiacetic acid, gluconic acid, trisodium citrate, and
     any combination thereof. The chelating agent content may be about 0.01% to
     about 5.0% weight by weight, preferably from about 0.l1% to about 0.5% weight
    by weight of the air oxidation haircolor composition.

WO 2015/112789                                                            PCT/US2015/012574
                                                - 21
     [0053] The air oxidation haircolor composition may also comprise at least one
     anti-dandruff agent. Any anti-dandruff agent may be used, including, but not
     limited to, pyrithione zinc, coal tar, salicylic acid, selenium sulfide and/or sulfur.
    The anti-dandruff agent content may be 0.1% to about 5.0% weight by weight,
    preferably from about 1.0% to about 2.0% weight by weight of the air oxidation
    haircolor composition.
     [0054] The air oxidation haircolor composition may also comprise at least one
    hair regrowth active ingredient. The hair regrowth active ingredient may include,
    but is not limited to, minoxodil, and may be added in conventionally used
     amounts. For instance, the hair regrowth active ingredient content may be about
     1% to about 10% weight by weight, preferably, from about 2% to about 50%
    weight by weight of the air oxidation haircolor composition.
     [0055] Any other ingredients known for use in the art in the formulation of
     shampoos, cleansers and conditioners may also be added to the air oxidation
    haircolor composition, including but not limited to at least one opacifier, such as
     glycol stearate, stearamide AMP, at least one preservative, such as a paraben type
    preservative, and/or at least one fragrance.
     [0056] The air oxidation haircolor composition may be applied to the hair from
    various types of containers. The container may be an aerosol or a non-aerosol
     container. An aerosol container creates an anaerobic environment, which may
    help to preserve the efficacy of the composition.
     [0057] The air oxidation haircolor composition may be in the form of a liquid,
     solution, lotion, gel, cream, suspension or foam. Preferably, the air oxidation
    haircolor composition may be a gel, a cream that may be dispensed from a
     collapsible tube or canister, or a slightly viscous lotion suitable for dispensing
     from an aerosol container.
     [0058] In an embodiment, a method for gradually coloring hair comprises the
     steps of: a) applying an air oxidation haircolor composition to hair; and b)
    removing the air oxidation haircolor composition from the hair directly after
     application, wherein the air oxidation haircolor composition comprises: 1) at least
    one primary oxidation dye intermediate, where a primary oxidation dye
    intermediate content is about 0.010%to about 50% weight by weight, and

WO 2015/112789                                                         PCT/US2015/012574
                                              - 22
    preferably, about 0.1% to about 3.0% weight by weight; 2) at least one aromatic
    triol, where an aromatic triol content is about 0.01% to about 5% weight by
    weight, and preferably, about 0.1% to about 3.0% weight by weight; and 3)
    water. In an embodiment thereof, the primary oxidation dye intermediate is N,N
    bis(2-hydroxyethyl)-p-phenylenediamine sulfate, or a salt thereof and/or the
     aromatic triol is 1,2,4-benzenetriol. The application and removal of the air
    oxidation haircolor composition may be conducted in multiple spaced intervals.
     [0059] In another embodiment, a method for gradually coloring hair comprises
    the steps of: a) applying an air oxidation haircolor composition to hair; and b)
    removing the air oxidation haircolor composition from the hair directly after
     application, wherein the air oxidation haircolor composition comprises: 1) at least
    one primary oxidation dye intermediate, where a primary oxidation dye
    intermediate content is about 0.1% to about 3.0% weight by weight; 2) at least
    one aromatic triol, where an aromatic triol content is about 0.l1% to about 3.0%
    weight by weight; 3) water, where a water content is about 40% to about 98%
    weight by weight; and 4) at least one cleansing surfactant, where a cleansing
     surfactant content is greater than 5% to about 50% weight by weight and/or at
     least one conditioning agent, where a conditioning agent content is about 0.5% to
     about 15% weight by weight. The application and removal of the air oxidation
    haircolor composition may be conducted in multiple spaced intervals.
     [0060] Another embodiment is a method for simultaneously cleansing and
     gradually coloring hair comprising the steps of: a) applying an air oxidation
    haircolor composition to hair; and b) removing the air oxidation haircolor
     composition from the hair directly after application, wherein the air oxidation
    haircolor composition is an air oxidation haircolor grooming composition
     comprising: 1) at least one primary oxidation dye intermediate, where a primary
    oxidation dye intermediate content is about 0.010% to about 50% weight by weight;
    2) at least one aromatic triol, where an aromatic triol content is about 0.01% to
     about 5% weight by weight; 3) water, where a water content is about 40% to
     about 98% weight by weight; and 4) at least one cleansing surfactant, where a
     cleansing surfactant content is greater than 5% to about 50% weight by weight.
    The air oxidation haircolor grooming composition may be an air oxidation

WO 2015/112789                                                             PCT/US2015/012574
                                                 - 23
    haircolor shampoo composition or an air oxidation haircolor and cleansing
     composition. The application and removal of the air oxidation haircolor
     composition may be conducted in multiple spaced intervals.
     [0061] In the method for simultaneously cleansing and gradually coloring hair,
    the air oxidation haircolor composition may further comprise at least one anti
     dandruff agent, at least one conditioning agent, at least one catalyst, at least one
     alkalizer, at least one acid, at least one thickener, at least one antioxidant, at least
    one chelating agent, at least one hair regrowth active agent or at least one
     auxiliary oxidation dye coupler.
     [0062] The terms used in connection with this embodiment have the same
    meaning as the terms have with respect to the embodiments mentioned above.
     [0063] Yet another embodiment is a method for simultaneously conditioning and
     gradually coloring hair comprising the steps of: a) applying an air oxidation
    haircolor composition to hair; and b) removing the air oxidation haircolor
     composition from the hair directly after application, wherein the air oxidation
    haircolor composition is an air oxidation haircolor grooming composition
     comprising: 1) at least one primary oxidation dye intermediate, where a primary
    oxidation dye intermediate content is about 0.010%to about 5% weight by weight;
    2) at least one aromatic triol, where an aromatic triol content is about 0.01% to
     about 5% weight by weight; 3) water, where a water content is about 40% to
     about 98% weight by weight; and 4) at least one conditioning agent, where a
     conditioning agent content is about 0.l1% to about 15 % weight by weight. This
    method may further comprise the step of heating the hair after applying the air
    oxidation haircolor composition. The air oxidation haircolor grooming
     composition may be an air oxidation haircolor conditioner composition or an air
    oxidation haircolor and conditioning composition. The application and removal
    of the air oxidation haircolor composition may be conducted in multiple spaced
    intervals.
     [0064] In the method for simultaneously conditioning and gradually coloring
    hair, the air oxidation haircolor composition may further comprise at least one
     catalyst, at least one alkalizer, at least one acid, at least one thickener, at least one

WO 2015/112789                                                             PCT/US2015/012574
                                                - 24
     antioxidant, at least one chelating agent, at least one hair regrowth active agent or
     at least one auxiliary oxidation dye coupler.
     [0065] The terms used in connection with this embodiment have the same
    meaning as the terms have with respect to the embodiments mentioned above.
     [0066] Yet another embodiment is a method for cleansing, conditioning and
     gradually coloring hair comprising the steps of: a) applying an air oxidation
    haircolor shampoo composition to hair in multiple spaced intervals; b) removing
    the air oxidation haircolor shampoo composition from the hair directly after
     application; c) applying an air oxidation haircolor conditioner composition to the
    hair; and d) removing the air oxidation haircolor conditioner composition from
    the hair directly after application, wherein the air oxidation haircolor shampoo
     composition comprises: 1) at least one primary oxidation dye intermediate, where
     a primary oxidation dye intermediate content is about 0.010%to about 50%weight
    by weight; 2) at least one aromatic triol, where an aromatic triol content is about
     0.010%to about 5% weight by weight; 3) water, where a water content is about
    40% to about 98% weight by weight; and 4) at least one cleansing surfactant,
    where a cleansing surfactant content is greater than 5% to about 50% weight by
    weight, and wherein the air oxidation haircolor conditioner composition
     comprises: 1) at least one primary oxidation dye intermediate, where a primary
    oxidation dye intermediate content is about 0.010%to about 50%weight by weight;
    2) at least one aromatic triol, where an aromatic triol content is about 0.01% to
     about 5% weight by weight; 3) water, where a water content is about 40% to
     about 98% weight by weight; and 4) at least one conditioning agent, where a
     conditioning agent content is about 0.1% to about 150% weight by weight. Each
    or both of the air oxidation haircolor shampoo and conditioner compositions can
    be applied in multiple spaced intervals.
     [0067] The air oxidation haircolor shampoo composition of this embodiment
    may further comprise at least one anti-dandruff agent, at least one conditioning
     agent, at least one catalyst, at least one alkalizer, at least one acid, at least one
    thickener, at least one antioxidant, at least one chelating agent, at least one hair
    regrowth active agent or at least one auxiliary oxidation dye coupler. The air
    oxidation haircolor conditioner composition of this embodiment may further

WO 2015/112789                                                             PCT/US2015/012574
                                                - 25
     comprise at least one catalyst, at least one alkalizer, at least one acid, at least one
    thickener, at least one antioxidant, at least one chelating agent, at least one hair
    regrowth active agent or at least one auxiliary oxidation dye coupler.
     [0068] The terms used in connection with this embodiment have the same
    meaning as the terms have with respect to the embodiments mentioned above.
     [0069] Yet another embodiment is an air oxidation haircolor shampoo
     composition comprising: 1) at least one primary oxidation dye intermediate,
    where a primary oxidation dye intermediate content is about 0.l1% to about 30%
    weight by weight; 2) at least one aromatic triol, where an aromatic triol content is
     about 0.l1% to about 30% weight by weight; 3) water, where a water content is
     about 40% to about 98% weight by weight; and 4) at least one cleansing
     surfactant, where a cleansing surfactant content is greater than 5% to about 50%
    weight by weight; wherein the air oxidation haircolor shampoo composition
     cleanses hair; and wherein the air oxidation haircolor shampoo composition
     simultaneously gradually colors hair with repeated use.
     [0070] The air oxidation haircolor shampoo composition of this embodiment
    may further comprise at least one anti-dandruff agent, at least one conditioning
     agent, at least one catalyst, at least one alkalizer, at least one acid, at least one
    thickener, at least one antioxidant, at least one chelating agent, at least one hair
    regrowth active agent or at least one auxiliary oxidation dye coupler.
     [0071] The terms used in connection with this embodiment have the same
    meaning as the terms have with respect to the prior embodiments.
     [0072] Yet another embodiment is an air oxidation haircolor conditioner
     composition comprising: 1) at least one primary oxidation dye intermediate,
    where a primary oxidation dye intermediate content is about 0.l1% to about 30%
    weight by weight; 2) at least one aromatic triol, where an aromatic triol content is
     about 0.l1% to about 30% weight by weight; 3) water, where a water content is
     about 40% to about 98% weight by weight; and 4) at least one conditioning
     agent, where a conditioning agent content is about 0.l1% to about 15 % weight by
    weight; wherein the air oxidation haircolor conditioner composition conditions
    the hair; and wherein the air oxidation haircolor conditioner composition
     simultaneously gradually colors hair with repeated use.

WO 2015/112789                                                              PCT/US2015/012574
                                                   - 26
     [0073] The air oxidation haircolor conditioner composition of this embodiment
    may further comprise at least one catalyst, at least one alkalizer, at least one acid,
     at least one thickener, at least one antioxidant, at least one chelating agent, at
     least one hair regrowth active agent or at least one auxiliary oxidation dye
     coupler.
     [0074] The terms used in connection with this embodiment have the same
    meaning as the terms have with respect to the embodiments mentioned above.
                                              EXAMPLES
     [0075] Specific embodiments of the disclosure will now be demonstrated by
    reference to the following general examples. It should be understood that these
     examples are disclosed solely by way of illustration and should not be taken in any
    way to limit the scope of the present disclosure.
     [0076] Example 1: Air Oxidation Haircolor Conditioner Composition
     [0077] An air oxidation haircolor conditioner composition was prepared using the
    ingredients set forth in Table 1 below.
    Table 1.
                                 INGREDIENTS
         TRADE NAME and function                   INCI NAME           % WT/WT     % ACTIVE
      Water, Deionized (solvent)       Water                            77.989%     90.400%
      FCC Kosher Erythorbic Acid        Erythorbic Acid                  0.200%      0.200%
      (antioxidant)
      Anhydrous Food Grade Sodium      Sodium Sulfite                    0.300%      0.300%
      Sulfite (antioxidant)
      Dequest 2010 (chelating agent)    Etidronic Acid                   0.100%      0.100%
      Emulgade 1000 Ni (thickener)     Cetearyl Alcohol (80%) &          5.000%      4.000%
                                        Ceteareth-20 (20%)                           1.000%
      Glycerox HE (emulsifier)          PEG-7 Glyceryl Cocoate           3.000%      3.000%
      Incroquat Behenyl TMS             Behentrimonium Methosulfate      2.700%      0.675%
      (conditioner)                     (25%) & Cetearyl Alcohol (75%)               2.025%
      Dow Corning 200 fluid             Dimethicone                      4.000%      4.000%
      (conditioner)
      Brij 721 (emulsifier)            Steareth-21                      0.500%       0.500%

WO 2015/112789                                                                 PCT/US2015/012574
                                                   - 27
      Belle Aire "Cool Water" Type      Fragrance                           0.500%        0.500%
      OM# 88813 (olfactory
      enhancement)
      Monoethanolamine Technical        Ethanolamine                        1.210%        0.290%
      Grade (alkalizer)                                                                free amine
                                                                                        remaining
      Rodol P Base (primary dye         p-Aminophenol                       0.100%        0.100%
      intermediate)
      Manganese Sulfate                 Manganese Sulfate                   0.200%        0.200%
      Monohydrate (catalyst)
      Neolone PE (preservative)         Methylisothiazolinone (2.0%) &      0.500%        0.010%
                                        Phenoxyethanol (85%) &                            0.425%
                                        Propanediol (13%)                                 0.065%
      Rodol Gray HED (primary dye       N,N-Bis(2-Hydroxyethyl)-p-          0.700%        0.700%
      intermediate)                     Phenylenediamine Sulfate
      Benzenetriol Premix (dye          1,2,4-Trihydroxybenzene (20%)       3.000%        0.600%
      coupler)                          Acetic Acid (28.57%)                             1.728*%
                                        Sulfuric Acid (1.3%)                            0.088**%
                                        Water (50.13)                                     1.504%
      Lipo Melanin C (pigment)          Melanin (10%)                       0.001%       0.0001%
                                        Pentylene Glycol (90%)                           0.0009%
                                                                  TOTAL    100.000%     100.000%
      *as Acetamide MEA
      **as Aminoethyl Sulfate
     [0078] Example 2: Air Oxidation Haircolor Shampoo Composition
     [0079] An air oxidation haircolor shampoo composition was prepared using the
    ingredients set forth in Table 2 below.
    Table 2.
                             INGREDIENTS
           TRADE NAME and                    INCI NAME             % WT/WT      % ACTIVE
                function
      Water, Deionized             Water                            49.269%      83.520%
      (solvent)
      FCC Kosher Erythorbic Acid   Erythorbic Acid                   0.200%       0.200%
      (antioxidant)
      Anhydrous Food Grade         Sodium Sulfite                    0.300%       0.300%
      Sodium Sulfite
      (antioxidant)
      Dequest 2010 (chelating      Etidronic Acid                    0.030%       0.030%
      agent)

WO 2015/112789                                                          PCT/US2015/012574
                                                   -28
      Steol CA-230-D              Ammonium Laureth Sulfate      20.000%    5.000%
      (surfactant)                (25%)
      Mackamine CAO               Cocamidopropylamine Oxide     3.000%     1.000%
      (surfactant)                (30%)
      Jaguar C13S (thickener      Guar                          1.000%     1.000%
      &conditioner)               Hydroxypropyltrimonium
                                  Chloride
      Rhodacal A-246/L            Sodium Alpha Olefin           15.000%    5.850%
      (surfactant)                Sulfonate (39%)
      Montanov 68 (thickener)     Cetearyl Alcohol (80%) &      1.500%     1.200%
                                  Cetearyl Glucoside (20%)                 0.300%
      Belle Aire "Cool Water"     Fragrance                     1.000%     1.000%
      Type OM# 88813
      (olfactory enhancement)
      Monoethanolamine            Ethanolamine                  1.600%     0.058%
      Technical Grade (alkalizer)                                        Free amine
                                                                         remaining
      DL Panthenol (humectant     Panthenol                     0.100%     0.100%
      & conditioner)
      Manganese Sulfate           Manganese Sulfate             0.200%     0.200%
      Monohydrate (catalyst)
      Neolone PE (preservative)   Methylisothiazolinone (2.0%)  0.500%     0.010%
                                  &                                        0.425%
                                  Phenoxyethanol (85%) &                   0.065%
                                  Propanediol (13%)
      Rodol Gray HED (primary     N,N-Bis(2-Hydroxyethyl)-p-    1.800%     1.800%
      dye intermediate)           Phenylenediamine Sulfate
      Benzenetriol Premix (dye    1,2,4-Trihydroxybenzene       4.500%     0.900%
      coupler)                    (20%)                                   2.786*%
                                  Acetic Acid (28.57%)                   0.142**%
                                  Sulfuric Acid (1.3%)                     2.255%
                                  Water (50.13)
      Lipo Melanin C (pigment)    Melanin (10%)                 0.001%    0.0001%
                                  Pentylene Glycol (90%)                  0.0009%
                                                        TOTAL  100.000%  100.000%
      *as Acetamide MEA
      **as Aminoethyl Sulfate
     [0080] To make the air oxidation haircolor shampoo composition, the deionized
    water was poured into a stainless steel kettle with a sweep action mixer. The
    Jaguar C13S was then added while mixing and mixing continued for 30-60
    minutes. A kettle was then heated to 70 -78'C. While heating, Steol CA-230-D,
    Mackamine CAO, Rhodacal A-246/L, Mackamine CAO, and Montanov 68 were
     each added separately while mixing. The solution was mixed until all solids were
     completely dissolved. Dequest 2010, Erythorbic Acid, Sodium Sulfite,
    Manganese Sulfate, and Panthenol were then each added to the solution

WO 2015/112789                                                        PCT/US2015/012574
                                                 - 29
     separately while mixing with each ingredient dissolved completely before adding
    the next. Rodol Gray HED was then added and the solution was mixed until
     dissolution was complete and the solution was mixed for an additional 20-30
    minutes. The mix was then cooled to 50-55'C. Then benzenetriol was added
    while mixing. The mix was then cooled to 40-45'C. Then Neolone PE,
     fragrance, monoethanolamine and melanin were each added separately while
    mixing to a uniform solution before adding the next. The mix was then
    transferred to the holding tank under anaerobic conditions.
     [0081] Example 3: Air Oxidation Haircolor Shampoo Composition (Low
     Stain)
     [0082] A low-stain air oxidation haircolor shampoo composition was prepared
    using the ingredients set forth in Table 3 below. Specifically, the addition of
     cocamidopropyl hydroxysultaine, disodium lauryl sulfosuccinate, sodium cocoyl
    isethionate, decyl glucoside, and the mixture of cetearyl alcohol, and cetearyl
     glucoside creates a lamellar phase composition in which the dyes are protected
     from air oxidation and hence contributes to the low-stain properties of this air
    oxidation haircolor shampoo composition.
    Table 3.
                              INGREDIENTS
        TRADE NAME and function                INCI NAME      % WT/WT     % ACTIVE
      Water, Deionized (solvent)      Water                    65.219%      85.820%
      FCC Kosher Erythorbic Acid      Erythorbic Acid           0.200%       0.200%
      (antioxidant)
      Anhydrous Food Grade Sodium     Sodium Sulfite            0.300%       0.300%
      Sulfite (antioxidant)
      Dequest 2010 (chelating         Etidronic Acid            0.030%       0.030%
      agent)
      Mackam CBS 50G (surfactant)     Cocamidopropyl            4.000%        1.600%
                                      Hydroxysultaine (40%)
      Mackanate LO (surfactant)       Disodium Lauryl           10.000%      4.000%
                                      Sulfosuccinate (40%)
      Jaguar C13S (thickener &        Guar                      1.000%        1.000%
      conditioner)                    Hydroxypropyltrimonium
                                      Chloride

WO 2015/112789                                                               PCT/US2015/012574
                                                  - 30
      Hostapon SCI 85C (surfactant)   Sodium Cocoyl Isethionate        2.000%       1.700%
                                      (85%)                    9
      Plantaren 2000 (surfactant)     Decyl Glucoside (50%)            5.000%       2.500%
      Montanov 68 (thickener)         Cetearyl Alcohol (80%) &         2.500%       2.000%
                                      Cetearyl Glucoside (20%)                      0.500%
      Belle Aire "Cool Water" Type    Fragrance                       0.750%        0.750%
      OM# 88813 (olfactory
      enhancement)
      Monoethanolamine Technical      Ethanolamine                     1.900%       0.358%
      Grade (alkalizer)                                                           Free amine
                                                                                  remaining
      DL Panthenol (humectant &       Panthenol                       0.100%        0.100%
      conditioner)
      Manganese Sulfate               Manganese Sulfate               0.200%        0.200%
      Monohydrate (catalyst)
      Optiphen Plus (preservative)    Phenoxyethanol (52%),           0.500%        0.260%
                                      Caprylyl Glycol (42%), Sorbic                 0.210%
                                      Acid (6%)                                     0.030%
      Rodol Gray HED (primary dye     N,N-Bis(2-Hydroxyethyl)-p-       1.800%       1.800%
      intermediate)                   Phenylenediamine Sulfate
      Benzenetriol Premix (dye        1,2,4-Trihydroxybenzene         4.500%        0.900%
      coupler)                        (20%)                                        2.786*%
                                      Acetic Acid (28.57%)                        0.142**%
                                      Sulfuric Acid (1.3%)                          2.255%
                                      Water (50.13)
      Lipo Melanin C (pigment)        Melanin (10%)                   0.001%       0.0001%
                                      Pentylene Glycol (90%)                       0.0009%
                                                           TOTAL     100.000%      100.000%
      *as Acetamide MEA
      **as Aminoethyl Sulfate
     [0083] Example 4: Air Oxidation Haircolor Shampoo Composition (with
     opacifier)
     [0084] An air oxidation haircolor shampoo composition with opacifier was
    prepared using the ingredients set forth in Table 4 below.
    Table 4.
                              INGREDIENTS
         TRADE NAME and function                INCI NAME           %WT/WT       % ACTIVE
      Water, Deionized (solvent)        Water                        70.219%      87.220%
      FCC Kosher Erythorbic Acid        Erythorbic Acid               0.300%      0.300%
      (antioxidant)

WO 2015/112789                                                       PCT/US2015/012574
                                               -31
     Anhydrous Food Grade Sodium     Sodium Sulfite            0.300%     0.300%
     Sulfite (antioxidant)
      Dequest 2010 (chelating agent) Etidronic Acid            0.030%     0.030%
      Mackam CBS 50G (surfactant)    Cocamidopropyl            2.000%     0.800%
                                     Hydroxysultaine (40%)
      Mackanate LO (surfactant)      Disodium Lauryl           9.000%      3.600%
                                     Sulfosuccinate (40%)
     Jaguar C13S (thickener &        Guar                      1.000%      1.000%
     conditioner)                    Hydroxypropyltrimonium
                                     Chloride
     Cerasynt IP (opacifier)         Glycol Stearate and       2.000%      2.000%
                                     Stearamide AMP
      Plantaren 2000 (surfactant)    Decyl Glucoside (50%)     5.000%      2.500%
      Montanov 68 (thickener)        Cetearyl Alcohol (80%) &  2.500%      2.000%
                                     Cetearyl Glucoside (20%)             0.500%
      Belle Aire "Cool Water" Type   Fragrance                 0.750%     0.750%
     OM# 88813 (olfactory
     enhancement)
      Monoethanolamine Technical     Ethanolamine              1.400%     0.351%
     Grade (alkalizer)                                                       Free
                                                                           amine
                                                                         remaining
      DL Panthenol (humectant &      Panthenol                 0.100%     0.100%
     conditioner)
      Manganese Sulfate              Manganese Sulfate         0.200%     0.200%
      Monohydrate (catalyst)
     Optiphen Plus (preservative)    Phenoxyethanol (52%),     0.500%     0.260%
                                     Caprylyl Glycol (42%),               0.210%
                                     Sorbic Acid (6%)                     0.030%
      Rodol P Base (primary dye      p-Aminophenol             0.100%     0.100%
      intermediate)
      Rodol Gray HED (primary dye    N,N-Bis(2-Hydroxyethyl)-  1.100%      1.100%
      intermediate)                  p-Phenylenediamine
                                     Sulfate
      Benzenetriol Premix (dye       1,2,4-Trihydroxybenzene   3.500%     0.700%
     coupler)                        (20%)                                2.167*%
                                     Acetic Acid (28.57%)                0.110**%
                                     Sulfuric Acid (1.3%)                  1.754%
                                     Water (50.13)
      Lipo Melanin C (pigment)       Melanin (10%)             0.001%     0.0001%
                                     Pentylene Glycol (90%)               0.0009%
                                                       TOTAL  100.000%   100.000%
      *as Acetamide MEA
      **as Aminoethyl Sulfate

WO 2015/112789                                                               PCT/US2015/012574
                                                 -  32
     [0085] Example 5: Air Oxidation Haircolor Shampoo Composition (creamy)
     [0086] A creamy air oxidation haircolor shampoo composition was prepared using
    the ingredients set forth in Table 5 below.
    Table 5.
                                INGREDIENTS
          TRADE NAME and function                  INCI NAME            % WT/WT    % ACTIVE
      Water, Deionized (solvent)          Water                          68.019%     86.620%
      FCC Kosher Erythorbic Acid          Erythorbic Acid                0.300%       0.300%
      (antioxidant)
      Anhydrous Food Grade Sodium         Sodium Sulfite                 0.300%       0.300%
      Sulfite (antioxidant)
      Dequest 2010 (chelating agent)      Etidronic Acid                 0.030%       0.030%
      Mackam CBS 50G (surfactant)         Cocamidopropyl                  2.000%      0.800%
                                          Hydroxysultaine (40%)
      Mackanate LO (surfactant)           Disodium Lauryl                 7.000%      2.800%
                                          Sulfosuccinate (40%)
      Jaguar C13S (thickener &            Guar                            0.700%      0.700%
      conditioner)                        Hydroxypropyltrimonium
                                          Chloride
      Hostapon SCI 85 C (surfactant)      Sodium Cocoyl Isethionate       2.000%      1.700%
                                          (85%)
      Glycerox HE (emulsifier)            PEG-7 Glyceryl Cocoate          2.000%      2.000%
      Plantaren 2000 (surfactant)         Decyl Glucoside (50%)           5.000%      2.500%
      Emulgade 1000 Ni (thickener)        Cetearyl Alcohol (80%) &        5.000%      4.000%
                                          Ceteareth-20 (20%)                          1.000%
      Belle Aire "Cool Water" Type OM#    Fragrance                      0.750%       0.750%
      88813 (olfactory enhancement)
      Monoethanolamine Technical          Ethanolamine                    1.400%      0.351%
      Grade (alkalizer)                                                                 Free
                                                                                       amine
                                                                                    remaining
      DL Panthenol (humectant &           Panthenol                      0.100%       0.100%
      conditioner)
      Manganese Sulfate Monohydrate       Manganese Sulfate              0.200%       0.200%
      (catalyst)
      Optiphen Plus (preservative)        Phenoxyethanol (52%),           0.500%      0.260%
                                          Caprylyl Glycol (42%), Sorbic               0.210%
                                          Acid (6%)                                   0.030%
      Rodol P Base (primary dye           p-Aminophenol                  0.100%       0.100%
      intermediate)
      Rodol Gray HED (primary dye         N,N-Bis(2-Hydroxyethyl)-p-      1.100%      1.100%
      intermediate)                       Phenylenediamine Sulfate

WO 2015/112789                                                                PCT/US2015/012574
                                                  - 33
      Benzenetriol Premix (dye coupler)    1,2,4-Trihydroxybenzene         3.500%       0.700%
                                          (20%)                                         2.167*%
                                          Acetic Acid (28.57%)                         0.110**%
                                          Sulfuric Acid (1.3%)                           1.754%
                                          Water (50.13)
      Lipo Melanin C (pigment)             Melanin (10%)                   0.001%      0.0001%
                                           Pentylene Glycol (90%)                      0.0009%
                                                               TOTAL      100.000%     100.000%
      *as Acetamide MEA
      **as Aminoethyl Sulfate
     [0087] Example 6: Air Oxidation Haircolor Shampoo Composition (anti
     dandruff)
     [0088] An anti-dandruff air oxidation haircolor shampoo composition was
    prepared using the ingredients set forth in Table 6 below.
    Table 6.
                                   INGREDIENTS
           TRADE NAME and function                     INCI NAME              % WT/WT       % ACTIVE
      Water, Deionized (solvent)            Water                              68.309%       86.447%
      FCC Kosher Erythorbic Acid            Erythorbic Acid                     0.300%        0.300%
      (antioxidant)
      Anhydrous Food Grade Sodium           Sodium Sulfite                      0.300%        0.300%
      Sulfite (antioxidant)
      Mackam CBS 50G (surfactant)           Cocamidopropyl                      2.000%        0.800%
                                            Hydroxysultaine (40%)
      Mackanate LO (surfactant)             Disodium Lauryl Sulfosuccinate      9.000%        3.600%
                                            (40%)
      Jaguar C13S (thickener &              Guar Hydroxypropyltrimonium         1.000%        1.000%
      conditioner)                          Chloride
      Cerasynt IP (opacifier)               Glycol Stearate and Stearamide      2.000%        2.000%
                                            AMP
      Plantaren 2000 (surfactant)           Decyl Glucoside (50%)               5.000%        2.500%
      Montanov 68 (thickener)               Cetearyl Alcohol (80%) &            2.500%        2.000%
                                            Cetearyl Glucoside (20%)                          0.500%
      Belle Aire "Cool Water" Type OM#      Fragrance                           0.750%        0.750%
      88813 (olfactory enhancement)
      Monoethanolamine Technical            Ethanolamine                        1.450%        0.401%
      Grade (alkalizer)                                                                         Free
                                                                                               amine
                                                                                            remaining
      DL Panthenol (humectant &             Panthenol                           0.100%        0.100%

WO 2015/112789                                                                 PCT/US2015/012574
                                                    - 34
      conditioner)
      Zinc Omadine 48% dispersion (anti-     Zinc Pyrithione                     2.090%     1.003%
      dandruff active)
      Optiphen Plus (preservative)           Phenoxyethanol (52%), Caprylyl      0.500%    0.260%
                                             Glycol (42%), Sorbic Acid (6%)                0.210%
                                                                                           0.030%
      Rodol P Base (primary dye              p-Aminophenol                       0.100%    0.100%
      intermediate)
      Rodol Gray HED (primary dye            N,N-Bis(2-Hydroxyethyl)-p-          1.100%     1.100%
      intermediate)                          Phenylenediamine Sulfate
      Benzenetriol Premix (dye coupler)      1,2,4-Trihydroxybenzene (20%)       3.500%    0.700%
                                             Acetic Acid (28.57%)                          2.167*%
                                             Sulfuric Acid (1.3%)                         0.110**%
                                             Water (50.13)                                  1.754%
      Lipo Melanin C (pigment)               Melanin (10%)                       0.001%   0.0001%
                                             Pentylene Glycol (90%)                       0.0009%
                                                                        TOTAL   100.000%  100.000%
      *as Acetamide MEA
      **as Aminoethyl Sulfate
     [0089] Example 7: Air Oxidation Haircolor Cleanser Composition
     [0090] An air oxidation haircolor cleanser composition was prepared using the
    ingredients set forth in Table 7 below. Specifically, this air oxidation haircolor
     cleanser composition is formulated with less surfactant to produce less lather for
    use as a facial cleanser and to dye facial hair.
    Table 7.
                                 INGREDIENTS
         TRADE NAME and function                      INCI NAME              % WT/WT     % ACTIVE
      Water, Deionized (solvent)         Water                                70.899%    86.700%
      FCC Kosher Erythorbic Acid         Erythorbic Acid                       0.200%     0.200%
      (antioxidant)
      Anhydrous Food Grade Sodium        Sodium Sulfite                        0.300%     0.300%
      Sulfite (antioxidant)
      Dequest 2010 (chelating agent)     Etidronic Acid                        0.100%     0.100%
      Emulgade 1000 Ni (thickener)       Cetearyl Alcohol (80%) &              5.000%     4.000%
                                         Ceteareth-20 (20%)                               1.000%
      Glycerox HE (emulsifier)           PEG-7 Glyceryl Cocoate                3.000%     3.000%

WO 2015/112789                                                         PCT/US2015/012574
                                               - 35
      Incroquat Behenyl TMS          Behentrimonium Methosulfate       2.700%     0.675%
      (conditioner)                  (25%) & Cetearyl Alcohol (75%)                2.025%
      Dow Corning 200 fluid          Dimethicone                       4.000%     4.000%
      (conditioner)
      Brij 721 (emulsifier)          Steareth-21                       0.500%     0.500%
      Mackam CBS-50G (surfactant)    Cocamidopropyl Hydroxysultaine    5.000%      2.000%
      Hostapon SCI 85 C (surfactant) Sodium Cocoyl Isethionate (85%)   2.000%      1.700%
      Belle Aire "Cool Water" Type   Fragrance                         0.500%     0.500%
      OM# 88813 (olfactory
      enhancement)
      Monoethanolamine Technical     Ethanolamine                      1.300%     0.380%
      Grade (alkalizer)                                                              free
                                                                                   amine
                                                                                 remaining
      Rodol P Base (primary dye      p-Aminophenol                     0.100%     0.100%
      intermediate)
      Manganese Sulfate              Manganese Sulfate                 0.200%     0.200%
      Monohydrate (catalyst)
      Neolone PE (preservative)      Methylisothiazolinone (2.0%) &    0.500%     0.010%
                                     Phenoxyethanol (85%) &                        0.425%
                                     Propanediol (13%)                             0.065%
      Rodol Gray HED (primary dye    N,N-Bis(2-Hydroxyethyl)-p-        0.700%     0.700%
      intermediate)                  Phenylenediamine Sulfate
      Benzenetriol Premix (dye       1,2,4-Trihydroxybenzene (20%)     3.000%     0.600%
      coupler)                       Acetic Acid (28.57%)                         1.728*%
                                     Sulfuric Acid (1.3%)                        0.088**%
                                     Water (50.13)                                 1.504%
      Lipo Melanin C (pigment)       Melanin (10%)                     0.001%     0.0001%
                                     Pentylene Glycol (90%)                       0.0009%
                                                                TOTAL 100.000%   100.000%
     [0091] Comparative Example
     [0092] Table 8 includes a list of compositions, with Examples 8, 9, 11 and 12
    being air oxidation haircolor compositions of the present disclosure. The
     formulas were dyed out on 90% gray hair (supplied by IHIP) with a 1 minute
     dwell time, followed by rinsing with water and blow drying. This process was
    repeated over a 10 day period, by repeating the process one time per day. After
     each treatment, color measurements were recorded using an X-Rite XTH
     spectrophotometer and the Hunter L.a.b. scale. This data is presented in Table 9.

WO 2015/112789                                                      PCT/US2015/012574
                                              - 36
    Table 8: Hair Care Compositions
     Ingredients         Example 8:    Example 9:    Example 10: Example 11:   Example 12:
                         Air Oxidation Air Oxidation Comparative Air Oxidation Air Oxidation
                         Haircolor     Haircolor     Example     Haircolor     Haircolor
                         Shampoo       Catalyzed                 Conditioner   Composition
                         Composition   Shampoo                   Composition   Catalyzed
                                       Composition                             Rinse-off
                         WT%           WT%           WT%         WT%           WT%
     D.I. Water          81.700        81.500        81.700      84.310        83.550
     Manganese Sulfate                 0.200                                   0.100
     Etidronic Acid      0.050         0.050         0.050                     0.100
     Disodium EDTA                                               0.050
     Erythorbic Acid     0.050         0.050         0.050       0.020         0.150
    Sodium Sulfite       0.050         0.050         0.050       0.020         0.100
     Cocamiopropyl                                                             2.000
     Hydroxysultaine
     (recorded as active
     level)
    Sodium Cocyl                                                               2.000
     Isethionate
     (recorded as active
     level)
    Sodium Laureth       5.000         5.000         5.000
    Sulfate
     (recorded as active
     level)
     Cetearyl Alcohol                                            1.000
     (65%) & Ceteth-20
     Phosphate (15%) &
     Dicetyl Phosphate
     (20%)
     Cocamidopropylam    1.000         1.000         1.000
     ine Oxide
     Disodium Lauryl
    Sulfosuccinate
     (recorded as active
     level)
     Decyl Glucoside     3.000         3.000         3.000
     (recorded as active
     level)

WO 2015/112789                                               PCT/US2015/012574
                                           - 37
    Sodium Lauryl        5.000     5.000        5.000
    Sarcosinate
     (recorded as active
     level)
     Hydroxyethyl                                         0.200
     Cellulose
     Guar                1.000     1.000        1.000
     Hydroxypropyltrim
     onium Chloride
     Cetearyl Alcohol &                                   5.000        6.000
     Ceteareth -20
     Laureth-23                                           1.000        2.000
     Behentrimonium                                       3.000        1.000
     Methosulfate &
     Cetearyl Alcohol
     Polyquaternium-22                                                 1.000
     Dimethicone                                          3.000
    Aminomethyl          0.500     0.500        0.500
     Propanol
    Triethanolamine                                       1.000
     Monoethanolamin                                                   0.200
     e
     1,2,4-              1.000     1.000                  0.500        1.000
    Trihydroxybenzene
     p-                  0.100     0.100        0.100
     Phenylenediamine
     p-Toluenediamine                                                  0.200
     p-Aminophenol       0.050     0.050        0.050     0.100        0.500
     N,N-Bis(2-          1.500     1.500        1.500     0.800
     Hydroxyethyl)-p
     Phenylenediamine
    Sulfate
     2,4-                                                              0.100
     Diaminophenoxy
     ethanol sulfate
     m-Aminophenol                              1.000
     pH                        6.7       6.8          6.8       7.3          7.4

WO 2015/112789                                                     PCT/US2015/012574
                                          - 38
    Table 9: Color Measurement
      Treatments     Example 8   Example 9      Example 10  Example 11     Example 12
     Untreated     L= 58.1     L= 56.7         L= 58.3     L= 58.9        L= 56.2
    90% gray hair  a= 0.1      a= 0.5          a= 0.2      a= 0.9        a= 0.5
                   b= 11.0     b= 11.1         b= 11.4     b= 11.8        b= 10.7
                   L= 39.8     L= 38.1         L= 55.6     L= 42.3        L= 43.1
      1 treatment  a=1.6       a= 1.7          a= 1.1      a= 2.1        a= 2.8
                   b= 6.9      b= 6.3          b= 11.9     b= 8.1         b= 9.6
                   L= 34.7     L= 33.3         L= 52.0     L= 32.5        L= 36.9
      2 treatments a= 2.0      a= 1.6          a= 1.2      a= 2.0        a= 2.6
                   b= 6.0      b= 5.8          b= 11.8     b= 7.0         b= 9.9
                   L= 31.8     L= 30.1         L= 50.3     L= 29.3        L= 28.8
      3 treatments a= 1.6      a= 1.3          a= 1.2      a= 1.4        a= 2.7
                   b= 5.0      b= 5.1          b= 11.5     b= 6.1         b= 8.2
                   L= 27.0     L= 25.6         L= 48.3     L= 27.5        L= 25.8
     4 treatments  a= 1.4      a= 1.2          a= 1.1      a= 1.2        a= 2.6
                   b= 4.3      b= 4.4          b= 10.6     b= 5.4         b= 7.3
                   L= 24.8     L= 23.2         L= 44.9     L= 23.2        L= 24.4
      5 treatments a= 1.4      a= 0.9          a= 0.8      a= 1.2        a= 2.6
                   b= 4.2      b= 3.7          b= 9.2      b= 4.6         b= 6.8
                   L= 24.5     L= 22.0         L= 44.7     L= 21.7        L= 23.7
      6 treatments a= 1.3      a= 1.1          a= 1.1      a= 1.2        a= 2.6
                   b= 3.7      b= 3.9          b= 9.6      b= 3.9         b= 6.4
                   L= 21.8     L= 20.2         L= 43.3     L= 20.7        L= 21.2
      7 treatments a= 1.4      a= 1.1          a= 1.0      a= 1.0        a= 2.5
                   b= 3.6      b= 3.2          b= 9.1      b= 3.5         b= 5.3
                   L= 20.7     L= 19.3         L= 39.3     L= 20.1        L= 20.6

WO 2015/112789                                                           PCT/US2015/012574
                                              - 39
      8 treatments   a= 1.2          a= 0.9        a= 1.0        a= 0.9         a= 2.3
                     b= 3.4          b= 3.0        b= 7.7        b= 3.3         b= 4.5
                     L= 19.2         L= 18.1       L= 37.6       L= 18.3        L= 18.7
      9 treatments   a= 1.2          a= 0.9        a= 1.2        a= 0.8         a= 2.0
                     b= 3.0          b= 2.6        b= 7.5        b= 2.7         b= 3.3
                     L= 18.8         L= 16.8       L= 36.6       L= 16.9        L= 18.5
     10 treatments   a= 1.2          a= 0.9        a= 1.6        a= 0.9         a= 2.2
                     b= 2.7          b= 2.5        b= 7.7        b= 2.5         b= 3.5
     "L"= lightness, + is lighter and - is darker.
     "a"= relative amounts of red and green, + is more red and - is greener.
     "b"=relative amounts of yellow and blue, + is more yellow and - is bluer.
     [0093] As shown by a review of the data in Table 9, use of a transition metal salt
     as a haircolor catalyst, as in Example 9, aids in the deposition of color given the
     short dwell times. Examples 8 and 9 in Table 8 are identical, except that
    Example 9 includes manganese sulfate as a catalyst. Manganese ions (MN") are
     a preferred catalyst to enhance color delivery. Additionally, any build-up of
    manganese in the hair does not adversely affect the physical condition of the hair,
     as can be the case with the use of iron or copper ions. The increase in color
     delivery is demonstrated by the lower "L" values recorded for Example 9 as
     compared to the values for Example 8.
     [0094] As mentioned above, a preferred aromatic triol is 1,2,4
    trihydroxybenzene. As shown in Table 8, Example 10 is formulated using a
     conventional oxidation dye coupler, m-Aminophenol, instead of 1,2,4
    trihydroxybenzene. Example 10 is identical to Example 8, except that 1,2,4
    trihydroxybenzene was replaced with an equal amount of m-Aminophenol. The
     decrease in color delivery for Example 10 compared to Example 8 is indicated by
    the higher "L" values recorded in Table 9.
     [0095] While the disclosure has been described above with reference to specific
     embodiments thereof, it is apparent that many changes, modifications, and
    variations can be made without departing from the concept disclosed herein.

WO 2015/112789                                                         PCT/US2015/012574
                                              - 40
    Accordingly, it is intended to embrace all such changes, modifications, and
    variations that fall within the spirit and broad scope of the appended claims.

                                           - 41
        THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.      A method for gradually coloring hair comprising the steps of:
                 a) applying an air oxidation haircolor composition to hair;
                b) removing the air oxidation haircolor composition from the hair
directly after application; and
                 c) repeating a set comprising the steps a) and b) in multiple spaced
intervals,
                wherein the step of removing the air oxidation haircolor
composition is performed within 1 hour after application,
                wherein the air oxidation haircolor composition comprises:
                 1) at least one primary oxidation dye intermediate;
                2) at least one aromatic triol;
                 3) water; and
                4) a grooming agent selected from the group consisting of at least
one cleansing surfactant and/or at least one conditioning agent, where a
conditioning agent content is 0.5% to 15% weight by weight.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein an aromatic triol content is 0.01% to 5%
weight by weight of the air oxidation haircolor composition.
3.      A method for gradually coloring hair and simultaneously cleansing and/or
conditioning hair, the method comprising the steps of:
                 a)       applying an air oxidation haircolor composition to hair;
                b)       removing the air oxidation haircolor composition from the
                         hair directly after application; and
                 c)      repeating a set comprising the steps a) and b) in multiple
spaced intervals, wherein the step of removing the air oxidation haircolor
composition is performed within 1 hour after application,
wherein the air oxidation haircolor composition comprises:
                 1) at least one primary oxidation dye intermediate;
                2) at least one air oxidation dye coupler;

                                            - 42
                3) water; and
4) a grooming agent selected from the group consisting of at least one cleansing
surfactant and/or at least one conditioning agent, where a conditioning agent
content is 0.5% to 15% weight by weight.
4.       The method of claim 3, wherein the at least one air oxidation dye coupler is
at least one aromatic triol.
5.        The method of claim 3 or 4, wherein the method is for simultaneously
cleansing and gradually coloring hair, and wherein the grooming agent component
of the air oxidation hair color composition consists of at least one cleansing
surfactant.
6.       The method of claim 3 or 4, wherein the grooming agent component of the
air oxidation hair color composition consists of at least one cleansing surfactant
and at least one conditioning agent.
7.       The method of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the air oxidation haircolor
composition comprises at least one anionic, at least one amphoteric, and/or at least
one nonionic cleansing surfactant.
8.       The method of any one of claims 1-7, wherein a primary oxidation dye
intermediate content is 0.01% to 5% weight by weight of the air oxidation
haircolor composition.
9.       The method of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the air oxidation haircolor
composition comprises at least one conditioning agent.
10.      The method of claim 9, wherein the conditioning agent content is 2% to
10% weight by weight, of the air oxidation haircolor composition.
11.      The method of claim 9 or 10, for simultaneously conditioning and
gradually coloring hair.

                                             - 43
 12.    The method of any one of claims 1-4 and 6-8, for simultaneously cleansing
and gradually coloring hair.
 13.    The method of any one of claims 1-4 and 6-12, for simultaneously
cleansing, conditioning, and gradually coloring hair.
 14.    The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the air oxidation
haircolor composition is applied at least once per week; or wherein the air
oxidation haircolor composition is applied daily.
 15.    The method of any one of the preceding claims, comprising applying the air
oxidation haircolor composition to wet hair.
 16.    The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the air oxidation
haircolor composition is applied to head hair;
        and/or wherein the air oxidation haircolor composition is applied to facial
        hair;
        and/or wherein the air oxidation haircolor composition is applied to body
        hair.
 17.    The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the step of
removing the air oxidation haircolor composition is performed within 10 minutes
after application.
 18.    The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the removing step
comprises rinsing the air oxidation haircolor composition from the hair with water.
 19.    An air oxidation hair color shampoo composition comprising:
                1) at least one primary oxidation dye intermediate, where a primary
oxidation dye intermediate content is 0.1% to 3% weight by weight;
                2) at least one aromatic triol, where an aromatic triol content is
0. 1% to 30%weight by weight;

                                                - 44
                 3) water, where a water content is 40% to 98% weight by weight;
and
                 4) at least one cleansing surfactant;
                 wherein the air oxidation haircolor shampoo composition cleanses
hair; and
                 wherein the air oxidation haircolor shampoo composition gradually
colors hair with repeated use.
20.      The method of any one of claims 1-18 or the composition of claim 19,
wherein the cleansing surfactant content is 10% to 40% weight by weight of the air
oxidation haircolor composition.
21.      The composition of claim 19, wherein the at least one cleansing surfactant
is at least one anionic, at least one amphoteric and/or at least one nonionic
material.
22.      The method of any one of claims 1-18 or the composition of claim 19 or
21, wherein the at least one cleansing surfactant comprises:
                 at least one anionic cleansing surfactant selected from the group
consisting of sulfosuccinates and isethionates;
                 at least one sultaine;
                 at least one alkyl poly glucoside; and
                 at least one fatty derivative.
23.      The method or composition of claim 22, wherein the at least one anionic
surfactant is selected from at least one sulfosuccinate and, at least one isethionate;
and wherein the at least one fatty derivative is a fatty alcohol.
24.      The method or composition of claim 23, wherein the cleansing surfactant
content is greater than 5% to 10% weight by weight of the air oxidation haircolor
composition.

                                             - 45
25.      The method or composition of claim 24, wherein the air oxidation haircolor
composition comprises 3% to 7% of at least one sulfosuccinate, 0.5% to 5% of the
at least one sultaine, 1% to 5% of the at least one alky poly glucoside, and 0.5% to
4% of at least one isethionate.
26.      The method of any one of claims 1-18, and 20 or the composition of any
one of claims 19-21, wherein the at least one cleansing surfactant is selected from
the group consisting of: alkyl sulfate, alkyl ether sulfate, fatty acid soap, alkyl
glyceryl ether sulfonate, methyl alkyl taurate, fatty alkyl glycinate, N-alkyl
glutamate, alkylisethionate, alpha-sulfonated fatty acid, alkyl ethoxy carboxylate,
alkyl phosphate ester, amphoacetate, alkyl polyglycoside, amphodiacetate,
amphohydroxypropylsulfonate, amphopropionate, amidopropyl betaine, sultaine,
alkylamidopropylamine oxide, alkylamine oxide, alkanolamide, sulfocuccinate,
alkylamphopropionate, ethoxylated fatty alcohol, fatty ester and ethoxylate thereof,
propoxylated fatty alcohol, glycerolated fatty alcohol, fatty diol, fatty alkylphenol,
fatty amide, methylacyl taurate, fatty acyl glycinate, N-acyl glutamate, alkyl
ethoxysulphosuccinate, ethoxylated alkyl phosphate ester, acylsarcosinate,
triglyceride with an inserted polyethyleneglycol chain, ethoxylated mono and di
glyceride, polyethoxylated lanolin, ethoxylated butter derivative, alkyl betaine, and
any combination thereof
27.      The composition of any one of claims 19-26, further comprising at least
one conditioning agent.
28.      An air oxidation haircolor conditioner composition comprising:
                 1) at least one primary oxidation dye intermediate, where a primary
oxidation dye intermediate content is 0.l1% to 3% weight by weight;
                2) at least one aromatic triol, where an aromatic triol content is
0. 1% to 30% weight by weight;
                 3) water, where a water content is 40% to 98% weight by weight;
and
                4) at least one conditioning agent, where a conditioning agent
content is 0. 1% to 15 % weight by weight;

                                          - 46
               wherein the air oxidation haircolor conditioner composition
conditions the hair; and
               wherein the air oxidation haircolor conditioner composition
gradually colors hair with repeated use.
29.     The method of any one of claims 1-18, 20, and 22-26 or the composition of
any one of claims 19-28, wherein the at least one primary oxidation dye
intermediate is selected from the group consisting of: p-phenylenediamine, N,N
bis(2-hydroxyethyl)-p-phenylenediamine sulfate, p-aminophenol, 2,4,5,6
tetraaminopyrimidine, p-toluenediamine, 2-chloro-p-phenylenediamine, N-phenyl
p-phenylenediamine, p-methylaminophenol, 1-amino-4-(2-methoxyethyl)
aminobenzene, 2- (hydroxymethyl)-p-phenylenediamine, 3-methyl-p-aminophenol,
2-(2-hydroxyethyl)-p-phenylenediamine, 4,4'-diaminodiphenylamine, 1,3
dimethyl-2,5-diaminobenzene, 2-isopropyl-p-phenylenediamine, N-(beta
hydroxypropyl)-p-phenylenediamine, 2-methyl-p-aminophenol, N-2
methoxyethyl-p-phenylenediamine, 2-hydroxyethyl-p-phenylenediamine, 2,6
dimethyl-p-phenylenediamine, 3-methyl-p-aminophenol, 2-propyl-p
phenylenediamine, 2-(2'- hydroxyethylaminomethyl)-p-aminophenol, 2
(methoxymethyl)-p-aminophenol, 2-methyl-4-dimethylaminoaniline, 5
aminosalicylic acid, 2,3-dimethyl-p-phenylenediamine, 2,6-diethyl-p
phenylenediamine, 2,5-dimethyl-p-phenylenediamine, N,N-diethyl-p
phenylenediamine, N,N-dipropyl-p-phenylenediamine, 4-amino-N,N-diethyl-3
methylaniline, 4-N,N-bis(2-hydroxyethyl)-amino-2-methylanilin, 4-N,N-bis(2
hydroxyethyl)-amino-2-chloroaniline, 2-(2-hydroxyethyl)-p-phenylenediamine, 2
fluoro-p-phenylenediamine, N-(2-hydroxypropyl)-p-phenylenediamine, 2
hydroxymethyl-p-phenylenediamine, N,N-dimethyl-2-methyl-p-phenylenediamine,
N-ethyl-N-(2-hydroxyethyl-p-phenylenediamine, N-(2,3-dihydroxypropyl)-p
phenylenediamine, N-(4'-aminophenyl)-p-phenylenediamine, 2-(2
hydroxyethyloxy)-p-phenylenediamine, 2-(acetylaminoethyloxy)-p
phenylenediamine, 2-methyl-1-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-p-phenylenedamine, 4-methyl
o-phenylenediamine, a salt thereof, and any combination thereof

                                             - 47
30.     The method or composition of claim 29, wherein the composition
comprises N,N-bis(2-hydroxyethyl)-p-phenylenediamine sulfate, or a salt thereof
31.     The method of any one of claims 1-18, 20, 22-26, 29, and 30 or the
composition of any one of claims 19-30, wherein the composition comprises about
0.l1% to about 3.0% weight by weight, about 1.0% to about 3.0% weight by
weight, or about 0.5% to about 2.0% weight by weight of N,N-bis(2
hydroxyethyl)-p-phenylenediamine sulfate, or a salt thereof
32.     The method of any one of claims 1, 2, 4 or the composition of any one of
claims 19-31, wherein the at least one aromatic triol is selected from the group
consisting of: 1,2,4-benzenetriol, 2,4,5-trihydroxytoluene, pyrogallol, and any
combination thereof
33.     The method or composition of claim 32, wherein the composition
comprises 1,2,4-benzenetriol.
34.     The method or composition of claim 33, wherein the composition
comprises 0. 1% to 3% weight by weight, 0.2% to 1.5 % weight by weight, or 0.5%
to 0.9% weight by weight of 1,2,4-benzenetriol.
35.     The method of any one of claims 1-18, 20, 22-26, 29-34 or the composition
of any one of claims 19-34, wherein the composition further comprises at least one
auxiliary oxidation dye coupler.
36.     The method or composition of claim 35, wherein the at least one auxiliary
oxidation dye coupler is selected from the group consisting of: resorcinol, 4
chlororesorcinol, 2-methylresorcinol, m-aminophenol, 1-naphthol, 1,5
naphthalenediol, 2,7-napthalenediol, 2,4-diaminophenol,
hydroxybenzomorpholine, 1-hydroxy-3-dimethylaminobenzene, 4-amino-2
hydroxytoluene, 2-methyl-5-hydroxyethylaminophenol, 1-methoxy-2,5
diaminobenzene, phenyl methyl pyrazolone, 2,4-diaminophenoxyethanol HCl, 4
ethoxy-m-phenylenediamine, 1-hydroxy-3 -amino-4,6-dichlorobenzene, 1-hydroxy-

                                          - 48
2,5-diamino-4-methoxybenzene, 4-amino-m-creso 1, 6-amino-m-cresol, 2-amino-4
hydroxyethylaminoanisole, 5 -amino-6-chloro-o cresol, 6-amino-o-cresol, 4,6
bis(2-hydroxyethoxy)-m-phenylenediamine HCl, 5 -amino-4-chloro-o-cresol, 2
ethylamino-p-cresol, 2-amino-5-acetaminophenol, 2-methyl-i -naphthol, 1
acetoxy-2-methylnaphthalene, 1-hydroxy-6-aminonaphthalene-3-sulfonic acid,
thymol, 1,5-dihydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalene, 2-chlororesorcinol, N,N
bis(hydroxyethyl)-m-phenylenediamine, 2,6-diaminotoluene, N,N
bis(hydroxyethyl)-2,4-diaminophenetole, 4,6-bis(hydroxyethyl)-m
phenylenediamine, 6-hydroxybenzomorpho line, 2-hydroxy-4
hydroxyethylaminotoluene, 4,6-dichloro-m-aminophenol, 2-methyl-m
aminophenol, 2-chloro-6-methyl-m-aminophenol, 2-hydroxyethoxy-5
aminophenol, 2-chloro-5-trifluoroethylaminophenol, 4-chloro-6-methyl-m
aminophenol, N-hydroxyethyl-4-methoxy-2-methyl-m-aminophenol, 5-amino-4
methoxy-2-methylphenol, 2-dimethylamino-5-aminopyridine, 6-methoxy-8
aminoquinoline, 2,6-dihydroxy-4-methylpyridine, 2,6-dihydroxy-3,4
dimethylpyridine, 5-chloro-2,3-dihydroxypyridine, 4-hydroxyindole, 5,6
dihydroxyindole, 7-hydroxyindole, 5-hydroxyindole, 2,3-dihydroxynaphthalene, 5
methyl-o-aminophenol, 6-methyl-o-aminophenol, 2-amino-5-acetaminophenol,
 1,7-dihydroxynaphthalene, 1-hydroxy-6-aminonaphthalene-3-sulfonic acid, 2,3
dihydroxy-1,4-naphthoquinone, 3,4-methylenedioxy- 1((beta
hydroxyethyl)amino)benzene, 3,4-methylenedioxyphenol, 1-methoxy-2-amino-4
((beta-hydroxyethyl)amino)benzene, 1-naphthol-4-sulfonic acid, m
phenylenediamine, 2,6-diaminotoluene, N,N-bis(hydroxyethyl)-2,4
diaminophenetole, bis(2,4-diaminophenoxy)- 1,3-propane, 1-hydroxyethyl-2,4
diaminobenzene, aminoethoxy-2,4-diaminobenzene, 2,4-diaminophenoxyacetic
acid, 2,4-diamino-5-methylphenetole, 2,4-diamino-5-hydroxyethoxytoluene, 2,4
dimethoxy-1,3-diaminobenzene, 2,6-bis(hydroxyethylamino)-toluene, 2-hydroxy
4-carbamoylmethylaminotoluene, 2-chloro-6-methyl-m-aminophenol, 2
hydroxyethoxy-5-aminophenol, N-cyclopentyl-3-aminophenol, N-hydroxyethyl-4
methoxy-2-methyl-m-aminophenol, 5 -amino-4-methoxy-2-methylpheno 1, 6
methoxy-8-aminoquino line, 5-hydroxy-1,4-benzodioxane, 3,4
methylenedioxyphenol, 4-hydroxyethylamino-1,2-methylenedioxybenzene, 2,6
dihydroxy-3,4-dimethylpyridine, and any combination thereof

                                             - 49
37.      The method or composition of claim 36, wherein the auxiliary oxidation
dye coupler content is 0.001% to 5% weight by weight of the composition.
38.      The method of any one of claims 1-18, 20, 22-26, and 29-37 or the
composition of any one of claims 19-37, wherein a water content of the
composition is 40% to 98% weight by weight, 70% to 98% weight by weight, or
70% to 85% weight by weight.
39.      The method of any one of claims 1-18, 20, 22-26, and 29-38 or the
composition of any one of claims 19-38, wherein the composition further
comprises at least one anti-dandruff agent.
40.      The method of any one of claims 1-18, 20, 22-26, and 29-39 or the
composition of any one of claims 19-39, wherein the at least one cleansing
surfactant forms a lamellar phase.
41.      The method of any one of claims 1-18, 22-26, and 29-40 or the composition
of any one of claims 19, 21-27, and 29-40, wherein the cleansing surfactant content
is 5% to 50% weight by weight.
42.      An air oxidation haircolor composition, comprising:
at least one primary oxidation dye intermediate;
at least one air oxidation dye coupler; and
water,
wherein the air oxidation haircolor composition comprises a lamellar phase.
43.      A method for coloring hair comprising:
                 a)      applying the air oxidation haircolor composition of claim 42
to hair; and
                 b)     removing the air oxidation haircolor composition from the
         hair within 1 hour after application.

                                            - 50
44.      The method of claim 43, which is for gradually coloring hair.
45.      The method of claim 44, comprising the repeating a set comprising the
steps a) and b) in multiple spaced intervals.
46.      The method of claim 44 and 45, wherein the air oxidation haircolor
composition is applied at least once per week or at least once daily.
47.      The method of any one of claims 43-46, wherein the air oxidation haircolor
composition is removed from the hair within 1 to 10 minutes after application.
48.      The method of any one of claims 43-46, wherein the step of removing the
air oxidation haircolor composition is performed within 15 minutes after
application.
49.      The composition of claim 42 or the method of any one of claims 43-46,
wherein the air oxidation haircolor composition comprises at least one cleansing
surfactant.
50.      The composition of claim 42 or 49 or the method of any one of claims 43
46 and 49, wherein the air oxidation haircolor composition comprises the at least
one conditioning agent.
51.      The method of claim 49, wherein the set comprising the steps a) and b)
simultaneously cleanses and gradually colors the hair, and wherein the air
oxidation haircolor composition is an air oxidation haircolor shampoo
composition.
52.      The method of claim 49 or 50, wherein the set comprising the steps a) and
b) simultaneously cleanses, conditions, and gradually colors the hair, and wherein
the air oxidation haircolor composition is an air oxidation haircolor shampoo and
conditioning composition.

                                             -51
53.       The composition of claim 42, 49, and 50 or the method of any one of
claims 43-52, wherein the at least one air oxidation hair dye coupler comprises at
least one aromatic triol.
54.       The composition or method of claim 53, wherein the at least one aromatic
triol is selected from the group consisting of: 1,2,4-benzenetriol, 2,4,5
trihydroxytoluene, pyrogallol, and any combination thereof
55.       The composition or method of claim 53, wherein the air oxidation haircolor
composition comprises 1,2,4-benzenetriol.
56.       The composition of claim 42, 49, 50, 53, and 54 or the method of any one
of claims 43-55, wherein a primary oxidation dye intermediate content in the air
oxidation haircolor composition is about 0.1% to about 3% weight by weight, an
aromatic triol content in the air oxidation haircolor composition is about 0.1% to
about 3% weight by weight, and a water content in the air oxidation haircolor
composition is about 40% to about 98% weight by weight.
57.       The composition of any one of claims 42 and 53-56 or the method of any
one of claims 43-48 and 50-56, wherein the air oxidation haircolor composition
comprises at least one cleansing surfactant, and wherein the at least one cleansing
surfactant is an anionic, an amphoteric, or a nonionic cleansing surfactant.
58.       The composition of any one of claims 42 and 53-56 or the method of any
one of claims 43-48 and 50-56, wherein the air oxidation haircolor composition
comprises at least one cleansing surfactant, and wherein the at least one cleansing
surfactant comprises:
at least one anionic cleansing surfactant selected from the group consisting of at
least one sulfosuccinate and at least one isethionate;
at least one sultaine;
at least one alkyl poly glucoside; and
at least one fatty derivative.

                                           - 52
59.     The composition of any one of claims 42 and 53-56 or the method of any
one of claims 43-48 and 50-56, wherein the lamellar phase comprises at least one
cleansing surfactant.
60.     The composition of any one of claims 42 and 53-56 or the method of any
one of claims 43-48 and 50-56, and at least about 80 weight % of surfactants in the
air oxidation haircolor composition can form bilayers.
61.     The composition of any one of claims 42 and 53-60 or the method of any
one of claims 43-60, wherein a primary oxidation dye intermediate content in the
air oxidation haircolor composition is about 0.1% to about 3% weight by weight,
an air oxidation dye coupler content in the air oxidation haircolor composition is
about 0. 1% to about 3 % weight by weight, and a water content in the air oxidation
haircolor composition is about 40% to about 98% weight by weight.
62.     The composition of any one of claims 42 and 53-61 or the method of any
one of claims 43-50 and 53-61, wherein the air oxidation haircolor composition is
an air oxidation haircolor shampoo composition.
63.     The composition or method of claim 62, wherein the air oxidation haircolor
shampoo composition gradually colors hair with repeated use.
64.     The composition of any one of claims 42, 50, 53-56, and 61 or the method
of any one of claims 43-48, 50, 53-56, and 61, wherein the air oxidation haircolor
composition is an air oxidation haircolor conditioning composition.
65.     The composition of any one of claims 42 and 53-61 or the method of any
one of claims 43-50 and 53-61, which is an air oxidation haircolor shampoo and
conditioning composition.
66.     A method for simultaneously coloring and cleansing hair, comprising
applying the composition of claim 62 or 63.

                                         - 53
67.   A method for simultaneously coloring, cleansing, and conditioning hair,
comprising applying to the hair the composition of claim 65.

