ABSTRACT
The present disclosure relates to frameworks and methodologies configured to enable
production of plants.  Embodiments have been particularly developed to assist in the
production of organic-certified food for human consumption. In overview, a recirculating
aquaculture system is used to provide nutrients for a soil-based plant production system.

                                                  1
 FRAMEWORKS                  AND METHODOLOGIES                          CONFIGURED
TO ENABLE SOIL-BASED PRODUCTION OF PLANTS
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]    The present invention relates to frameworks and methodologies configured to
enable production of plants. Embodiments have been particularly developed to assist in
the production of organic-certified food for human consumption.
BACKGROUND
[0002]    Any discussion of the background art throughout the specification should in no
way be considered as an admission that such art is widely known or forms part of
common general knowledge in the field.
[0003]    Intensive commercial food production operations are constantly seeking to
enable the feeding of plant life and successful husbandry of livestock, thereby to reduce
overheads and provide high quality produce in an efficient manner.           For example,
hydroponic and aquaponic methods are known.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0004]    It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of
the disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
[0005]    One embodiment provides a system configured for soil-based plant production,
the system including:
[0006]    a Recirculating Aquaculture System in which one or more aquatic species are
housed;
[0007]    a Solids Filter configured to enable removal of waste from the Recirculating
Aquaculture System;
[0008]    a Solids Settling Tank configured to enable separation of a liquids and solids
component from a mixture including of waste from the Recirculating Aquaculture System;

                                                    2
[0009]      a Bioreactor configured to process the liquids component in combination with
one or more organic supplements, thereby to produce liquid nutrients;
[0010]      a Solids Composting System and Soil Manufacturing System configured to
create a soil from a mixture including the solids component;
[0011]      a Soil Based Plant Production System configured for plant production, wherein a
plurality of plants are: (i) grown in soil created by the Solids Composting System and Soil
Manufacturing System and (ii) fed the liquid nutrients
[0012]      Reference     throughout this     specification to   "one embodiment",    "some
embodiments" or "an embodiment" means that a particular feature, structure or
characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one
embodiment of the present invention.            Thus, appearances of the phrases "in one
embodiment", "in some embodiments" or "in an embodiment" in various places throughout
this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment, but may.
Furthermore, the particular features, structures or characteristics may be combined in any
suitable manner, as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art from this
disclosure, in one or more embodiments.
[0013]      As used herein, unless otherwise specified the use of the ordinal adjectives
"first", "second", "third", etc., to describe a common object, merely indicate that different
instances of like objects are being referred to, and are not intended to imply that the
objects so described must be in a given sequence, either temporally, spatially, in ranking,
or in any other manner.
[0014]      In the claims below and the description herein, any one of the terms comprising,
comprised of or which comprises is an open term that means including at least the
elements/features that follow, but not excluding others. Thus, the term comprising, when
used in the claims, should not be interpreted as being limitative to the means or elements
or steps listed thereafter. For example, the scope of the expression a device comprising
A and B should not be limited to devices consisting only of elements A and B. Any one of
the terms including or which includes or that includes as used herein is also an open term
that also means including at least the elements/features that follow the term, but not
excluding others. Thus, including is synonymous with and means comprising.

                                                 3
[0015]     As used herein, the term "exemplary" is used in the sense of providing
examples, as opposed to indicating quality. That is, an "exemplary embodiment" is an
embodiment provided as an example, as opposed to necessarily being an embodiment of
exemplary quality.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0016]     Embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of example only,
with reference to the accompanying drawing in which:
[0017]     FIG. 1 illustrates a framework according to one embodiment.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0018]     The present invention relates, in various embodiments, to frameworks and
methodologies configured to enable production of plants.        Embodiments have been
particularly developed to assist in the production of organic-certified food for human
consumption.
[0019]     An example framework is illustrated in FIG. 1. Provided below is a list of the
elements illustrated in the framework.
    " Box 1 represents a Recirculating Aquaculture System.
    *   Box 2 represents a Solids Filter
    *   Box 3 represents a Solids Settling Tank
    *   Box 4 represents a Bioreactor.
    " Box 5 represents an Organic Supplement Supply.
    .   Box 6 represents a Solids Composting System.
    .   Box 7 represents a Soil Manufacturing System.
    *   Box 8 represents a Soil Based Plant Production System.

                                           4
" Box 9 represents a Soil/Compost Supplement Supply.
* Line A represents transportation of a mixture of solids and liquids from the
  Recirculating Aquaculture System to the Solid Settling Tank.
* Line B represents transportation of liquid from the Recirculating Aquaculture
  System to the Bioreactor.
* Line C represents transportation of liquid from the Solid Settling Tank to the
  Bioreactor.
" Line D represents transportation of organic supplements from the Organic
  Supplement Supply to the Bioreactor.
* Line E represents transportation of solids from the Solid Settling Tank to the Solids
  Composting System.
" Line F represents transportation of composting material from the Composting
  System to the Soil Manufacturing System.
" Line G represents transportation of soil from the Soil Manufacturing System to the
  Soil Based Plant Production System.
" Line H represents transportation of green waste from the Soil Based Plant
  Production System to the Solids Composting System.
" Line I represents transportation of liquid from the Bioreactor to the Soil Based
  Plant Production System.
" Line J represents transportation        of supplements from the Soil/Compost
  Supplement Supply to the Solids Composting System.
" Line K represents transportation        of supplements from the Soil/Compost
  Supplement Supply to the Soil Manufacturing System.

                                                 5
    *   Line L represents transportation of sediments and filter backflush from the plant
        production system.
Recirculating Aquaculture System
[0020]     Box 1 represents a Recirculating Aquaculture System, being a system here
aquatic animals are raised in one or more tanks.            Various forms of recirculating
aquaculture systems are known, with known examples being suitable for wide range of
species.    Example forms of aquatic animals used for embodiments of the present
technology include, but are not limited to:
    " Fin fish species such as: Barramundi (Lates calcarifer), Salmonids, Silver perch
        (Bidyanus bidyanus), Tilapia sp., Jade perch (Scortum barcoo), Murray cod
        (Maccullochella peeli)
    " Crustacean species such as: Marron (Cherax sp.)
    " Shell fish or mollusc.
[0021]     The aquatic species are preferably fed on produce derived from commercial
aquaculture feed sources. These include specially formulated feeds tailored to individual
species to optimise production and stock health. Exemplary Ingredients include: Marine
Proteins (fish meal), Land animal proteins (Poultry meal, feather meal, meat meal, blood
meal), Vegetable proteins (Lupin, Wheat, soy), Marine Oils (Fish oil), Land animal oils
(Poultry oil), Vegetable oils (Canola), carbohydrates (wheat, faba bean), and technical
additions to balance nutritional needs.
[0022]     In one example the aquatic animals are Barramunid (Lates calcarifer).
In this instance sourced fingerlings (or those produced onsite via brood stock) are
provided the infrastructure for production collectively known as a recirculating aquaculture
system (RAS). Here optimised fish husbandry ensures correct feed and environmental
conditions etc are provided to ensure healthy fish growth.
[0023]     In an example embodiment, the recirculating aquaculture system is operated
based on the following life cycle for Barramunid species. Initially, -1 month old fingerlings
are introduced to a quarantine system for a monitoring period of 3-4 weeks for a

                                                     6
monitoring phase.         Upon successful completion of the monitoring phase, the fish are
moved to a series of production tanks for a duration of -5 months (or more). The time
period is in some embodiments selected such that the fish attain a harvest size at which
they are suitable for human consumption. In further embodiments, alternate approaches
are tailored for other aquaculture species (for example other commercially viable
aquaculture species).
Solids Filter
[0024]      Box 2 represents a Solids Filter. The Solids Filter is configured to extract a
mixture of liquid and solids from the Recirculating Aquaculture System.               The solids
component of the mixture of liquid and solids is substantially made up of waste produced
by the aquatic animals (but may include other solids from the Recirculating Aquaculture
System). Various forms of infrastructure may be used to perform the role of the Solids
filter, including but not limited to: micro-screen filter, drum filter, disc filters, belt filter,
wedge-wire filter, screen filter, sand filter, bead filter, granular filter, porous media filter,
cartridge filter, swirl separator, radial flow separator, lamella clarifier, settling tank/basin,
sedimentation tank/basin, tube settlers, or hydrocyclones.
[0025]      The mixture of liquid and solids extracted by the Solids Filter is transported to
the Solids Settling Tank, as shown by Line A.
[0026]      An example form of solids filter include, but is not limited to: drum filter, sand
filter, bead filter, swirl separator, radial flow separator, lamella clarifier.
Solid Settling Tank
[0027]      Box 3 represents a Solids Settling Tank. The Solid Settling Tank, in broad
terms, causes/allows the mixture of solid and liquid extracted by the Solids Filter to
separate into a liquid component and a solids component. The solids component may still
contain some liquid content.
[0028]      The terminology used to describe components that perform the role of this item
vary, and include the terms sedimentation tank and settling basin (for example). The Solid
Settling Tank of the present embodiment has the following features:

                                                    7
     " The Solid Settling Tank causes/allows the mixture of solid and liquid extracted by
         the Solids Filter to separate into a liquid component and a solids component. The
         solids component may still contain some liquid content.
     " The Solid Settling Tank may carry out any one or all of the processes of
        flocculation, settling, and sedimentation.
[0029]      Beyond the feature specified above, the Solid Settling Tank of the Framework is
not limited by reference to any particular form of Solid Settling Tank. Various forms of
infrastructure may be used to perform the role of the Solid Settling Tank, including various
known forms of settling basins and clarifiers, Sequencing Batch Reactors (SBRs), Lamella
Clarifier or a Radial Flow Settlers (RFSs).
[0030]      The liquid component is extracted from the Solid Settling tank and transported
to the Bioreactor (see Line C). The solids component is extracted from the Solid Settling
Tank and transported to the Solids Composting System (see Line E).
[0031]      In some embodiments a Sequencing Batch Reactor (SBR) is used thereby to
perform functions of the Solid Settling Tank (Box 2). For example, the SBR operates in a
multi-modal manner, thereby to operate as settling tank during specific time periods, and
as an aeration device other periods. A preferred SBR operates in a batch mode with
aeration and sludge settlement both occurring in the same tank.
Solids Composting System
[0032]      Box 6 represents a Solids Composting System. The Solids Composting System
is a composting system that forms compost from at least the following input sources:
     " The solids component extracted from the Solid Settling Tank (see Line E); and
     *   Green and soil waste generated by the Soil Based Plant Production System (see
         Line H).
[0033]      Compost formed by the Solids Composting System is transported to the Soil
Manufacturing System (see Line F).

                                                  8
[0034]    The Solids Composting System may also receive supplements sourced from the
Soil/Compost Supplement Supply (see Box 9 and Line J). The Soil/Compost Supplement
Supply is made up of supplements that are obtained exclusively from a source external of
the Framework, and may include the likes of: woodchips; coconut husk; sand; bark; peat;
saw dust; compost; vermicompost; zeolites; rock phosphates; meat/bone/blood/feather
meals; manures; soil; clays; lime; dolomite.
Soil Manufacturing System
[0035]    Box 7 represents a Soil Manufacturing System. The Soil Manufacturing System
creates soil using compost created by the Solids Composting System.               This soil is
provided to the Soil Based Plant Production System.         For example, the soil ingredient
components are turned and mixed via auger, tractor or other machinery as is known in the
art.
[0036]    The Soil Manufacturing System may also receive supplements sourced from the
Soil/Compost Supplement Supply (see Box 9 and Line K). The Soil/Compost Supplement
Supply is made up of supplements that are obtained exclusively from a source external of
the Framework, and may include the likes of: woodchips; coconut husk; sand; bark; peat;
saw dust; compost; vermicompost; zeolites; rock phosphates; meat/bone/blood/feather
meals; manures; soil; clays; lime; dolomite.
Bioreactor
[0037]    Box 4 represents a Bioreactor. The Bioreactor has the following features:
[0038]     Input liquid is received from the Recirculating Aquaculture System (see Line B).
[0039]    Additional input liquid is received from the Solid Settling Tank (see Line C).
[0040]     Input of organic supplements is received from the Organic Supplement Supply
(see Box 5 and Line D).          The Organic Supplement Supply is made up of organic
supplements that are obtained exclusively from a source external of the Framework, and
may include organic supplements such as organic forms of Nitrogen and/or Potassium,
and/or other plant-required nutrients.

                                                     9
[0041]       The Bioreactor supports a biological reaction which transforms the input liquids
and input organic supplements into a source of liquid for the Soil Based Plant Production
System. The bioreactor is optionally selected from known bioreactors adapted for use in
the conversion of organic compounds into plant available nutrients, such as transforming
organic forms or nitrogen such as amino acids, into plant useable forms like ammonia or
nitrate.
Soil Based Plant Production System
[0042]       Box 8 represents a Soil Based Plant Production System. The Soil Based Plant
Production System has the following features:
     " Plants are grown in soil.            This soil includes soil provided from the Soil
         Manufacturing System (see Line H).
     " The Soil Based Plant Production System is delivered liquid provided by the
         Bioreactor (see Line 1), and this is delivered to the plants for example via an
         irrigation tank and other irrigation infrastructure.
     " At least a portion of green waste from the Soil Based Plant Production System is
         provided to the Solids Composting System (see Line H).
     " Any Liquid material outputted by the Soil Based Plant Production System is treated
         as waste, and under normal circumstances comprises only of the small volumes
         transported with green waste to the Solids Composting System. Specifically, no
         liquid from the Soil Based Plant Production System is provided to the Recirculating
         Aquaculture System.
[0043]       In the illustrated Framework, the Soil Based Plant Production System is set up
in such a manner that a backwash cleaning of filters causes transportation of liquids and
suspended solids from the Soil Based Plant Production System to the Solid Settling Tank
via a backwashing operation (see Line J). This is a preferred, but non-essential aspect of
the Framework.
Summary of Operation

                                                  10
[0044]     The Framework relates in broad terms to use of an aquaculture production unit
to provide liquid feed and compost to a soil based plant production system.
[0045]     Aquatic animals are grown in the Recirculating Aquaculture System (Box 1),
where they are housed in water obtained exclusively from external sources.
[0046]     A mixture including waste produced by the aquatic animals is extracted from the
Recirculating Aquaculture System using the Solids Filter (Box 2).            The mixture is
transported (see Line A) to the Settling Tank (Box 3). In the Settling Tank, the mixture is
separated into a liquid component and a solids component.
[0047]     The liquid component from the Settling Tank is transported (see Line C) to the
Bioreactor (Box 4).     In the Bioreactor, the liquid component from the Settling Tank is
combined with additional liquids from the Recirculating Aquaculture System (see line B)
and organic supplements (see Box 4 and Line D). This creates a liquid plant feed which is
delivered (see Line 1)to the Soil Based Plant Production System (Box 8).
[0048]     The solids component from the Settling Tank is transported (see Line E) to a
Solids Composting System (Box 6), where it is combined with green waste to form
compost.     The green waste includes green waste obtained from the Soil Based Plant
Production System (See Line H). That compost is transported (see Line F) to a Soil
Manufacturing System (Box 7) to produce soil. That soil is then transported (see Line G)
to Soil Based Plant Production System, where it is used to support the growth of plants.
[0049]     It should be      appreciated   that  in the above description of exemplary
embodiments of the invention, various features of the invention are sometimes grouped
together in a single embodiment, FIG., or description thereof for the purpose of
streamlining the disclosure and aiding in the understanding of one or more of the various
inventive aspects.     This method of disclosure, however, is not to be interpreted as
reflecting an intention that the claimed invention requires more features than are expressly
recited in each claim. Rather, as the following claims reflect, inventive aspects lie in less
than all features of a single foregoing disclosed embodiment. Thus, the claims following
the Detailed Description are hereby expressly incorporated into this Detailed Description,
with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment of this invention.

                                                 11
[0050]     Furthermore, while some embodiments described herein include some but not
other features included in other embodiments, combinations of features of different
embodiments are meant to be within the scope of the invention, and form different
embodiments, as would be understood by those skilled in the art. For example, in the
following claims, any of the claimed embodiments can be used in any combination.
[0051]     In the description provided herein, numerous specific details are set forth.
However, it is understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without
these specific details. In other instances, well-known methods, structures and techniques
have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure an understanding of this description.
[0052]     Thus, while there has been described what are believed to be the preferred
embodiments of the invention, those skilled in the art will recognize that other and further
modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit of the invention, and it
is intended to claim all such changes and modifications as falling within the scope of the
invention.    For example, any formulas given above are merely representative of
procedures that may be used.       Functionality may be added or deleted from the block
diagrams and operations may be interchanged among functional blocks. Steps may be
added or deleted to methods described within the scope of the present invention.

                                                  12
Claims:
1.   A system configured for soil-based plant production, the system including:
     a recirculating aquaculture system in which one or more aquatic species are
     housed;
     a solids filter configured to enable removal of waste from the recirculating
     aquaculture system;
     a solids settling tank configured to enable separation of a liquids and solids
     component from a mixture including of waste from the recirculating aquaculture
     system;
     a bioreactor configured to process the liquids component in combination with one
     or more organic supplements, thereby to produce liquid nutrients;
     a solids composting system and soil manufacturing system configured to create a
     soil from a mixture including the solids component;
     a soil based plant production system configured for plant production, wherein a
     plurality of plants are: (i) grown in soil created by the solids composting system
     and soil manufacturing system and (ii) fed the liquid nutrients
2.   A system according to claim 1 wherein the solids filter includes one or more of: a
     drum filter, sand filter, bead filter, swirl separator, radial flow separator, or lamella
     clarifier.
3.   A system according to claim 1 wherein the soil based plant production system is
     configured such that a backwash cleaning of filters causes transportation of liquids
     and suspended solids from the soil based plant production system to the solid
     settling tank via a backwashing operation.
4.   A system according to claim 1wherein the bioreactor has the following features:
     input liquid is received from the recirculating aquaculture system;
     additional input liquid is received from the solid settling tank; and

                                              13
    input of organic supplements is received from an organic supplement supply made
    up of organic supplements that are obtained from a source external of the
    framework.
5.  A system according to claim 4 wherein the organic supplements include one or
    more of: organic forms of Nitrogen and/or Potassium, and/or other plant-required
    nutrients.
6.  A system according to claim 1 wherein the bioreactor supports a biological
    reaction which transforms the input liquids and input organic supplements into a
    source of liquid for the soil based plant production system.
7.  A system according to claim 1 wherein a mixture including waste produced by the
    aquatic animals is extracted from the recirculating aquaculture system using the
    solids filter, and that mixture is transported to the settling tank where, the mixture
    is separated into a liquid component and a solids component.
8.  A system according to claim 7 wherein the liquid component from the settling tank
    is transported to the bioreactor and, in the bioreactor, the liquid component from
    the settling tank is combined with additional liquids from the recirculating
    aquaculture system and organic supplements thereby to create a liquid plant feed
    which is delivered to the soil based plant production system.
9.  A system according to claim 7 or claim 8 wherein the solids component from the
    settling tank is transported to a solids composting system, where it is combined
    with green waste to form compost, wherein the green waste includes green waste
    obtained from the soil based plant production system , and wherein the compost is
    transported to a soil manufacturing system to produce soil, which is then
    transported to the soil based plant production system, where it is used to support
    the growth of plants.
10. A method configured for soil-based plant production, the method including:
    operating a recirculating aquaculture system in which one or more aquatic species
    are housed;

                                                 14
    operating a solids filter configured to enable removal of waste from the
    recirculating aquaculture system;
    operating a solids settling tank configured to enable separation of a liquids and
    solids component from a mixture including of waste from the recirculating
    aquaculture system;
    operating a bioreactor configured to process the liquids component in combination
    with one or more organic supplements, thereby to produce liquid nutrients;
    operating a solids composting system and soil manufacturing system configured to
    create a soil from a mixture including the solids component;
    operating a soil based plant production system configured for plant production,
    wherein a plurality of plants are: (i) grown in soil created by the solids composting
    system and soil manufacturing system and (ii) fed the liquid nutrients
11. A method according to claim 10 wherein the solids filter includes one or more of: a
    drum filter, sand filter, bead filter, swirl separator, radial flow separator, or lamella
    clarifier.
12. A method according to claim 10 wherein the soil based plant production system is
    configured such that a backwash cleaning of filters causes transportation of liquids
    and suspended solids from the soil based plant production system to the solid
    settling tank via a backwashing operation.
13. A method according to claim 10 wherein the bioreactor has the following features:
    input liquid is received from the recirculating aquaculture system;
    additional input liquid is received from the solid settling tank; and
    input of organic supplements is received from an organic supplement supply made
    up of organic supplements that are obtained from a source external of the
    framework.
14. A method according to claim 13 wherein the organic supplements include one or
    more of: organic forms of Nitrogen and/or Potassium, and/or other plant-required
    nutrients.

                                              15
15. A method according to claim 10 wherein the bioreactor supports a biological
    reaction which transforms the input liquids and input organic supplements into a
    source of liquid for the soil based plant production system.
16. A method according to claim 10 wherein a mixture including waste produced by
    the aquatic animals is extracted from the recirculating aquaculture system using
    the solids filter, and that mixture is transported to the settling tank where, the
    mixture is separated into a liquid component and a solids component.
17. A method according to claim 17 wherein the liquid component from the settling
    tank is transported to the bioreactor and, in the bioreactor, the liquid component
    from the settling tank is combined with additional liquids from the recirculating
    aquaculture system and organic supplements thereby to create a liquid plant feed
    which is delivered to the soil based plant production system.
18. A method according to claim 16 or claim 17 wherein the solids component from the
    settling tank is transported to a solids composting system, where it is combined
    with green waste to form compost, wherein the green waste includes green waste
    obtained from the soil based plant production system , and wherein the compost is
    transported to a soil manufacturing system to produce soil, which is then
    transported to the soil based plant production system, where it is used to support
    the growth of plants.

                                                                              1/1
<removed-date>
                                                                        5
                                                    Organic
                                                   Supplement
                                                     Supply
                                           1                            4
                                               D                                                                         8
<removed-apn>
                                                    Bioreactor
                                           B                                                    I
                                                                                                                 9
                                                                                          Soil/Compost
                                                                                           Supplement
                                                                    C
                                                                                    J
                                                                                             Supply               K
                 Recirculating                                                                                                    Soil Based Plant
              Aquaculture System                                                                                                 Production System
                                                                        3                           6                        7
                                       2
                                                                               Solids                        Soil
                              Solids               Solid Settling
                                                                             Composting                  Manufacturing
                              Filter       A           Tank             E                           F                        G
                                                                               System                      System
                                                                                                                     H
                                                                                                         L
                                                                            FIGURE 1

