                                       Abstract
The Parkify Application has the following features that will innovate and create
opportunity for the local economy to become self-sustaining 1. Ticketless Parking
using licence recognition 2. GPS targeted customer centric business marketing 3.
Self-serving business advertising platform 4. Local Business in app payments 5 Click
and Collect for local business to deliver big retail to a small retail environment 6.
Customer-centric contextual notifications and wallet.

           Editorial Note
           <removed-apn>
There are four pages of description only

'Parkify' - Empower local business and communities
Parkify is an 'amplification' of parking as we know it!
All parking applications currently available offer one or more parking solutions
that streamline how customers park. This can be through booking, entry and
payment, or other features that address the pain points commonly associated
with parking in a on or off-street parking environment.
What has been largely ignored is the opportunity to optimize the time spent
parking for all stakeholders. The question that has never been answered and
addressed until now is 'why' people are parking.
This is where the real opportunity is!
Parkify is a parking experience!
How does Parkify support the local community ...
Firstly yes, Parkify does offer what other traditional parking applications do.
Ticketless parking utilizing licence recognition underpins the Parkify application
however, when the parking customer registers with Parkify they are asked
what they would like their parking experience to look like? (they can edit this
at any time to update)
The parking customer is then given a choice of shopping and service options to
choose from. They select what is of interest to them which can be one or
multiple areas of interest. It is their choice!

For example, you may love coffee, be an avid dog lover and fitness fanatic.
When you park with Parkify, in your nominated car parking areas you will
receive notifications that are contextually appropriate based on your choices
... in this example coffee, dogs and fitness.
An illustrationof what this could look like is as follows
You park your car and a coffee shop in walking distance offers you a 'buy one
cup of coffee, get one free' offer and another equally close coffee shop offers
you a 'half price coffee and cake special'. (in stage 2 Parkify businesses will be
able to have priority offers that are time based)
You dismiss the offer you are not interested in and choose the other offer.
Your choice is saved and sent to your wallet for you to show to the shop owner
to claim your special in store.
You also may receive a notification for a service that enables you to pick up tick
treatments for your dog half price instore at your local pet store ...and if you
buy two packs you will get some FREE liver treats!
You save this offer to your wallet as you had this on your to-do list and picking
it up now will save you time and money.
You have been meaning to pick up some new workout clothes and usually buy
these online because you are too busy to go to the local stores and it is easier.
Your local sports store serves you a promotion letting you know that they are
clearing your favourite brand of workout clothes and have half price fitness
accessories on presentation of your Parkify offer.
 (In stage 3 of the Parkify Application you will be able to order, pay and click
and collect as you leave your parking spot bringing the convenience of 'click
and collect' to the local SME and not just the advantage of the big retail
players)

Reflecting on the above customer journey. How do you feel this customer
would feel when they leave the Parkify carpark as opposed to when they park
using other parking applications? Did they save time and money? Was the
experience one that they controlled and benefited from.
Parkify puts the parking customer in the drivers seat ...and not just behind the
car wheel!
How does Parkify support the local business ...
Local businesses register to be a preferred Parkify business on subscription.
Once registered, local businesses can create as little or as many offers they
wish to take advantage of seasonal occasions, holidays, new stock, overstock
and clearances or any other promotional opportunity that may be appropriate.
This autonomy to easily 'drag and drop' and build their offers in the back end
of Parkify and publish in real time or schedule promotional offers to manage
their activity efficiently will make Parkify a cost effective and measurable
option.
This will prove to be very attractive for local businesses looking to find new and
'sticky' ways to engage with their local community. This relationship is not just
transactional with customers, but also with local sporting and community
groups to reinforce their local reputation and standing through sponsorship.
By registering and becoming an active user of Parkify local businesses will be
able to support local sporting and community groups due to an increase and
consistency in cash flow and reinvigorated business performance and growth
trajectory.
Parkify brings confidence to local business, giving them a platform to grow
their business, the community, by delivering a vehicle that will generate
business confidence to enable support of their activities, and parking
customers, by giving them choice and convenience to engage and transact

where and when they want to save them time and money, to live, work and
play locally.

      Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

INDEPENDENT CLAIM
The Parkify Application has the following features that will innovate and create opportunity for the
local economy to become self-sustaining
    *   Ticketless Parking using licence recognition
    *   GPS targeted customer centric business marketing
    *   Self-serving business advertising platform
    *   Local Business in app payments
    *   'Click and Collect' for local business to deliver big retail to a small retail environment
    .   Customer-centric contextual notifications and wallet

