ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
               Disclosed is an analysis method including: a component to be analyzed being set;
bringing a carrier and a complex that includes the component into contact with each other, to
form the complex on the carrier; selecting a washing process in accordance with the component;
and analyzing the component, with use of the washing process selected in accordance with the
set component.
[Selected Figure] FIG. 1

                                   1/13
FIG. 1
                                                                          100
ANALYZER
                REACTION UNIT
                                      90                              9
          10
                                      83            83
                  80A(80)-                                             O
                                                                     80B
                      81                           81                (80)
                                 82a(82)          82a(82)
           11  WASHING UNIT      UNNECESSARY!                   UNNECESSARY
                      IN          COMPONENT      S               COMPONENT
                  LIQUID                       LIQUID
                                        0       70B1
                   70A               0
                   (70)                90       (70)                  90
               80A(80)                83 (                             802
                                                        83             (80)
                     81             82a(82)  j     81        F1    82a(82)
          13   ANALYSIS UNIT
                                       90                              90
                                      83
                                                 SIGNAL                83
                 80A(80)              SIGNAL     S
                       81                          81                 80B
  12                                82a(82)       82a(82)             (80)
     CONTROLLER                                           14
       TARGET COMPONENT           CHOICE                        SETTING
       TARGET COMPONENT A    WASHING PROCESS A                    UNIT
       TARGET COMPONENT B    WASHING PROCESS B
       TARGET COMPONENT C    WASHING PROCESS C

                             ANALYSIS METHOD AND ANALYZER
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]
                This application claims priority from prior Japanese Patent Application No. 2016
256215, filed on December 28, 2016, entitled "ANALYSIS METHOD AND ANALYZER", the
entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]
                There is an analyzer which analyzes components with use of a process of washing
a complex (hereinafter, referred to as washing process for a complex) that includes a component
to be analyzed (hereinafter, referred to as target component), the component being contained in a
specimen (see Japanese Laid-Open Patent Publication No. 2007-192766, for example).
BACKGROUND
[0003]
                In the analyzer disclosed in Japanese Laid-Open Patent Publication No. 2007
192766 mentioned above, as shown in FIG. 21, a complex of a target component in a specimen
and an antibody is formed on a carrier through antigen-antibody reaction in a reaction unit, and
then, in a BF separator, a washing process for the complex is performed by use of a washing
liquid.    The target component is any of various types of antigens and antibodies, for example.
The washing process is a process of separating the complex including the target component,
from substances other than the complex by use of a washing liquid, in order to suppress
occurrence of a detection signal that is not derived from the target component.     In laboratory
tests, large quantities of specimens are handled, and thus, the washing process is often used in
common.      In the analyzer disclosed in Japanese Laid-Open Patent Publication No. 2007-192766
mentioned above, a common and single kind of washing process is performed on the complex
irrespective of the kind of the target component.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0004]
                In recent years, analyzers are desired to be able to measure a wider variety of
target components, than conventional analyzers.      However, vigorous study by the inventors of
the present application has revealed that: in a case where a common washing process is

performed in measurement of a plurality of target components, measurement is hindered by
influence of the washing process with respect to some specific target components; and
measurement at a sufficient accuracy becomes difficult to be performed.
[0005]
               The present invention is directed to suppressing hindrance of measurement due to
influence of a washing process for a complex even when measurement of a plurality of target
components is performed.
[0006]
               In order to solve the above problem, the inventors of the present application
conducted vigorous study and found that: structural or functional change in the complex could be
caused depending on the details of a washing process; and thus, by selecting an appropriate
washing process in accordance with the target component, it becomes possible to perform the
measurement at sufficient accuracy without the measurement of the target component being
hindered.    That is, an analysis method according to a first aspect of this invention includes: a
component (80) to be analyzed being set; bringing a carrier (82) and a complex (81) that includes
the component (80) into contact with each other, to form the complex (81) on the carrier (82);
selecting a washing process in accordance with the component (80); and analyzing the
component (80), with use of the washing process selected in accordance with the set component
(80).   Here, "washing process" means a process of removing components unnecessary for
measurement and present in the measurement sample other than the carrier (82) that includes the
complex (81).    The components unnecessary for the measurement include: the target
component (80) and reagent components that have been non-specifically adsorbed to the
complex (81), the carrier (82), the surface of the reaction container, or the like, without forming
the complex (81); other substances such as contaminant substances having entered from outside;
and the like.
[00071
               In the analysis method according to the first aspect, as described above, a washing
process for the complex (81) is selected in accordance with the component (80) to be analyzed,
and the component (80) is analyzed with use of the washing process selected in accordance with
the set component (80).     Accordingly, for each target component (80), the washing process for
the complex (81) can be performed by use of a washing process suitable for measurement of the
target component (80).     That is, in a case where measurement of a plurality of target
components (80) is performed, even with respect to a specific target component (80) for which
measurement is hindered by a general washing process, the measurement of the target
component (80) can be performed with use of a washing process of which details, such as the

kind of the washing liquid (70) to be used, the number of times of washing, and the washing time
period, are appropriately selected.    Thus, even in a case where measurement of a plurality of
target components (80) is performed by an analyzer (100), the measurement can be suppressed
from being hindered by influence of the washing process for the complex (81).          In addition, the
above finding by the inventors of the present application suggests that, also with respect to a
target component (80) for which a common washing process is conventionally performed, a
more suitable washing process can be selected.       That is, also with respect to a general target
component (80) for which a common washing process is conventionally performed, the
measurement accuracy can be further improved by selecting an appropriate washing process.
[0008]
                Preferably, in the analysis method according to the first aspect described above,
when lipoprotein is set as the component (80) to be analyzed, the analysis method includes
forming a complex (81 c) that includes: lipoprotein (80B) having tagged cholesterol (86a)
incorporated therein; and an antibody (86b) that binds to the lipoprotein.      It should be noted that
"lipoprotein" is a substance in which lipid and apoprotein are bound to each other.
"Apoprotein" has a structure in which a par of protein is removed.       Here, since lipoprotein
contains lipid, there are cases where lipoprotein undergoes structural change during a washing
process.    Thus, according to the present invention, even in a case where lipoprotein is included
in the complex (81), an appropriate washing process can be selected.        Thus, the measurement
can be effectively suppressed from being hindered by influence of the washing process.
[0009]
                In the analysis method according to the first aspect described above, preferably, a
washing liquid (70) to be used is selected from a plurality of kinds of washing liquids (70) in
which at least washing liquid components contained therein or proportions of the washing liquid
components are different.      With this configuration, for each target component (80), it is possible
to select a washing liquid (70) that contains a washing liquid component particularly suitable for
the measurement, or that contains a washing liquid component in a proportion suitable for the
measurement, to perform the washing process.        As a result, the measurement can be effectively
suppressed from being hindered by influence of the washing process.
[0010]
                In this case, preferably, a washing liquid (70) that does not contain any surfactant
or that contains a surfactant at a concentration of less than 1.1 g/L is selected in accordance with
the component (80) to be analyzed.       With this configuration, with resect to the target
component (80) that is subjected to influence by the surfactant, influence of the surfactant
contained in the washing liquid (70) can be suppressed.       For example, in the case of a target

component (80) containing lipid, structural change could be caused by influence such as
formation of micelle by the surfactant.       Thus, by selecting a washing liquid (70) having a
surfactant concentration of less than 1.1 g/L, it is possible to effectively suppress the influence of
the washing liquid (70).      Micelle is a structure composed of a collection of particles of one of
liquids that do not mix each other, the particles being surrounded by a surfactant.
[0011]
                 In the above-described configuration in which a washing liquid (70) is selected
from a plurality of kinds of washing liquids (70) in which washing liquid components contained
therein or proportions of the washing liquid components are different, preferably, a washing
liquid (70) that contains a predetermined washing liquid component is selected in accordance
with the component (80) to be analyzed.         With this configuration, for each target component
(80), it is possible to select a washing liquid (70) that contains a washing liquid component
particularly suitable for the measurement.       Thus, by selecting a washing liquid (70) that
contains a washing liquid component having a particularly high washing effect, it is possible to
improve the measurement accuracy, and to reduce the time period necessary for the washing
process, the amount of the washing liquid (70) to be used, the number of times of washing, and
the like, for example.
[0012]
                 In this case, preferably, the predetermined washing liquid component is a salt.
"Salt" is a compound in which an anion derived from an acid and a cation derived from a base
are bound to each other through an ionic bond.        With this configuration, by using a washing
liquid (70) containing a salt at an appropriate concentration, it is possible to enhance the washing
effect of the washing liquid (70).     As a result, the background signal can be effectively reduced,
and the measurement accuracy (signal/background ratio) can be further improved.
[0013]
                 In the above-described configuration in which a washing liquid (70) is selected
from a plurality of kinds of washing liquids (70) in which washing liquid components contained
therein or proportions of the washing liquid components are different, preferably, the washing
liquid is a washing liquid (75) for a liquid distribution channel.      With this configuration, the
washing liquid (75) for washing the liquid distribution channel can be used as a washing liquid
(70) to be used in washing the complex (81).        That is, different from the case where a plurality
of kinds of washing liquids (70) for the washing process for the complex (81) are prepared,
increase in the number of kinds of washing liquids stored for analysis can be suppressed by using
the washing liquid (75) for washing the liquid distribution channel.
[0014]

                In the above-described configuration in which a washing liquid (70) is selected
from a plurality of kinds of washing liquids (70) in which washing liquid components contained
therein or proportions of the washing liquid components are different, preferably, the analysis
method includes preparing a washing liquid (70) to be used in the washing process, by mixing
one washing liquid and another washing liquid from among a plurality of washing liquids (71a to
71c).   With this configuration, from among the plurality of kinds of washing liquids (71a to
71c) prepared in advance, a washing liquid (70) having a more diverse composition can be
prepared.    Thus, the kinds of selectable washing liquids (70) can be easily increased.
[0015]
                In the analysis method according to the first aspect described above, preferably,
the component (80) to be analyzed being set includes: obtaining information that specifies the
component (80); and selecting the washing process on the basis of the obtained information that
specifies the component (80).      With this configuration, by obtaining the information that
specifies the target component (80), it is possible to easily select an appropriate washing process
in accordance with the target component (80), to perform the analysis.
[0016]
                In this case, preferably, the information that specifies the target component (80) is
a measurement order (91) in which a measurement item is set for each specimen, and the
analysis method includes obtaining the measurement order (91) for the specimen, and selecting
the washing process in accordance with the measurement item in the measurement order (91).
With this configuration, by use of the measurement order (91) obtained for performing analysis
of the target component (80), selection of the washing process can also be performed.       Thus,
there is no need to separately provide the analyzer (100) with information for selecting a washing
process, and an appropriate washing process in accordance with the target component (80) can
be easily selected.
[00171
                In the analysis method according to the first aspect described above, preferably,
the washing process includes: magnetically collecting the complex (81); supplying a washing
liquid (70) to be used in the washing process; and removing the washing liquid (70).      With this
configuration, through the supply and removal of the washing liquid (70), components
unnecessary for the measurement other than the carrier (82) that includes the complex (81) can
be effectively removed.
[0018]
                In the analysis method according to the first aspect described above, preferably,
analysis of the component (80) is performed through immunoassay using antigen-antibody

reaction.    In the immunoassay using antigen-antibody reaction, for the purpose of improving the
detection accuracy, it is desired to perform an effective washing process in order to suppress
non-specific adsorption of the target component (80), reagent components, and other substances
such as contaminant substances from outside, while maintaining the structure and function of the
complex (81).      Thus, the analysis method according to the present invention is effective in
particular.
[0019]
                 In the analysis method according to the first aspect described above, preferably,
the carrier (82) is a solid-phase particle.    With this configuration, the complex (81) can be
formed on the solid-phase particle in the reaction container (90).        Thus, for example, compared
with a case where a plate having the carrier (82) immobilized thereon or the like is used,
handling of the sample and the reaction container (90) in the analyzer (100) can be facilitated.
[0020]
                 In this case, preferably, the solid-phase particle is a magnetic particle (82a).
With this configuration, the magnetic particles (82a) in the reaction container (90) can be
captured by magnetic force.       As a result, when the complex (81) is washed in the washing
process, the magnetic particles (82a) are easily captured by magnetic force, whereby the liquid
component other than the magnetic particles (82a) can be easily removed.
[0021]
                 The analysis method according to the first aspect described above, preferably
includes: performing a first washing process by use of the selected washing process; causing the
complex (81) and a labeled substance (83) to be bound to each other, after the first washing
process; performing a second washing process by use of the selected washing process; and
measuring a signal based on the labeled substance (83), after the second washing process.         With
this configuration, a higher washing effect can be obtained by performing the first washing
process and the second washing process.         Also in this case, details of an appropriate washing
process can be selected, and thus, the measurement can be effectively suppressed from being
hindered by influence of the washing process.
[0022]
                 An analyzer (100) according to a second aspect of this invention includes: a
setting unit (14) configured to set a component (80) to be analyzed; a reaction unit (10)
configured to bring a carrier (82) and a complex (81) that includes the component (80) into
contact with each other, to form the complex (81) on the carrier (82); a washing unit (11)
configured to perform a washing process selected in accordance with the set component (80), the
washing process being for washing the complex (81) formed in the reaction unit (10); an analysis

unit (13) configured to analyze the component (80) after the washing process has been
performed by the washing unit (11); and a controller (12) configured to select the washing
process in accordance with the component (80).
[00231
                As described above, the analyzer (100) according to the second aspect includes:
the washing unit (11) configured to perform a washing process selected in accordance with the
set component (80); and the controller (12) configured to select the washing process in
accordance with the component (80).      Accordingly, for each target component (80), a washing
process suitable for the measurement of the target component (80) can be selected, to perform
the washing process for the complex (81).     That is, in a case where measurement of a plurality
of target components (80) is performed, even with respect to a specific target component (80) for
which the measurement is hindered by a general washing process, the measurement of the target
component (80) can be performed, with use of a washing process of which details, such as the
kind of the washing liquids (70) to be used, the number of times of washing, and the washing
time period, are appropriately selected.   Thus, even in a case where measurement of a plurality
of target components (80) is performed by the analyzer (100), the measurement can be
suppressed from being hindered by influence of the washing process for the complex (81).
Also with respect to a target component (80) for which a common washing process is
conventionally performed, the measurement accuracy can be further improved by selecting an
appropriate washing process.
[0024]
                In the analyzer (100) according to the second aspect described above, preferably,
the controller (12) selects a washing liquid (70) to be used in the washing process for the
complex (81), in accordance with the target component (80).       With this configuration, for each
target component (80), a washing liquid (70) having a composition particularly suitable for the
measurement can be selected, to perform the washing process.        As a result, the measurement
can be effectively suppressed from being hindered by influence of the washing process.
[0025]
                The analyzer (100) according to the second aspect described above preferably
includes a washing liquid storage part (23) configured to store a plurality of washing liquids (70),
wherein the controller (12) selects the washing liquid (70) to be used in the washing process
from among the washing liquids (70) stored in the washing liquid storage part (23).      With this
configuration, for example, different from a case where the washing liquid (70) is supplied from
outside the apparatus, the analyzer (100) can singly select a washing liquid (70) and perform the

washing process.      As a result, the apparatus configuration can be simplified, and analysis of the
target component (80) can be efficiently performed.
[0026]
                In this case, preferably, the washing liquid storage part (23) includes a first storage
part (23a) configured to store a washing liquid (70) to be used in the washing process, and the
controller (12) selects the washing liquid (70) stored in the first storage part (23a), as the
washing liquid (70) to be used in the washing process.       With this configuration, from among the
washing liquids (70) for the washing process stored in the first storage part (23a), an appropriate
washing liquid (70) can be easily selected to be used in the washing process.
[00271
                In the above-described configuration provided with the washing liquid storage
part (23), preferably, the washing liquid storage part (23) includes a second storage part (23b)
configured to store a washing liquid (75) for washing a liquid distribution channel, and the
controller (12) selects the washing liquid (75) stored in the second storage part (23b), as the
washing liquid (70) to be used in the washing process.       With this configuration, the washing
liquid (75) for washing the liquid distribution channel can be used in washing the complex (81).
That is, different from a case where a plurality of kinds of the washing liquids (70) for the
washing process for the complex (81) are prepared, increase in the number of kinds of the
washing liquids (70) stored in the analyzer (100) can be suppressed by using the washing liquid
(75) for washing the liquid distribution channel.
[0028]
                In the above-described configuration provided with the washing liquid storage
part (23), preferably, the analyzer includes: a reagent dispenser (32a to 32c) configured to
dispense a reagent into a reaction container (90); and a reagent storage part (35) configured to
store a reagent to be used in analysis of the target component (80), wherein the controller (12)
selects a washing liquid (70) to be used in the washing process from the washing liquid (70)
stored in the reagent storage part (35).    With this configuration, the washing liquid (70) can be
stored by use of the reagent storage part (35) for storing a reagent.    As a result, when compared
with a case where a storage part for storing a plurality of kinds of washing liquids (70) is
separately provided, without making the apparatus configuration significantly different from
conventional apparatus configurations, a large number of kinds of washing liquids (70) can be
easily stored and a washing liquid (70) can be selected in accordance with the target component
(80).
[0029]

                In the above-described configuration provided with the washing liquid storage
part (23), preferably, the analyzer includes: a supply channel (56) configured to supply a
washing liquid (70) from the washing liquid storage part (23) to the washing unit (11), wherein
when switching one washing liquid (70) to another washing liquid (70), the controller (12)
performs control of washing, with the another washing liquid (70), the supply channel (56)
through which the one washing liquid (70) has been sent.       With this configuration, in a case
where the washing liquids (70) are supplied through a common supply channel (56), one
previously-used washing liquid (70) can be prevented from being mixed with another
subsequently-used washing liquid (70), and can be prevented from being supplied to the washing
unit (11) in a state of being mixed with the another subsequently-used washing liquid (70).
[0030]
                In the above-described configuration provided with the washing liquid storage
part (23), preferably, the analyzer includes: a plurality of supply channels (56) each configured
to supply a washing liquid (70) from the washing liquid storage part (23) to the washing unit (11),
wherein the controller (12) performs control of selecting a separate supply channel (56) in
accordance with the selected washing liquid (70), to send the selected washing liquid (70).
With this configuration, the supply channels (56) for a plurality of kinds of washing liquids (70)
can be individually provided.     As a result, when washing liquids (70) are supplied to the
washing unit (11), different kinds of washing liquids (70) can be prevented from being mixed.
[0031]
                In the analyzer (100) according to the second aspect described above, preferably,
the washing unit (11) includes a plurality of washing ports (44) each configured to perform the
washing process for the complex (81), and the controller (12) performs control of selecting a
washing liquid (70) to be supplied, for each of the washing ports (44).     With this configuration,
without increasing the number of the washing ports (44), various types of washing liquids (70)
can be selected and supplied.
[0032]
                The analyzer (100) according to the second aspect described above preferably
includes an input unit (55) configured to receive an operation input performed by a user, wherein
the controller (12) selects a washing liquid (70) to be used in the washing process on the basis of
information received from the input unit (55).     With this configuration, through the input unit
(55), the user is allowed to determine the washing liquid (70) to be used, or the controller (12)
can perform selection such that the controller (12) determines a washing liquid (70) to be used
on the basis of the information inputted by the user, and then, the determined washing liquid (70)

is supplied to the washing unit (11).    As a result, an appropriate washing liquid (70) can be
easily selected.
[0033]
                Thus, also in a case where measurement of a plurality of target components is
performed by the analyzer, the measurement can be suppressed from being hindered by influence
of the washing process for the complex.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0034]
                FIG. 1 is a diagram for describing the overview of an analyzer and an analysis
method according to one embodiment;
                FIG. 2A is a plan view showing a first stage in one configuration example of the
analyzer;
                FIG.2B is a plan view showing a second stage in one configuration example of the
analyzer;
                FIG. 3 is a schematic side view showing a configuration example of a washing
unit;
                FIG. 4 is a schematic diagram showing a method for washing a complex
performed by the washing unit;
                FIG. 5 is a diagram for describing a first selection method for selecting a washing
liquid;
                FIG. 6 is a diagram for describing a second selection method for selecting a
washing liquid;
                FIG. 7 is a diagram for describing a third selection method for selecting a washing
liquid;
                FIG. 8 is a diagram showing a configuration example of preparing a washing
liquid;
                FIG. 9 is a diagram for describing a first example of a washing liquid supplying
method in the washing unit;
                FIG. 10 is a diagram for describing a second example of the washing liquid
supplying method in the washing unit;
                FIG. 11 is a diagram for describing a third example of the washing liquid
supplying method in the washing unit;
                FIG. 12 is a flow chart for describing a control process of selecting a washing
liquid;

                FIG. 13 is a diagram for describing one example of a method for specifying a
target component;
                FIG. 14 is a diagram for describing a configuration example in which
measurement operation is suspended and a washing liquid selection input is received;
                FIG. 15 is a diagram for describing a configuration example in which
measurement operation is skipped and the washing process is collectively performed for each
kind of washing liquid;
                FIG. 16A is a diagram showing a measurement method for which the target
component is hepatitis B surface antigen;
                FIG. 16B is a diagram showing a measurement method for which the target
component is high density lipoprotein;
                FIG. 17 is a flow chart for describing measurement process operation performed
by the analyzer;
                FIG. 18 is a diagram showing the compositions of washing liquids A to D used in
Example 1;
                FIG. 19 is a diagram showing a detection result of the target component for each
washing liquid in Example 1;
                FIG. 20 is a diagram showing a detection result of the target component using the
washing liquid C in Example 2; and
                FIG. 21 is a diagram showing the flow of a process performed in a conventional
analyzer.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0035]
                Hereinafter, embodiments are described with reference to the drawings.
[0036]
                [Overview of analyzer and analysis method]
                First, the overview of an analyzer 100 according to one embodiment is described
with reference to FIG. 1.
[00371
                The analyzer 100 is an analyzer which analyzes a component to be analyzed 80
(hereinafter, referred to as target component 80).    The analyzer 100 of the present embodiment
analyzes the target component 80, with use of a washing process for a complex 81 including the
target component 80 contained in a specimen.       That is, the analyzer 100 performs measurement
of the target component 80 by use of a heterogeneous assay which is a method in which: a

complex 81 is formed by causing a target component 80 and a substance that specifically reacts
with the target component 80 to bind to each other; and the formed complex 81 is separated (BF
separation) through a washing process from free substances not having been involved in the
reaction; and then, the complex 81 is measured.
[00381
                The target component 80 and the complex 81 to be formed are not limited in
particular.   The target component 80 is a substance contained in a biological specimen such as
blood, urine, or tissue.   The complex 81 includes: the target component 80; and a labeled
substance 83 that specifically reacts with the target component 80, for example.      Between the
target component 80 and the labeled substance 83, a capture substance for binding these may be
mediated.     By detecting a signal based on the labeled substance 83 in the complex 81, it
becomes possible to measure the target component 80.
[00391
                The analyzer 100 can measure various target components 80 by varying the
combination of the target component 80 and the substance that specifically reacts with the target
component 80.
[0040]
                When a free substance not having been involved in reaction or a contaminant
substance having entered from outside during measurement are present in a measurement sample,
a non-specific detection signal not derived from the target component 80 is generated, and this
causes a reduced signal-noise ratio.     The washing process is performed in order to remove, from
the measurement sample, unnecessary components which become a generation source of the
non-specific detection signal not derived from the target component 80.       The unnecessary
components include: components that have been non-specifically adsorbed to the complex 81, a
carrier 82, the surface of a reaction container 90, or the like, without forming the complex 81;
other substances such as contaminant substances having entered from outside; and the like.
[0041]
                The analyzer 100 includes a reaction unit 10, a washing unit 11, a controller 12, an
analysis unit 13, and a setting unit 14.   In the example shown in FIG. 1, the analyzer 100
performs measurement operation by use of the reaction container 90 which accommodates the
target component 80.     Instead of using the reaction container 90, the analyzer 100 may perform
measurement operation, with the target component 80 accommodated in an accommodation part
provided in the analyzer 100.
[0042]

                The controller 12 is implemented as a computer mainly composed of: a processor
such as a CPU (central processing unit) or an FPGA (field-programmable gate array); a storage
unit implemented as a volatile memory, a nonvolatile memory, or a combination thereof, for
example.     The controller 12 performs operation control of the analyzer 100 by executing a
program stored in the storage unit.
[0043]
                The setting unit 14 has a function of setting a target component 80.       The setting
unit 14 receives from a user through, for example, an input device, an input of information
specifying a target component 80 contained in a specimen.          The setting unit 14 sets the
specified target component 80 as a measurement item.          In a case where the information
specifying the target component 80 is managed in the form of a measurement order for each
specimen, the setting unit 14 may specify the target component 80 by causing a reader device,
for example, to read specimen identification information attached to a specimen container, and
by obtaining the measurement order that corresponds to the specimen identification information.
The setting unit 14 can be implemented by a computer similar to the controller 12, or may be
implemented by a control device that is used in common with the controller 12.
[0044]
                The reaction container 90 is a disposable container made of resin, for example.
The reaction container 90 has a substantially cylindrical shape having a closed bottom, for
example, and can hold various types of liquids, such as a specimen, poured through the upper
opening thereof.
[0045]
                The reaction unit 10 has a function of forming on the carrier 82 the complex 81
including the target component 80, by bringing the carrier 82 and the target component 80
contained in the specimen into contact with each other in the reaction container 90.         For
example, the reaction unit 10 facilitates the reaction for forming the complex 81 by heating the
reaction container 90.    In this case, the reaction unit 10 holds the reaction container 90 that
accommodates: the specimen containing the target component 80; and a reagent containing the
carrier 82, and maintains the reaction container 90 at a predetermined reaction temperature for a
predetermined time period.
[0046]
                The carrier 82 is not limited in particular as long as the carrier 82 can carry the
complex 81 by being bound to the complex 81.          The carrier 82 may be: a plate having
immobilized thereon a binding substance that binds to the complex 81; or a known particle, for
example.     Preferably, the carrier 82 is a solid particle such as a magnetic particle, a latex

particle, a gelatin particle, for example.     In this case, the complex 81 can be formed on the solid
particle in the reaction container 90.       Thus, for example, compared with a case where a plate or
the like having the carrier 82 immobilized thereon is used, handling of the sample and the
reaction container 90 in the analyzer 100 can be facilitated.
[00471
                  More preferably, the solid particle is a magnetic particle 82a.   In this case, the
magnetic particles 82a in the reaction container 90 can be captured by magnetic force.         As a
result, when the complex 81 is washed in the washing process, the magnetic particles 82a are
captured by magnetic force, whereby the liquid component other than the magnetic particles 82a
can be easily removed.
[0048]
                  The magnetic particles may be any particle that contains a magnetic material as
the base material thereof.      For example, magnetic particles that use, as the base material, Fe2 03
and/or Fe 3 0 4 , cobalt, nickel, ferrite, magnetite, or the like can be used. The magnetic particle
82a may be coated with a binding substance for binding to the target component 80, or may be
bound to the target component 80 through a capture substance for causing the magnetic particle
82a and the target component 80 to be bound to each other.
[0049]
                  In the reaction unit 10, the carrier 82, the target component 80, and the labeled
substance 83 are directly or indirectly bound to one another in the reaction container 90, whereby
the complex 81 is formed on the carrier 82.
[0050]
                  The washing unit 11 has a function of performing a washing process for the
complex 81 formed in the reaction unit 10, the washing process having been selected in
accordance with a target component 80 that has been set.           The washing process is a process of
removing unnecessary components present in the measurement sample other than the carrier 82
that includes the complex 81.        For example, the washing unit 11 collects the carrier 82 carrying
the complex 81 to a predetermined position in the reaction container 90, and removes the liquid
other than the carrier 82.      For collecting the carrier 82, a method such as centrifugation, capture
by an electric field using the principle of electrophoresis, or magnetic collection using magnetic
force may be employed.
[0051]
                  In the example shown in FIG. 1, after removing the liquid, the washing unit 11
supplies a washing liquid 70 into the reaction container 90 and washes off unnecessary
components non-specifically adsorbed to the inner surface of the reaction container 90 and to the

carrier 82.   In order to efficiently remove the unnecessary components, the washing unit 11
repeats supply of the washing liquid 70 and removal of the liquid a plurality of times, for
example.
[0052]
                The analysis unit 13 has a function of analyzing the target component 80 after the
washing process has been performed by the washing unit 11.         The analysis unit 13 includes a
detector which detects a signal based on the labeled substance 83 in the complex 81, for example.
[00531
                The labeled substance 83 contains a label that specifically binds to the target
component 80 and that is measurable by the analysis unit 13.       In a case where a capture
substance is used, the labeled substance 83 may bind to the capture substance, to be bound to the
target component 80 through the capture substance.       Examples of the label contained in the
labeled substance 83 include enzyme, fluorescent substance, and radioisotope.        Examples of the
enzyme include alkaline phosphatase (ALP), peroxidase, glucose oxidase, tyrosinase, and acid
phosphatase.     As the fluorescent substance, fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC), green
fluorescent protein (GFP), luciferin, boron dipyrromethene (BODIPY (trade mark)), or the like
can be used.    As the radioisotope, 1251, 14C, 32P, 3H, or the like can be used.
[0054]
          When the label is an enzyme, a substrate for the enzyme of the labeled substance 83
may be appropriately selected from well-known substrates in accordance with the enzyme.
When the enzyme is alkaline phosphatase, examples of the substrate include: chemiluminescent
substrates such as CDP-Star (registered-trademark), (disodium 4-chloro-3-(methoxyspiro[1,2
dioxetane-3,2'-(5'-chloro)tricyclo[3.3.1.13,7]decan]-4-yl)phenylphosphate),     and CSPD
(registered-trademark) (disodium 3-(4-methoxyspiro[1,2-dioxetane-3,2-(5'
chloro)tricyclo[3.3.1.13,7]decane]-4-yl)phenylphosphate); luminescent substrates such as p
nitrophenyl phosphate, 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl phosphate (BCIP), 4-nitro blue tetrazolium
chloride (NBT), and iodonitrotetrazolium (INT); fluorescent substrates such as 4
methylumbelliferyl phosphate (4MUP); chromogenic substrates such as 5-bromo-4-chloro-3
indolyl phosphate (BCIP), disodium 5-bromo-6-chloro-indolyl phosphate, and p-nitrophenyl
phosphate; and the like.
[0055]
                The analysis unit 13 performs analysis of the target component 80, by a detector
detecting a signal based on the labeled substance 83 contained in the complex 81 accommodated
in the reaction container 90.    The analysis unit 13 detects a signal from a measurement sample
in the reaction container 90 having been subjected to a washing process performed by the

washing unit 11.      The detection may be performed by an appropriate method according to the
kind of the label used for the labeled substance 83, and the measurement method is not limited in
particular.   For example, in a case where the labeled substance 83 is an enzyme, the detection
can be performed by measuring the light, color, or the like that is generated as a result of causing
a substrate to react with the enzyme.     As the detector in this case, a spectrophotometer, a
luminometer, or the like can be used.      In a case where the labeled substance 83 is a radioisotope,
a scintillation counter or the like can be used as the detector.
[00561
                Here, when the analyzer 100 performs measurement of various target components
80, there are cases in which, with respect to a specific target component 80, measurement is
hindered by influence of the washing process, and measurement at a sufficient accuracy becomes
difficult to be performed.     For example, there are cases where a washing liquid component
contained in the washing liquid 70 acts on the complex 81 to cause structural or functional
change in the complex 81.       In such a case, the target component 80 or the labeled substance 83
could be separated from the complex 81 or deteriorated, and thus, the measurement could be
hindered.
[00571
                Thus, in the present embodiment, the controller 12 is configured to perform
control of selecting a washing process in accordance with the target component 80 that has been
set.  As a result of the controller 12 selecting the washing process, the washing unit 11 performs
the washing process selected in accordance with the target component 80.          The washing
processes as choices are, for example, different in the kind of the washing liquid 70 to be used in
the washing process, or different in part or all of the washing method.       The washing method
may include a supply amount of the washing liquid 70, the number of times of replacement of
the washing liquid 70, a washing time period, and the like.
[00581
                For example, with reference to FIG. 1, a state in which measurement of a certain
kind of target component 80A is performed is shown on the left side in FIG. 1, and a state in
which measurement of another kind of target component 80B is performed is shown on the right
side in FIG. 1.    If measurement of the target component 80A is set by the setting unit 14, a
washing process A is selected which uses a washing liquid 70A of a kind that corresponds to the
target component 80A.       If measurement of the target component 80B is set by the setting unit
14, a washing process B is selected which uses another washing liquid 70B of a kind that
corresponds to the target component 80B.         It should be noted that the kind of the washing liquid
70 is a classification in which the composition of components of the washing liquid 70 is

common.      The concept of "composition" includes components contained in the washing liquid
and the content proportion or the concentration of the components.
[0059]
                As described above, the analyzer 100 of the present embodiment includes: the
setting unit 14 configured to set a target component 80; the reaction unit 10 configured to bring
the carrier 82 and the complex 81 that includes the target component 80 into contact with each
other, to form the complex 81 on the carrier 82; the washing unit 11 configured to perform a
washing process selected in accordance with the set target component 80, the washing process
being for washing the complex 81 formed in the reaction unit 10; the analysis unit 13 configured
to analyze the target component 80 after the washing process has been performed by the washing
unit 11; and the controller 12 configured to select the washing process in accordance with the
target component 80.      Accordingly, for each target component 80, a washing process suitable
for the measurement of the target component 80 can be selected, to perform the washing process
for the complex 81.     That is, in a case where measurement of a plurality of target components
80 is performed, even with respect to a specific target component 80 for which the measurement
is hindered by a general washing process, the measurement of the target component 80 can be
performed, with use of a washing process of which details, such as the kind of the washing liquid
70 to be used, the number of times of washing, and the washing time period, are appropriately
selected.   Thus, even in a case where measurement of a plurality of target components 80 is
performed by the analyzer 100, the measurement can be suppressed from being hindered by
influence of the washing process for the complex 81.     Also with respect to a target component
80 for which a common washing process is conventionally performed, the measurement
accuracy can be further improved by selecting an appropriate washing process.
[0060]
                In the present embodiment, through operation of the analyzer 100, an analysis
method is performed which executes: a step in which a target component 80 is set; a step of
bringing the carrier 82 and the complex 81 that includes the target component 80 into contact
with each other, to form the complex 81 on the carrier 82; a step of selecting a washing process
in accordance with the target component 80; a step of analyzing the target component 80 with
use of the washing process selected in accordance with the set target component 80.
Accordingly, for each target component 80, the washing process for the complex 81 can be
performed by use of a washing process suitable for the measurement of the target component 80.
That is, in a case where measurement of a plurality of target components 80 is performed, even
with respect to a specific target component 80 for which the measurement is hindered by a
general washing process, the measurement of the target component 80 can be performed with use

of a washing process of which details, such as the kind of the washing liquid 70 to be used, the
number of times of washing, and the washing time period, are appropriately selected.        Thus,
even in a case where measurement of a plurality of target components 80 is performed by the
analyzer 100, the measurement can be suppressed from being hindered by influence of the
washing process for the complex 81.
[00611
               It should be noted that, measurement could be hindered by influence of a
component of the washing liquid 70, whereas there could be a component that is particularly
suitable for washing a specific target component 80.     In such a case, a washing process suitable
for washing the specific target component 80 may be selected.      In this case, also with respect to
a general target component 80 for which a common washing process is conventionally
performed, unnecessary components can be efficiently removed by selecting an appropriate
washing process and performing the selected washing process.        As a result, the measurement
accuracy can be further improved.
[0062]
               Even in a case where the target components 80 are the same, the substance
constituting the complex 81 to be formed, the carrier 82, and the like could be different
depending on the measurement item.       In such a case, the washing process for the complex 81 is
selected in accordance with the measurement item to be measured by the analyzer 100, in
addition to the target component 80.    Accordingly, in a case where a plurality of measurement
items are present for the same target component 80, and reagents to be used for the respective
measurement items are different, more appropriate washing processes suitable for the respective
measurement items can be selected.
[0063]
               Determination of the washing process to be used in washing of the complex 81
may be performed by the controller 12 or by the user in the form of the controller 12 receiving an
operation input of the user.   The controller 12 selects the determined washing process, and
controls the analyzer 100 such that the washing unit 11 performs the selected washing process.
[0064]
               Preferably, the controller 12 selects the washing liquid 70 to be used in the
washing process for the complex 81, in accordance with the target component 80.         Accordingly,
for each target component 80, a washing liquid 70 having a composition particularly suitable for
the measurement can be selected, to perform the washing process.       As a result, the
measurement can be effectively suppressed from being hindered by influence of the washing
process.

[00651
                The washing liquid 70 is selected from among a plurality of choices specified in
advance, for example.      The washing liquids 70 as the choices have different compositions with
one another.    That is, a washing liquid 70 to be used is selected from among a plurality of kinds
of washing liquids 70 in which at least the washing liquid components contained therein or the
proportions of the washing liquid components are different.       Accordingly, for each target
component 80, a washing liquid 70 having a component and a component proportion particularly
suitable for the measurement can be selected, to perform the washing process.
[0066]
                Each washing liquid 70 to be used in the analyzer 100 that handles biological
specimens is configured to include a buffer, a surfactant, a salt, etc., for example.   Each
washing liquid 70 as a choice can include a component other than a component to be used as a
washing liquid in general.     Each washing liquid 70 as a choice may have a composition usable
in common among a plurality of target components 80, or may have a specific composition
suitable only for a specific target component 80.
[00671
                On the basis of a selection criterion for the washing liquid 70, a washing liquid 70
that does not include a predetermined washing liquid component or that has a predetermined
washing liquid component having a predetermined concentration or lower is selected in
accordance with the target component 80, for example.         Accordingly, for each target
component 80, if there is a component inappropriate for the measurement, a washing liquid 70
can be selected that does not contain the component inappropriate for the measurement or that
contains the inappropriate component only at such a concentration that would not influence the
measurement.
[0068]
                Specifically, in accordance with the target component 80, a washing liquid 70 is
selected that does not contain any surfactant or that contains a surfactant at a concentration of
less than 1.1 g/L, for example.    Accordingly, for the target component 80 that would be
influenced by the surfactant, the influence of the surfactant contained in the washing liquid 70
can be suppressed.     A surfactant is often contained in a washing liquid in general.    However, a
system in which a hydrophilic substance and a hydrophobic substance are present in the reaction
container 90 could be influenced by the surfactant.      For example, in the case of a target
component 80 containing lipid, structural change could be caused by influence of micelle formed
by the surfactant, for example.     Thus, the influence of the washing liquid 70 can be effectively

suppressed by selecting a washing liquid 70 having a surfactant concentration of less than 1.1
g/L.
[0069]
                 As the kind of the surfactant, there are nonionic surfactant, amphoteric surfactant,
anionic surfactant, cationic surfactant, and the like.    If the influence on the measurement differs
depending on the kind of the surfactant, choices of washing liquids having different kinds of
surfactants may be provided.
[00701
                 On the basis of a selection criterion for the washing liquid 70, a washing liquid 70
that contains a predetermined washing liquid component is selected in accordance with the target
component 80, for example.        Accordingly, if there is a washing liquid component that does not
have influence on the measurement for each target component 80 and that can enhance the
washing effect, such a washing liquid 70 that contains the washing liquid component particularly
suitable for the measurement can be selected.        Thus, by selecting a washing liquid 70
containing a washing liquid component having a particularly high washing effect, it is possible to
improve the measurement accuracy, and to reduce the time period necessary for the washing
process, the amount of the washing liquid 70 to be used, the number of times of washing, and the
like.
[00711
                 Specifically, the predetermined washing liquid component is a salt, for example.
"Salt" is a compound in which an anion derived from an acid and a cation derived from a base
are bound to each other through an ionic bond.        The washing effect of the washing liquid 70 can
be enhanced by using a washing liquid 70 containing a salt having an appropriate concentration.
As a result, the background signal can be effectively reduced, whereby the measurement
accuracy can be further improved.       The kind of salt is not limited in particular. The salt is
composed of ions present in vivo, and is NaCl, for example.          The salt may be KCl, Na 2HPO 4, or
KH 2 PO 4 , for example.
[0072]
                 Regarding a combination of a target component 80 and a corresponding washing
liquid 70, for example, so as to correspond to a target component 80 that contains lipid, a
washing liquid 70 in which the surfactant content is zero or reduced to a low concentration is
selected.     For example, in a case where the target component 80 is an enzyme and the enzyme
is captured to measure the function, a washing liquid 70 that does not contain metal that hinders
the enzymatic reaction is selected.
[0073]

                For example, in a case where the target component 80 is lipoprotein, a washing
liquid 70 for lipoprotein is selected as the washing liquid 70.      Lipoprotein is a substance in
which lipid and apoprotein are bound to each other.         Thus, even in the case of measurement of
lipoprotein which includes lipid and which is easily influenced by the washing liquid 70, the
measurement can be suppressed from being hindered by the influence of the washing liquid 70
used in the washing process for the complex 81.
[0074]
                 Specifically, in a case where lipoprotein is set as the target component 80, the
analysis method includes a step of forming a complex that includes: lipoprotein having tagged
cholesterol incorporated therein; and an antibody that binds to the lipoprotein.       Thus, the
function of lipoprotein can be quantitatively analyzed.       Here, the "function of lipoprotein"
denotes a lipid incorporating function and a lipid releasing function of lipoprotein, and is a
concept that encompasses the amount of lipid that can be incorporated by lipoprotein, for
example.     In this case, it is possible to suppress the function of lipoprotein regarding lipid
incorporation from being hindered by the washing process, and to accurately evaluate the
function of lipoprotein.
[00751
                In a case where the target component 80 is lipoprotein, if a washing liquid that
contains no surfactant or that contains a surfactant at a concentration of less than 1.1 g/L is
selected as the washing liquid 70 for lipoprotein, occurrence of structural change of the
lipoprotein due to influence of the surfactant can be suppressed.
[0076]
                As the washing liquid 70 for lipoprotein, if a washing liquid 70 that contains a salt
in an appropriate concentration range is used, even in a case where the target component 80 is
lipoprotein, a high washing effect can be obtained.        As a result, the background signal can be
effectively reduced by the washing process.
[00771
                 [Specific configuration example of analyzer]
                In the following, a specific configuration example of the analyzer 100 is described
in detail.  The respective constituents of the analyzer 100 described above are realized by the
configuration as shown in FIGS. 2A and 2B.
[0078]
                In the example shown in FIGS. 2A and 2B, the analyzer 100 performs analysis of
the target component 80 through immunoassay using antigen-antibody reaction.             In the
immunoassay using antigen-antibody reaction, for the purpose of improving the detection

accuracy, it is desired to perform an effective washing process in order to suppress non-specific
adsorption of the target component 80, reagent components, and other substances such as
contaminant substances from outside, while maintaining the structure and function of the
complex 81.      Thus, the analyzer 100 which performs the analysis method of the present
embodiment is effective in particular.
[00791
                In this case, the target component is, for example, an antigen or an antibody, a
protein, a peptide, or the like that is contained in blood.    The analyzer 100 obtains serum as a
specimen and quantitatively or qualitatively measures an antigen, an antibody, or the like
contained in the specimen.      The specimen may be plasma.        The antigen-antibody reaction
includes not only reaction between an antigen and an antibody, but also reaction using a
specifically binding substance such as an aptamer.        The aptamer is a nucleic acid molecule or a
peptide synthesized so as to specifically binds to a specific substance.
[0080]
                The analyzer 100 includes a measurement mechanism unit 20, a specimen
transport unit 21, a fluid circuit 22, and a washing liquid storage part 23 (see FIG. 5), and these
constituents are housed in a housing 24.      The reaction unit 10, the washing unit 11, the
controller 12, and the analysis unit 13 are provided in the measurement mechanism unit 20.
[0081]
                The measurement mechanism unit 20 includes a specimen dispenser 31, reagent
dispensers 32a to 32e, a tip supplying unit 33, a container supplying unit 34, a reagent storage
part 35, and an inter-stage transport unit 36.    The measurement mechanism unit 20 includes
transfer units 37, 38, 39, and 40 which transport reaction containers to these constituents.
[0082]
                The housing 24 has a staged structure in which a plurality of stages are provided
in the up-down direction.      The housing 24 includes a first stage 24a (see FIG. 2A), a second
stage 24b (see FIG. 2B) below the first stage 24a, and a third stage 24c (see FIG. 5) at which the
washing liquid storage part 23 and the like are disposed.       The reaction container 90 is
transferred between the first stage 24a and the second stage 24b by the inter-stage transport unit
36.   The housing 24 may have one stage only.         In the following, for convenience, the
horizontal direction along the long side of the housing 24 is defined as an X direction, and the
horizontal direction along the short side of the housing 24 is defined as a Y direction.     The up
down direction orthogonal to the X direction and the Y direction is defined as a Z direction.
[0083]

                FIG. 2A shows a configuration example of the constituents provided at the first
stage 24a.
[0084]
                The specimen transport unit 21 can transport, to a predetermined specimen
aspiration position, a rack 21b in which a plurality of test tubes 21a each holding a specimen are
disposed.    The tip supplying unit 33 can store a large number of dispensing tips (not shown)
and can supply the dispensing tips to the specimen dispenser 31.      Each dispensing tip is a
hollow and tubular tip component capable of holding a predetermined amount of a specimen, for
example, and is configured to be disposable.
[0085]
                The specimen dispenser 31 has a function of dispensing a specimen into a reaction
container 90.    The specimen dispenser 31 can aspirate a specimen in a test tube 21a by use of a
dispensing tip, and can dispense the aspirated specimen into a reaction container 90 disposed at a
specimen dispensing position 63.
[0086]
                The container supplying unit 34 can store a plurality of the reaction containers 90
that have not been used.     The container supplying unit 34 can sequentially supply the reaction
containers 90 one by one to the transfer unit 40, at a reaction container supplying position 62.
[00871
                The transfer unit 40 includes a holder 40a for the reaction container 90, and can
move linearly in the Y direction.    The transfer unit 40 can transfer the reaction container 90 to a
delivering position 61, the reaction container supplying position 62, the specimen dispensing
position 63, and a reagent dispensing position 64.
[0088]
                The reagent storage part 35 includes: a case 35a having a cylindrical shape; and
reagent setting parts 35b and 35c each having an annular shape.      The reagent storage part 35 is
a cool box for cooling, by means of a cooling mechanism, reagents set in the case 35a having a
heat insulating function.
[0089]
                The annular reagent setting parts 35b and 35c are disposed concentrically with
each other and can rotate independently of each other.     The reagent setting part 35b at the outer
periphery side and the reagent setting part 35c at the inner periphery side can each hold a
plurality of reagent containers 35d.    In these reagent containers 35d, RI to R3 reagents, and
R 11 to R13 reagents described later are held.     Through rotation of the reagent setting parts 35b
and 35c, a plurality of the reagent containers 35d are each located at a predetermined reagent

aspiration position.    Three aspiration holes 35e which each can be opened/closed are provided
in the upper face of the case 35a so as to allow aspiration by the reagent dispensers 32a to 32c,
respectively.
[0090]
                In the configuration example shown in FIG. 4, the analyzer 100 is provided with
three reaction units 10a to 1Oc, and the three reaction units 10a to 1Oc are fixedly disposed.
Each of the reaction units 10a to 1Oc includes a heater and a temperature sensor not shown, and
has a function of holding the reaction container 90 and of heating the sample held in the reaction
container 90 to cause the sample to react.     Specifically, each of the reaction units 10a to 1Oc has
a plurality of container holding holes 10d and can heat the samples held in the reaction
containers 90 placed in the container holding holes 1Od to a predetermined temperature.
[0091]
                The reaction unit 10a is disposed in the vicinity of the transfer unit 40.   Between
the reaction unit 10a and the reaction unit 1Ob, a magnetic collection port 41 is provided that
holds a reaction container 90 in a holding hole and that collects the magnetic particles 82a in the
sample in the reaction container 90 by means of a magnet.       At the magnetic collection port 41,
the reaction container 90 can be delivered between the transfer unit 37 and the transfer unit 38.
[0092]
                The reaction unit 1Ob is located between the reaction unit 1Oa and the washing
unit 11.   A dispensing port 41a is provided between the reaction unit 10b and the reagent
storage part 35.    A dispensing port 41b is provided between the reaction unit 10b and the
washing unit 11.     The reaction unit 10c is located at an X2 direction side relative to the washing
unit 11.   A relay unit 42 and the inter-stage transport unit 36 are provided between the washing
unit 11 and the reaction unit 1Oc.
[00931
                The reagent dispenser 32a to the reagent dispenser 32c each perform a process of
dispensing a reagent into a reaction container 90.     The reagent dispenser 32a can move a pipette
43 for aspirating and discharging a reagent, between the aspiration hole 35e and the reagent
dispensing position 64.     The pipette 43 aspirates a reagent from a reagent container 35d in the
reagent storage part 35, and dispenses the reagent into a reaction container 90 transferred to the
reagent dispensing position 64.
[0094]
                The reagent dispenser 32b can move a pipette 43 between the aspiration hole 35e
and the dispensing port 41a.     The pipette 43 aspirates a reagent from a reagent container 35d in

the reagent storage part 35, and dispenses the reagent into a reaction container 90 transferred to
the dispensing port 41a.
[0095]
                The reagent dispenser 32c can move a pipette 43 between the aspiration hole 35e
and the dispensing port 41b.     The pipette 43 aspirates a reagent from a reagent container 35d in
the reagent storage part 35, and dispenses the reagent into a reaction container 90 transferred to
the dispensing port 41b.
[0096]
                As described above, the washing unit 11 has a function of supplying the washing
liquid 70 into the reaction container 90 and performing a BF separation process which is a
washing process for the complex 81.       The washing unit 11 includes a plurality of washing ports
44 each capable of having a reaction container 90 disposed therein.      The washing unit 11
includes: a magnetic collection part 45 which captures the complex 81 in the reaction container
90 by magnetic force; an aspiration part 46 which removes the liquid component in the reaction
container 90; and a discharging part 47 which discharges the washing liquid 70.       Each washing
port 44 is provided with the magnetic collection part 45, the aspiration part 46, and the
discharging part 47.    The magnetic collection part 45 is implemented by a permanent magnet,
for example.     The magnetic collection part 45 may be an electromagnet.      In the configuration
example shown in FIGS. 2A and 2B, four washing ports 44 are provided.
[00971
                The relay unit 42 has a holding hole that can hold a reaction container 90.    At the
relay unit 42, the reaction container 90 is delivered between the transfer unit 38 and the transfer
unit 39.
[0098]
                The reagent dispenser 32d and the reagent dispenser 32e are disposed side by side,
and each include a reagent nozzle 49.      The reagent dispenser 32d and the reagent dispenser 32e
discharge an R4 (R14) reagent and an R5 (R15) reagent through the reagent nozzles 49 into a
reaction container 90, respectively.
[0099]
                The inter-stage transport unit 36 has a holding hole that can hold a reaction
container 90.    The inter-stage transport unit 36 is raised/lowered between the first stage 24a and
the second stage 24b by a raising/lowering device 50.
[0100]
                The transfer units 37, 38, and 39 each have a function of holding a reaction
container 90 and transporting the reaction container 90 to each constituent.     Each of the transfer

units 37, 38, and 39 is an orthogonal robot mechanism that can move along three orthogonal axes,
i.e., two horizontal axes and one vertical axis.   The structures of the transfer units 37, 38, and
39 are basically the same, and can employ known configurations.
[0101]
                Each of the transfer units 37 to 39 has a catcher 51 which grips a reaction
container 90.    Each of the transfer units 37 to 39 can take out reaction containers 90 one by one
by the catcher 51 and can transport the reaction container 90 to any position within a movable
range.    For example, the transfer unit 38 transfers a reaction container 90 disposed in the
reaction unit 1Ob to any of the washing ports 44 of the washing unit 11.
[0102]
                (Second stage)
                FIG. 2B shows a configuration example of each constituent disposed on the
second stage 24b.
[01031
                On the second stage 24b of the housing 24, the analyzer 100 includes the analysis
unit 13, the raising/lowering device 50, a container transport unit 52, a container discard hole 53,
the controller 12, and the fluid circuit 22.
[0104]
                The container transport unit 52 transports a reaction container 90 among the inter
stage transport unit 36 having been lowered to the second stage 24b, the analysis unit 13, and the
container discard hole 53.
[0105]
                The analysis unit 13 includes a photodetector 13a such as a photomultiplier.      The
analysis unit 13 obtains, by means of the photodetector 13a, light generated in the reaction
process between the luminescent substrate and the labeled substance 83 binding to the target
component 80, thereby to quantitatively analyze the target component 80 contained in the sample.
[01061
                The controller 12 includes a CPU 12a, a storage unit 12b, and the like.     The CPU
12a executes a control program 12c stored in the storage unit 12b, thereby functioning as the
controller of the analyzer 100.    The controller 12 controls operation of each constituent of the
analyzer 100 described above.      In the example shown in FIGS. 2A and 2B, the setting unit 14 is
implemented by the same hardware as the controller 12.        That is, the CPU 12a executes the
control program 12c stored in the storage unit 12b, thereby functioning as the setting unit 14 of
the analyzer 100.     In other words, in the example shown in FIGS. 2A and 2B, the controller 12
is configured to function also as the setting unit 14.

[01071
                The analyzer 100 includes: a display unit 54 (see FIG. 5) which displays various
types of screens; and an input unit 55 (see FIG. 5) which receives operation inputs.        The input
unit 55 is a touch panel, for example, and is integrated with the display unit 54.      The input unit
55 may be an input device such as a keyboard or a mouse.
[0108]
                The fluid circuit 22 is in fluid connection with constituents such as the washing
unit 11, the specimen dispenser 31, and the reagent dispensers 32a to 32e.        The fluid circuit 22
has a function of supplying pressure associated with aspiration/discharge operation of a
specimen and a reagent, and a function of supplying the washing liquid 70 in association with
washing operation in the washing unit 11.        The fluid circuit 22 can supply, into the apparatus, a
later- described washing liquid 75 for washing a liquid distribution channel, thereby to wash the
liquid distribution channel.    The fluid circuit 22 includes, for example: supply channels for
supplying liquids; an air pressure source for applying pressure to each supply channel to send a
liquid; a valve for switching channels of liquids; a liquid chamber for measuring the amount of a
liquid; and the like.   The fluid circuit 22 is connected through connection tubes and the like to
various types of washing liquid containers 77 (see FIG. 5) disposed in the washing liquid storage
part 23 (see FIG. 5), for example, and can aspirate the washing liquids 70 from the washing
liquid containers 77.
[0109]
                (Washing unit)
                FIG. 3 shows a configuration example of the washing unit 11.         The aspiration
part 46 includes an aspiration tube which aspirates unnecessary components such as liquid
containing unreacted labeled substance 83, for example.         The discharging part 47 includes a
discharge tube which discharges the washing liquid 70 into a reaction container 90, for example.
[0110]
                When the magnetic particles 82a are used as the carrier 82, the washing unit 11
captures, by means of the magnetic collection part 45, the magnetic particles 82a having formed
thereon the complex 81 that includes the target component 80 and the labeled substance 83.
The washing unit 11 is configured to be able to hold the reaction container 90 in the washing
port 44, and the magnetic collection part 45 is disposed in the vicinity of the reaction container
90 held in the washing port 44.     FIG. 3 shows a configuration example in which: the magnetic
collection part 45 is disposed at a position close to the side face of the reaction container 90
disposed in the washing port 44 and magnetically collects the magnetic particles 82a to the inner
side face of the reaction container 90.

[0111]
                The washing unit 11 includes agitation parts 48 provided for the respective
washing ports 44, for example.       Each agitation part 48 includes: a catcher 48a movable in such
a manner as to grip and lift the reaction container 90 held in the washing port 44; and a drive
source 48b which applies vibration to the reaction container 90 gripped by the catcher 48a.
[0112]
                <Washing process>
                The washing process (BF separation) includes a step of magnetically collecting
the complex 81; a step of supplying the washing liquid 70 to be used in the washing process; and
a step of removing the washing liquid 70.      Thus, through the supply and removal of the washing
liquid 70, components unnecessary for the measurement other than the carrier 82 that includes
the complex 81 can be effectively removed.
[0113]
                For example, in FIG. 4, the washing process includes: (a) magnetic collection step
of collecting the complex 81 in the reaction container 90; (b) removal step of removing the
washing liquid 70 in the reaction container 90; (c) supply step of supplying the washing liquid 70
into the reaction container 90; and (d) agitation step in a magnetic collection cancelled state.
The washing process is performed by the controller 12 controlling the washing unit 11.
[0114]
                First, in (a) magnetic collection step, the magnetic collection part 45 magnetically
collects the magnetic particles 82a in the reaction container 90 disposed in the washing port 44.
Next, in (b) removal step, the aspiration part 46 aspirates the liquid component from the reaction
container 90 in a captured state in the washing port 44, and removes the liquid component from
the reaction container 90.     After the washing liquid 70 is supplied into the reaction container 90,
the washing liquid 70 is removed in the removal step.       At this time, the magnetic particles 82a
carrying the complex 81 remain, being magnetically collected in the reaction container 90.
Next, in (c) supply step, the discharging part 47 supplies a predetermined amount of the washing
liquid 70 into the reaction container 90 in a captured state in the washing port 44.    At this time,
the controller 12 controls the fluid circuit 22 to cause the washing liquid 70, which has been
selected in accordance with the target component 80, to be discharged from the discharging part
47.   Next, in (d) agitation step, the agitation part 48 takes out the reaction container 90 from the
washing port 44, and applies vibration to agitate the sample containing the magnetic particles
82a.   By the reaction container 90 being taken out of the washing port 44, magnetic collection
by the magnetic collection part 45 is canceled.      Through the vibration, the magnetic particles
82a are diffused in the washing liquid 70.

[0115]
               In the washing process, the controller 12 controls the washing unit 11 so as to
repeat the steps (a) to (d) described above a predetermined multiple times (n times).     As a result,
unnecessary components non-specifically attached to the reaction container 90 and the magnetic
particles 82a are removed.     After the steps (a) to (d) are repeated a predetermined number of
times, the washing liquid 70 is lastly removed from the reaction container 90 in (b) removal step,
and the washing process ends.
[0116]
               In the example shown in FIG. 4, for example, in accordance with the target
component 80, a washing method to be used in the washing process is selected, and the complex
81 including the target component 80 is washed by the selected washing method.         In this case,
the washing process can be executed, not only with use of the washing liquid 70 that is
appropriate for the target component 80, but also with an appropriate washing method selected.
Accordingly, the washing liquid 70 and the washing method can be optimized.          Thus, a
washing process in which the influence of the washing liquid 70 is more effectively suppressed
and a washing process in which the background signal is more effectively reduced can be
performed.
[01171
               The content of selection of a washing method includes, for example, any of
magnetic collection time period of the complex 81, strength of magnetic collection force, supply
amount of the washing liquid 70, and repetition number of times of the washing method.
[0118]
               The magnetic collection time period of the complex 81 is a time period for which
magnetic collection of the magnetic particles 82a by the magnetic collection part 45 is continued
in (a) magnetic collection step, and corresponds to a waiting time period from the reaction
container 90 is disposed in the washing port 44 until (b) removal step is performed.
[0119]
               The strength of magnetic collection force is the strength of magnetic force to be
acted by the magnetic collection part 45 on the magnetic particles 82a in the reaction container
90.    For example, in the case of the configuration example shown in FIG. 4, the strength of
magnetic collection force can be controlled by changing the distance between the magnet and the
reaction container 90, or by the number or the kind of magnet disposed at the washing port 44.
When the magnetic collection part 45 is provided with an electromagnet, the strength of the
magnetic force can be electrically controlled.     Through selection of the magnetic collection
time period and the strength of magnetic collection force, the magnetic collection step can be

optimized in such a case where the kind of the magnetic particles 82a to be used is different
according to the target component 80.
[0120]
                The supply amount of the washing liquid 70 is the amount of the washing liquid
70 to be discharged into the reaction container 90 after the removal step.    The repetition number
of times of the washing method specifies how many times the steps (a) to (d) are repeated.      As a
result of optimization of the washing liquid 70, it becomes possible to reduce the time period
necessary for the washing process by employing a fewer repetition number of times, and, with
respect to a target component 80 for which the strength of the background signal tends to
increase, it becomes possible to optimize the removing effect of unnecessary components by the
washing process, by increasing the repetition number of times in particular.
[0121]
                In a case where a washing method is selected, for example, the storage unit 12b of
the controller 12 is previously caused to store information which mutually associates target
components 80, washing liquids 70 to be used, and washing methods to be performed.
Accordingly, a washing liquid 70 and a washing method that are optimized in accordance with a
target component 80 are selected.
[0122]
                (Selection of washing liquid)
                Next, configuration for selecting the washing liquid 70 is described.   In the
examples shown in FIG. 5 to FIG. 7, before performing measurement of a plurality of target
components 80, an appropriate washing liquid 70 is selected in accordance with a target
component 80 from among a plurality of washing liquids 70, and the selected washing liquid 70
is supplied to the washing unit 11.   For selection of the washing liquid 70, various
configurations can be employed.
[0123]
                In the configuration example shown in FIG. 5, a washing liquid 70 to be used is
selected from among a plurality of kinds of washing liquids 70 disposed in the analyzer 100.
Specifically, the analyzer 100 includes the washing liquid storage part 23 in which a plurality of
the washing liquids 70 are stored.    The controller 12 selects a washing liquid 70 to be used in
the washing process, from among the washing liquids 70 stored in the washing liquid storage
part 23.   Accordingly, for example, different from a case where the washing liquid 70 is
supplied from outside the apparatus, the analyzer 100 can singly select a washing liquid 70 and
perform the washing process.      As a result, the apparatus configuration can be simplified, and
analysis of the target component 80 can be efficiently performed.

[01241
                 For example, in FIG. 5, the washing liquid storage part 23 includes: a first storage
part 23a which stores the washing liquid 70 to be used in the washing process for the complex
81; a second storage part 23b which stores the washing liquid 75 for washing the liquid
distribution channel; and a third storage part 23c which stores a washing liquid 76 for washing
the pipettes 43 of the reagent dispensers 32a to 32e.
[0125]
                 The washing liquid storage part 23 may be configured to allow the container of
the washing liquid 70 to be disposed as is, or may be provided with a chamber which holds the
washing liquid 70.      In FIG. 5, the washing liquid storage part 23 is configured to allow a
plurality of the washing liquid containers 77 to be disposed therein.      In the first storage part 23a,
a plurality of the washing liquid containers 77 respectively containing different kinds of washing
liquids 70 are disposed, and are each connected to the fluid circuit 22.
[0126]
                 In this configuration example, the controller 12 selects a washing liquid 70 stored
in the first storage part 23a, as the washing liquid 70 to be used in the washing process.
Accordingly, from among the washing liquids 70 for the washing process for the complex 81 and
stored in the first storage part (23a), an appropriate washing liquid 70 can be easily selected to be
used in the washing process.
[01271
                 In a case where a plurality of washing liquids respectively having different usages
are stored in the analyzer 100, a washing liquid for a usage other than for the washing process for
the complex 81 may be used in the washing process for the complex 81.
[0128]
                 In the configuration example shown in FIG. 6, the first storage part 23a, the
second storage part 23b, and the third storage part 23c are each configured to allow one washing
liquid container 77 to be disposed therein.     Each washing liquid container 77 is connected to the
fluid circuit 22.
[0129]
                 In the configuration example shown in FIG. 6, the controller 12 selects the
washing liquid 75 stored in the second storage part 23b, as the washing liquid 70 to be used in
the washing process.       That is, from the washing liquid 70 being for the washing process for the
complex 81 and stored in the first storage part 23a, and the washing liquid 75 being for washing
the liquid distribution channel and stored in the second storage part 23b, the controller 12 selects

a washing liquid to be used in the washing process for the complex 81 in accordance with the
target component 80.
[01301
               Thus, the washing liquid 75 for washing the liquid distribution channel can be
used as the washing liquid 70 to be used in washing the complex 81.     That is, different from a
case where a plurality of kinds of the washing liquids 70 for the washing process for the complex
81 are prepared, increase in the number of kinds of the washing liquids 70 stored in the analyzer
100 can be suppressed by using the washing liquid 75 for washing the liquid distribution channel.
[01311
               The washing liquid 70 to be used in the washing process for the complex 81 may
be configured to be supplied from outside of the analyzer 100.    FIG. 7 shows a configuration
example of a specimen analysis system 300 including the analyzer 100 and a washing liquid
supply apparatus 200.
[0132]
               The analyzer 100 causes the complex 81 including a target component 80
contained in a specimen to be formed on the carrier 82 in a reaction container 90, and supplies
the washing liquid 70 into reaction container 90 to wash the complex 81.     The washing liquid
supply apparatus 200 is in fluid connection with the analyzer 100, and stores a plurality of the
washing liquids 70.    The washing liquid supply apparatus 200 is configured to supply the
analyzer 100 with the washing liquid 70 selected in accordance with the target component 80.
Thus, the analyzer 100 obtains from the washing liquid supply apparatus 200 the washing liquid
70 selected in accordance with the target component 80, and performs the washing process for
the complex 81.
[0133]
               For example, the analyzer 100 includes a connection hole 59 for introducing the
washing liquid 70 from outside the apparatus, and is connected to a supply hole of the washing
liquid supply apparatus 200 through a connection tube or the like.
[0134]
               The washing liquid supply apparatus 200 is in fluid connection with a plurality of
the washing liquid containers 77, can selectively aspirate a washing liquid 70 from the washing
liquid containers 77, and can send the aspirated washing liquid 70 to the analyzer 100.     The
washing liquid containers 77 connected to the washing liquid supply apparatus 200 contain
different kinds of washing liquids 70, respectively.
[0135]

                Thus, for each target component 80, a washing liquid 70 suitable for the
measurement of the target component 80 can be supplied from the washing liquid supply
apparatus 200 to the analyzer 100, to perform the washing process for the complex 81.       That is,
in a case where measurement of a plurality of target components 80 is performed, even with
respect to a specific target component 80 for which the measurement is hindered by a general
washing liquid 70, the measurement can be performed with use of a washing liquid 70 that does
not hinder the measurement.      Thus, even in a case where measurement of a plurality of target
components 80 is performed by the analyzer 100, the measurement can be suppressed from being
hindered by influence of the washing liquid 70 used in the washing process for the complex 81.
Also with respect to a general target component 80 for which a common washing liquid 70 is
conventionally used, the measurement accuracy can be further improved by selecting an
appropriate washing liquid 70, and supplying the selected washing liquid 70 from the washing
liquid supply apparatus 200 to the analyzer 100 to perform the washing process.
[0136]
                The washing liquid 70 may be selected from the reagent storage part 35.     For
example, in FIG. 2A, in the reagent storage part 35, washing liquid containers 77 (see chain
double-dashed lines) are disposed in addition to various types of reagent containers 35d.    The
controller 12 selects a washing liquid 70 to be used in the washing process from among the
washing liquids 70 stored in the reagent storage part 35.   In this manner, by use of the reagent
storage part 35 for storing reagents, washing liquids 70 can also be stored.  As a result, when
compared with a case where a storage part for storing a plurality of kinds of washing liquids 70
is separately provided, without making the apparatus configuration significantly different from
conventional apparatus configurations, a large number of kinds of washing liquids 70 can be
easily stored and a washing liquid 70 can be selected in accordance with the target component 80.
[01371
                <Preparation of washing liquid>
                The washing liquid 70 that is selected may not be the one having been prepared in
advance so as to have a predetermined composition, but may be prepared by use of various
components.     In the configuration example shown in FIG. 8, from among a plurality of washing
liquids 71a to 71c, one washing liquid and another washing liquid are mixed together, to prepare
a washing liquid 70 to be used in the washing process.     Accordingly, from among the plurality
of kinds of washing liquids 71a to 71c prepared in advance, a washing liquid 70 having a more
diverse composition can be prepared.     Thus, the kinds of selectable washing liquids 70 can be
easily increased.
[0138]

                Specifically, a washing liquid 70 is prepared by mixing two or three types of the
washing liquid 71a, the washing liquid 71b and the washing liquid 71c at their respective
predetermined proportions.      Each of the washing liquids 71a to 71c can include, for example:
water and a buffer serving as a solvent; a surfactant and a salt as a washing component; another
supplementary agent and another adjusting agent; and the like.        For example, the washing liquid
supply apparatus 200 is connected to a pure water generation apparatus 250 (see FIG. 7), and
may prepare a washing liquid 70 by mixing pure water with a high concentration washing liquid
71 contained in a washing liquid container 77.      In this case, the washing liquid supply apparatus
200 includes: a mixing part 210 for mixing the washing liquid 71; a passage part 220 which
connects the mixing part 210 to the washing liquid container 77, an air pressure source 230
which sends liquid through the passage part 220; various types of valves (not shown) for
switching the passages; and the like.
[0139]
               (Method for supplying washing liquid)
               In a case where the washing unit 11 includes a plurality of the washing ports 44 as
in the configuration example shown in FIG. 2A, the washing unit 11 is configured to be able to
switch, for each washing port 44, the washing liquid 70 among a plurality of kinds, to be
supplied.
[0140]
                Specifically, as shown in FIG. 9, the controller 12 performs control of selecting a
washing liquid 70 to be supplied to the reaction container 90 in each washing port 44.      By
controlling the fluid circuit 22, the controller 12 individually selects the kind of the washing
liquid 70 to be supplied from the discharging part 47 in each of the plurality of the washing ports
44.   In FIG. 9, a supply channel 56 for a washing liquid 70 selected from among a washing
liquid A to a washing liquid C, and the discharging part 47 are connected to each other.       In this
case, without increasing the number of the washing ports 44, various types of the washing liquids
70 can be selected and supplied.      In the configuration example shown in FIG. 9, a plurality of
kinds of the washing liquids 70 are sent through the common supply channel 56.
[0141]
               For example, in the configuration example shown in FIG. 10, the washing unit 11
is configured such that only one-specific kind of washing liquid 70 is supplied in each of the
washing ports 44.     In addition, the washing unit 11 is configured such that a plurality of kinds
of the washing liquids 70 are supplied from separate washing ports 44.        FIG. 10 shows an
example in which: in two washing ports 44A, a washing liquid A is supplied, and in two washing
ports 44B, a washing liquid B is supplied.

[01421
                In this case, the controller 12 performs control of disposing a reaction container 90
at a washing port 44 to which the selected washing liquid 70 is to be supplied.       That is, the
controller 12 selects a washing port 44 in which to set a reaction container 90 holding a target
component 80, from among a plurality of washing ports 44A and 44B, thereby selecting a
washing liquid 70 to be supplied to the reaction container 90.       The controller 12 controls the
transfer unit 38, for example, to cause a reaction container 90 to be set at the selected washing
port 44.   In this case, the kind of the washing liquid 70 supplied at the individual washing port
44 can be fixed, and thus, during supply of the washing liquids 70 to the reaction container 90,
mixing of different kinds of washing liquids 70 can be prevented.
[0143]
                In the configuration example shown in FIG. 11, each individual washing port 44 is
provided with a plurality of the supply channels 56 for supplying the washing liquids 70 from the
washing liquid storage part 23 to the washing unit 11.      In this case, in accordance with the
selected washing liquid 70, the controller 12 performs control of selecting a separate supply
channel 56 to send the liquid.     Thus, the supply channels 56 for a plurality of kinds of the
washing liquids 70 can be individually provided.       As a result, during supply of the washing
liquids 70 to the reaction container 90, mixing of different kinds of washing liquids 70 can be
prevented.
[0144]
                FIG. 11 shows an example in which: three systems of the supply channels 56 are
provided so as to correspond to three kinds of washing liquids 70; and the supply channels 56
distribute specific washing liquids 70, respectively.     With respect to the washing port 44, three
discharging parts 47 are connected to the separate supply channels 56, respectively.       By
switching the fluid circuit 22, the controller 12 causes the selected washing liquid 70 to be
supplied to the reaction container 90 through the corresponding supply channel 56.
[0145]
                (Selection of washing liquid)
                FIG. 12 shows an example of control of selection of the washing liquid 70
performed by the controller 12.
[0146]
                In step Sl, the controller 12 obtains a target component 80 or a measurement item
of a specimen to be subjected to the washing process performed by the washing unit 11.
[01471

                In step S2, the controller 12 selects a washing liquid 70 in accordance with the
obtained target component 80 or measurement item.         For example, the storage unit 12b has
stored therein information 92 which associates the connection port (port A, port B, ... ) of the
fluid circuit 22, the kind (washing liquid A, washing liquid B, ... ) of the washing liquid 70, the
target component 80 or measurement item (target component V, W, X, target component Y, ... )
with one another.     On the basis of the obtained target component 80 or measurement item, the
controller 12 specifies a washing liquid 70 associated with the target component 80 or
measurement item, and selects a connection port connected to the washing liquid container 77 of
the specified washing liquid 70.     The fluid circuit 22 supplies the washing liquid 70 to the
washing unit 11 through the designated port.
[0148]
                In this manner, in the example shown in FIG. 12, the controller 12 selects the
washing liquid 70 to be used in the washing process for the complex 81 in accordance with the
target component 80.     Accordingly, there is no need to receive a selection command regarding a
washing liquid 70 from an external apparatus, or to receive selection of a washing liquid 70 by
an input operation performed by the user, for example, and the analyzer 100 can singly select an
appropriate washing liquid 70 to perform the washing process.
[0149]
                In step S3, the controller 12 determines whether to switch the washing liquid 70 to
be used in the washing port 44 at which the washing process is performed, to another kind of
washing liquid 70.     When switching to another washing liquid 70, the controller 12 performs, in
step S4, control of causing the washing liquid 70 remaining in the discharging part 47 and the
supply channel 56 of the washing port 44 to be replaced with the selected washing liquid 70 to
wash the discharging part 47 and the supply channel 56.
[0150]
                Thus, in the example shown in FIG. 12, when switching one washing liquid 70 to
another washing liquid 70, the controller 12 performs control of washing, with the another
washing liquid 70, the supply channel 56 through which the one washing liquid 70 has been sent.
Thus, in a case where the washing liquids 70 are supplied through a common supply channel 56
as in, for example, a configuration example shown in FIG. 9, one previously-used washing liquid
70 can be prevented from being supplied to the reaction container 90 in a state of being mixed
with another subsequently-used washing liquid 70.        In the configurations as shown in FIG. 10
and FIG. 11 where the washing liquids 70 are supplied through the individual supply channels 56,
respectively, the supply channels 56 need not be washed with the washing liquids 70.
[0151]

                When the washing liquid 70 to be used is not changed in step S3, or after step S4,
the controller 12 advances to the washing process.
[0152]
                (Method for specifying target component)
                FIG. 13 shows one example of a method for specifying a target component 80.
[0153]
                In FIG. 13, a step of obtaining information that specifies a target component 80, a
step of selecting a washing process on the basis of the obtained information that specifies the
target component 80 are performed.       That is, the setting unit 14 obtains the information that
specifies a target component 80, and the controller 12 selects a washing process on the basis of
the obtained information that specifies the target component 80.       The information that specifies
a target component 80 is the kind of the specimen, the specimen ID, the measurement order, and
the like, for example.    By obtaining the information that specifies a target component 80, it is
possible to easily select an appropriate washing liquid 70 in accordance with the target
component 80 to perform the washing process.
[0154]
                In the example shown in FIG. 13, the setting unit 14 reads out a specimen ID
attached to the specimen container set in the analyzer 100, by means of a reading unit 57 such as
a bar code reader, and makes an inquiry to a host apparatus 400 which manages measurement
orders 91.    As a response to the inquiry, the host apparatus 400 transmits to the setting unit 14 a
measurement order 91 that corresponds to the specimen ID.
[0155]
                Accordingly, the setting unit 14 obtains the measurement order 91 for the
specimen set in the analyzer 100.     In the measurement order 91, for each specimen, a
measurement item is set so as to be associated with the specimen ID.        All the specimens
dispensed into reaction containers 90 in the analyzer 100 are managed so as to be associated with
specimen IDs, and each measurement operation is performed in accordance with the
measurement order 91.      Thus, on the basis of the measurement order 91, the target component
80 in each reaction container 90 to be subjected to a washing process is specified.      The setting
unit 14 delivers the measurement order 91 to the controller 12.
[0156]
                The controller 12 selects a washing process in accordance with the measurement
item in the measurement order 91.      For example, on the basis of the measurement item, and the
information 92 which associates the target component 80 with the kind of the washing liquid 70
shown in FIG. 12, the controller 12 selects a washing liquid 70 to be used.       Thus, by use of the

measurement order 91 obtained for the analyzer 100 to perform measurement, selection of a
washing process such as the kind and the like of the washing liquid 70 can also be performed.
Thus, there is no need to separately provide the analyzer 100 with information for selecting a
washing process, and an appropriate washing process in accordance with the target component
80 can be easily selected.
[01571
                In the measurement order 91, the kind of the washing process may be designated.
For example, the measurement order 91 may include in advance information of the washing
process such as the washing liquid 70 to be used.      In this case, the controller 12 performs
control of selecting the washing process designated in the measurement order 91 to perform the
washing process.
[0158]
                (Reception of selection input)
                Selection of a washing process may be performed in the form of receiving an
operation input performed by the user, other than in the form of being automatically performed
by the controller 12 in accordance with the target component 80.
[0159]
                In the example shown in FIG. 14, on the basis of information received through the
input unit 55, the controller 12 selects a washing liquid 70 to be used in the washing process.
Thus, by allowing, through the input unit 55, the user to determine the washing liquid 70 to be
used, or by the controller 12 determining a washing liquid 70 to be used on the basis of the
information inputted by the user, it is possible to cause the determined washing liquid 70 to be
supplied to the washing unit 11.     As a result, an appropriate washing liquid 70 can be easily
selected.
[0160]
                For example, in such a case where the washing liquid 70 to be used cannot be
selected (specified) or where the remaining amount of the selected washing liquid 70 is
insufficient after a reaction container 90 to be subjected to a washing process has been
transferred to the washing unit 11, the controller 12 suspends part or all of the measurement
operation of the analyzer 100.     The controller 12 may suspend part or all the measurement
operation every time a washing process is performed.
[0161]
                In the suspension of the measurement operation, the entirety of the apparatus may
be stopped, for example.     Alternatively, for example, only with respect to samples not yet
subjected to the washing process, the measurement operation may be suspended, and with

respect to samples having been subjected to the washing process, subsequent processes may be
continued.
[0162]
                 In this case, for example, the controller 12 suspends the measurement when the
washing process is to be performed, and controls a notification unit 58 so as to make notification
that urges an input to be made through the input unit 55.      The notification unit 58 may be, for
example, a speaker that performs sound notification, or the display unit 54 that performs
notification by displaying a message.       Accordingly, when a washing liquid 70 needs to be
selected, notification can be provided to the user through the notification unit 58, and thus, the
washing process can be more reliably performed with an appropriate washing liquid 70 selected.
[0163]
                 For example, the controller 12 causes the display unit 54 to display the specimen
ID, information of the target component 80, and choices of the washing liquid 70 to be used,
thereby making notification for urging the user to perform an input through the input unit 55.
The user selects, through the input unit 55, an appropriate washing liquid 70 from among the
choices displayed on the display unit 54, for example.       When the washing liquid 70 is
insufficient, the washing liquid container 77 in the washing liquid storage part 23 is replaced.
[0164]
                 After the washing liquid 70 according to the target component 80 is selected, the
controller 12 resumes the measurement operation of the analyzer 100 that has been stopped.
The controller 12 causes the selected washing liquid 70 to be supplied to the washing unit 11, to
perform the washing process.        Thus, in the example shown in FIG. 14, with the measurement
operation suspended, the user is allowed to select an appropriate washing liquid 70.      Also when
the washing liquid 70 has become insufficient, supply of an inappropriate washing liquid 70 can
be inhibited, and stop of supply of the washing liquid 70 can be inhibited.
[0165]
                 (Skipping process of measurement operation)
                 In the example shown in FIG. 15, in accordance with the target component 80,
part or all of the measurement operation regarding the target component 80 by the analyzer 100
is skipped, and after a washing liquid 70 according to the target component 80 is selected, the
skipped measurement operation regarding the target component 80 is performed.
[0166]
                 For example, for easy explanation, a case is considered in which reaction
containers 90 of a first group G 1 containing a specific target component 80 that corresponds to
the washing liquid A, and reaction containers 90 of a second group G2 containing another target

component 80 that corresponds to the washing liquid B are present.        In FIG. 15, the reaction
containers 90 of the second group G2 are expressed with hatching, for convenience.
[01671
                In this case, for example, the controller 12 selects the washing liquid A first, and
controls the washing unit 11 and the transfer unit 38 so as to perform the washing process for the
complex 81 in the reaction containers 90 of the first group GI by use of the washing liquid A.
Then, until the washing process on the reaction containers 90 of the first group GI is completed,
the washing process on the reaction containers 90 of the second group G2 is skipped and the
reaction containers 90 of the second group G2 are held in the reaction unit 10 (here, the reaction
unit lob).
[01681
                After the washing process on a certain number of reaction containers 90 of the
first group GI has been completed, the controller 12 selects the washing liquid B and controls
the washing unit 11 so as to perform, by use of the washing liquid B, the washing process for the
complex 81 in the reaction containers 90 of the second group G2 being held in the reaction unit
10.
[01691
                Thus, after the measurement operation regarding the target component 80 using
the washing liquid A belonging to the first group GI has been performed, the measurement
operation using another washing liquid B belonging to the second group G2 that has been
skipped can be performed collectively.      As a result, the number of times of switching the
washing liquids 70 can be reduced, and thus, analysis of the target component 80 can be
efficiently performed.
[01701
                (Specific example of measurement)
                Next, a specific example of measurement performed by the analyzer 100 is
described.    As shown in FIG. 16, immunoassay is performed by use of the RI reagent to the R5
reagent.    Here, as a measurement example of the target component 80, an example in which the
target component 80A is hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) (FIG. 16A), and an example in
which the target component 80B is HDL (high density lipoprotein) (FIG. 16B) are described.
[01711
                <Measurement of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg)>
                First, a specimen containing the target component 80A, and the RI reagent are
dispensed in a reaction container 90.    The RI reagent contains a capture substance 84, and
reacts with the target component 80A to be bound thereto.       The capture substance 84 includes a
                                                   A /

binding substance for allowing the capture substance 84 to bind to the carrier 82 (magnetic
particle 82a).
[0172]
                For binding between the binding substance and the carrier, a combination such as:
biotin and avidins; hapten and anti-hapten antibody; nickel and histidine tag; or glutathione and
glutathione-S-transferase, can be used, for example.
[0173]
                For example, the capture substance 84 is an antibody modified with biotin (biotin
antibody).    That is, the capture substance 84 is an anti-HBs antibody which specifically binds to
the target component 80A, and is modified with biotin as the binding substance.
[0174]
                Next, the R2 reagent is dispensed into the reaction container 90.    The R2 reagent
contains the magnetic particles 82a as the carrier 82.    The magnetic particle 82a binds to the
binding substance of the capture substance 84.      The magnetic particle 82a is a magnetic particle
having immobilized thereon streptavidin which binds to biotin (StAvi-bound magnetic particle).
Streptavidin of the StAvi-bound magnetic particle reacts with biotin as the binding substance of
the capture substance 84, and binds to biotin.    As a result, the target component 80A and the
capture substance 84 bind to the magnetic particle 82a.
[01751
                A complex 81 a of the target component 80A and the capture substance 84 formed
on the magnetic particle 82a is separated from unnecessary components such as unreacted
capture substance 84, through a first washing process (primary BF separation process).
Through the first washing process, unnecessary components are removed from the reaction
container 90.    The first washing process is performed by use of the washing process selected by
the controller 12.   For the first washing process, as the washing liquid 70A to be used, a
washing liquid 70A for hepatitis B surface antigen, corresponding to hepatitis B surface antigen
as the target component 80A, is selected.     The washing liquid 70A for hepatitis B surface
antigen contains a surfactant and a salt each at a predetermined concentration or higher, for
example.
[0176]
                Next, the R3 reagent is dispensed into the reaction container 90.    The R3 reagent
contains the labeled substance 83, and reacts with the target component 80A to be bound thereto.
As a result, a complex 81b including the target component 80A, the labeled substance 83, and
the capture substance 84 is formed on the magnetic particle 82a.       In the example shown in FIG.
16A, the labeled substance 83 is an ALP (alkaline phosphatase) labeled antibody.        That is, the

labeled substance 83 is an anti-HBs antibody which specifically binds to the target component
80A, and is labeled with ALP.
[01771
                The complex 8 1b formed on the magnetic particle 82a is separated from
unnecessary components such as unreacted labeled substance 83, through a second washing
process (secondary BF separation process).      Through the second washing process, unnecessary
components are removed from the reaction container 90.        The second washing process is
performed by use of the washing process selected by the controller 12.       For the second washing
process, as the washing liquid 70A to be used, the washing liquid 70A for hepatitis B surface
antigen which is the same as the washing liquid 70A selected for the first washing process is
selected.
[0178]
                Then, the R4 reagent and the R5 reagent are dispensed into the reaction container
90.   The R4 reagent contains a buffer.     The complex 81b bound to the magnetic particle 82a is
dispersed in the buffer.   The R5 reagent contains a chemiluminescent substrate.       The buffer
contained in the R4 reagent has a composition that facilitates reaction between the substrate and
the label (enzyme) of the labeled substance 83 included in the complex 81b.        Light is generated
as a result of reaction between the substrate and the label, and the intensity of the generated light
is measured by the analysis unit 13.
[01791
                Thus, the present embodiment includes: a step of performing the first washing
process by use of the selected washing process; a step of causing the complex to bind to the
labeled substance after the first washing process; a step of performing the second washing
process by use of the selected washing process; and a step of measuring a signal based on the
labeled substance after the second washing process.      Through the first washing process and the
second washing process performed in this manner, a higher washing effect can be obtained.
Also in this case, since details of an appropriate washing process are selectable, such as use of
the selected washing liquid 70A, the measurement can be effectively suppressed from being
hindered by influence of the washing process.
[0180]
                <Measurement of high density lipoprotein (HDL)>
                FIG. 16B shows a measurement example in which the target component 80B is
HDL (which is lipoprotein) and the function of HDL is evaluated.        More specifically, the
measurement item to be evaluated is the lipid incorporating function of HDL.        HDL is mainly
composed of phospholipid, cholesterol, apoprotein, triglyceride, and the like, and has a

characteristic of incorporating cholesterol therein.    The lipid incorporating function can be
evaluated on the basis of the amount of cholesterol incorporated in HDL.
[01811
                First, a specimen containing the target component 80B, and an R 11 reagent are
dispensed into a reaction container 90.     The R 11 reagent contains a capture substance 86a for
binding to a labeled substance 85, and binds to the target component 80B.
[0182]
                For binding between the binding substance and the labeled substance 85, a
combination such as: biotin and avidins; hapten and anti-hapten antibody; nickel and histidine
tag; or glutathione and glutathione-S-transferase, can be used, for example.
[01831
                For example, the capture substance 86a is cholesterol having DNP (dinitrophenyl
group) as a tag added thereto.    The cholesterol is incorporated into HDL, which is the target
component 80B, to be integrated therein.
[0184]
                Next, an R12 reagent is dispensed into the reaction container 90.      The R12
reagent contains the magnetic particles 82a as the carrier 82.     In addition, the R12 reagent
contains a capture substance 86b for binding to the magnetic particle 82a, and the capture
substance 86b reacts with the target component 80B and the magnetic particle 82a, to be bound
thereto, respectively.    In FIG. 16B, for convenience of drawing, only a part of the surface of the
magnetic particle 82a is shown in an enlarged manner.
[01851
                As the magnetic particles 82a, the magnetic particles in the R2 reagent can be used
in common.      That is, the magnetic particle 82a is a magnetic particle having immobilized
thereon streptavidin which binds to biotin (StAvi-bound magnetic particle).        In this case, the
capture substance 86b of the R12 reagent is an anti-apoAl antibody which specifically binds to
apoAl, which is apolipoprotein forming HDL.         The capture substance 86b is modified with
biotin as the binding substance for binding to the magnetic particle 82a.      Accordingly, a
complex 81 c in which the target component 80B having incorporated therein the capture
substance 86a is bound to the capture substance 86b is formed on the magnetic particle 82a.          In
other words, the complex 81 c is formed which includes: lipoprotein having incorporated therein
the tagged cholesterol (capture substance 86a); and the antibody (capture substance 86b) binding
to the lipoprotein.
[01861

               The complex 81c of the capture substance 86a, the target component 80B, and the
capture substance 86b formed on the magnetic particle 82a is separated from unreacted capture
substances 86a and 86b, through the first washing process (primary BF separation process).
The first washing process is performed by use of the washing process selected by the controller
12.   Through the first washing process, unnecessary components such as unreacted capture
substances are removed from the reaction container 90.      For the first washing process, as the
washing liquid 70B to be used, a washing liquid 70B for lipoprotein, corresponding to the
lipoprotein as the target component 80B, is selected.
[01871
               Next, the R13 reagent is dispensed into the reaction container 90.     The R13
reagent contains the labeled substance 85 and reacts with the capture substance 86a to be bound
thereto.   As a result, a complex 81d including the target component 80B, the labeled substance
85, the capture substance 86a, and the capture substance 86b is formed on the magnetic particle
82a.   In the example shown in FIG. 16B, the labeled substance 85 is an anti-DNP antibody
labeled with ALP.
[01881
               The complex 81 d formed on the magnetic particle 82a is separated from
unnecessary components such as unreacted labeled substance 85, through the second washing
process.    The second washing process is performed by use of the washing process selected by
the controller 12.   Through the second washing process, unnecessary components such as
unreacted labeled substance 85 are removed from the reaction container 90.        For the second
washing process, as the washing liquid 70B to be used, the washing liquid 70B for lipoprotein
which is the same as the washing liquid 70B selected for the first washing process is selected.
[01891
               Then, the R14 reagent and the R15 reagent are dispensed into the reaction
container 90.    As the R14 reagent, a buffer similar to that in the R4 reagent can be used.    As
the R15 reagent, a luminescent substrate similar to that in the R5 reagent can be used.     Light is
generated as a result of reaction between the substrate and the label, and the intensity of the
generated light is measured by the analysis unit 13.
[0190]
               The labeled substance 85 binds to the binding substance modified to the capture
substance 86a (cholesterol) having been incorporated in HDL.        Thus, the greater the amount of
the capture substance 86a incorporated in HDL is, the higher the strength of the signal is.     Thus,
the strength of the signal serves as an evaluation index for the lipid incorporating function of
HDL.

[0191]
                (Description of measurement process operation)
                Next, one example of the measurement process operation performed by the
analyzer 100 is described with reference to FIG. 17.         The following description refers to FIG.
17 with respect to the steps of the measurement process operation, and refers to FIGS. 2A and
2B with respect to the constituents of the analyzer 100.        The control of the measurement
process operation of the analyzer 100 is performed by the controller 12.         Here, an example of
the measurement process operation regarding hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and using the
RI reagent to the R5 reagent is described.       However, also regarding high density lipoprotein
(HDL), the measurement process operation is the same except that the reagents to be used are
changed to the R 11 reagent to the R15 reagent.
[0192]
                In step Sl l, the RI reagent is dispensed into a reaction container 90.
Specifically, a reaction container 90 is supplied from the container supplying unit 34 to the
transfer unit 40.    The transfer unit 40 transfers the reaction container 90 to the reagent
dispensing position 64, and the reagent dispenser 32a dispenses the RI reagent into the reaction
container 90 held in the transfer unit 40.     In step S12, the transfer unit 40 transports the reaction
container 90 to the specimen dispensing position 63, and the specimen dispenser 31 dispenses a
specimen aspirated from a test tube 21a, into the reaction container 90.
[0193]
                After the dispensing, the transfer unit 40 transports the reaction container 90 to the
delivering position 61, and the transfer unit 37 takes out the reaction container 90 and sets the
reaction container 90 in the reaction unit 10a.      In this state, the specimen and the RI reagent in
the reaction container 90 are heated at a predetermined temperature for a predetermined time
period.
[0194]
                In step S13, the transfer unit 37 transports the reaction container 90 from the
reaction unit 10a to the dispensing port 41a, and the reagent dispenser 32b dispenses the R2
reagent into the reaction container 90.      After the dispensing, the transfer unit 37 takes out the
reaction container 90 from the dispensing port 41 a, and sets the reaction container 90 in the
reaction unit 10a.    In this state, the specimen, the RI reagent, and the R2 reagent in the reaction
container 90 are heated at a predetermined temperature for a predetermined time period.
[0195]
                In step S14, the primary BF separation process is performed.        Specifically, the
transfer unit 37 transports the reaction container 90 from the reaction unit 1Oa to the magnetic

collection port 41.    At the magnetic collection port 41, the magnetic particles in the reaction
container 90 are subjected to pre-magnetic collection by the magnet.         Next, the transfer unit 38
transports the reaction container 90 from the magnetic collection port 41 to the washing unit 11.
[0196]
                At this time, in step S14a, the controller 12 selects a washing process, in
accordance with the target component 80 contained in the reaction container 90.          Thus, details
of the washing process such as the kind of the washing liquid 70 and the washing method are
determined.     In step S14b, the washing unit 11 performs the selected washing process.
[01971
                In step S15, the transfer unit 38 transports the reaction container 90 from the
washing unit 11 to the dispensing port 41b.      The reagent dispenser 32c moves to the dispensing
port 41b and dispenses the R3 reagent into the reaction container 90.        After the dispensing, the
transfer unit 38 takes out the reaction container 90 from the dispensing port 41b and sets the
reaction container 90 in the reaction unit 10b.     In this state, the specimen, the RI reagent, the
R2 reagent, and the R3 reagent in the reaction container are heated at a predetermined
temperature for a predetermined time period.
[0198]
                In step S16, the secondary BF separation process is performed.        Specifically, the
transfer unit 38 transports the reaction container 90 from the reaction unit 1Ob to the magnetic
collection port 41, and subjects the magnetic particles 82a in the reaction container 90 to pre
magnetic collection.     Next, the transfer unit 38 transports the reaction container 90 from the
magnetic collection port 41 to the washing unit 11.
[0199]
                At this time, in step S16a, the controller 12 selects a washing process that is the
same as the primary BF separation process.       In step S16b, the washing unit 11 performs the
selected washing process.      After the washing, the transfer unit 38 transports the reaction
container 90 from the washing unit 11 to the relay unit 42.
[0200]
                In steps S17 and S18, the R4 reagent and the R5 reagent are dispensed,
respectively.    The transfer unit 39 takes out the reaction container 90 from the relay unit 42 and
transports the reaction container 90 to the reagent dispenser 32d and the reagent dispenser 32e,
sequentially.    The reagent dispenser 32d dispenses the R4 reagent into the reaction container 90,
and the reagent dispenser 32e dispenses the R5 reagent into the reaction container 90.
[0201]

                After the dispensing, the transfer unit 39 sets the reaction container 90 in the
reaction unit 1Oc.    In this state, the specimen, and the RI reagent to the R5 reagent in the
reaction container 90 are heated at a predetermined temperature for a predetermined time period.
As a result, the preparation process of a measurement sample is completed.
[0202]
                When the preparation process of the measurement sample is completed, the
transfer unit 39 takes out the reaction container 90 from the reaction unit 1Oc and sets the
reaction container 90 in the inter-stage transport unit 36.    Then, the raising/lowering device 50
lowers the inter-stage transport unit 36 to transport the reaction container 90 to the second stage
24b (see FIG. 2B).
[0203]
                In step S19, the measurement process of the complex 81 is performed.
Specifically, the container transport unit 52 takes out the reaction container 90 from the inter
stage transport unit 36 and transports the reaction container 90 to the analysis unit 13.    The
analysis unit 13 measures the intensity of light that is generated as a result of reaction between
the substrate and the label.     The measurement result obtained by the analysis unit 13 is
outputted to the controller 12.
[0204]
                After the detection has ended, in step S20, the container transport unit 52 takes out
the reaction container 90 having been subjected to the measurement, from the analysis unit 13,
and discards the reaction container 90 into the container discard hole 53.      In this manner, the
measurement process operation of the analyzer 100 is performed.
[0205]
                [Example] (Example 1)
                Next, Example 1 is described.      In Example 1, washing processes were performed
by use of a plurality of kinds of washing liquids 70 having different compositions, respectively,
and influence of each of the washing liquids 70 on the measurement result of the target
component 80 was evaluated.
[0206]
                (1-1) Extraction of HDL fraction
                To the serum (0.1 ml) of a patient having dyslipidemia, an equivalent amount of
22% polyethylene glycol 4000 (manufactured by Wako Pure Chemical Industries, Ltd.) was
added, and the mixture was suspended.         The obtained suspension was left still for 20 minutes at
room temperature, and then, was centrifuged at 3000 rpm for 15 minutes at room temperature.
Then, the supernatant was collected as an HDL fraction.        A fraction denotes an individual
                                                    A I

component separated from a mixture.       The obtained HDL fraction was preserved at 4'C.      The
obtained abnormal specimen was used as a biological specimen in the following operation.
[02071
               (1-2) Formation of complex of HDL and anti-apoAl antibody on carrier
               (i) Preparation of measurement sample
               The abnormal specimen was diluted by a reaction buffer to prepare an HDL
fraction-containing diluted solution having an ApoAl concentration of 0.2 pLg/ml.    As the
reaction buffer, PBS (phosphate buffered saline) containing 2% BSA (bovine serum albumin)
and 2 mM liposome (manufactured by Nippon Fine Chemical Co., Ltd.) was used.
[0208]
               As a control specimen not containing the HDL fraction (ApoAl concentration
Opg/ml), the reaction buffer above was used.
[0209]
               0.5 mM DNP-added cholesterol was added to the reaction buffer so as to have a
final concentration of 5 pM, and then, the HDL fraction-containing diluted solution described
above was added by a 1/100 amount of the entire amount.       The obtained mixture was held at
37'C, and was shaken at 800 rpm for 2 hours to prepare a measurement sample.
[0210]
               (ii) Formation of complex of HDL having incorporated cholesterol therein and
anti-apoAl antibody
               30 pl of the prepared measurement sample was taken into another tube, 40 pl of
2.5 ng/pl biotin anti-apoAl antibody was added thereto, and the mixture was allowed to react at
42'C for 12 minutes.     As the biotin anti-apoAl antibody, an anti-apoAl antibody
(manufactured by SANBIO) that was reduced with 2-Mercaptoethylamine Hydrochloride
(manufactured by Nacalai Tesque) and labeled with Biotin-PEAC5-maleimide (manufactured by
Dojindo) was used.
[0211]
                Subsequently, 30 pl of HISCL magnetic particles (manufactured by Sysmex
Corporation) was added, and the mixture was allowed to react at 42'C for 10 minutes.
[0212]
               Washing operation of: magnetically collecting the magnetic particles; removing
the supernatant; and pouring a washing liquid was repeated 3 times, whereby the complex bound
to the magnetic particle was washed.     Each of the four kinds of washing liquids A to D listed in
FIG. 18 was used to perform the washing.
[0213]

                (1-3) Measurement of amount of cholesterol incorporated in HDL, based on
chemiluminescence
                (i) Measurement of amount of DNP-added cholesterol
                Magnetic collection was performed to remove the supernatant, 640 ng/pl ALP
labeled anti-DNP antibody was added, and the mixture was allowed to react at 42'C for 10
minutes.    As the ALP-labeled anti-DNP antibody, an antibody obtained by removing the Fc
region of an anti-DNP antibody (manufactured by Kitayama Labes Co., Ltd.) by pepsin, then,
reducing SH with MEA, and then causing the resultant antibody to react with ALP-maleimide
was used.
[0214]
                Operation of: magnetically collecting the magnetic particles in the tube; removing
the supernatant; and pouring a washing liquid was repeated 3 times, and the complex bound to
the magnetic particle was washed.      For the washing, the washing liquid, among the washing
liquids A to D, that was the same as the washing liquid used in the first-time washing was used.
[0215]
                The magnetic particles in the tube were magnetically collected to remove the
supernatant, 50 pl of an HISCL luminescent substrate (manufactured by Sysmex Corporation,
the R5 reagent) and 100 pl of the R4 reagent were added, and the mixture was allowed to react at
42'C for 5 minutes.     Then, the magnetic particles were magnetically collected, the supernatant
was placed on a microplate, and the amount of luminescence was measured by a plate reader.
[0216]
                The measurement result is shown in FIG. 19.     The vertical axis represents signal
strength detected by the plate reader.   With reference to FIG. 18 and FIG. 19, in the cases of the
washing liquids B and D each containing a surfactant, there was hardly any difference in the
signal strength between the measurement sample and the control specimen, whereas in the cases
of the washing liquids A and C each not containing a surfactant, there was a clear difference in
the signal strength when compared with the signal strength of the control specimen not
containing HDL.       The washing liquid B has a composition that is used in general in
measurement of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) described above.         Thus, it has been
confirmed that, depending on the combination of the target component and the washing liquid,
there are cases where measurement is hindered by the washing liquid and where measurement is
not hindered by the washing liquid.
[02171
                In the case of the washing liquid C containing a salt (NaCl), the strength of the
background signal was reduced when compared with the washing liquid D not containing any

salt, and the signal/background ratio was improved by about 25 times when compared with the
washing liquid A.
[0218]
                From the above, it has been confirmed that, with respect to the measurement item
for evaluating the amount of cholesterol incorporated in HDL (lipid incorporating function of
HDL), if the washing process is performed by use of the washing liquid A or C in accordance
with the target component, the cholesterol incorporating ability of HDL can be evaluated.
[0219]
                With respect to the washing liquid C, the signal/background ratio is improved as a
result of reduction of the background signal, and thus, it has been confirmed that the
measurement accuracy can be improved by selecting an appropriate washing liquid.
[0220]
                With respect to the washing liquids B and D, since HDL contains lipid as a major
component, the structure of HDL is changed due to influence of the surfactant.         As a result, it is
considered that DNP-added cholesterol incorporated in HDL is taken out from HDL into the
washing liquid.    Thus, with respect to a target component 80 that contains lipid, it is appropriate
to select a washing liquid that does not contain any surfactant or that contains a surfactant at a
concentration lower than a predetermined concentration that would not cause influence on the
measurement.
[0221]
                The surfactant functions as a washing component for washing off unnecessary
components non-specifically adsorbed, from the complex on the carrier or from the reaction
container.    Thus, in the case of a washing liquid not containing any surfactant or containing a
surfactant at not higher than a predetermined concentration, the background signal could increase.
With respect to the washing liquid C containing a salt, the background signal was reduced when
compared with the washing liquid A not containing any salt.         Thus, for the target component 80
that contains lipid, it is considered to be appropriate to select a washing liquid in which a salt
functions as a washing component similarly to a surfactant, and that contains the salt at an
appropriate concentration.
[0222]
                (Example 2)
                In Example 2, the washing process is performed by use of the washing liquid C in
the analyzer 100 shown in FIGS. 2A and 2B, and measurement operation for evaluating the lipid
incorporating function of HDL as the target component 80 was performed.
[0223]

               (1) Preparation of R 11 reagent
               To PBS that contained 2% BSA and 2 mM liposome (manufactured by Nippon
Fine Chemical Co., Ltd.), 0.5 mM DNP-added cholesterol was added so as to have a final
concentration of 5 pM, and the resultant mixture was used as the R 11 reagent.
[0224]
               (2) Preparation of R12 reagent
               The HISCL magnetic particles and 2.5 ng/pI biotin anti-apoAl antibody were
mixed at a mixing ratio of 3:4, and the antibody was allowed to bind to the magnetic particles
under a condition of 25'C, 2 hours, and 1200 rpm.      After the magnetic particles were
magnetically collected, the supernatant was removed, washing was performed with 2%BSA, and
then, the mixture was suspended in 2%BSA.        At this time, the R12 reagent was prepared such
that the concentration of the magnetic particles became twice of the initial concentration thereof.
[0225]
               (3) Preparation of R13 reagent
               An ALP-labeled anti-DNP antibody was diluted in Starting block (TBS)
(manufactured by Thermo Scientific), whereby a 640 ng/pI detection antibody solution was
prepared as the R13 reagent.    As the ALP-labeled anti-DNP antibody, an antibody obtained by
removing the Fc region of an anti-DNP antibody (manufactured by Kitayama Labes Co., Ltd.) by
pepsin, then, reducing SH (thiol group) with MEA (mercaptoethylamine), and then, causing the
resultant antibody to react with ALP-maleimide was used.
[0226]
               (4) Preparation of measurement sample
               The abnormal specimen was diluted with 2.25% BSA/PBS, and an oxidizing agent
(8.8 M hydrogen peroxide, 1.76 mM sodium nitrite, and 0.86 mM diethylenetriamine pentaacetic
acid (DTPA)) was added.      At this time, the addition was performed such that the final
concentrations of ApoAl and BSA became 10 tg/ml and 2%, respectively.           The mixture was
shaken under a condition of 37'C, 1 hour, and 800 rpm, and was diluted with 2% BSA/PBS such
that the concentration of ApoAl became 1 pLg/ml.
[02271
               The R 11 reagent, the R12 reagent, the R13 reagent, and the measurement sample
that were prepared, and an HISCL R4 reagent and an HISCL R5 reagent that were commercially
available were disposed in the analyzer 100, and the following steps were performed.
[0228]
               (5) Evaluation of cholesterol incorporating function

                  90 pl of the RI reagent was dispensed into an HISCL cuvette, 10 pLI of the
measurement sample was added thereto, and the mixture was agitated and then left still in the
reaction unit 10 at 42'C for 12 minutes.       Subsequently, 30 ptl of the R2 reagent was dispensed,
and the mixture was agitated and then left still in the reaction unit 10 for the same time period.
The washing liquid C (138 mM NaCl, 20 mM Tris buffer (pH7.4)) was selected, the primary BF
separation process was performed, and the complex 81 on the magnetic particle 82a was washed
3 times.     Then, 100 pLI of the R3 reagent was dispensed, and the mixture was agitated and then
left still in the reaction unit 10 at 42'C for 10 minutes.    The washing liquid C was selected, the
secondary BF separation process was performed, and the complex was washed 3 times.              Then,
the R4 reagent and the R5 reagent were dispensed by 50 ptl and 100           respectively, and the
                                                                           1A,
mixture was agitated and then left still in the reaction unit 10 at 42'C for 5 minutes.     The
chemiluminescence signal was detected by the analysis unit 13.
[0229]
                  The detection result is shown in FIG. 20.    The control specimen is the same as
that in Example 1 described above.        Also in FIG. 20, by selecting the washing liquid C to be
used in the washing process for the complex 81, a clear difference in the signal strength was
observed when compared with the signal strength of the control specimen corresponding to the
background.        Thus, it has been confirmed that the cholesterol incorporating ability of HDL can
be evaluated by the analyzer 100.
[0230]
                  [Modification]
                  It should be noted that the embodiment disclosed herein is merely illustrative in all
aspects and should not be considered as restrictive.       The scope of the present disclosure is not
defined by the description of the above embodiment but by the scope of the claims, and includes
meaning equivalent to the scope of the claims and all changes (modifications) within the scope
of the claims.
[02311
                  For example, as a measurement method that is different from the measurement
method shown in the embodiment described above, the measurement may be performed by use
of an immune complex transfer method.          In the immune complex transfer method, the complex
81 formed on the carrier 82 is caused to be released from the carrier 82, and the released
complex 81 is extracted.        For example, a releasing reagent is dispensed into a reaction container
90 holding a sample containing the complex 81 formed on the carrier 82.          The carrier 82 is
captured in the reaction container 90, and the supernatant in the container is aspirated to be
transferred into another reaction container 90, whereby the free complex 81 present in the

supernatant is extracted.    Then, if the complex 81 transferred into the reaction container 90 is
caused to bind to another carrier 82, the measurement can be performed in the procedure of step
S15 and thereafter shown in FIG. 17.       With the immune complex transfer method, unnecessary
components non-specifically adsorbed to the carrier 82 can be separately removed from the
complex 81, and thus, further accurate measurement with reduced background signal can be
realized.
[0231A]
               As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term 'comprise'
and variations of the term, such as 'comprising', 'comprises' and 'comprised', are not intended
to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
DESCRIPTION OF THE REFERENCE CHARACTERS
[0232]
               10: reaction unit
               11: washing unit
               12: controller
               13: analysis unit
               14: setting unit
               23: washing liquid storage part
               23a: first storage part
               23b: second storage part
               35: reagent storage part
               44: washing port
               55: input unit
               56: supply channel
               70: washing liquid
               80: target component
               81: complex
               82: carrier
               82a: magnetic particle
               83: labeled substance
               91: measurement order
               100: analyzer

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1.              An analysis method comprising:
                a component to be analyzed being set;
                bringing a carrier and a complex that includes the component into contact with
each other, to form the complex on the carrier;
                selecting a washing process in accordance with the component; and
                analyzing the component, with use of the washing process selected in accordance
with the set component.
2.              The analysis method of claim 1, wherein
                when lipoprotein is set as the component,
                the analysis method includes forming the complex that includes: lipoprotein
having tagged cholesterol incorporated therein; and an antibody that binds to the lipoprotein.
3.              The analysis method of claim 1 or 2, wherein
                a washing liquid to be used in the washing process is selected from a plurality of
kinds of washing liquids in which at least washing liquid components contained therein or
proportions of the washing liquid components are different.
4.              The analysis method of claim 3, wherein
                a washing liquid that does not contain any surfactant or that contains a surfactant
at a concentration of less than 1.1 g/L is selected in accordance with the component.
5.              The analysis method of claim 3 or 4, wherein
                a washing liquid that contains a predetermined washing liquid component is
selected in accordance with the component.
6.              The analysis method of claim 5, wherein
                the predetermined washing liquid component is a salt.
7.              The analysis method of any one of claims 3 to 6, wherein
                the washing liquid is a washing liquid for a liquid distribution channel.
8.              The analysis method of any one of claims 3 to 7, comprising

               preparing a washing liquid to be used in the washing process, by mixing one
washing liquid and another washing liquid from among a plurality of washing liquids.
9.             The analysis method of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein
               the component to be analyzed being set includes:
                    obtaining information that specifies the component; and
                    selecting the washing process on the basis of the obtained information that
specifies the component.
10.            The analysis method of claim 9, wherein
               the information that specifies the component is a measurement order in which a
measurement item is set for each specimen, and
               the analysis method comprises
                    obtaining the measurement order for the specimen, and selecting the washing
process in accordance with the measurement item in the measurement order.
11.            The analysis method of any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein
               the washing process includes:
                    magnetically collecting the complex;
                    supplying a washing liquid to be used in the washing process; and
                    removing the washing liquid.
12.            The analysis method of any one of claims I to 11, wherein
               analysis of the component is performed through immunoassay using antigen
antibody reaction.
13.            The analysis method of any one of claims I to 12, wherein
               the carrier is a solid-phase particle.
14.            The analysis method of claim 13, wherein
               the solid-phase particle is a magnetic particle.
15.            The analysis method of any one of claims I to 14, comprising:
               performing a first washing process by use of the selected washing process;

               causing the complex and a labeled substance to be bound to each other, after the
first washing process;
               performing a second washing process by use of the selected washing process; and
               measuring a signal based on the labeled substance, after the second washing
process.
16.            An analyzer comprising:
               a setting unit configured to set a component to be analyzed;
               a reaction unit configured to bring a carrier and a complex that includes the
component into contact with each other, to form the complex on the carrier;
               a washing unit configured to perform a washing process selected in accordance
with the set component, the washing process being for washing the complex formed in the
reaction unit;
               an analysis unit configured to analyze the component after the washing process
has been performed by the washing unit; and
               a controller configured to select the washing process in accordance with the
component.
17.            The analyzer of claim 16, wherein
               the controller selects a washing liquid to be used in the washing process, in
accordance with the component.
18.            The analyzer of claim 17, comprising
               a washing liquid storage part configured to store a plurality of washing liquids,
wherein
               the controller selects the washing liquid to be used in the washing process from
among the washing liquids stored in the washing liquid storage part.
19.            The analyzer of claim 18, wherein
               the washing liquid storage part includes a first storage part configured to store a
washing liquid to be used in the washing process, and
               the controller selects the washing liquid stored in the first storage part, as the
washing liquid to be used in the washing process.
20.            The analyzer of claim 18 or 19, wherein

                the washing liquid storage part includes a second storage part configured to store a
washing liquid for a liquid distribution channel, and
                the controller selects the washing liquid stored in the second storage part, as the
washing liquid to be used in the washing process.
21.             The analyzer of any one of claims 16 to 20, comprising:
                a reagent dispenser configured to dispense a reagent into a reaction container; and
                a reagent storage part configured to store a washing liquid and a reagent to be used
in analysis of the component, wherein
                the controller selects a washing liquid to be used in the washing process from the
washing liquid stored in the reagent storage part.
22.             The analyzer of any one of claims 18 to 21, comprising
                a supply channel configured to supply a washing liquid from the washing liquid
storage part to the washing unit, wherein
                when switching one washing liquid to another washing liquid, the controller
performs control of washing, with the another washing liquid, the supply channel through which
the one washing liquid has been sent.
23.             The analyzer of any one of claims 18 to 21, comprising
                a plurality of supply channels each configured to supply a washing liquid from the
washing liquid storage part to the washing unit, wherein
                the controller performs control of selecting a separate supply channel in
accordance with the selected washing liquid, to send the selected washing liquid.
24.             The analyzer of any one of claims 16 to 23, wherein
                the washing unit includes a plurality of washing ports each configured to perform
the washing process, and
                the controller performs control of selecting a washing liquid to be supplied, for
each of the washing ports.
25.             The analyzer of any one of claims 16 to 24, comprising
                an input unit configured to receive an operation input performed by a user,
wherein

               the controller selects a washing liquid to be used in the washing process on the
basis of information received from the input unit.

<removed-date>
                                                 1/13
              FIG. 1
              ANALYZER
                            REACTION UNIT
<removed-apn>
                            WASHING UNIT       UNNECESSARY                UNNECESSARY
                                                COMPONENT                  COMPONENT
                               WASHING                          WASHING
                               LIQUID                           LIQUID
                            ANALYSIS UNIT
                                                                 SIGNAL
                                                    SIGNAL
                  CONTROLLER
                    TARGET COMPONENT             CHOICE
                                                                          SETTING
                    TARGET COMPONENT A      WASHING PROCESS A              UNIT
                    TARGET COMPONENT B      WASHING PROCESS B
                    TARGET COMPONENT C      WASHING PROCESS C

<removed-date>
                                        2/13
              FIG. 2A
<removed-apn>
              FIG. 2B
                          FLUID CIRCUIT
                        12a
                                CPU
                        12b STORAGE UNIT
                              PROGRAM
                               12c

<removed-date>
                                                3/13
              FIG. 3
                                         FLUID CIRCUIT            WASHING LIQUID
                                                                    CONTAINER
                                               WASHING            WASHING LIQUID
                                               LIQUID               CONTAINER
                       LIQUID
                                                                  WASHING LIQUID
<removed-apn>
                                                                    CONTAINER
                                WASHING UNIT
              FIG. 4
                        MAGNETIC       LIQUID (WASHING       WASHING               AGITATION
                       COLLECTION      LIQUID) REMOVAL    LIQUID SUPPLY
               LIQUID
              COMPONENT
                   MAGNETIC
                    FORCE
                                               REPEAT (n times)

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 6                     FIG. 5
                                    4/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                  FIG. 7
                           5/13

<removed-date>
                                                6/13
              FIG. 8
                                       WASHING LIQUID SUPPLY
                                             APPARATUS
<removed-apn>
                                          AIR PRESSURE
                                             SOURCE                      WASHING
                                                                         LIQUID
               WASHING                                                   WASHING
               LIQUID A                                                  LIQUID
                                                                         WASHING
                                                                         LIQUID
              FIG. 9
                          CONTROLLER                      SELECTION
                                                WASHING    WASHING    WASHING
                                                LIQUID     LIQUID     LIQUID
                                                   A          B          C

<removed-date>
                                       7/13
              FIG. 10
                                              SELECTION
                        CONTROLLER
<removed-apn>
                                     WASHING        WASHING
                                     LIQUID A       LIQUID B
              FIG. 11
                    WASHING UNIT                FLUID CIRCUIT
                                                                CONTROLLER

<removed-date>
                                                    8/13
               FIG. 12
              WASHING LIQUID SELECTION PROCESS
                        START
               OBTAIN TARGET COMPONENT/
                                                     PORT A WASHING LIQUID A TARGET COMPONENT V,W,X
<removed-apn>
                   MEASUREMENT ITEM
                                                     PORT B WASHING LIQUID B     TARGET COMPONENT Y
                SELECT WASHING LIQUID
                        SWITCH
                  TO ANOTHER WASHING
                       LIQUID ?
                                              REPLACE WASHING LIQUID
                                                IN SUPPLY CHANNEL
                   WASHING PROCESS
               FIG. 13
                  CONTROLLER,
                  SETTING UNIT
                                SPECIMEN ID
                                                                                READING UNIT
                                MEASUREMENT ORDER INQUIRY
                                                                               HOST APPARATUS
                                MEASUREMENT ORDER
                                 MEASUREMENT ORDER
                                 <U+2743>SPECIMEN ID
                                 <U+2743>MEASUREMENT ITEM
                                  (TARGET COMPONENT)
                                 ( WASHING LIQUID INFORMATION)
              MEASUREMENT OPERATION
               <U+2743>WASHING LIQUID SELECTION
               <U+2743>WASHING PROCESS

<removed-date>
                                                9/13
              FIG. 14
                     CONTROLLER
                                                    <U+2743>WASHING LIQUID TO BE
                 SUSPEND MEASUREMENT                 USED IS NOT SPECIFIED
<removed-apn>
                      OPERATION                     <U+2743>WASHING LIQUID REMAINING
                    (PART OR ALL)                    AMOUNT IS INSUFFICIENT, etc.
                            WASHING LIQUID SELECTION SCREEN
                                                                DISPLAY UNIT
                            SELECTION INFORMATION                INPUT UNIT
                                                              NOTIFICATION UNIT
               RESUME MEASUREMENT OPERATION
                   <U+2743>WASHING LIQUID SELECTION
                   <U+2743>WASHING PROCESS
              FIG. 15
                  SELECT WASHING                       SELECT WASHING
                     LIQUID A                             LIQUID B
                   WASHING PROCESS OF                  WASHING PROCESS OF
                     FIRST GROUP G1                     SECOND GROUP G2

                                                                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
MEASUREMENT OF HEPATITIS B SURFACE ANTIGEN (HBsAg)
        SPECIMEN
             84(UNREACTED)                           83(UNREACTED)
                                                                                             FIG. 16A
                                           BF                            BF
                                       SEPARATION                    SEPARATION     LUMINESCENCE
                                                                                                        10/13
MEASUREMENT OF HIGH DENSITY LIPOPROTEIN (HDL)
        SPECIMEN
                                                                                             FIG. 16B
                                           BF                            BF
                                       SEPARATION                    SEPARATION
                                                                                   LUMINESCENCE
                                 80B

<removed-date>
                                                    11/13
              FIG. 17
                             START
                      DISPENSE R1 REAGENT
<removed-apn>
                                                               SECONDARY BF
                                                            SEPARATION PROCESS
                       DISPENSE SPECIMEN
                                                                   SELECT WASHING PROCESS
                      DISPENSE R2 REAGENT
                 PRIMARY BF                                             WASHING PROCESS
              SEPARATION PROCESS
                    SELECT WASHING PROCESS                          DISPENSE R4 REAGENT
                        WASHING PROCESS
                                                                     DISPENSE R5 REAGENT
                     DISPENSE R3 REAGENT                            MEASUREMENT PROCESS
                                                                       DISCARD CONTAINER
                                                                             END
              FIG. 18
                      (EXAMPLE)
                                            COMPONENT OF WASHING LIQUID
                                             SURFACTANT         SALT               BUFFER
                    WASHING LIQUID A
                    WASHING LIQUID B
                    WASHING LIQUID C
                    WASHING LIQUID D

<removed-date>
                                              12/13
              FIG. 19
                  (EXAMPLE 1)
                           EVALUATION RESULT OF HDL FUNCTION USING DNP CHOLESTEROL
<removed-apn>
               RLU
                            CONTROL HDL CONTROL HDL CONTROL HDL CONTROL HDL
                                WASHING       WASHING      WASHING        WASHING
                                LIQUID A      LIQUID B     LIQUID C       LIQUID D
              FIG. 20
                     (EXAMPLE 2)
                                      EVALUATION RESULT OF HDL FUNCTION
                                            USING DNP CHOLESTEROL
                                RLU
                                              CONTROL    HDL

                                                                                                 <removed-apn>                  <removed-date>
    R1 REAGENT SPECIMEN R2 REAGENT
                                                                                                                                       FIG. 21
                                                                                                                          R3 REAGENT
    DISPENSING DISPENSING DISPENSING                        FIRST       AGITATION              SECOND                     DISPENSING
       STEP       STEP       STEP                        WASHING STEP     STEP              WASHING STEP                     STEP
                                       TRANSPORT                                                              TRANSPORT
                                         STEP                                                                   STEP
               REACTION 1 REACTION 2                                                                                      REACTION 3
              REACTION UNIT                                         BF SEPARATOR                                     REACTION UNIT
                                                                                                                                                 13/13
        R3 REAGENT                                                                     R5 REAGENT
        DISPENSING    FIRST       AGITATION                 SECOND                     DISPENSING
           STEP    WASHING STEP     STEP                 WASHING STEP                     STEP             MEASUREMENT STEP
TRANSPORT                                                                  TRANSPORT
  STEP                                                                       STEP
                                                                                        REACTION 4
                                          BF SEPARATOR                                 REACTION UNIT         DETECTION UNIT

