    AUTHENTICATION OF SERVICE REQUESTS INITIATED FROM A
                             SOCIAL NETWORKING SITE
ABSTRACT
         A system (100), comprising: one or more data processors; and a non-transitory
computer-readable storage medium containing instructions which when executed on the one or
more data processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations including:
monitoring data corresponding to a social media message, wherein monitoring includes using a
preconfigured keyword to determine when the social media message corresponds to a topic;
determining a social media profile associated with the social media message, wherein the social
media profile is associated with account information; accessing the account information
associated with the social media profile; transmitting a message using the account information,
wherein the message includes an actuatable interactive element; receiving an indication that the
interactive element has been actuated; determining a resource associated with the topic; and
facilitating communications with the resource associated with the topic, wherein facilitating
includes using the account information.

                                                   1
AUTHENTICATION OF SERVICE REQUESTS INITIATED FROM A
SOCIAL NETWORKING SITE
[0001] The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
<removed-apn>, filed 20 July 2016, which itself is a divisional application of Australian Patent
Application No. 2011343799, filed 14 December 2011. The content of Australian Patent
Application No. 2011343799 and Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn> is incorporated
herein by reference in their entirety.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001a] The present invention relates generally to computer-based methods and apparatuses,
including computer program products, for authentication of service requests initiated from a
social networking site.
BACKGROUND
[0002] With the advent of social networking sites (e.g., Facebook, Twitter, MySpace, Linkedin,
and other social networking sites), it has become increasingly common for people to publicly
share information. Social networking sites typically allow a user to create and maintain their
own unique user profile that contains personal information about themselves (e.g., their name,
residence, hobbies, etc.). Once a user becomes a member of a social networking site, the user
can communicate with other users of the social networking site (e.g., with a specific individual,
with a group of individuals, or with all users of the social networking site).
[0003] A user can send messages or post updates to one or more other users (for example, at
their own volition, or in response to a previous message or update from themselves or another
user). These updates can include any type of information, often being limited only by the user's
imagination. Some messages include status updates that describe what the user is currently
doing at the time of the status update, or what the user intends to do in the near future. Some
updates express a user's satisfaction (or dissatisfaction) with a product or experience. Some
updates ask questions to other users of the social networking site. Depending on the context,
there is a need to monitor the content of the messages or updates and to allow the user or people

                                                   2
(e.g., associated with the user in some way, such as a friend of the user, a contact of the user,
members of the same group of the user) to initiate service requests.
SUMMARY
[0003a] It is an object of the present invention to meet this need or to substantially overcome, or
at least ameliorate, one or more disadvantages of existing arrangements.
[0004] Aspects of the present disclosure provide computerized methods, apparatuses, and
computer program products for authentication of service requests initiated from a social
networking site. Such authentication facilitates, for example, provisioning service requests to
users of the social networking site only upon authorization of the requesting users.
[0005] In one aspect, there is provided a computerized method for authenticating user service
requests from a social networking site. The method includes monitoring, at a server, data
representing messages posted at a social networking server. The method includes storing, by the
server, data representing a selected message and an originator of the selected message. The
method includes transmitting, from the server, data representing a reply to the originator of the
selected message for posting at the social networking server, the reply including data that causes
transmission of a service request to the server when actuated. The method includes receiving, at
the server, data representing the service request and a sender of the service request. The method
includes retrieving, by the server, data representing a user profile of the sender of the service
request from the social networking server. The method includes comparing, by the server, one or
more attributes of the user profile of the sender against one or more attributes of the stored data
representing the originator of the selected message in order to verify the one or more attributes
of the user profile. The method includes processing, by the server, the service request from the
sender if the one or more attributes of the user profile of the sender match the one or more
attributes of the stored data representing the originator of the selected message.
[0006] In another aspect, there is provided a computer program product, tangibly embodied in a
non-transitory computer readable medium. The computer program product includes instructions
being configured to cause a data processing apparatus to monitor data representing messages
posted at a social networking server. The computer program product includes instructions being
configured to cause a data processing apparatus to store data representing a selected message

                                                  3
and an originator of the selected message. The computer program product includes instructions
being configured to cause a data processing apparatus to transmit data representing a reply to the
originator of the selected message for posting at the social networking server, the reply
including data that causes transmission of a service request to the server when actuated. The
computer program product includes instructions being configured to cause a data processing
apparatus to receive data representing the service request and a sender of the service request.
The computer program product includes instructions being configured to cause a data processing
apparatus to retrieve data representing a user profile of the sender of the service request from the
social networking server. The computer program product includes instructions being configured
to cause a data processing apparatus to compare one or more attributes of the user profile of the
sender against one or more attributes of the stored data representing the originator of the
selected message in order to verify the one or more attributes of the user profile. The computer
program product includes instructions being configured to cause a data processing apparatus to
process the service request from the sender if the one or more attributes of the user profile of the
sender match the one or more attributes of the stored data representing the originator of the
selected message.
[0007] In another aspect, there is provided an apparatus for authenticating user service requests
from a social networking site. The apparatus includes a database configured to store data
representing a selected message and an originator of the selected message. The apparatus
includes a server in communication with the database with a processor and memory configured
to monitor data representing messages posted at a social networking server. The server is
configured to transmit data representing a reply to the originator of the selected message for
posting at the social networking server, the reply including data that causes transmission of a
service request to the server when actuated. The server is configured to receive data representing
the service request and a sender of the service request. The server is configured to retrieve data
representing a user profile of the sender of the service request from the social networking server.
The server is configured to compare one or more attributes of the user profile of the sender
against one or more attributes of the stored data representing the originator of the selected
message in order to verify the one or more attributes of the user profile. The server is configured
to process the service request from the sender if the one or more attributes of the user profile of
the sender match the one or more attributes of the stored data representing the originator of the
selected message.

                                                    4
[0008] In other examples, any of the aspects above can include one or more of the following
features. The service request can be a request to initiate a chat session. Comparing can include
comparing a person attribute in the user profile to a person attribute in the stored data
representing the originator to determine whether the sender is the originator of the selected
message. Comparing can include comparing a follower attribute in the user profile to a follower
attribute in the stored data representing the originator to determine whether the sender is a
follower of the originator of the selected message.
[0009] In some examples, comparing includes comparing a location attribute in the user profile
to a location attribute in the stored data representing the originator to determine whether the
sender is in a same location as the originator of the selected message. Retrieving the data
representing a user profile can include transmitting data representing an access authorization to
the sender of the service request for authorization to retrieve the data representing the user
profile, and receiving data representing a response to the access authorization, the response
including data indicative of the sender providing access authorization.
[0010] In other examples, processing the service request includes transmitting a request to a
chat server to establish a chat between the sender of the service request and a third party. Data
representing a second user profile of the originator of the selected message can be retrieved from
a second social networking server. Data representing the reply can be transmitted to the
originator at the second social networking server. An aggregated social media profile for the
originator including the second user profile and the data representing the selected message and
the originator of the selected message can be stored.
[0011] In some examples, the social networking server provides a social networking service to
users, the social networking service including a social networking service provided by a social
networking site selected from the group consisting of twitter.com, facebook.com, myspace.com,
or any combination thereof The service request can be an advertisement request, a support
request, a voice call request, or any combination thereof
[0012] In other examples, the social networking server provides a social networking service to
users, the social networking service including a social networking service provided by a social
networking site selected from the group consisting of twitter.com, facebook.com, myspace.com,

                                                      5
or any combination thereof The server can include a user interface configured to display the
data representing messages posted at the social networking server.
[0013] The aspects, which include both methods and apparatuses, described herein can provide
one or more of the following advantages. Information can be retrieved from social networking
sites based on keywords and reacted to as desired (e.g., by a predefined set of rules). If, for
example, a message posted by an originating user includes one or more keywords of interest, a
response (e.g., posted reply message) can be sent to the originator of the message that includes
invocable data to initiate a service request by a user of the social networking site (e.g., by the
originator or other users of the social networking site). Once initiated, the system can
authenticate the initiator of the service request (e.g., based on a user profile of the initiator) to
verify that, for example, the service request is only granted to a desired audience of the social
networking site (e.g., to verify that the initiator profile matches the originator profile, or the
initiator profile is related to the originator profile). Advantageously, services such as
advertisements, chat services, live help, and other services can be provided to a targeted group
of users of social networking sites.
[0014] Social media profiles can be created for users of the social networking site that includes
account information for the users aggregated across a plurality of social networking sites to
which the user belongs (e.g., for users that post messages that are responded to by the system
described herein). The aggregated social media profile can be used to respond to an originator of
a message at any one of the originator's many social media services. Advantageously, the
targeted group of users for the services is spread across multiple social networking sites.
[0014a] According to another aspect, there is provided a system, comprising: one or more data
processors; and a non transitory computer readable storage medium containing instructions
which when executed on the one or more data processors, cause the one or more data processors
to perform operations including: detecting a keyword included in a social media message,
wherein the social media message originated from a social media profile, and wherein the social
media profile is associated with an originator device; transmitting a message communication
when the keyword is detected, wherein the message communication includes a selectable
interactive element that is associated with a service, wherein the service is initially configured
for use by only the social media profile, and wherein the message communication is viewable to
one or more additional social media profiles; receiving an indication that the selectable

                                                   5a
interactive element was selected, wherein the selection is associated with an additional social
media profile, and wherein the additional social media profile corresponds to a requesting
device; determining a number of followers or friends of the social media profile when the
interactive element is selected; evaluating a characteristic of the additional social media profile;
determining whether to execute the service for use by the additional social media profile,
wherein determining includes evaluating whether the social media profile and the additional
social media profile share the characteristic; and facilitating a connection between a destination
device and the requesting device, wherein the destination device is associated with an agent
available for communication, wherein the destination device is selected based on the number of
followers or friends of the social media profile, and wherein when the social media profile and
the additional social media profile share the characteristic, the service is executed for use by the
additional social media profile.
[0014b] According to another aspect, there is provided a computer-implemented method,
comprising: detecting a keyword included in a social media message, wherein the social media
message originated from a social media profile, and wherein the social media profile is
associated with an originator device; transmitting a message communication when the keyword
is detected, wherein the message communication includes a selectable interactive element that is
associated with a service, wherein the service is initially configured for use by only the social
media profile, and wherein the message communication is viewable to one or more additional
social media profiles; receiving an indication that the selectable interactive element was
selected, wherein the selection is associated with an additional social media profile, and wherein
the additional social media profile corresponds to a requesting device; determining a number of
followers or friends of the social media profile when the interactive element is selected;
evaluating a characteristic of the additional social media profile; determining whether to execute
the service for use by the additional social media profile, wherein determining includes
evaluating whether the social media profile and the additional social media profile share the
characteristic; and facilitating a connection between a destination device and the requesting
device, wherein the destination device is associated with an agent available for communication,
wherein the destination device is selected based on the number of followers or friends of the
social media profile, and wherein when the social media profile and the additional social media
profile share the characteristic, the service is executed for use by the additional social media
profile.

                                                   5b
[0014c] According to another aspect, there is provided a computer-program product tangibly
embodied in a non-transitory machine-readable storage medium, including instructions
configured to cause a data processing apparatus to perform operations including: detecting a
keyword included in a social media message, wherein the social media message originated from
a social media profile, and wherein the social media profile is associated with an originator
device; transmitting a message communication when the keyword is detected, wherein the
message communication includes a selectable interactive element that is associated with a
service, wherein the service is initially configured for use by only the social media profile, and
wherein the message communication is viewable to one or more additional social media
profiles; receiving an indication that the selectable interactive element was selected, wherein the
selection is associated with an additional social media profile, and wherein the additional social
media profile corresponds to a requesting device; determining a number of followers or friends
of the social media profile when the interactive element is selected; evaluating a characteristic of
the additional social media profile; determining whether to execute the service for use by the
additional social media profile, wherein determining includes evaluating whether the social
media profile and the additional social media profile share the characteristic; and facilitating a
connection between a destination device and the requesting device, wherein the destination
device is associated with an agent available for communication, wherein the destination device
is selected based on the number of followers or friends of the social media profile, and wherein
when the social media profile and the additional social media profile share the characteristic, the
service is executed for use by the additional social media profile.
[0015] Other aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the
following detailed description, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings,
illustrating the principles of the invention by way of example only.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0016] The foregoing and other aspects, features, and advantages of the present invention, as
well as the invention itself, will be more fully understood from the following description of
various embodiments, when read together with the accompanying drawings.
[0017] FIG. 1 is a diagram showing an exemplary system for implementing service requests for
a social networking site;

                                                5c
[0018] FIGS. 2A and 2B are diagrams of an exemplary social networking page for a social
networking site according to the present invention;
[0019] FIG. 3 is a flow chart showing an exemplary method for processing a service request;
and

100201 FIG. 4 is a flow chart showing an exemplary method for authenticating a service
request.
                             DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[00211    In general overview, computerized systems and methods are provided for
provisioning services to authenticated users of social networking services provided by
social networking sites. Social networking sites (or social media) can be monitored so
that messages of interest (e.g., posted by users of the social networking sites) are
responded to and provided with invocable data to initiate a service request.              The
actuator of the service request (which can be the originator of the identified message or
another user of the social networking site) is authenticated before providing the actuator
with the service associated with the service request. In some examples, the user profile
(or data profile, e.g., which is requested from the social networking site) associated with
the actuator of the service request is compared against the stored data for the associated
identified message (e.g., a user profile for the user that initiated the associated identified
message) to authenticate one or more attributes between the originator of the identified
message and the actuator of the service request.
[00221 FIG. I is an exemplary diagram showing an exemplary system 100 for
implementing service requests for a social networking site. The system 100 includes a
social networking server 102. The social networking server 102 is in communication
with a plurality of user devices 104A through 104N (collectively referred to herein as
user devices 104). The social networking server 102 is also in communication with a
monitoring server 106, which includes a database 108. The monitoring server 106 is
also in communication with user devices 104.                Application server 110 is in
communication with user devices 104 and the monitoring server 106.                        The
computerized elements of system 100 can be in communication using, for example, the
internet, cellular links, and/or any other type of data or voice communication.
[00231 The social networking server 102 can be, for example, a single web server with
a processor and memory, or a plurality of web servers configured to provide a social
networking service to the user devices 104. The social networking services can include,
for example, providing computerized services for the user to maintain or update their
profile with the social networking site, providing computerized services that facilitate
communication with other users of the social networking site, providing computerized
                                          -6-

services for posting communications or messages, and other services offered through
social networking sites.    The social networking services can include those service
provided by, for example, twitter.com, facebook.com, myspace.com, or linkedin.com.
The social networking site provides an application programming interface (API) that
facilitates monitoring keywords in messages or other data used within the social
networking service (e.g., which can be viewed by user devices 104).       Although the
following description is directed to an embodiment involving the social networking site
twitter.com, the described computerized systems and methods are not so limited and
can be applied to other social networking sites, such as facebook.com, myspace.com, or
linkedin.com.
 [00241 The API is an interface implemented by the social networking site that enables
other software programs (e.g., a program executed by the monitoring server 106) to
interact with the social networking site. The social networking site provides services
through the API, and the API allows the other software programs to access the services.
For example, the API services can include services to monitor keywords contained
within user communications posted in the social networking site, services to post
communications (e.g., messages) to users of the social networking site, or services to
obtain information about users of the social networking site (e.g., user profile
information).
 100251 The user devices 104 are computing devices with a processor and memory that
can interact with the social networking site. For example, the user devices 104 can
include desktop computers, laptop computers, tablet PCs, and/or smart phones. A user
of a social networking site can use a user device 104 to log into the social networking
site and to use the provided social networking services. A user can use any user device
 104; they profile information for a user can be determined independently for a user
from the actual user device 104.
 [00261 The monitoring server 106 is a computing device having a processor and
memory that uses the API for the social networking site to monitor one or more
configurable keywords. For example, a computer hardware company that specializes in
selling computer hard drives may want to automatically monitor user posts (or
messages) to the social networking server 102 to identify posts that includes keywords
or phrases related to their business.   Advantageously, the monitoring server 106 can
receive information based on the keywords and react to the keywords as desired (e.g., if
a question is posted from a user device 104 about "hard drives," the monitoring server
                                        -7-

can transmit a link to the user device 104 that, when invoked, establishes a chat
connection with a person who is knowledgeable about hard drives and who can answer
the question transmitted from the user device 104).
[00271 For example, the Twitter social networking site provides an API that allows the
monitoring server 106 to monitor keywords contained within tweets.           A tweet is a
posted message that is viewable by users of the twitter.com site. The monitoring server
106 can interface with the twitter social networking site using the API (e.g., by
subscribing to a service through the API, such a notification service that pushes
information to programs that implement certain functions of the API) with one or more
keywords to receive notifications that the keyword is being tweeted, the number of
tweets that include the keyword, the number of followers that can see the tweet, and/or
other pertinent information. When the monitoring server 106 identifies a keyword, the
monitoring server 106 can send a reply tweet to the user that posted the tweet
containing the keyword.     The database 108 is configured to store data representing
selected messages or tweets (e.g., those that contain the monitored keyword) and an
originator of the selected message (e.g., which user device 104 transmitted the selected
message to the social networking server 102).
[00281 The monitoring server 106 can be in communication with an operator terminal
(not shown) that includes a graphical user interface configured to display the data
representing messages posted at the social networking server 102.        For example, the
monitoring server 106 can display information about the identified messages that
include the one or more monitored keywords. The information about the messages can
include, for example, the date of the message, the number of followers of the user that
posted the message (e.g., people who are subscribed to see the particular message and
any related messages), the number of friends of the posting user (e.g., the number of
people the posting user has established a relationship with in the social networking site),
the geographical location of the posting user (e.g., to the country level, state level, city
level, etc.), an identifier for the message, a token for the message (e.g., an Open
Authorization (OAuth) token), the source of the message (e.g., the user posted the
message via the web, via a mobile device, etc.), the content of the message, the number
of messages related to the posted message (e.g., the number of messages in the message
string that contained the posted message, such as the count of tweets), the user image
associated with the posting user (e.g., a picture of the user), the name of the posting
                                         -8-

user, a user name associated with the posting user in the social networking site (e.g., a
screen name for the user), and/or other information gleaned from the message (e.g.,
based on the posted message itself, a user profile associated with the posting user, or
other information from the social networking site).
 [00291 An operator can view the graphical user interface provided by the operator
terminal to decide how to respond to the identified message/post. For example, the
operator may decide not to respond to the identified message based on one or more
criteria associated with the identified message (e.g., geographical area, message content,
etc.). Or the operator can decide to send a response to the identified message. This
process is described in further detail with respect to FIG. 3.
 100301 The application server 110 provides one or more services to the user devices
 104. The service can include, for example, a chat service (e.g., between the user device
 104 and a third party, such as a person knowledgeable about a question posed from the
user device 104), an advertisement service (e.g., advertisements related to the keywords
of the user's message), a support service (e.g., documents or links to documents related
to the user's message), and/or a voice service (e.g., the service facilitates a call between
the user and a third party, such as a person knowledgeable about a question posted from
the user device 104). For example, as will be further described below, the monitoring
server 106 can, through the API, post a message in reply to a posted message, the
posted message containing a link (e.g., a URL).         The link, once invoked by a user
device 104, initiates a service with the application server 110. The monitoring server
 106 can authenticate the user device 104 before providing the service to the user (e.g.,
as described with reference to FIG. 4 below based on a data/user profile associated with
the user device 104).
 100311 FIGS. 2A and 2B are diagrams of exemplary social networking pages 200A and
200B, respectively, for a social networking site according to the present invention.
Social networking page 200A includes posted messages 202A through 202N
(collectively posted messages 202).         Posted message 202A includes a logo 204,
usemame userone 206, content 208 (i.e., "My computer has been very slow lately"),
and posting information 210 (i.e., "8 minutes ago via web"). The username user one
206 indicates which user posted the message 202A (e.g., a user of a user device 104).
This is advantageous, for example, to tell users apart when multiple user devices 104
are posting messages for a particular message thread or message board. The content
                                          -9-

208 is the text that the posting user userone 206 entered for the posted message 202A.
The posting information 210 indicates how long ago user one 206 posted the message
202A (i.e., 8 minutes ago) and how userone 206 posted the message (i.e., via the web).
[00321 Posted message 202N includes a logo 212, username user one 206, content 214
(i.e., "What is the best kind of computer hard drive to buy?"), and posting information
216 (i.e., "7 minutes ago via web").      Posted messages 202 are used for illustrative
purposes only and are not intended to be limiting. One skilled in the art can appreciate
that the information contained within the posted messages 202 can be modified without
departing from the spirit of the techniques described herein.
100331 Referring to FIG. 1, user one 206 (where "userone" is a screen name
representative of user device 104 or of an operator of the user device 104) posted
message 202A to the social networking server 102. One minute later userone 206
posted the posted (using a user device 104) message 202N to the social networking
server 102. Userone 206 can configure his account with the social networking site to
control which other users can see posted messages 202A and 202N.           There can be
posted messages by other users between posted messages 202A and 202N (e.g., a
different user device 104 can post a message in response to posted message 202A). For
example, all people following the posts on social networking page 200A can see posted
message 202A and can choose to post a message in response. Similarly, for example,
any person that userone 206 has established a relationship within the social networking
site (e.g., friends) can view the posted message 202A, and/or any user device 104 can
view posted message 202A.
100341 The social networking page 200B in FIG. 2B includes posted messages 202A
and 202N from FIG. 2A and also includes posted message 202N+1.           Posted message
202N+l includes a logo 218, usemame auto reply 220, content 222 (i.e., "What do you
want to know about hard drives?"), a link 224 that causes transmission of a service
request to the monitoring server 106, and posting information 226 (i.e., "5 minutes ago
via API in response to userone"). The posting information 226 indicates that posted
message 202N+1 was posted by auto reply 220 (e.g., a user with the screen name
"auto reply," which may correspond to an individual user or a company) five minutes
ago via an API (e.g., an API to the social networking site provided by social networking
server 102, which allows messages to be posted in response to a user's message) in
response to the posted message 202N by userone 206.            Message 202N+1 will be
discussed in further detail with respect to FIG. 3 below. The posted message 202N+1
                                        - 10-

can be transmitted automatically (e.g., by the monitoring server 106 based on rules
stored in the database 108) or manually (e.g., by an operator of the monitoring server
 106).
 [00351 FIG. 3 is an exemplary flow chart showing an exemplary method 300 for
processing a service request. Referring to FIG. 1, at step 302 the monitoring server 106
monitors data representing messages posted at the social networking server 102.          At
step 304, the monitoring server 106 stores data representing a selected message and an
originator of the selected message. At step 306, the monitoring server 106 transmits
data representing a reply to the originator of the selected message (e.g., to the
originating user device 104) for posting at the social networking server 102. The reply
includes data that causes transmission of a service request to the monitoring server 106
when actuated. At step 308, the monitoring server 106 receives data representing the
service request and a sender of the service request (e.g., which user device 104 actuated
the data that causes transmission of the service request).
 100361 At step 310, the monitoring sever 106 determines whether to verify one or more
attributes of the sender of the service request. For example, the monitoring server 106
can determine whether or not to verify attributes of the sender based on the data of the
sender (e.g., the attributes in the data). In some examples, the monitoring server 106
can be configured (e.g., via a stored variable) to automatically verify, or not verify, the
attributes of the sender.   If the monitoring server 106 is configured to verify one or
more attributes, the method 300 proceeds to step 400 of FIG. 4.         If the monitoring
server is not configured to verify the attributes of the sender, the method 300 proceeds
to step 312 and the monitoring server processes the service request.
 100371 Referring to step 302, the monitoring server 106 monitors data representing
messages posted at the social networking server 102. For example, users of the social
networking site Twitter post tweets to the social networking server 102.               The
monitoring server 106 accesses information about these posted tweets (messages) from
the social networking server 102 using, for example, an API provided by Twitter. The
monitoring server 106 can be configured to store particular information (or attributes)
from the social networking sever 102 using the API. The monitoring server 106 can use
the acquired information to determine whether to engage the user that posted the
message.     In some examples, the monitoring server 106 presents a graphical user
interface that displays the acquired information to an operator that decides how to
respond to the message (e.g., not to respond or to respond).
                                         - II -

 100381 For example, referring to FIG. 2A, a computer company that sells hard drives
can configure the monitoring server        106 to monitor messages posted to social
networking server 102 for particular keywords related to hard drives. For example, the
monitoring server 106 can be configured to monitor the content of messages posted at
social   networking    server   102  for   the  keywords     "hard    drive"  and   "buy."
Advantageously, if a message includes these keywords, the monitoring server 106 can
take appropriate action such that a message is transmitted in response to the posted
message (e.g., to provide a link that, once clicked, facilitates setting up a chat session
between the user and a third party to help the user with purchasing a hard drive, or to
provide an advertisement for hard drives that are provided by the computer company).
An exemplary social media monitoring tool is the tracx platform provided by tracx of
Hoboken, NJ.
 100391 Referring to step 304, the monitoring server 106 can store data for a selected
message if the selected message includes data (e.g., keywords in the message content, a
particular user name, a posting time of the message, etc.) that the monitoring server 106
is configured to identify in the posted messages.     For example, continuing with the
computer company example described above with respect to step 302, if the monitoring
server 106 identifies a message that includes one or more of the keywords "hard drive"
and/or "buy," the monitoring server 106 can store data indicative of the message and/or
the originator of the message in database 108. Advantageously, the stored data for the
message and/or the originating user can be used to authenticate the requestor of a
service request associated with the message.
 100401 Referring to step 306, the monitoring server 106 transmits a reply to the
originator of the selected message. For example, referring to FIG. 2B, the monitoring
server 106 transmits message 202N+1 to userone 206, using the social networking
server 102, in response to message 202N posted by user one 206.           Message 202N+l
includes content 222 and link 224 that causes transmission of a service request to the
monitoring server 106.      For example, link 224 can be a chat invitation (e.g., an
invitation to a two-way chat between the user device 104 and a second device). If a
user of a user device 104 clicks the link 224, the user device 104 can be redirected to
the application server 110 to open up a chat (which is described in further detail with
respect to step 312 below).
 100411 Referring further to step 306, some social networking sites provide constraints
on who can respond to a posted message. The monitoring server 106 can transmit the
                                       - 12-

reply (e.g., using the API for the social networking site) in such a way that it complies
with the social networking site constraints and still responds to the user's posted
message. For example, when using Twitter there may not be a way to send a twitter
message to a user device 104 if the posting party (e.g., the monitoring server 106) is not
following the tweets that included the identified message.            Continuing with the
computer company example, if the monitoring server 106 is not following the account
of userone 206 (e.g., not following the tweets of userone 206), then the monitoring
server 106 can not send user-one 206 a direct message. To comply with these social
networking site constraints, the monitoring server 106 can, for example, send a public
tweet and/or send a comment (e.g., a single message to tweeter or a broadcast message
to everyone following the tweet).
[00421 Referring to step 308, the monitoring server 106 receives data representing the
service request. For example, the monitoring server 106 receives data indicative of a
user of a user device 104 clicking on the link 224. Depending on the social networking
site (and/or how a user configures their account with the social networking site), there
may not be any guarantee that the user to whom the monitoring server 106 transmitted
message 202N+1 is also the same user that clicked on the link 224. For example, if one
or more users are following the message chain of userone 206 that includes messages
202A, 202N and 202N+,        then not only can userone 206 click the link 224, but so can
any of the other users that are viewing the social networking page 200B.            In some
examples, any user of the social networking site can view the social networking page
200B (and therefore any user can click the link 224). Therefore, in some embodiments
it may be desirable to verify attributes of the sender (e.g., to verify the attributes of the
user profile for the user that clicked link 224) to determine whether that the monitoring
server 106 will provide the service to the sender. The verification process is described
in further detail with respect to FIG. 4.
[00431 Referring to step 312, the monitoring server 106 processes the service request.
For example, the service request can be a request to initiate a service provided by
application server 110. For example, the application server 110 can be a chat server,
and the service request can be a request to initiate a chat session between the user that
initiated the service request and a second user (e.g., through the application server).
The monitoring server 106 can process the service request to chat by transmitting a
request to application server 110 to establish a chat between the sender of the service
request and a third party. Returning to the computer company example, if user-one 206
                                          - 13-

clicks on link 224, the monitoring server 106 can instruct the application server 110 to
set up a chat session between the initiating user and an expert from the computer
company. The expert can be, for example, an expert in the field of computer hard
drives. Advantageously, this allows the initiating user to have a chat with the expert
about hard drives. Such chat conversations allow the initiating user to have live-time
discussions to learn information and/or answer any questions they have about a
particular topic.
100441 In some examples, the expert is matched up with the initiating user based on one
or more criteria. For example, the application server 110 can select the expert based on
one or more         skills  (e.g., technology advisors, social media        agents,  etc.).
Advantageously, the monitoring server (and/or the application server 110) can direct the
initiating user to the person who will help the most. In some examples, the expert is
selected based on the content of the messages (e.g., messages that contain certain
keywords related to the company, keywords indicative of questions (e.g., "why" or "?"),
etc.). While the monitoring server 106 can select the expert based on the content of the
messages, the monitoring server 106 can also select the user based on other criteria
(e.g., the initiating user's social media profile). For example, as described above, the
monitoring server 106 can select the expert based on other information known about the
messages such as, for example, the date of the message, the number of followers or
friends, geographical location, etc.
[00451 While the term "expert" is used to describe the second person of the chat
conversation, this term is used to not only to represent a person with particular
knowledge about a field (e.g., a person knowledgeable about computer hard drives), but
can also be used to refer to any person who can help the initiating user (e.g., by
answering questions, directing them to other websites, providing information, etc.).
[00461 In some examples, the service request is an advertisement request. For example,
the content of message 202N+1 can direct a viewer to click the link 224 for a coupon.
In some examples, the service request is a support request.        In some examples, the
service request is a voice call request. For example, the service request can include data
indicative of a phone number for the requesting user and a request that the requesting
user be called at the phone number. In some examples, the user is presented with a
dialog box (e.g., as a web page or as an applet) that allows the user to provide their
contact information.
                                         - 14-

 100471 FIG. 4 is a flow chart showing an exemplary method 400 for authenticating a
service request.   Method 400 provides for Open Authorization (OAuth), where the
monitoring server 106 can authenticate the sender of the service request without the
sender providing additional information (e.g., a username and/or password). At step
402, the monitoring server 106 retrieves data representing a user profile of the sender of
the service request from the social networking server 102 (e.g., retrieves the profile of
the sender identified in the data obtained in step 308 of FIG. 3).       At step 404, the
monitoring server 106 compares one or more attributes of the user profile of the sender
against one or more attributes of the stored data representing the originator of the
selected message in order to verify the one or more attributes of the user profile. At
step 406, the monitoring server 106 determines whether the compared attributes match.
If the one or more attributes match, the method proceeds to step 408 and the monitoring
server 106 processes the service request. If the one or more attributes do not match, the
monitoring server 106 proceeds to step 410 and does not process the service request and
optionally can provide a default response (e.g., presentation of a company home web
page).
 [00481 Referring to step 402, the monitoring server 106 can retrieve data representing
the sender from the social networking server 102 using, for example, an API provided
by the social networking site that is being provided by the social networking server.
The monitoring server 106 may request authorization from the sender of the service
request before retrieving data about the sender. For example, the monitoring server 106
can transmit an authorization request to the sender (e.g., via a pop-up dialog box, a web
page, etc.). The authorization request can be, for example, data representing an access
authorization to retrieve the data representing the requesting user's profile from the
social networking server 102.      The authorization request has a mechanism (e.g.,
graphical interface buttons, check boxes, etc.) for the sender to indicate either that they
do or do not authorize the monitoring server 106 to retrieve data from the social
networking sever 102 about them.          When the user operates the mechanism, the
monitoring server 106 receives data representing a response to the access authorization.
If the monitoring server 106 receives data indicative of a denial from the sender, then
the monitoring server 106 can terminate method 400 and not retrieve data representing
the user from the social networking server 102. If the monitoring server 106 receives
data indicative of the sender providing access authorization, then the monitoring server
                                        - 15-

 106 is authorized to request information from the social networking server 102 (e.g., the
sender's user profile).
 [00491 In some examples, the authorization request is embedded in the social
networking site. In some examples, when the requesting user clicks link 224, the link
224 can redirect the user to a serviet that prompts the user with the authorization request
(e.g., a Java servlet, or some other protocol by which the monitoring server 106 can
respond to the HTTP request). This request can be a request to begin the OAuth stage
of method 400. If the monitoring server 106 receives authorization, the monitoring
server can request any appropriate information from the social networking server 102
(e.g., the user profile). The monitoring server 106 can retrieve stored information for
the originator of the selected message from database 108 (e.g., which was stored in step
304 of method 300). The information retrieved from the social networking server 102
can include, for example, any information that the monitoring server 106 can use to
verify the user profile against the originator of the selected message. For example, the
information retrieved from the social networking server 102 can include the date of the
message, the number of followers of the user, the number of friends of the user, the
user's geographical location, an identifier for the message, a token for the message, the
source of the message, the content of the message, the number of messages related to
the posted message, the user's image, the name of the user, a user name associated with
the user, and/or other information gleaned from the message.
 100501 Referring to steps 404 and 406, the monitoring server 106 can verify one or
more attributes of the user profile and the originator of the selected message. In some
examples, the monitoring server 106 can verify that the originator of the message is the
sender of the service request. For example, the monitoring server 106 can compare a
person attribute in the user profile to a person attribute in the stored data representing
the originator to determine whether the sender is the originator of the selected message.
If the person attributes match, then the monitoring server 106 successfully validated that
the sender is the originator of the selected message. For example, referring to FIG. 2B,
user_one 206 posted message 202N, and this information is stored in the database 108.
The stored information includes a person attribute indicative of user-one 206. If the
user-one 206 clicked the link 224 in message 202N+l, then the monitoring server 106
will receive a person attribute indicative of userone 206 in response to its request for
information about the sender of the service request. Since the person attribute for the
                                         - 16-

originator of message 202N is the same as the person attribute for the sender of the
service request, the monitoring server 106 can identify that the same user clicked the
link 224. Advantageously, the monitoring server 106 can process the service request
(e.g., step 408) since the service request was effected by an intended recipient of the
service request.
 100511 In some examples, the monitoring server 106 can verify one or more attributes
between the user profile and the originator of the selected message that are not unique
to the originator of the selected message. For example, the one or more attributes can
be shared by a group of people (e.g., and the monitoring server 106 can be configured to
engage with members of the particular group). Advantageously, the monitoring server
 106 need not verify that the service request was effected by the same user that posted
the message, but can verify other characteristics, such as characteristics of user profiles.
For example, the monitoring server can verify whether there is any relationship between
the originator of the message and the sender of the service request (e.g., if they are
friends in the social networking site), whether they are located within a same
geographical area, whether they share one or more common interests or hobbies, and/or
other attributes. For example, the monitoring server 106 can verify the sender of the
service request is a follower of the originator of the selected message. The monitoring
server 106 can compare a follower attribute in the user profile to a follower attribute in
the stored data representing the originator to determine whether the sender is a follower
of the originator of the selected message.          Advantageously, by performing such
comparisons, the monitoring server 106 can determine that the sender of the service
request is likely to share one or more attributes or characteristics with the originator of
the message, and therefore is likely to be a proper audience for the service request.
 100521 In some examples, the monitoring server 106 verifies the sender of the service
request is in the same geographical location as the originator of the message.          For
example, the monitoring server 106 can compare a location attribute in the user profile
to a location attribute in the stored data representing the originator to determine whether
the sender is in a same location as the originator of the selected message.
Advantageously, by comparing the location information, the monitoring server 106 can
verify that, for example, targeted advertisements are provided to appropriate recipients.
 [00531 Advantageously, the monitoring server 106 can determine if the sender of the
service request is the same person as the originator of the selected message based on,
                                          - 17-

for example, a user ID, date, time, location (e.g., the location of the message, based on
packet information and geographical location information), and any other attributes
relevant to identifying the sender of the service request. Advantageously, because the
monitoring server 106 has stored data for the selected message, the monitoring server
 106 is not limited to matching the identity of the sender and the originator. As another
example, the monitoring server 106 can determine whether the sender of the service
request is a "friend" of the selected message. For example, the monitoring server 106
can determine whether the sender has some relationship in the social network to the
originator of the selected message (e.g., as indicated between their user profiles). As an
illustrative example, the monitoring server 106 can use an identification field in the
originator's profile and use the identification field to get all the followers of the
originator (e.g., via the social networking site's API). The monitoring server 106 can
perform a basic search of the retrieved list of followers to determine whether the sender
of the service request is a follower of the originator of the stored message.
 100541 Referring to step 408, after the sender of the service request is authenticated, the
sender can be redirected based on their user profile. For example, the sender can be
redirected to a chat session with an expert. The application server 110 can select the
expert based on one or more skills of the expert (e.g., technology advisors, social media
agents, etc.) based on the sender's user profile. For example, as described above, the
monitoring server 106 can select the expert based on the number of followers or friends
in the sender's user profile, the geographical location in the user's profile, etc.
 [00551 Referring to step 410, the monitoring server 106 can perform other actions even
though the monitoring server 106 does not process the service request. For example,
the sender of the service request can be directed to a particular web page (e.g., a landing
page). For example, the sender can be directed to a default advertisement, a web page
that explains the authentication process, a web page that explains why the sender was
not provided with the service request, and/or the like.
 [00561 In some examples, the monitoring server 106 can monitor a first social
networking site and respond to messages posted at the first social networking site
through a second social networking site. For example, referring to method 300 in FIG.
3, the monitoring server 106 can monitor data indicative of messages posted at social
networking server 102.      The monitoring server 106 can retrieve data representing a
second user profile of the originator of the selected message from a second social
                                         - 18-

networking server (e.g.,      from a different social networking server than social
networking server 102, which is not shown in FIG. 1).          Referring to step 306, the
monitoring server 106 can transmit data representing the reply to the originator at the
second social networking server (e.g., and not through the social networking server
 102).
 100571 For example, the monitoring server 106 can monitor tweets posted to Twitter
(e.g., via the Twitter API). If the monitoring server 106 desires to respond to a tweet
(e.g., the tweet includes one or more keywords of interest), the monitoring server 106
can identify one or more additional social networking sites that the originator of the
selected message belongs to (e.g., other social networking sites where the originator has
an account). For example, the monitoring server 106 can determine that the originator
has a Facebook account. The monitoring server 106 can transmit a reply (based on the
originator's tweet) to the originator via Facebook instead of through Twitter.
 [00581    In some examples, the monitoring server 106 stores an aggregated social
media profile for the originator comprising any other user profiles (or information) for
the originator at other social media services. The monitoring server 106 can also store
the data representing the selected message and the originator of the selected message in
the aggregated social media profile.      Advantageously, the monitoring server 106 can
use the aggregated social media profile to respond to the originator at any one of its
many social media services. The social media server 102 can provide multiple social
networking sites, a single social media server 102 can provide a single social
networking site, or any combination thereof. The social networking site can include
Twitter, Facebook, Myspace, LinkedIn, and/or any other social networking service.
 100591    The above-described      computerized   methods     and  apparatuses  can   be
implemented in digital and/or analog electronic circuitry, or in computer hardware,
firmware, software, or in combinations of them.        The implementation can be as a
computer program product, i.e., a computer program tangibly embodied in a machine
readable storage device, for execution by, or to control the operation of, a data
processing apparatus, e.g., a programmable processor, a computer, and/or multiple
computers.     A computer program can be written in any form of computer or
programming language, including source code, compiled code, interpreted code and/or
machine code, and the computer program can be deployed in any form, including as a
stand-alone program or as a subroutine, element, or other unit suitable for use in a
                                         - 19-

computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one
computer or on multiple computers at one or more sites.
[00601    The computerized method steps can be performed by one or more processors
executing a computer program to perform functions of the invention by operating on
input data and/or generating output data. Method steps can also be performed by, and
an apparatus can be implemented as, special purpose logic circuitry, e.g., a FPGA (field
programmable gate array), a FPAA (field-programmable analog array), a CPLD
(complex programmable logic device), a PSoC (Programmable System-on-Chip), ASIP
(application-specific  instruction-set  processor), or an ASIC      (application-specific
integrated circuit). Subroutines can refer to portions of the computer program and/or
the processor/special circuitry that implement one or more functions.
100611    Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include, by way
of example, both general and special purpose microprocessors, and any one or more
processors of any kind of digital or analog computer. Generally, a processor receives
instructions and data from a read-only memory or a random access memory or both.
The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one
or more memory devices for storing instructions and/or data. Memory devices, such as
a cache, can be used to temporarily store data. Memory devices can also be used for
long-term data storage. Generally, a computer also includes, or is operatively coupled
to receive data from or transfer data to, or both, one or more mass storage devices for
storing data, e.g., magnetic, magneto-optical disks, or optical disks. A computer can
also be operatively coupled to a communications network in order to receive
instructions and/or data from the network and/or to transfer instructions and/or data to
the network.    Computer-readable storage devices suitable for embodying computer
program instructions and data include all forms of volatile and non-volatile memory,
including by way of example semiconductor memory devices, e.g., DRAM, SRAM,
EPROM, EEPROM, and flash memory devices; magnetic disks, e.g., internal hard disks
or removable disks; magneto-optical disks; and optical disks, e.g., CD, DVD, HD
DVD, and Blu-ray disks.       The processor and the memory can be supplemented by
and/or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.
100621    To provide for interaction with a user, the above described techniques can be
implemented on a computer in communication with a display device, e.g., a CRT
(cathode ray tube), plasma, or LCD (liquid crystal display) monitor, for displaying
information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device, e.g., a mouse, a trackball,
                                        - 20 -

a touchpad, or a motion sensor, by which the user can provide input to the computer
(e.g., interact with a user interface element).  Other kinds of devices can be used to
provide for interaction with a user as well; for example, feedback provided to the user
can be any form of sensory feedback, e.g., visual feedback, auditory feedback, or tactile
feedback; and input from the user can be received in any form, including acoustic,
speech, and/or tactile input.
[00631     The above described techniques can be implemented in a distributed
computing system that includes a back-end component. The back-end component can,
for example, be a data server, a middleware component, and/or an application server.
The above described techniques can be implemented in a distributed computing system
that includes a front-end component. The front-end component can, for example, be a
client computer having a graphical user interface, a Web browser through which a user
can interact with an example implementation, and/or other graphical user interfaces for
a transmitting device.     The above described techniques can be implemented in a
distributed computing system that includes any combination of such back-end,
middleware, or front-end components.
[0064]     The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and a server
are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication
network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs
running on the respective computers and having a client-server relationship to each
other.
[00651     The components of the computing system can be interconnected by any form
or medium of digital or analog data communication (e.g., a communication network).
Examples of communication networks include circuit-based and packet-based networks.
Packet-based networks can include, for example, the Internet, a carrier internet protocol
(IP) network (e.g., local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), campus area
network (CAN), metropolitan area network (MAN), home area network (HAN)), a
private IP network, an IP private branch exchange (IPBX), a wireless network (e.g.,
radio access network (RAN), 802.11 network, 802.16 network, general packet radio
service (GPRS) network, HiperLAN), and/or other packet-based networks.            Circuit
based networks can include, for example, the public switched telephone network
(PSTN), a private branch exchange (PBX), a wireless network (e.g., RAN, bluetooth,
code-division multiple access (CDMA) network, time division multiple access (TDMA)
                                        -21 -

network, global system for mobile communications (GSM) network), and/or other circuit-based
networks.
[0066] Devices of the computing system and/or computing devices can include, for example,
a computer, a computer with a browser device, a telephone, an IP phone, a mobile device
(e.g., cellular phone, personal digital assistant (PDA) device, laptop computer, electronic mail
device), a server, a rack with one or more processing cards, special purpose circuitry, and/or
other communication devices. The browser device includes, for example, a computer (e.g.,
desktop computer, laptop computer) with a world wide web browser (e.g., Microsoft Internet
Explorer available from Microsoft Corporation, Mozilla@ Firefox available from Mozilla
Corporation). A mobile computing device includes, for example, a Blackberry. IP phones
include, for example, a Cisco Unified IP Phone 7985G available from Cisco System, Inc,
and/or a Cisco Unified Wireless Phone 7920 available from Cisco System, Inc.
[00671 One skilled in the art will realize the invention may be embodied in other specific
forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The foregoing
embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects illustrative rather than limiting of
the invention described herein. Scope of the invention is thus indicated by the appended
claims, rather than by the foregoing description, and all changes that come within the
meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are therefore intended to be embraced
therein.
[0068] The term "comprising" means "including primarily, but not necessarily solely".

                                                    23
CLAIMS
1.      A system, comprising:
        one or more data processors; and
        a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium containing instructions which when
executed on the one or more data processors, cause the one or more data processors to perform
operations including:
                 detecting a keyword included in a social media message, wherein the social media
        message originated from a social media profile, and wherein the social media profile is
        associated with an originator device;
                 transmitting a message communication when the keyword is detected, wherein the
        message communication includes a selectable interactive element that is associated with a
        service, wherein the service is initially configured for use by only the social media
        profile, and wherein the message communication is viewable to one or more additional
        social media profiles;
                 receiving an indication that the selectable interactive element was selected,
        wherein the selection is associated with an additional social media profile, and wherein
        the additional social media profile corresponds to a requesting device;
                 determining a number of followers or friends of the social media profile when the
        interactive element is selected;
                 evaluating a characteristic of the additional social media profile;
                 determining whether to execute the service for use by the additional social media
        profile, wherein determining includes evaluating whether the social media profile and the
        additional social media profile share the characteristic; and
                 facilitating a connection between a destination device and the requesting device,
        wherein the destination device is associated with an agent available for communication,
        wherein the destination device is selected based on the number of followers or friends of
        the social media profile, and wherein when the social media profile and the additional
        social media profile share the characteristic, the service is executed for use by the
        additional social media profile.
2.      The system of claim 1, wherein the destination device is identified as being associated
with a resource knowledgeable about the topic.

                                                   24
3.       The system of claim 1, wherein facilitating the connection includes establishing a chat
connection between the requesting device and the destination device associated with the topic.
4.       The system of claim 1, wherein the interactive element is a link.
5.       The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further include:
         transmitting an engagement authorization request using the social media message and the
account information associated with the social media profile; and
         receiving an engagement authorization.
6.       The system of claim 1, wherein transmitting the message communication automatically
occurs using account information, wherein the account information is associated with the
additional social media profile.
7.       The system of claim 1, wherein the destination device is selected using the additional
social media profile.
8.       The system of claim 1, wherein transmitting the message communication uses using
account information associated with the additional social media profile, wherein transmitting
includes using two or more types of social media services.
9.       The system of claim 1, further comprising receiving an indication that initiates selection
of the destination device.
10.     A computer-implemented method, comprising:
         detecting a keyword included in a social media message, wherein the social media
message originated from a social media profile, and wherein the social media profile is
associated with an originator device;
         transmitting a message communication when the keyword is detected, wherein the
message communication includes a selectable interactive element that is associated with a
service, wherein the service is initially configured for use by only the social media profile, and
wherein the message communication is viewable to one or more additional social media profiles;

                                                    25
         receiving an indication that the selectable interactive element was selected, wherein the
selection is associated with an additional social media profile, and wherein the additional social
media profile corresponds to a requesting device;
         determining a number of followers or friends of the social media profile when the
interactive element is selected;
         evaluating a characteristic of the additional social media profile;
         determining whether to execute the service for use by the additional social media profile,
wherein determining includes evaluating whether the social media profile and the additional
social media profile share the characteristic; and
         facilitating a connection between a destination device and the requesting device, wherein
the destination device is associated with an agent available for communication, wherein the
destination device is selected based on the number of followers or friends of the social media
profile, and wherein when the social media profile and the additional social media profile share
the characteristic, the service is executed for use by the additional social media profile.
11.      The method of claim 10, wherein the destination device is identified as being associated
with a resource knowledgeable about the topic.
12.      The method of claim 10, wherein facilitating the connection includes establishing a chat
connection between the requesting device and the destination device associated with the topic.
13.      The method of claim 10, wherein the interactive element is a link.
14.      The method of claim 10, further comprising:
         transmitting an engagement authorization request using the social media message and the
account information associated with the social media profile; and
         receiving an engagement authorization.
15.      The method of claim 10, wherein transmitting the message communication using the
account information occurs associated with the additional social media profile occurs
automatically.
16.      The method of claim 10, wherein the destination device is selected using the additional
social media profile.

                                                    26
17.      The method of claim 10, wherein transmitting the message communication uses account
information associated with the additional social media profile, wherein transmitting includes
using two or more types of social media services.
18.      A computer-program product tangibly embodied in a non-transitory machine-readable
storage medium, including instructions configured to cause a data processing apparatus to
perform operations including:
         detecting a keyword included in a social media message, wherein the social media
message originated from a social media profile, and wherein the social media profile is
associated with an originator device;
         transmitting a message communication when the keyword is detected, wherein the
message communication includes a selectable interactive element that is associated with a
service, wherein the service is initially configured for use by only the social media profile, and
wherein the message communication is viewable to one or more additional social media profiles;
         receiving an indication that the selectable interactive element was selected, wherein the
selection is associated with an additional social media profile, and wherein the additional social
media profile corresponds to a requesting device;
         determining a number of followers or friends of the social media profile when the
interactive element is selected;
         evaluating a characteristic of the additional social media profile;
         determining whether to execute the service for use by the additional social media profile,
wherein determining includes evaluating whether the social media profile and the additional
social media profile share the characteristic; and
         facilitating a connection between a destination device and the requesting device, wherein
the destination device is associated with an agent available for communication, wherein the
destination device is selected based on the number of followers or friends of the social media
profile, and wherein when the social media profile and the additional social media profile share
the characteristic, the service is executed for use by the additional social media profile.
19.      The computer-program product of claim 18, wherein the destination device is identified
as being associated with a resource knowledgeable about the topic.

                                                 27
20.      The computer-program product of claim 18, wherein facilitating the connection includes
establishing a chat connection between the requesting device and the destination device with the
topic.
21.      The computer-program product of claim 18, wherein the interactive element is a link.
22.      The computer-program product of claim 18, wherein the operations further include:
         transmitting an engagement authorization request using the social media message and
account information associated with the social media profile; and
         receiving an engagement authorization.
23.      The computer-program product of claim 18, wherein transmitting the message
communication using account information associated with the additional social media profile
occurs automatically.
24.      The computer-program product of claim 18, wherein the destination device is determined
using the additional social media profile.
25.      The computer-program product of claim 18, wherein transmitting the message
communication uses account information associated with the additional social media profile,
wherein transmitting includes using two or more types of social media services.
                                           LivePerson, Inc.
                      Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
