   Abstract
   The present invention relates to a gaming machine, methods
   of gaming and gaming systems. The gaming system comprises:
 5 a first video display;  a second video display; and a game
   controller. The game controller is arranged to:  select a
   plurality of symbols  from a symbol set for display on the
   first video display and the second video display;  and
   evaluate a symbol subset comprising one or more of the
10 plurality of symbols to determine whether to make an
   award. The number of symbols of the symbol subset is
   higher than a number of  symbols in the symbol subset
   evaluated by the game controller in a previous game
   instance.
15

                                 - 1
                                 Title
    A METHOD OF  GAMING, A GAMING SYSTEM AND A  GAME CONTROLLER
  5
    Cross-reference to related application
    This application is a divisional application of Australian
    application no.  2015230808, the disclosure of which is
10  incorporated herein by reference.
    Field
    The present invention relates to a method of gaming, a
15  gaming system and a game controller.
    Background
    In electronic gaming systems   such as spinning reel or
20  "slot"  gaming machines, symbols are selected for display
    on a display of the machine. The displayed symbols are
    evaluated to determine whether an award is to be made to a
    player.
25  While such gaming systems provide players with enjoyment,
    a need exists for alternative gaming systems in order to
    maintain or increase player enjoyment.
    Summary
30
    In accordance with a first aspect, the present invention
    provides an electronic gaming system comprising:
          a first video display;
          a second video display;  and
35        a game controller arranged to:
               select a plurality of symbols  from a symbol set
    for display on the first video display and the second

                               -2
   video display; and
             evaluate a symbol subset  comprising one or more
   of the plurality of symbols to determine whether to make
   an award,
 5      wherein a number of symbols of the symbol subset is
   higher than a number of symbols in the symbol subset
   evaluated by the game controller in a previous game
   instance.
10 In an embodiment, during the first game instance the one
   or more of the plurality of symbols of the symbol subset
   are displayed in respective symbol display positions
   arranged on the first video display. During the last game
   instance the symbol subset may comprise all the symbols of
15 the plurality of symbols.
   In accordance with a second aspect, the present invention
   provides an electronic gaming system comprising:
        a first video display;
20      a second video display;   and
        a game controller arranged to:
             select a plurality of symbols  from a symbol set
   for display on the first video display and the second
   video display; and
25           evaluate a symbol display position subset
   comprising one or more of the plurality of symbol display
   positions to determine whether to make an award;
        wherein a number of symbol display positions of the
   symbol display position subset is higher than a number of
30 symbol display positions in the symbol display position
   subset evaluated by the game controller in a previous game
   instance.
   In an embodiment, during the first game instance the one
35 or more of the plurality of symbol display positions of
   the symbol display position subset are arranged on the
   first video display. During the last game instance the

                              - 3
   symbol display position subset may comprise all the symbol
   display positions of the plurality of symbol display
   positions.
 5 In an embodiment, the second video display is positioned
   above the first video display. The  first and the second
   video displays may be arranged to display a single gaming
   area. Each of the first and second video display may
   comprise a plurality of symbol display positions arranged
10 in five columns.
   In an embodiment, the plurality of symbols comprise a
   movable symbol and the game controller is arranged to move
   the movable symbol from a first symbol display position to
15 a second symbol display position.
   In an embodiment, the first symbol display position is
   located below the second symbol display position.
20 In an embodiment, upon moving of the movable symbol from
   the first symbol display position to the second symbol
   display position, the movable symbol replaces one or more
   symbols positioned at the second symbol display position.
25 In an embodiment, the movable symbol is associated with an
   animated object.
   In an embodiment, the movable symbol is a wild symbol.
30 In an embodiment, the game controller is further arranged
   to increase a multiplier. The multiplier may be increased
   upon moving of the movable symbol.
   In accordance with a third aspect, the present invention
35 provides an electronic gaming system comprising:
        at least one video display; and
        a game controller arranged to:

                                - 4
              select a plurality of symbols  from a symbol set
    for display on the at least one video display;  and
              evaluate a symbol subset  comprising one or more
    of the plurality of symbols to determine whether to make
  5 an award;
         the plurality of symbols comprising a movable symbol
    and the game controller being arranged to:
              move the movable symbol from a first symbol
    display position to a second symbol display position
10  located above the first  symbol display position;
         wherein a number of symbols of the symbol subset is
    higher than a number of  symbols in the symbol subset
    evaluated by the game controller in a previous game
    instance.
15
    In an embodiment, the gaming system comprises a first
    video display and a second video display positioned above
    the first video display.
20  In an embodiment, the movable symbol is a wild symbol.
    In accordance with a fourth aspect, the present invention
    provides an electronic game controller, the game
    controller arranged to:
25       select a plurality of symbols from a symbol set for
    display on a first video display and a second video
    display, and
         evaluate a symbol subset comprising one or more of
    the plurality of symbols to determine whether to make an
30  award;
         wherein a number of symbols of the symbol subset is
    higher than a number of  symbols in the symbol subset
    evaluated by the game controller in a previous game
    instance.
35
    In an embodiment, during the first game instance, the game
    controller is arranged to control the first video display

                               - 5
   and the second video display to display the plurality of
   symbols of the symbol subset in respective symbol display
   positions arranged on the first video display. The game
   controller may be further arranged to control the first
 5 and the second video displays to display a single gaming
   area. The game controller may be further arranged to
   control the first and the second video displays to display
   a plurality of symbol display positions arranged in five
   columns.
10
   In an embodiment, the plurality of symbols comprise a
   movable symbol and the game controller is arranged to move
   the movable symbol from a first symbol display position to
   a second symbol display position.
15
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged in a
   manner such that, upon moving of the movable symbol from
   the first symbol display position to the second symbol
   display position, the movable symbol replaces one or more
20 symbols positioned at the second symbol display position.
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
   control the first and the second display to display an
   animation upon moving of the movable symbol.
25
   In an embodiment, the game controller is further arranged
   to increase a multiplier upon moving of the movable
   symbol.
30 In an embodiment, the movable symbol is a wild symbol.
   In accordance with a fifth aspect, the present invention
   provides an electronic gaming system comprising:
        a first video display;
35      a second video display;  and
        a symbol selector arranged to select a plurality of
   symbols from a symbol set for display on the first video

                               - 6
    display and the second video display;  and
         an outcome evaluator arranged to evaluate a symbol
    subset comprising one or more of the plurality of symbols
    to determine whether to make an award;
  5      wherein a number of symbols of the symbol subset is
    higher than a number of symbols in the symbol subset
    evaluated by the outcome evaluator in a previous game
    instance.
10  In an embodiment, during the first game instance the one
    or more of the plurality of symbols of the symbol subset
    are displayed in respective symbol display positions
    arranged on the first video display. During the last game
    instance the symbol subset may comprise all the symbols of
15  the plurality of symbols.
    In an embodiment, the second video display is positioned
    above the first video display.
20  In an embodiment, the plurality of symbols comprise a
    movable symbol and the gaming system further comprises a
    symbol mover arranged to move the movable symbol from a
    first symbol display position to a second symbol display
    position.
25
    In an embodiment, the movable symbol is a wild symbol.
    In an embodiment, the the gaming system further comprises
    a multiplier controller arranged to increase a multiplier.
30
    In accordance with a sixth aspect, the present invention
    comprises an electronic method of gaming, comprising a
    game controller:
         selecting a plurality of symbols  from a symbol set
35  for display on a first video display and a second video
    display, and
         evaluating a symbol subset comprising one or more of

    the plurality of symbols to determine whether to make an
    award;
         wherein a number of symbols of the symbol subset is
    higher than a number of  symbols in the symbol subset
  5 evaluated by the game controller in a previous game
    instance.
    In an embodiment, the plurality of symbols comprise a
    movable symbol and the game controller moves the movable
10  symbol from a first symbol display position to a second
    symbol display position.
    In an embodiment, the game controller is further arranged
    to increase a multiplier.
15
    In accordance with a seventh aspect, the present invention
    provides an electronic gaming system comprising:
         a first video display means;
         a second video display means;  and
20       means for selecting a plurality of symbols  from a
    symbol set for display on the first video display and the
    second video display;
         means for evaluating a symbol subset comprising one
    or more of the plurality of symbols to determine whether
25  to make an award;
         wherein a number of symbols of the symbol subset is
    higher than a number of  symbols in the symbol subset
    evaluated by the means for evaluating the symbol subset in
    a previous game instance.
30
    In accordance with an eighth seventh aspect, the present
    invention provides computer program code which when
    executed by a processor causes the processor to:
         select a plurality of symbols from a symbol set for
35  display on a first video display and a second video
    display, and
         evaluate a symbol subset comprising one or more of

                              - 8
   the plurality of symbols to determine whether to make an
   award;
        wherein a number of symbols of the symbol subset is
   higher than a number of symbols in the symbol subset
 5 evaluated by the processor in a previous game instance.
   In accordance with a ninth aspect, the present invention
   provides a tangible computer readable medium comprising
   the computer program code in accordance with the eighth
10 aspect.
   In accordance with a tenth aspect, the present invention
   provides a distributed electronic gaming system
   comprising:
15      a gaming server suitable for communicating with one
   or more client devices over a communication network;
        the gaming server comprising a game controller
   arranged to select a plurality of symbols from a symbol
   set for display on a first video display area and a second
20 video display area of the one or more client devices and,
   evaluate a symbol subset comprising one or more of the
   plurality of symbols to determine whether to make an
   award;
        wherein a number of symbols of the symbol subset is
25 higher than a number of symbols in the symbol subset
   evaluated by the game controller in a previous game
   instance.
   In an embodiment, during the first game instance the one
30 or more of the plurality of symbols of the symbol subset
   are displayed in respective symbol display positions
   arranged on the first video display area of the one or
   more client devices.
35 In an embodiment, the plurality of symbols comprise a
   movable symbol and the game controller is arranged to move
   the movable symbol from a first symbol display position to

                               - 9
   a second symbol display position.
   In an embodiment, the movable symbol is a wild symbol.
 5 In an embodiment, the game controller is further arranged
   to increase a multiplier.
   Brief Description of Drawings
10 An exemplary embodiment of the invention will now be
   described with reference to the accompanying drawings in
   which:
   Figure 1 is a block diagram of the core components of a
15 gaming system;
   Figure 2 is a perspective view of a stand alone gaming
   machine;
20 Figure 3 is a block diagram of the functional components
   of a gaming machine;
   Figure 4 is a schematic diagram of the functional
   components of a memory;
25
   Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of a network gaming
   system;
   Figure  6 is a further block diagram of a gaming system;
30
   Figure 7 is a flow chart of an embodiment;
   Figure 8A and 8B are screen shots of a first video display
   and a second video display of a gaming area in accordance
35 with an embodiment.
   Detailed Description

                              - 10
   Referring to the drawings, there is shown an embodiment of
   an electronic gaming system with two video displays which
   display a gaming area. The gaming system has a game
 5 controller that controls several elements of the system to
   implement instances of a game. The game controller selects
   a plurality of symbols from a symbol set and displays the
   symbols on the two video displays at respective symbol
   display positions. For each game instance, the controller
10 evaluates a symbol subset to determine whether to make an
   award. If the controller determines that an award has to
   be made based on the symbols of the symbol subset, the
   determined award is issued to the player. The symbol
   subset comprises one or more of the plurality of symbols
15 on the two screens. The number of symbols in the symbol
   subset is variable and increases for each game instance.
   During a game, instance after instance, the number of
   symbols evaluated by the game controller to determine
   whether an award has to be made increases and so the
20 number of winning lines which can generate an award.
   In embodiments, the two video displays are positioned one
   on top of the other. During the first instance of the game
   the one or more symbols of the symbol subset are
25 positioned on the bottom video display. The top video
   display may also have symbol display positions occupied by
   symbols but, during the first instance, the symbols of the
   top video display are not part of the symbol subset and do
   not contribute to determining whether an award has to be
30 made. During the last instance of the game, all the
   symbols displayed in the top video display are part of the
   symbol subset and do contribute to determining whether an
   award has to be made.
35 In some embodiments, during the first instance the one or
   more symbols of the symbol subset are positioned in symbol
   display positions on the bottom video display and the top

                              - 11
   video display may not show any symbol display positions
   occupied by symbols. The total number of symbol display
   positions increases throughout the game and a portion of
   the symbol display positions are displayed on the top
 5 video display.
   In some embodiments, there is a movable symbol occupying
   one or more symbol display positions and the game
   controller, moves the movable symbol upwards,   from a first
10 symbol display position to a second symbol display
   position. The movable symbol typically replaces the
   symbols displayed at the second display position.
   In some embodiments, when the movable symbol is being
15 moved, an animation is shown on one or both of the two
   video displays. The movable symbol may be an animated
   symbol and may also be a wild symbol. The game controller
   increases a multiplier upon moving of the movable symbol.
20 General construction of gaming system
   The gaming system can take a number of different   forms. In
   a first form, a stand alone gaming machine is provided
   wherein all or most components  required for implementing
25 the game are present in a player operable gaming machine.
   In a second form, a distributed architecture is provided
   wherein some of the components  required for implementing
   the game are present in a player operable gaming machine
30 and some of the components required for implementing the
   game are located remotely relative to the gaming machine.
   For example, a "thick client" architecture may be used
   wherein part of the game is executed on a player operable
   gaming machine and part of the game is executed remotely,
35 such as by a gaming server;  or a "thin client"
   architecture may be used wherein most of the game is
   executed remotely such as by a gaming server and a player

                               - 12
   operable gaming machine is used only to display audible
   and/or visible gaming information to the player and
   receive gaming inputs from the player.
 5 However, it will be understood that other arrangements are
   envisaged.  For example, an architecture may be provided
   wherein a gaming machine is networked to a gaming server
   and the respective functions of the gaming machine and the
   gaming server are selectively modifiable.   For example,
10 the gaming system may operate in stand alone gaming
   machine mode,  "thick client" mode or "thin client" mode
   depending on the game being played, operating conditions,
   and so on. Other variations will be apparent to persons
   skilled in the art.
15
   Irrespective of the form, the gaming system 1 has   several
   core components. At the broadest level, the core
   components are a player interface  50 and a game controller
   60 as illustrated in Figure 1. The player interface is
20 arranged to enable manual interaction between a player and
   the gaming system and for this purpose includes the
   input/output components required for the player to enter
   instructions to play the game and observe the game
   outcomes.
25
   Components of the player interface may vary from
   embodiment to embodiment but will typically include a
   credit mechanism 52 to enable a player to input credits
   and receive payouts, one or more displays 54,  a game play
30 mechanism 56 including one or more input devices that
   enable a player to input game play instructions   (e.g. to
   place a wager),  and one or more speakers 58.
   The game controller 60 is in data communication with the
35 player interface and typically includes a processor   62
   that processes the game play instructions in accordance
   with game play rules and outputs game play outcomes to the

                                 - 13
   display. Typically, the game play rules are      stored as
   program code in a memory 64 but can also be hardwired.
   Herein the term "processor" is used to refer generically
   to any device that can process game play instructions in
 5 accordance with game play rules and may include:      a
   microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable      logic device
   or other computational device, a general purpose computer
    (e.g. a PC) or a server.    That  is a processor may be
   provided by any suitable logic circuitry for receiving
10 inputs, processing them in accordance with instructions
   stored in memory    and generating outputs    (for example on
   the display).   Such processors are   sometimes also referred
   to as central processing units     (CPUs). Most processors are
   general purpose units, however, it is also know to provide
15 a specific purpose processor using an application specific
   integrated circuit    (ASIC) or a field programmable gate
   array   (FPGA).
   A gaming system in the form of a standalone gaming machine
20 10 is illustrated in Figure 2. The gaming machine 10
   includes a console 12 having a first video display 14.        A
   mid-trim 20 of the gaming machine 10 houses a bank of
   buttons 22   for enabling a player to interact with the
   gaming machine, in particular during game play. The video
25 display 14 may also have a touch screen to enable the user
   to input instructions.     The video display 14   shown in
   Figure 2 is in the form of a video display unit,
   particularly a cathode ray tube device.      Alternatively,
   the display 14 may be a liquid crystal display, plasma
30 screen, any other suitable video display unit.       The top
   box 26 has a secondary video which may be of the same type
   as the display 14,   or of a different type.
   While not   shown in Figure 2, the mid-trim 20 also
35 typically houses a credit input mechanism such as a coin
   input  chute and a bill collector.     Figure 2 also shows the
   another credit input mechanism in the form of a player

                              - 14
   marketing module 50 having a reading device 52 for the
   purpose of reading a player tracking device, for example
   as part of a loyalty program.   The player tracking device
   may be in the form of a card, flash drive or any other
 5 portable storage medium capable of being read by the
   reading device. The player marketing module 50 also allows
   the player to transferring credits to the gaming machine
   from credits stored on the player tracking device or by
   transferring credits from a player account in data
10 communication with the player marketing module. Other
   embodiments of gaming machines may have a ticket reader
   for reading tickets having a value and crediting the
   player based on the face value of the ticket.
15 Artwork and/or information may be provided on a front
   panel 29 of the console 12.  A  coin tray 30 is mounted
   beneath the front panel 29 for dispensing cash payouts
   from the gaming machine 10.
20 Figure 3 shows a block diagram of operative components of
   a typical gaming machine which may be the same as or
   different to the gaming machine of Figure 2.
   The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101
25 having a processor 102 mounted on a circuit board.
   Instructions and data to control operation of the
   processor 102 are stored in a memory 103, which is in data
   communication with the processor 102.   Typically, the
   gaming machine 100 will include both volatile and non
30 volatile memory and more than one of each type of memory,
   with such memories being collectively represented by the
   memory 103.
   The gaming machine has hardware meters 104 for purposes
35 including ensuring regulatory compliance and monitoring
   player credit, an input/output  (I/0) interface 105 for
   communicating with peripheral devices of the gaming

                               -  15
   machine 100.   The input/output interface 105 and/or the
   peripheral devices may be intelligent devices with their
   own memory for storing associated instructions and data
   for use with the input/output interface or the peripheral
 5 devices.   A random number generator module 113 generates
   random numbers  for use by the processor 102.    Persons
   skilled in the art will appreciate that the reference to
   random numbers includes pseudo-random numbers.
10 In the example shown in Figure 3, a player interface 120
   includes peripheral devices that communicate with the game
   controller 101 including one or more displays 106, a touch
   screen and/or buttons 107   (which provide a game play
   mechanism),  a card and/or ticket reader 108, a printer
15 109, a bill acceptor and/or coin input mechanism 110 and a
   coin output mechanism 111.    Additional hardware may be
   included as part of the gaming machine 100, or hardware
   may be omitted as required for the specific
   implementation. For example, while buttons or touch
20 screens are typically used in gaming machines to allow a
   player to place a wager and initiate a play of a game any
   input device that enables the player to input game play
   instructions may be used. For example, in some gaming
   machines a mechanical handle is used to initiate a play of
25 the game. Persons skilled in the art will also appreciate
   that a touch screen can be used to emulate other input
   devices,  for example, a touch screen can display virtual
   buttons which a player can "press" by touching the screen
   where they are displayed.
30
   In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a
   communications interface,  for example a network card 112.
   The network card may, for example,   send status
   information, accounting information or other information
35 to a bonus controller, central controller, server or
   database and receive data or commands from the bonus
   controller, central controller, server or database.      In

                              - 16
   embodiments employing a player marketing module,
   communications over a network may be via player marketing
   module - i.e. the player marketing module may be in data
   communication with one or more of the above devices and
 5 communicate with it on behalf of the gaming machine.
   Figure 4 shows a block diagram of the main components of
   an exemplary memory 103.  The memory 103 includes RAM
   103A, EPROM 103B and a mass storage device 103C.   The RAM
10 103A typically temporarily holds program files for
   execution by the processor 102 and related data.   The
   EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM device and/or may contain
   some system or game related code.  The mass storage device
   103C is typically used to store game programs, the
15 integrity of which may be verified and/or authenticated by
   the processor 102 using protected code from the EPROM 103B
   or elsewhere.
   It is also possible for the operative components of the
20 gaming machine 100 to be distributed, for example
   input/output devices 106,107,108,109,110,111 to be
   provided remotely from the game controller 101.
   Figure 5 shows a gaming system 200 in accordance with an
25 alternative embodiment.  The gaming system 200 includes a
   network 201, which for example may be an Ethernet network.
   Gaming machines 202, shown arranged in three banks 203 of
   two gaming machines 202 in Figure 5, are connected to the
   network 201.  The gaming machines 202 provide a player
30 operable interface and may be the same as the gaming
   machines 10,100 shown in Figures 2 and 3, or may have
   simplified functionality depending on the requirements for
   implementing game play.  While banks 203 of two gaming
   machines are illustrated in Figure 5, banks of one, three
35 or more gaming machines are also envisaged.
   One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the

                              - 17
   network 201.  For example, the displays 204 may be
   associated with one or more banks 203 of gaming machines.
   The displays 204 may be used to display representations
   associated with game play on the gaming machines 202,
 5 and/or used to display other representations, for example
   promotional or informational material.
   In a thick client embodiment, game server 205 implements
   part of the game played by a player using a gaming machine
10 202 and the gaming machine 202 implements part of the
   game. With this embodiment, as both the game server and
   the gaming device implement part of the game, they
   collectively provide a game controller. A database
   management server 206 may manage storage of game programs
15 and associated data for downloading or access by the
   gaming devices 202 in a database 206A. Typically, if the
   gaming system enables players to participate in a Jackpot
   game, a Jackpot server 207 will be provided to perform
   accounting functions for the Jackpot game.  A loyalty
20 program server 212 may also be provided.
   In a thin client embodiment, game server 205 implements
   most or all of the game played by a player using a gaming
   machine 202 and the gaming machine 202 essentially
25 provides only the player interface.  With this embodiment,
   the game server 205 provides the game controller. The
   gaming machine will receive player instructions, pass
   these to the game server which will process them and
   return game play outcomes to the gaming machine for
30 display.  In a thin client embodiment, the gaming machines
   could be computer terminals, e.g. PCs running software
   that provides a player interface operable using standard
   computer input and output components. Other client/server
   configurations are possible, and further details of a
35 client/server architecture can be found in WO 2006/052213
   and PCT/SE2006/000559, the disclosures of which are
   incorporated herein by reference.

                              - 18
   Servers are also typically provided to assist in the
   administration of the gaming network 200,  including for
   example a gaming floor management  server 208, and a
 5 licensing server 209 to monitor the use of licenses
   relating to particular games.   An administrator terminal
   210 is provided to allow an administrator to run the
   network 201 and the devices connected to the network.
10 The gaming system 200 may communicate with other gaming
   systems, other local networks,  for example a corporate
   network, and/or a wide area network such as the Internet,
   for example through a firewall 211.
15 Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in
   accordance with known techniques,  functionality at the
   server side of the network may be distributed over a
   plurality of different computers.   For example, elements
   may be run as a single "engine" on one  server or a
20 separate server may be provided.   For example, the game
   server 205 could run a random generator engine.
   Alternatively, a separate random number generator server
   could be provided.  Further, persons skilled in the art
   will appreciate that a plurality of game servers could be
25 provided to run different games or a single game server
   may run a plurality of different games as required by the
   terminals.
   Further detail of gaming system
30
   In order to participate in the game, the player operates
   the game play mechanism 56 to specify a wager and hence
   win entitlements which will be evaluated for this play of
   the game and initiates a play of the game. Persons skilled
35 in the art will appreciate that a player's win entitlement
   will vary from game to game dependent on player
   selections. In most spinning reel games, it is typical for

                                - 19
   the player's entitlement to be affected by the amount they
   wager and selections they make    (i.e. the nature of the
   wager).  For example,   a player's win entitlement may be
   based on how many lines they play in each game -    e.g. a
 5 minimum of one line up to the maximum number of lines
   allowed by the game   (noting that not all permutations of
   win lines may be available for selection) and how much
   they wager per line.    Such win lines are typically formed
   by a combination of symbol display positions, one    from
10 each reel, the symbol display positions being located
   relative to one another such that they form a line.
   In many games, the player's win entitlement is not
   strictly limited to the lines they have selected, for
15 example,  "scatter" pays are awarded independently of a
   player's selection of pay lines and are an inherent part
   of the win entitlement.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in other
20 embodiments, the player may obtain a win entitlement by
   selecting a number of reels to play and an amount to wager
   per reel. Such games are marketed under the trade name
   "Reel Power" by Aristocrat Leisure Industries Pty Ltd. The
   selection of the reel means that each displayed symbol of
25 the reel can be substituted for a symbol at one or more
   designated display positions. In other words, all    symbols
   displayed at symbol display positions corresponding to a
   selected reel can be used to form symbol combinations with
   symbols displayed at a designated, symbol display
30 positions of the other reels. For example, if there are
   five reels and three symbol display positions for each
   reel  such that the symbol display positions comprise three
   rows of five symbol display positions, the symbols
   displayed in the centre row are used for non-selected
35 reels.  The total number of ways to win is determined by
   multiplying the number of active display positions of each
   reels, the active display positions being all display

                               -   20
   positions of each selected reel and the designated display
   position of the non-selected reels. As a result for five
   reels and fifteen display positions there are 243 ways to
   win.
 5
   In other embodiments a player win entitlement may be
   affected by purchasing access to particular pay tables
   e.g. a first bet amount entitles the player to wins
   including cherry symbols and a second amount entitles them
10 to wins including plum symbols.
   In Figure 6, the processor    62 of the game controller 60 is
   shown implementing a number of modules based on program
   code and data stored in memory 64.     These modules include
15 a symbol selector 623,  a symbol mover 625,   a symbol
   evaluator 626 and a prize awarder 628.     Persons skilled in
   the art will appreciate that one or more of the modules
   could be implemented in some other way, for example by a
   dedicated circuit.
20
   As indicated above, depending on the embodiment, the game
   controller 60 may be arranged to select a plurality of
   symbols for display on video displays 54,    for a sequence
   of game instances.
25
   In the embodiment where  symbols are selected for display
   at each video display 54,  the symbol selector 623 operates
   in response to a player's operation of the game play
   mechanism 56 to place a wager and initiate a play of a
30 game.  In this embodiment, there are multiple display
   areas arranged on the two symbol displays 54A and 54B, and
   the symbol selector 623 initiates play of a game by
   selecting, independently for each of the display areas of
   the symbol display provided by the displays    54A and 54B, a
35 set or plurality of symbols for display at respective
   symbol display positions on the video displays 54.     When
   in use, the symbol selector 623 selects the symbols for

                              - 21
   display based on random numbers  (or pseudo-random numbers)
   generated by a random number generator  (RNG) 622
   implemented by the processor 62 and symbols  sets 642
   stored in the memory 64 of the game controller 60, and a
 5 display controller 629 implemented by the processor   62
   which controls the two displays 54A and 54B to display the
   selected symbols on each of the display areas of the video
   displays 54.  The display areas are provided on two video
   displays 54A and 54B, the processor 62 may implement
10 separate display controllers for controlling the separate
   displays. However, as indicated above, it is envisaged
   that the display areas of the symbol display may
   alternatively be provided on a single video display in an
   alternative embodiment. Also, it is envisaged that,   in an
15 alternative embodiment, the display areas of the symbol
   display may alternatively be on the respective displays of
   separate gaming machines comprising separate game
   controllers comprising separate processors implementing
   separate display controllers, and separate games may be
20 played at the separate gaming machines.
   In the embodiment described, there are two display areas
   provided on two separate video displays  54A, 54B.  In a
   first implementation of the game, the same amount of
25 symbol display positions may be arranged on the first and
   the second video displays 54A and 54B. In a second
   implementation of the game, more symbol display positions
   may be arranged in a first video display 54A when compared
   to the second video display 54B.
30 For each instance of the game, a subset of the symbols
   displayed in the symbol display positions is evaluated by
   the outcome evaluator 626 to determine whether to make an
   award. The outcome evaluator 626 communicates with the
   winning combination data module 649 stored in memory 64.
35
   The symbol selector 623 selects symbols  from a symbol set
   and assigns the selected symbols to a plurality of

                              -  22
   respective symbol display positions on the first and the
   second video displays 54A and 54B. The  symbols in each
   symbol display position may be changed by the symbol
   selector 623 for each instance of the game. The symbols   in
 5 each column of the gaming area may be arranged in a reel
   configuration and the reel may be spun at each instance of
   the game changing the symbol in the symbol display
   positions positioned in that column of the gaming area.
10 During each instance of the game the outcome evaluator 626
   evaluates a subset of the symbols on the gaming area to
   determine whether to instruct the prize awarder 928 to
   make an award. Processor 62 controls the outcome evaluator
   626 to evaluate a variable subset of symbols at each game
15 instance. The number of  symbols in the symbol subset
   evaluated by the outcome evaluator 626 increases  for each
   game instance. The number of winning lines which can
   generate an award increase with the increasing number of
   symbols. Processor 62 controls the outcome evaluator 626
20 and the two video displays 54A and 54B in a manner such
   that, during the first instance of the game, the one or
   more symbols of the symbol subset which are evaluated by
   the outcome evaluator 626 are positioned in symbol display
   positions on the first video display 54A. The second video
25 display 54B is positioned on top of the first video
   display 54A and displays  symbols in respective symbol
   display positions which are not part of the symbol subset
   and are not evaluated by the outcome evaluator 626. During
   the game, symbols are added to the symbol subset  for each
30 instance and, during the last instance of the game,   all
   the symbols displayed in the second video display 54B are
   part of the symbol subset and are evaluated by the outcome
   evaluator 626. The symbols comprised in the symbol subset
   which are evaluated by the outcome evaluator 626 have a
35 different graphical appearance which differentiates them
   from the symbols which are not evaluated. For example, the
   symbols which are not evaluated may look like frozen

                               - 23
   symbols. These symbols may become unfrozen as they are
   added to the symbol subset.
   The symbol selector 623  selects a movable symbol which may
 5 take one or more symbols positions on the gaming area. For
   each game instance,  symbol mover 625 moves the movable
   symbol upwards in the gaming area to swap its positions
   with other symbols on the gaming area. While the movable
   symbol is being moved by the symbol mover 625, the
10 processor 62 adds one or more symbols to the symbol subset
   and communicates with the prize awarder 628 to increase an
   award multiplier. The movable symbol may be a wild symbol.
   When the symbols of the symbol subset are evaluated by the
15 outcome evaluator 626, the prize awarder 628 may make one
   or more awards based on the prize data 648 stored in the
   memory 64 if winning symbol combinations are identified in
   accordance with winning combinations data 649.
20 In a second embodiment, not all the symbol display
   positions are positioned on the display area of the video
   displays  54A and 54B. In a manner similar to the addition
   of symbols to the symbol subset which is evaluated by the
   outcome evaluator 626, new symbol display positions are
25 added to the display area for each game instance. For
   example during the first game instance only the first
   video display 54A may comprise symbol display positions,
   while the second video display may show an animation or a
   picture. While the game is played, for each instance of
30 the game symbol display positions may be added and may be
   displayed on the second video display 54B. In this
   embodiment the subset of symbols may comprise all the
   symbols in all the display positions for each instance of
   the game.  In this case the subset of symbols is increased
35 at each instance by increasing the number of symbol
   display positions. The symbol subset may also comprise
   some of the symbols displayed at the symbol display

                               - 24
   positions, and some other is the symbols may not be part
   for the subset and be displayed, for example, as  frozen
   symbols.
 5 In figure 7, there is shown a flowchart 700 of a method of
   gaming in respect of the first embodiment.   The beginning
   of the game may be triggered by several events, for
   example a player places a wager and initiates a play of
   the game, or a player is playing a an initial game and a
10 particular condition which takes place in the initial game
   triggers a feature game which may be the game of the first
   embodiment. Types of feature games include:  those where a
   series of free game events are awarded such as free games
   or re-spins  (where some reels are held while others are
15 re-spun);  games where the symbols on the reel are changed;
   and "second screen" games where game play is totally
   different to the base game, for example where the player
   makes selections in a "pick a box type" game.
20 At step 702,  the symbol selector 623 selects a plurality
   of symbols  from a symbol set. At step 704 the processor 62
   controls the first video display 54A and the second video
   display 54B to display the plurality of symbols at
   respective display positions. At step 708 the symbol mover
25 module 625 moves the movable symbol upwards on the gaming
   area. At step 709 the processor  62 adds one or more
   symbols to the symbol subset and, at step 710 the outcome
   evaluator 626 evaluates the symbol subset and determines
   whether to make an award. At this stage the processor 62
30 may increase a prize multiplier. At step 712 the prize
   awarder 628 makes one or more awards based on the prize
   data 648  stored in the memory 64 if winning symbol
   combinations are identified in accordance with winning
   combinations data 649.For each game instance some or all
35 of the steps of flow chart 700 are performed.
   Referring now to figures  8A and 8B, there are shown screen

                               - 25
   shots 800 and 850 of a first and a second video display of
   a gaming area in accordance with the first embodiment.
   Screen shot 800 is a screen shot of  (top) display 54B, in
   accordance with the first embodiment and screen shot 850
 5 is a screen shot of  (bottom) display 54A, in accordance
   with the first embodiment.
   The gaming area shown in the first and second video
   displays replicates an ice wall which is a landmark of
10 motion picture series "Game of Thrones". The  symbols
   available to the symbol selector 623 represent characters
   of the same series  852. Screen shots 800 and 850 show a
   possible configuration of the symbols positioned on the
   first and the second video display 54A and 54B during a
15 game. The majority of the symbols of the symbol subset
   evaluated by the symbols evaluator 626 are displayed in
   symbols display positions on the first video display 54A
   in clear colours, 852.  The remaining symbols, which are
   not part of the symbol subset and are not evaluated by the
20 symbols evaluator 626, are displayed in symbols display
   positions on the second video display 54B and appear as
   frozen symbols, 854. The movable symbol is provided in the
   form of an elevator 856. For each game instance, elevator
   856 moves upwards along the ice and ice falls away from
25 the frozen symbols above the elevator 856. As the ice
   falls from these symbols, these symbols are added to the
   symbol subset increasing the number of paylines and the
   possible winning combinations available to the player.
30 The movable symbol 856 is also a wild symbol.  In
   particular, the elevator 856 is a two symbol display
   positions high wild symbol and carries an award multiplier
   which is incremented each time the elevator 856 is moved
   up along the ice wall.
35
   Symbols positioned on symbol display positions on the same
   columns of the gaming area belong to symbol reels. The

                                - 26
   gaming area has   5 reels. At the beginning of the game each
   reel may only have one symbol     'unfrozen' which is part of
   the evaluated symbol subset. During the last instance of
   the game, the elevator 856 reaches the top of the wall and
 5 all the symbols are ice   free and part of the symbol
   subset. When the reels are spun in this last instance the
   reels are expanded to a 16x5 matrix of     symbols display
   positions with symbols evaluated by the symbol evaluator
   626. This provides the player with 134 available lines.
10
   To be awarded a prize, during one of the game instances
   the reels are  spun and a given combination of symbols of
   the symbol subset must be obtained along an available
   winning line. The symbol evaluator 626 implemented by the
15 processor 62 of the game controller 60 of the gaming
   machine then evaluates the symbol subset and the prize in
   accordance with winning combinations data 649 and the
   prize awarder 628 awards a prize in accordance with prize
   data 648.
20
   In the above description certain steps are described as
   being carried out by a processor of a gaming system, it
   will be appreciated that such steps will often require a
   number of sub-steps to be carried out for the steps to be
25 implemented electronically, for example due to hardware or
   programming limitations. For example, to carry out a step
   such as evaluating, determining or selecting, a processor
   may need to compute several values and compare those
   values.
30
   As indicated above, the method may be embodied in program
   code. The program code could be supplied in a number of
   ways, for example on a tangible computer readable storage
   medium, such as a disc or a memory device, e.g. an EEPROM,
35  (for example, that could replace part of memory 103)    or as
   a data signal   (for example, by transmitting it from a
   server).  Further different parts of the program code can

                              - 27
   be executed by different devices,  for example in a client
   server relationship. Persons  skilled in the art will
   appreciate that program code provides a series of
   instructions executable by the processor.
 5
   It will be understood to persons skilled in the art of the
   invention that many modifications may be made without
   departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, in
   particular it will be apparent that certain features of
10 embodiments of the invention can be employed to form
   further embodiments.
   It is to be understood that, if any prior art is referred
   to herein, such reference does not constitute an admission
15 that the prior art forms a part of the common general
   knowledge in the art in any country.
   In the claims which follow and in the preceding
   description of the invention, except where the context
20 requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as
   "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
   i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but
   not to preclude the presence or addition of  further
25 features in various embodiments of the invention.

                              - 28
   CLAIMS:
   1. An electronic gaming system comprising:
        a first video display;
 5      a second video display;  and
        a game controller arranged to:
             select a plurality of symbols  from a symbol set
   for display on the first video display and the second
   video display; and
10           evaluate a symbol subset  comprising one or more
   of the plurality of symbols to determine whether to make
   an award,
        wherein a number of symbols of the symbol subset is
   higher than a number of symbols in the symbol subset
15 evaluated by the game controller in a previous game
   instance.
   2. The electronic gaming system in accordance with claim 1
   wherein during a first game instance the one or more of
20 the plurality of symbols of the symbol subset are
   displayed on the first video display.
   3. The electronic gaming system in accordance with claim 1
   or 2 wherein during a last game instance the symbol subset
25 comprises all the symbols of the plurality of symbols.
   4. An electronic gaming system comprising:
        a first video display;
        a second video display;  and
30      a game controller arranged to:
             select a plurality of symbols  from a symbol set
   for display on the first video display and the second
   video display; and
             evaluate a symbol display position subset
35 comprising one or more of the plurality of symbol display
   positions to determine whether to make an award;
        wherein a number of symbol display positions of the

                               - 29
    symbol display position subset is higher than a number of
    symbol display positions in the symbol display position
    subset evaluated by the game controller in a previous game
    instance.
  5
    5. The electronic gaming system in accordance with claim 4
    wherein during a first game instance the one or more of
    the plurality of symbol display positions of the symbol
    display position subset are arranged on the first video
10  display.
    6. The electronic gaming system in accordance with claim 4
    or 5 wherein during a last game instance the symbol
    display position subset comprises all the symbol display
15  positions of the plurality of symbol display positions.
    7. The electronic gaming system in accordance with any one
    of the preceding claims wherein the second video display
    is positioned above the first video display.
20
    8. The electronic gaming system in accordance with any one
    of the preceding claims wherein the first and the second
    video displays are arranged to display a single gaming
    area.
25
    9. The electronic gaming system in accordance with any one
    of the preceding claims wherein each of the first and
    second video display comprises a plurality of symbol
    display positions arranged in five columns.
30
    10. The electronic gaming system in accordance with any
    one of the preceding claims wherein the plurality of
    symbols comprise a movable symbol and the game controller
    is arranged to move the movable symbol from a first symbol
35  display position to a second symbol display position.
    11. The electronic gaming system in accordance with claim

                              - 30
   10 wherein the first symbol display position is located
   below the second symbol display position.
   12. The electronic gaming system in accordance with any
 5 one of claims 10 or 11 wherein, upon moving of the movable
   symbol from the first symbol display position to the
   second symbol display position, the movable symbol
   replaces one or more symbols positioned at the second
   symbol display position.
10
   13. The electronic gaming system in accordance with any
   one of claims 10 to 12 wherein the movable symbol is
   associated with an animated object.
15 14. The electronic gaming system in accordance with any
   one of claims 10 to 13 wherein the movable symbol is a
   wild symbol.
   15. The electronic gaming system in accordance with any
20 one of the preceding claims wherein the game controller is
   further arranged to increase a multiplier.
   16. The electronic gaming system in accordance with claim
   15 wherein the multiplier is increased upon moving of the
25 movable symbol.
   17. An electronic gaming system comprising:
        at least one video display; and
        a game controller arranged to:
30           select a plurality of symbols  from a symbol set
   for display on the at least one video display;  and
             evaluate a symbol subset  comprising one or more
   of the plurality of symbols to determine whether to make
   an award;
35      the plurality of symbols comprising a movable symbol
   and the game controller being arranged to:
             move the movable symbol from a first symbol

                               - 31
    display position to a second symbol display position
    located above the first symbol display position;
         wherein a number of symbols of the symbol subset is
    higher than a number of symbols in the symbol subset
  5 evaluated by the game controller in a previous game
    instance.
    18. The electronic gaming system in accordance with claim
    17 wherein the gaming system comprises a first video
10  display and a second video display positioned above the
    first video display.
    19. The electronic gaming system in accordance with claim
    17 or 18 wherein the movable symbol is a wild symbol.
15
    20. An electronic game controller, the game controller
    arranged to:
         select a plurality of symbols from a symbol set for
    display on a first video display and a second video
20  display, and
         evaluate a symbol subset comprising one or more of
    the plurality of symbols to determine whether to make an
    award;
         wherein a number of symbols of the symbol subset is
25  higher than a number of symbols in the symbol subset
    evaluated by the game controller in a previous game
    instance.
    21. The electronic game controller in accordance with
30  claim 20 wherein, during a first game instance, the game
    controller is arranged to control the first video display
    and the second video display to display the plurality of
    symbols of the symbol subset in respective symbol display
    positions arranged on the first video display.
35
    22. The electronic game controller in accordance with
    claim 20 or 21 wherein the game controller is further

                              - 32
   arranged to control the first and the second video
   displays to display a single gaming area.
   23. The electronic game controller in accordance with any
 5 one of claims 20 to 22 wherein the game controller is
   further arranged to control the first and the second video
   displays to display a plurality of symbol display
   positions arranged in five columns.
10 24. The electronic game controller in accordance with any
   one of claims 20 to 23 wherein the plurality of symbols
   comprise a movable symbol and the game controller is
   arranged to move the movable symbol from a first  symbol
   display position to a second symbol display position.
15
   25. The electronic game controller in accordance with
   claim 24 wherein the game controller is arranged in a
   manner such that, upon moving of the movable symbol from
   the first symbol display position to the second symbol
20 display position, the movable symbol replaces one or more
   symbols positioned at the second symbol display position.
   26. The electronic game controller in accordance with
   claim 24 or 25 wherein the game controller is arranged to
25 control the first and the second video display to display
   an animation upon moving of the movable symbol.
   27. The electronic game controller in accordance with any
   one of claims 24 to 26 wherein the movable symbol is a
30 wild symbol.
   28. The electronic game controller in accordance with any
   one of claims 20 to 27 wherein the game controller is
   further arranged to increase a multiplier.
35
   29. The electronic game controller in accordance with
   claim 28 wherein the multiplier is increased upon moving

                              - 33
   of the movable symbol.
   30. An electronic gaming system comprising:
        a first video display;
 5      a second video display; and
        a symbol selector arranged to select a plurality of
   symbols from a symbol set for display on the first video
   display and the second video display; and
        an outcome evaluator arranged to evaluate a symbol
10 subset comprising one or more of the plurality of symbols
   to determine whether to make an award;
        wherein a number of symbols of the symbol subset is
   higher than a number of symbols in the symbol subset
   evaluated by the outcome evaluator in a previous game
15 instance.
   31. The electronic gaming system in accordance with claim
   30 wherein during a first game instance the one or more of
   the plurality of symbols of the symbol subset are
20 displayed in respective symbol display positions arranged
   on the first video display.
   32. The electronic gaming system in accordance with claim
   30 or 31 wherein during a last game instance the symbol
25 subset comprises all the symbols of the plurality of
   symbols.
   33. The electronic gaming system in accordance with any
   one of claims 30 to 32 wherein the second video display is
30 positioned above the first video display.
   34. The electronic gaming system in accordance with any
   one of claims 30 to 33 wherein the plurality of symbols
   comprise a movable symbol and the gaming system further
35 comprises a symbol mover arranged to move the movable
   symbol from a first symbol display position to a second
   symbol display position.

                              - 34
   35. The electronic gaming system in accordance with claim
   34 wherein the movable symbol is a wild symbol.
 5 36. The electronic gaming system in accordance with any
   one of claims 30 to 35 wherein the the gaming system
   further comprises a multiplier controller arranged to
   increase a multiplier.
10 37. An electronic method of gaming, comprising a game
   controller:
        selecting a plurality of symbols  from a symbol set
   for display on a first video display and a second video
   display, and
15      evaluating a symbol subset comprising one or more of
   the plurality of symbols to determine whether to make an
   award;
        wherein a number of symbols of the symbol subset is
   higher than a number of symbols in the symbol subset
20 evaluated by the game controller in a previous game
   instance.
   38. The method in accordance with claim 37 wherein the
   plurality of symbols comprise a movable symbol and the
25 game controller moves the movable symbol from a first
   symbol display position to a second symbol display
   position.
   39. The method in accordance with claim 37 or 38 wherein
30 the game controller is further arranged to increase a
   multiplier.
   40. An electronic gaming system comprising:
        a first video display means;
35      a second video display means; and
        means for selecting a plurality of symbols  from a
   symbol set for display on the first video display and the

                              - 35
   second video display;
        means for evaluating a symbol subset comprising one
   or more of the plurality of symbols to determine whether
   to make an award;
 5      wherein a number of symbols of the symbol subset is
   higher than a number of symbols in the symbol subset
   evaluated by the means for evaluating the symbol subset in
   a previous game instance.
10 41. Computer program code which when executed by a
   processor causes the processor to:
        select a plurality of symbols from a symbol set for
   display on a first video display and a second video
   display, and
15      evaluate a symbol subset comprising one or more of
   the plurality of symbols to determine whether to make an
   award;
        wherein a number of symbols of the symbol subset is
   higher than a number of symbols in the symbol subset
20 evaluated by the processor in a previous game instance.
   42. A tangible computer readable medium comprising the
   computer program code of claim 41.
25 43. A distributed electronic gaming system comprising:
        a gaming server suitable for communicating with one
   or more client devices over a communication network;
        the gaming server comprising a game controller
   arranged to select a plurality of  symbols from a symbol
30 set for display on a first video display area and a second
   video display area of the one or more client devices and,
   evaluate a symbol subset comprising one or more of the
   plurality of symbols to determine whether to make an
   award;
35      wherein a number of symbols of the symbol subset is
   higher than a number of symbols in the symbol subset
   evaluated by the game controller in a previous game

                              - 36
   instance.
   44. The electronic gaming system in accordance with claim
   43 wherein during a first game instance the one or more of
 5 the plurality of symbols of the symbol subset are
   displayed in respective symbol display positions arranged
   on the first video display area of the one or more client
   devices.
10 45. The electronic gaming system in accordance with claims
   43 or 44 wherein the plurality of symbols comprise a
   movable symbol and the game controller is arranged to move
   the movable symbol from a first symbol display position to
   a second symbol display position.
15
   46. The electronic gaming system in accordance with claim
   45 wherein the movable symbol is a wild symbol.
   47. The electronic gaming system in accordance with any
20 one of claims 43 to 46 wherein the game controller is
   further arranged to increase a multiplier.

<removed-date>   <U+03ED>
<removed-apn>
                                            
                          <U+03F2><U+03EE>      <U+03F2><U+03F0>
                                                 
                  <U+03F1><U+03EE>      <U+03F1><U+03F0>      <U+03F1><U+03F2>   <U+03F1><U+03F4>
                       )LJXUH

<removed-date>
                                   <U+03EE><U+03F4>
                                                   <U+03ED><U+03EC>
<removed-apn>
                        <U+03EE><U+03F2>
                              <U+03F1><U+03EE>
                                                   <U+03F1><U+03EC>
                         <U+03ED><U+03F0>
                                                   <U+03ED><U+03EE>
              <U+03EE><U+03EC>
                    <U+03EE><U+03EE>
                   <U+03EE><U+03F5>
                         <U+03EF><U+03EC>
                                        &sO<U+01B5><U+018C>G<U+03EE>

                                                                                    
<removed-date>
                                *DPH&RQWUROOHU
                                          
              DGw<U+018C><U+01C7>                                        ZE'
                                
<removed-apn>
                                   W<U+018C>G<U+0190><U+0190><U+018C>                   EGl<U+01C1><U+018C>UA<U+018C>E
                                                                        
                                 
                /<U+036C>K                                        DGlG<U+018C><U+0190>
                                                                                      
                               d<U+01B5>S^<U+018C>GGYAYE<U+036C>
              s<U+0190>uA<U+01C7><U+0190>                                A<U+018C>E<U+036C>lsUGlZGAEG<U+018C>
                                  <U+018C><U+01B5>llY<U+0190>
                                                                 
                                 sYsY<U+01B5>l<U+036C>dsuu
              W<U+018C>sYlG<U+018C>                                    sYK<U+01B5>l<U+01B5>l
                                   AGl<U+018C>
                                                                 
                                    )LJXUH                                              
                                                             DA<U+0190><U+0190><U+0190>l<U+018C>AOG
              ZD                      WZKD
                                                               EG|sG
              <U+03ED><U+03EC><U+03EF>                      <U+03ED><U+03EC><U+03EF>
                                                                <U+03ED><U+03EC><U+03EF>
                                                                              
                                    )LJXUH

                                                                
<removed-date>
                                       
                                                                        
                                                                     
                                                                                 
                                                                                     
<removed-apn>
                    
                                                                      'DWDEDVH
                                                                                     $
                                                         
                                                                        
                            
                                                                         
                                                                         
                                                                                     &s<U+018C>G<U+01C1>Auu
                               
                                                                                   7RORFDO
                                                                                   DUHDRU
                                                                                  ZLGHDUHD
                                                                               QHWZRUN V
                    )LJXUH

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
              700
                     702 SELECT A PLURALITY OF
                    SYMBOLS FROM A SYMBOL SET
                      704 DISPLAY THE SELECTED
<removed-apn>
                     SYMBOLS ON A PLURALITY OF
                     SYMBOL DISPLAY POSITIONS
                      ON THE FIRST AND SECOND
                            VIDEO DISPLAY
                      708 MOVING THE MOVABLE
                          SYMBOL UPWARDS
                       709 ADDING ONE OR MORE
                       SYMBOLS TO THE SYMBOL
                                SUBSET
                     710 EVALUATING THE SYMBOL
                      SUBSET AND DETERMINING
                     WHETHER TO MAKE AN AWARD
                      712 MAKE ANY DETERMINED
                               AWARD
                             Figure 7

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                             800
Figure 8A
               854

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
             856               850
Figure 8B
                         852

