                                           Abstract
   The disclosed product is a Biodegradable cup for mass disaster relief. It utilises already
existing technologies such as water purification tablets and beeswax wrap made from tress
 resin, cotton and beeswax in order to create a process that is environmentally friendly and
                 that provides safe drinking water in times of natural disaster.
The cup is specifically designed in the shape of a triangular prism with one unclosed end so
  that it can be folded into a compact shape and be packed on mass for easy and effective
   distribution. The product utilises symbols so that it can be used in non-English speaking
  countries and is intended to purify a minimum of 250mLs (when used with commercially
sized water purification tablets) of water to a level of hygiene safe for human consumption.

          Editorial Note
            <removed-apn>
There are two pages of description only

                                            Description
The Biodegradable Cup for Mass Disaster Relief is created in order to respond to the
problem of unclean drinking water in times of natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes,
hurricanes, cyclones and other natural disasters. It is intended to stop the consumption of
unclean drinking water leading to diseases such as Chlorea, Guinea Worm Disease and
Typhoid.
The Cup is made from completely biodegradable materials including graphic cardboard and
beeswax wrap made of a combination of tree resin, organic cotton and beeswax. The only
non-biodegradable aspect of the product is the glue used to join the product at the corners.
It is made in this biodegradable fashion in order to reduce the amount of waste that follows
natural disasters so that rather than adding to debris once the product is used, it is able to
either be recycled or to biodegrade making it environmentally friendly.
The process of using the cup itself involves unfolding the cup from its flat pack form and
using a water purification tablet (already made and not of my invention) that is placed
within a Soilin teabag (also biodegradable). The user places the tea bag (with tablet inside)
inside the cup full of 250mLs of water and leaves it for 20 minutes allowing the water to be
cleaned by the iodine within the tablet. This then purifies the water and makes it safe for
human consumption.
The cup is made unique by its triangular prism shape that folds in upon itself to flat pack
down in one easy fold. This means that the product can be packed on mass to be dropped in
disaster relief zones effectively. The folding nature of the cup may be better understood
using Figures 1 and 2. Figure 1 shows the bottom of the cup when opened and Figure 2
shows the bottom and top when it is folded up using a perforated centre line on face of the
prism.
The product will use images on the outside of the cup acting as instructions for non-English
speaking countries. These will consist of warnings against the consumption of the water
purification tablet alone and the time required for the tablet to dissolve to make the
product safe for consumption.
Though the final dimensions of the cup have not been decided upon yet, it is made to hold a
minimum of 250mLs of water to allow an average water purification tablet to be used safely
for human consumption. Figure 3 shows the current dimensions of the cup (in millimetres)
along with the isometric view and shape of the product. It is made to be easily held using

one hand and can withstand being manipulated in shape by the user due to its malleable
material.
Currently the cup is made from graphic cardboard upcycled from used cereal boxes and that
of other products. As well as pre-existing water purification tablets, teabags and the product
of beeswax wrap. It is cut out using the Template shown in Figure 4 using laser cutter
technology (the red lines representing complete cuts through the material and the blue
etches into the material allowing for easier folding of the shape). The additional diagonal
blue lines within the centre triangle of the template are integral to the design as they allow
the shape to fold in on itself as shown in the drawings of Figure 5.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

The claims of the defining invention are as follows
   1. A cup made from biodegradable cardboard utilising glue, beeswax wrap, teabags and
        water purification tablets to create a product that can be used to purify unclean
        drinking water. The cup is made is a triangular shape in order that it can be folded
        into a compact shape and therefore packed on mass to be dropped into disaster
        relief zones
   2. The cup can effectively hold at least 250mLs of water when used with commercially
        sized water purification tablets, however the design could be used in a smaller size
        to fulfil Claim 1 if a smaller tablet were designed and utilised. It can be used multiple
        times, however it is not intended for extended use to its main material of cardboard
        and the time period it is intended for (this being the immediate weeks following a
        natural disaster)
   3. As per Claim 2, the cup uses pre-existing technology of water purification tablets in
        order to clean unsafe drinking water to a hygiene level safe for human consumption
   4. The cup utilises symbols as instructions so that it may be used in non-English
        speaking countries and these instructions are held on every product to make sure it
        is safely used by the user
   5. The cup's unique shape allows it to be packed and stored like no other cup, and its
        biodegradable state makes it unique from other humanitarian aid products

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
            <removed-apn>               <removed-date>
Figure 5-                Figure 4-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
