  ABSTRACT
        A portable radar sensing device comprises: a millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit;
  a control unit, including at least one processor and at least one memory; at least one
  information outputting unit; and an operation interface; wherein the control unit is
5 coupled to the millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit, the at least one information
  outputting unit and the operation interface for processing a biological detecting
  operation, and the biological detecting operation includes a space scanning operation
  and a biological target scanning operation.

                 10
                                   130
                        OPERATION
                        INTERFACE
          100
                                       110
MILLIMETER-WAVE<       CONTROL UNIT
MIMO RADAR UNIT
                     PROCESSOR MEMORY
  INFORMATION
OUTPUTTING UNIT
                         111      112
      120
                FIG. 1

                            PORTABLE RADAR SENSING DEVICE
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   1. Field of the Invention:
 5       The present invention relates to a portable radar sensing device used in a disaster
   relief operation.
   2. Description of Related Art:
         Conventional life detecting equipment used in a disaster relief operation has the
   disadvantage of being bulky and not easy to be carried around or moved.
10       In addition, even if conventional life detecting equipment detects a target having
   vital signs, the biological type, the amount and the relative location of the target in the
   disaster scene are unable to be precisely determined.
         For solving the above-mentioned disadvantages, a novel sensing device used in a
   disaster relief operation shall be developed.
15
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         One primary objective of the present invention is to provide a portable radar
   sensing device, in which a millimeter-wave MIMO (multiple-input-multiple-output)
   radar unit is utilized for detecting the relative location of a biological target to be
20 rescued in a disaster scene.
         Another objective of the present invention is to provide a portable radar sensing
   device, in which the combination of a millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit and a TOF
   (time-of-flight) laser unit is utilized for detecting the relative location of a biological
   target to be rescued in a disaster scene.
25       Another objective of the present invention is to provide a portable radar sensing
                                                 1

   device, in which the combination of a millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit and an
   acceleration sensing unit is utilized for detecting the relative location of a biological
   target to be rescued in a disaster scene.
         Still another objective of the present invention is to provide a portable radar
 5 sensing device, in which the combination of a millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit, a
   TOF laser unit and an acceleration sensing unit is utilized for detecting the relative
   location of a biological target to be rescued in a disaster scene.
         Still another objective of the present invention is to provide a portable radar
   sensing device, in which the combination of a millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit and
10 a thermal image sensing unit is utilized for detecting the relative location of a
   biological target to be rescued in a disaster scene.
         Still another objective of the present invention is to provide a portable radar
   sensing device, in which the combination of a millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit, a
   TOF laser unit and a thermal image sensing unit is utilized for detecting the relative
15 location of a biological target to be rescued in a disaster scene.
         Still another objective of the present invention is to provide a portable radar
   sensing device, in which the combination of a millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit, an
   acceleration sensing unit and a thermal image sensing unit is utilized for detecting the
   relative location of a biological target to be rescued in a disaster scene.
20       Still another objective of the present invention is to provide a portable radar
   sensing device, in which the combination of a millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit, a
   TOF laser unit, an acceleration sensing unit and a thermal image sensing unit is
   utilized for detecting the relative location of a biological target to be rescued in a
   disaster scene.
25       Still another objective of the present invention is to provide a portable radar
   sensing device, in which an augmented reality image is utilized for making a certain
                                                 2

   mark in a disaster scene to help the rescue personnel easily detect a biological target
   to be rescued.
         Still another objective of the present invention is to provide a portable radar
   sensing device, in which an artificial intelligence module is utilized for processing a
 5 biological detecting operation.
         For achieving said objectives, the present invention provides a portable radar
   sensing device, which comprises:
         a millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit;
         a control unit, including at least one processor and at least one memory;
10       at least one information outputting unit; and
         an operation interface;
         wherein the control unit is coupled to the millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit, the
   at least one information outputting unit and the operation interface for processing a
   biological detecting operation, and the biological detecting operation includes a space
15 scanning operation and a biological target scanning operation.
         According to one embodiment of the present invention, the at least one
   information outputting unit includes a displayer and/or a speaker.
         According to one embodiment of the present invention, the operation interface
   includes a button unit and/or a touch control unit.
20       According to one embodiment of the present invention, the at least one memory
   is served to store a biometric characteristic database.
         According to one embodiment of the present invention, the space scanning
   operation is served to generate a space map according to a plurality of outputted
   signals of the millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit.
25       According to one embodiment of the present invention, the biological target
   scanning operation is served to identify at least one biological target in the space map
                                                 3

   according to the plural outputted signals of the millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit.
        For achieving said objectives, the present invention provides a portable radar
   sensing device, which comprises:
        a millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit;
 5      a TOF laser unit;
        a control unit, including at least one processor and at least one memory;
        at least one information outputting unit; and
        an operation interface;
        wherein the control unit is coupled to the millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit, the
10 TOF laser unit, the at least one information outputting unit and the operation interface
   for processing a biological detecting operation, and the biological detecting operation
   includes a space scanning operation and a biological target scanning operation.
        For achieving said objectives, the present invention provides a portable radar
   sensing device, which comprises:
15      a millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit;
        an acceleration sensing unit;
        a control unit, including at least one processor and at least one memory;
        at least one information outputting unit; and
        an operation interface;
20      wherein the control unit is coupled to the millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit, the
   acceleration sensing unit, the at least one information outputting unit and the
   operation interface for processing a biological detecting operation, and the biological
   detecting operation includes a space scanning operation and a biological target
   scanning operation.
25      For achieving said objectives, the present invention provides a portable radar
   sensing device, which comprises:
                                                4

         a millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit;
         a TOF laser unit;
         an acceleration sensing unit;
         a control unit, including at least one processor and at least one memory;
 5       at least one information outputting unit; and
         an operation interface;
         wherein the control unit is coupled to the millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit, the
   TOF laser unit, the acceleration sensing unit, the at least one information outputting
   unit and the operation interface for processing a biological detecting operation, and
10 the biological detecting operation includes a space scanning operation and a
   biological target scanning operation.
         According to one embodiment of the present invention, the portable radar
   sensing device further includes a thermal image sensing unit.
         For fully disclosing the structure, the characteristic and the objective of the
15 present invention, one preferred embodiment with reference to figures is provided
   hereinafter for detailed illustration.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         FIG. 1 is a block diagram illustrating the portable radar sensing device according
20 to one embodiment of the present invention;
         FIG. 2 is a block diagram illustrating the portable radar sensing device according
   to another embodiment of the present invention;
         FIG. 3 is a block diagram illustrating the portable radar sensing device according
   to still another embodiment of the present invention;
25       FIG. 4 is a block diagram illustrating the portable radar sensing device according
                                                 5

   to still another embodiment of the present invention;
         FIG. 5 is a block diagram illustrating the portable radar sensing device according
   to still another embodiment of the present invention;
         FIG. 6 is a block diagram illustrating the portable radar sensing device according
 5 to still another embodiment of the present invention;
         FIG. 7 is a block diagram illustrating the portable radar sensing device according
   to still another embodiment of the present invention; and
         FIG. 8 is a block diagram illustrating the portable radar sensing device according
   to still another embodiment of the present invention.
10
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
         Please refer to FIG. 1, which is a block diagram illustrating the portable radar
   sensing device according to one embodiment of the present invention. As shown in
   FIG. 1, the present invention provides a portable radar sensing device 10, which
15 comprises a millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit 100, a control unit 110, at least one
   information outputting unit 120 and an operation interface 130.
         The working frequency range of the millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit 100 is in
   a millimeter range and preferably to be (but not limited to) 30GHz to 300GHz, and
   the millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit 100 is capable of measuring the distance and
20 the relative velocity of an target and the micro movement of the target.
         The control unit 110 includes at least one processor 111 and at least one memory
   112, wherein the at least one memory 112 is served to store a biometric characteristic
   database for enabling the control unit 110 to identify the biological type of the target.
         The information outputting unit 120 includes a displayer and/or a speaker.
25       The operation interface 130 includes a button unit and/or a touch control unit.
                                                6

         Wherein, the control unit 110 is coupled to the millimeter-wave MIMO radar
   unit 100, the at least one information outputting unit 120 and the operation interface
   130 for processing a biological detecting operation, the biological detecting operation
   includes a space scanning operation and a biological target scanning operation. The
 5 space scanning operation is served to generate a space map according to a plurality of
   outputted signals of the millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit 100; and the biological
   target scanning operation is served to identify at least one biological target in the
   space map according to the plural outputted signals of the millimeter-wave MIMO
   radar unit 100. In addition, the control unit 110 can enable the displayer to display an
10 augmented reality image for making a certain mark in a disaster scene to help the
   rescue personnel easily detect the biological target to be rescued. Moreover, the
   control unit 110 includes an artificial intelligence module for processing the biological
   detecting operation. Furthermore, the portable radar sensing device 10 can be worn on
   the rescue personnel.
15       Please refer to FIG. 2, which is a block diagram illustrating the portable radar
   sensing device according to another embodiment of the present invention. As shown
   in FIG. 2, a portable radar sensing device 20 comprises a millimeter-wave MIMO
   radar unit 100, a control unit 110, at least one information outputting unit 120, an
   operation interface 130 and a TOF laser unit 140.
20       Because the functions of the millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit 100, the
   information outputting unit 120 and the operation interface 130 have already been
   illustrated in the prior embodiment with reference to FIG. 1, no further illustration is
   provided.
         The control unit 110 includes at least one processor 111 and at least one memory
25 112. When in operation, the control unit 110 is coupled to the millimeter-wave MIMO
   radar unit 100, the TOF laser unit 140, the at least one information outputting unit 120
                                                 7

   and the operation interface 130 for processing a biological detecting operation, and
   the biological detecting operation includes a space scanning operation and a
   biological target scanning operation. The space scanning operation is served to
   generate    a space map according to a plurality of outputted signals of the
 5 millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit 100 and a plurality of outputted signals of the TOF
   laser unit 140. The biological target scanning operation is served to identify at least
   one biological target in the space map according to the plural outputted signals of the
   millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit 100 and the plural outputted signals of the TOF
   laser unit 140. In addition, the control unit 110 can enable the displayer to display an
10 augmented reality image for making a certain mark in a disaster scene to help the
   rescue personnel easily detect the biological target to be rescued. Moreover, the
   control unit 110 includes an artificial intelligence module for processing the biological
   detecting operation. Furthermore, the portable radar sensing device 20 can be worn on
   the rescue personnel.
15       Please refer to FIG. 3, which is a block diagram illustrating the portable radar
   sensing device according to one another embodiment of the present invention. As
   shown in FIG. 3, a portable radar sensing device 30 comprises a millimeter-wave
   MIMO radar unit 100, a control unit 110, at least one information outputting unit 120,
   an operation interface 130 and an acceleration sensing unit 150.
20       Because the functions of the millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit 100, the
   information outputting unit 120 and the operation interface 130 have already been
   illustrated in the prior embodiment with reference to FIG. 1, no further illustration is
   provided.
         The control unit 110 includes at least one processor 111 and at least one memory
25 112. When in operation, the control unit 110 is coupled to the millimeter-wave MIMO
   radar unit 100, the acceleration sensing unit 150, the at least one information
                                                  8

   outputting unit 120 and the operation interface 130 for processing a biological
   detecting operation, and the biological detecting operation includes a space scanning
   operation and a biological target scanning operation. The space scanning operation is
   served to generate a space map according to a plurality of outputted signals of the
 5 millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit 100. The biological target scanning operation is
   served to identify at least one biological target in the space map according to the
   plural outputted signals of the millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit 100 and a plurality
   of outputted signals of the acceleration sensing unit 150. In addition, the control unit
   110 can enable the displayer to display an augmented reality image for making a
10 certain mark in a disaster scene to help the rescue personnel easily detect the
   biological target to be rescued. Moreover, the control unit 110 includes an artificial
   intelligence module for processing the biological detecting operation. Furthermore,
   the portable radar sensing device 30 can be worn on the rescue personnel.
         Please refer to FIG. 4, which is a block diagram illustrating the portable radar
15 sensing device according to still one another embodiment of the present invention. As
   shown in FIG. 4, a portable radar sensing device 40 comprises a millimeter-wave
   MIMO radar unit 100, a control unit 110, at least one information outputting unit 120,
   an operation interface 130, a TOF laser unit 140 and an acceleration sensing unit 150.
         Because the functions of the millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit 100, the
20 information outputting unit 120 and the operation interface 130 have already been
   illustrated in the prior embodiment with reference to FIG. 1, no further illustration is
   provided.
         The control unit 110 includes at least one processor 111 and at least one memory
   112. When in operation, the control unit 110 is coupled to the millimeter-wave MIMO
25 radar unit 100, the TOF laser unit 140, the acceleration sensing unit 150, the at least
   one information outputting unit 120 and the operation interface 130 for processing a
                                                9

   biological detecting operation, and the biological detecting operation includes a space
   scanning operation and a biological target scanning operation. The space scanning
   operation is served to generate a space map according to a plurality of outputted
   signals of the millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit 100 and a plurality of outputted
 5 signals of the TOF laser unit 140. The biological target scanning operation is served to
   identify at least one biological target in the space map according to the plural
   outputted signals of the millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit 100 and the plural
   outputted signals of the TOF laser unit 140 and a plurality of outputted signals of the
   acceleration sensing unit 150. In addition, the control unit 110 can enable the
10 displayer to display an augmented reality image for making a certain mark in a
   disaster scene to help the rescue personnel easily detect the biological target to be
   rescued. Moreover, the control unit 110 includes an artificial intelligence module for
   processing the biological detecting operation. Furthermore, the portable radar sensing
   device 40 can be worn on the rescue personnel.
15       Moreover, a thermal image sensing unit is adopted in the present invention for
   assisting the detection of the biological target. Please refer to FIG. 5-FIG. 8, which are
   block diagrams illustrating the portable radar sensing device according to four another
   embodiment of the present invention. As shown from FIG. 5 to FIG. 8, a control unit
   110 adopted in a portable radar sensing device, 50, 60, 70, and 80 is coupled to a
20 thermal image sensing unit 160 for processing the above-mentioned biological
   detecting operation.
         Based on what has been disclosed above, advantages achieved by the present
   invention are as followings:
         1. According to the portable radar sensing device provided by the present
25           invention, the millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit can be served to detect the
             relative location of the biological target to be rescued in the disaster scene.
                                                 10

   2. According to the portable radar sensing device provided by the present
      invention, the combination of the millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit and the
      TOF laser unit can be served to detect the relative location of the biological
      target to be rescued in the disaster scene.
 5 3. According to the portable radar sensing device provided by the present
      invention, the combination of the millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit and the
      acceleration sensing unit can be served to detect the relative location of the
      biological target to be rescued in the disaster scene.
   4. According to the portable radar sensing device provided by the present
10    invention, the combination of the millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit, the
      TOF laser unit and the acceleration sensing unit can be served to detect the
      relative location of the biological target to be rescued in the disaster scene.
   5. According to the portable radar sensing device provided by the present
      invention, the combination of the millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit and the
15    thermal image sensing unit can be served to detect the relative location of the
      biological target to be rescued in the disaster scene.
   6. According to the portable radar sensing device provided by the present
      invention, the combination of the millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit, the
      TOF laser unit and the thermal image sensing unit can be served to detect the
20    relative location of the biological target to be rescued in the disaster scene.
   7. According to the portable radar sensing device provided by the present
      invention, the combination of the millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit, the
      acceleration sensing unit and the thermal image sensing unit can be served to
      detect the relative location of the biological target to be rescued in the
25    disaster scene.
   8. According to the portable radar sensing device provided by the present
                                          11

             invention, the combination of the millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit, the
             TOF laser unit, the acceleration sensing unit and the thermal image sensing
             unit can be served to detect the relative location of the biological target to be
             rescued in the disaster scene.
 5      9. According to the portable radar sensing device provided by the present
             invention, the augmented reality image can be utilized for making a certain
             mark in the disaster scene to help the rescue personnel easily detect the
             biological target to be rescued.
         10. According to the portable radar sensing device provided by the present
10           invention, the artificial intelligence module can be utilized for processing the
             biological detecting operation.
        Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein
   will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having
   the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated
15 drawings. Therefore, it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to
   the specific examples of the embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other
   embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims.
   Although specific terms are employed herein, they are used in a generic and
   descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.
20      Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
   requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
   "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
   group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of
   integers or steps.
25      The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
   as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the referenced prior art forms
                                                  12

part of the common general knowledge in Australia.
                                        13

   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
         1.   A portable radar sensing device, comprising:
        a millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit;
        a control unit, including at least one processor and at least one memory;
 5      at least one information outputting unit; and
        an operation interface;
        wherein said control unit is coupled to said millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit,
   said at least one information outputting unit and said operation interface for
   processing a biological detecting operation, and said biological detecting operation
10 includes a space scanning operation and a biological target scanning operation.
        2.    The portable radar sensing device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said at
   least one information outputting unit includes a displayer and/or a speaker, said
   operation interface includes a button unit and/or a touch control unit, and said at least
   one memory is served to store a biometric characteristic database.
15      3.    The portable radar sensing device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said space
   scanning operation is served to generate a space map according to a plurality of
   outputted signals of said millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit, and said biological target
   scanning operation is served to identify at least one biological target in said space map
   according to said plural outputted signals of said millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit.
20      4.    A portable radar sensing device, comprising:
        a millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit;
        a TOF laser unit and/or an acceleration sensing unit;
        a control unit, including at least one processor and at least one memory;
        at least one information outputting unit; and
25      an operation interface;
                                                14

        wherein said control unit is coupled to said millimeter-wave MIMO radar unit,
   said TOF laser unit and/or said acceleration sensing unit, said at least one information
   outputting unit and said operation interface for processing a biological detecting
   operation, and said biological detecting operation includes a space scanning operation
 5 and a biological target scanning operation.
        5.   The portable radar sensing device as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4, further
   including a thermal image sensing unit coupled to said control unit.
10
                                               15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/8

