                                           Abstract
The   present   invention relates   to peptides,    nucleic   acids and cells  for use     in
immunotherapeutic     methods.     In particular,   the present invention relates to the
immunotherapy of cancer.     The present invention furthermore relates to tumor-associated
cytotoxic T cell (CTL) peptide epitopes, alone or in combination with other tumor-associated
peptides that serve as active pharmaceutical ingredients of vaccine compositions that
stimulate anti-tumor immune responses. The present invention relates to 95 novel peptide
sequences and their variants derived from HLA class I molecules of human tumor cells that
can be used in vaccine compositions for eliciting anti-tumor immune responses.

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
Novel immunotherapy against several tumors including gastrointestinal and gastric
cancer
The present invention relates to peptides, nucleic acids and cells for use in
immunotherapeutic     methods.   In   particular,  the   present  invention  relates  to  the
immunotherapy of cancer. The present invention furthermore relates to tumor-associated
epitopes recognized by CD8+ T cells, alone or in combination with other tumor-associated
peptides that serve as active pharmaceutical ingredients of vaccine compositions that
stimulate anti-tumor immune responses. The present invention relates to 33 novel peptide
sequences and their variants derived from HLA class I molecules of human tumor cells that
can be used in vaccine compositions for eliciting anti-tumor immune responses, particularly
cytotoxic T cell (CTL) responses.
Background of the invention
Gastric cancer is a disease in which malignant cells form in the lining of the stomach.
Stomach or gastric cancer can develop in any part of the stomach and may spread
throughout the stomach and to other organs; particularly the esophagus, lungs and the liver.
Stomach cancer is the fourth most common cancer worldwide with 930,000 cases
diagnosed in 2002. It is a disease with a high death rate (~800,000 per year) making it the
second most common cause of cancer death worldwide after lung cancer. It is more
common in men and occurs more often in Asian countries and in developing countries.
(http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs297/en/.)
It represents roughly 2% (25,500 cases) of all new cancer cases yearly in the United States,
but it is more common in other countries. It is the leading cancer type in Korea, with 20.8%
of malignant neoplasms. In Japan gastric cancer remains the most common cancer for men.
Each year in the United States, about 13,000 men and 8,000 women are diagnosed with
stomach cancer. Most are over 70 years old.
Stomach cancer is the fourth most common cancer worldwide, after cancers of the lung,
breast, and colon and rectum. Furthermore, stomach cancer remains the second most

    WO 2011/113819                                                       PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            -2
common cause of death from cancer. The American Cancer Society estimates that in 2007
there were an estimated one million new cases, nearly 70% of them in developing
co u n t r i e s ,          a n d       a b o u t      8 0 0 , 0 0 0         d e a t h s
(http://www.cancer.org/downloads/STT/GlobalFacts_and         Figures_2007_rev2.pdf.)
Tremendous geographic variation exists in the incidence of this disease around the world.
Rates of the disease are highest in Asia and parts of South America and lowest in North
America. The highest death rates are recorded in Chile, Japan, South America, and the
former Soviet Union.
Gastric cancer is often diagnosed at an advanced stage, because screening is not performed
in most of the world, except in Japan (and in a limited fashion in Korea) where early
detection is often achieved. Thus, it continues to pose a major challenge for healthcare
professionals. Risk factors for gastric cancer are Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection,
smoking, high salt intake, and other dietary factors. A few gastric cancers (1% to 30%) are
associated with inherited gastric cancer predisposition syndromes. E-cadherin mutations
occur in approximately 25% of families with an autosomal dominant predisposition to
diffuse type gastric cancers. This subset of gastric cancer has been termed hereditary
diffuse gastric cancer.12 It may be useful to provide genetic counseling and to consider
prophylactic gastrectomy in young, asymptomatic carriers of germ-line truncating
The wall of the stomach is made up of 3 layers of tissue: the mucosal (innermost) layer, the
muscularis (middle) layer, and the serosal (outermost) layer. Gastric cancer begins in the
cells lining the mucosal layer and spreads through the outer layers as it grows. Four types
of standard treatment are used. Treatment for gastric cancer may involve surgery,
chemotherapy, radiation therapy or chemoradiation. Surgery is the primary treatment for
gastric cancer. The goal of surgery is to accomplish a complete resection with negative
margins (RO resection). However, approximately 50% of patients with locoregional gastric
cancer cannot undergo an RO resection. RI indicates microscopic residual cancer (positive
margins); and R2 indicates gross (macroscopic) residual cancer but not distant disease.
Patient outcome depends on the initial stage of the cancer at diagnosis (NCCN Clinical
Practice Guidelines in Oncology TM).

    WO 2011/113819                                                       PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            -3
The 5-year survival rate for curative surgical resection ranges from 30-50% for patients
with stage II disease and from 10-25% for patients with stage III disease. These patients
have a high likelihood of local and systemic relapse. Metastasis occurs in 80-90% of
individuals with stomach cancer, with a six month survival rate of 65% in those diagnosed
in early stages and less than 15% of those diagnosed in late stages.
Thus, there remains a need for new efficacious and safe treatment option for gastric cancer,
prostate carcinoma, oral cavity carcinomas, oral squamous carcinoma (OSCC), acute
myeloid leukemia (AML), H. pylori-induced                     MALT     lymphoma,      colon
carcinoma/colorectal cancer, glioblastoma, non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), cervical
carcinoma, human breast cancer, prostate cancer, colon cancer, pancreatic cancers,
pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, ovarian cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, liver cancer,
brain tumors of different phenotypes, leukemias such as acute lymphoblastic leukemia
(ALL), lung cancer, Ewing's sarcoma, endometrial cancer, head and neck squamous cell
carcinoma, epithelial cancer of the larynx, oesophageal carcinoma, oral carcinoma,
carcinoma of the urinary bladder, ovarian carcinomas, renal cell carcinoma, atypical
meningioma, papillary thyroid carcinoma, brain tumors, salivary duct carcinoma, cervical
cancer, extranodal T/NK-cell lymphomas, Non-Hodgkins Lymphoma and malignant solid
tumors of the lung and breast and other tumors enhancing the well-being of the patients
without using chemotherapeutic agents or other agents which may lead to severe side
effects.
The present invention incorporates peptides which stimulate the immune system and act as
anti-tumor-agents in a non-invasive fashion.
Summary of the invention
Stimulation of an immune response is dependent upon the presence of antigens recognised
as foreign by the host immune system. The discovery of the existence of tumour associated
antigens has raised the possibility of using a host's immune system to intervene in tumour
growth. Various mechanisms of harnessing both the humoral and cellular arms of the
immune system are currently being explored for cancer immunotherapy.

    WO 2011/113819                                                       PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            -4
Specific elements of the cellular immune response are capable of specifically recognising
and destroying tumour cells. The isolation of cytotoxic T-cells (CTLs) from tumour
infiltrating cell populations or from peripheral blood suggests that such cells play an
important role in natural immune defences against cancer. CD8-positive T-cells (TCD8) in
particular, which recognise Class I molecules of the major histocompatibility complex
(MHC)-bearing peptides of usually 8 to 10 amino acid residues derived from proteins or
defect ribosomal products (DRIPs) located in the cytosol, play an important role in this
response. The MHC-molecules of the human are also designated as human leukocyte
antigens (HLA).
There are two classes of MHC-molecules: MHC class I molecules that can be found on
most cells having a nucleus. MHC molecules are composed of an alpha heavy chain and
beta-2-microglobulin (MHC class I receptors) or an alpha and a beta chain (MHC class II
receptors), respectively. Their three-dimensional conformation results in a binding groove,
which is used for non-covalent interaction with peptides. MHC class I present peptides that
result from proteolytic cleavage of predominantly endogenous proteins, DRIPs and larger
peptides. MHC class II molecules can be found predominantly on professional antigen
presenting cells (APCs). They primarily present peptides of exogenous or transmembrane
proteins that are taken up by APCs during the course of endocytosis, and are subsequently
processed. Complexes of peptide and MHC class I molecules are recognized by CD8
positive cytotoxic T-lymphocytes bearing the appropriate T-cell receptor (TCR), whereas
complexes of peptide and MHC class II molecules are recognized by CD4-positive-helper
T cells bearing the appropriate TCR. It is well known that the TCR, the peptide and the
MHC are thereby present in a stoichiometric amount of 1:1:1.
For a peptide to elicit a cellular immune response, it must bind to an MHC-molecule. This
process is dependent on the allele of the MHC-molecule and specific polymorphisms of the
amino acid sequence of the peptide. MHC-class-I-binding peptides are usually 8-12 amino
acid residues in length and usually contain two conserved residues ("anchors") in their
sequence that interact with the corresponding binding groove of the MHC-molecule. In this
way each MHC allele has a "binding motif' determining which peptides can bind
specifically to the binding groove.

    WO 2011/113819                                                        PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             -5
In the MHC class I dependent immune reaction, peptides not only have to be able to bind to
certain MHC class I molecules being expressed by tumor cells, they also have to be
recognized by T cells bearing specific T cell receptors (TCR).
The antigens that are recognized by the tumor specific CTLs, that is, their epitopes, can be
molecules derived from all protein classes, such as enzymes, receptors, transcription
factors, etc. which are expressed and, as compared to unaltered cells of the same origin, up
regulated in cells of the respective tumor.
The current classification of tumor associated antigens (TAAs) comprises the following
major groups:
a) Cancer-testis antigens: The first TAAs ever identified that can be recognized by T cells
belong to this class, which was originally called cancer-testis (CT) antigens because of the
expression of its members in histologically different human tumors and, among normal
tissues, only in spermatocytes/spermatogonia of testis and, occasionally, in placenta. Since
the cells of testis do not express class I and II HLA molecules, these antigens cannot be
recognized by T cells in normal tissues and can therefore be considered as immunologically
tumor-specific. Well-known examples for CT antigens are the MAGE family members or
NY-ESO-1.
b) Differentiation antigens: These TAAs are shared between tumors and the normal tissue
from which the tumor arose; most are found in melanomas and normal melanocytes. Many
of these melanocyte lineage-related proteins are involved in the biosynthesis of melanin and
are therefore not tumor specific but nevertheless are widely used for cancer
immunotherapy. Examples include, but are not limited to, tyrosinase and Melan-A/MART
1 for melanoma or PSA for prostate cancer.
c) Overexpressed TAAs: Genes encoding widely expressed TAAs have been detected in
histologically different types of tumors as well as in many normal tissues, generally with
lower expression levels. It is possible that many of the epitopes processed and potentially
presented by normal tissues are below the threshold level for T-cell recognition, while their
overexpression in tumor cells can trigger an anticancer response by breaking previously
established tolerance. Prominent examples for this class of TAAs are Her-2/neu, Survivin,
Telomerase or WT1.

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                              -6
d) Tumor specific antigens: These unique TAAs arise from mutations of normal genes
(such as j-catenin, CDK4, etc.). Some of these molecular changes are associated with
neoplastic transformation and/or progression. Tumor specific antigens are generally able to
induce strong immune responses without bearing the risk for autoimmune reactions against
normal tissues. On the other hand, these TAAs are in most cases only relevant to the exact
tumor on which they were identified and are usually not shared between many individual
tumors.
e) TAAs arising from abnormal post-translational modifications: Such TAAs may arise
from proteins which are neither specific nor overexpressed in tumors but nevertheless
become tumor associated by posttranslational processes primarily active in tumors.
Examples for this class arise from altered glycosylation patterns leading to novel epitopes
in tumors as for MUC 1 or events like protein splicing during degradation which may or
may not be tumor specific.
f) Oncoviral proteins: These TAAs are viral proteins that may play a critical role in the
oncogenic process and, because they are foreign (not of human origin), they can evoke a T
cell response. Examples of such proteins are the human papilloma type 16 virus proteins,
E6 and E7, which are expressed in cervical carcinoma.
For proteins to be recognized by cytotoxic T-lymphocytes as tumor-specific or -associated
antigens, and to be used in a therapy, particular prerequisites must be fulfilled. The antigen
should be expressed mainly by tumor cells and not or in comparably small amounts by
normal healthy tissues. It is furthermore desirable, that the respective antigen is not only
present in a type of tumor, but also in high concentrations (i.e. copy numbers of the
respective peptide per cell). Tumor-specific and tumor-associated antigens are often
derived from proteins directly involved in transformation of a normal cell to a tumor cell
due to a function e.g. in cell cycle control or suppression of apoptosis. Additionally,
downstream targets of the proteins directly causative for a transformation may be
upregulated und thus may be indirectly tumor-associated. Such indirect tumor-associated
antigens may also be targets of a vaccination approach (Singh-Jasuja H., Emmerich N. P.,
Rammensee H. G., Cancer Immunol. Immunother. 2004 Mar; 453 (3): 187-95). In both
cases it is essential that epitopes are present in the amino acid sequence of the antigen,
since such a peptide ("immunogenic peptide") that is derived from a tumor associated
antigen should lead to an in vitro or in vivo T-cell-response.

    WO 2011/113819                                                           PCT/EP2011/053863
                                               -7
Basically, any peptide able to bind a MHC molecule may function as a T-cell epitope. A
prerequisite for the induction of an in vitro or in vivo T-cell-response is the presence of a T
cell with a corresponding TCR and the absence of immunological tolerance for this
particular epitope.
Therefore, TAAs are a starting point for the development of a tumor vaccine. The methods
for identifying and characterizing the TAAs are based on the use of CTL that can be
isolated from patients or healthy subjects, or they are based on the generation of differential
transcription profiles or differential peptide expression patterns between tumors and normal
tissues.
However, the identification of genes over-expressed in tumor tissues or human tumor cell
lines, or selectively expressed in such tissues or cell lines, does not provide precise
information as to the use of the antigens being transcribed from these genes in an immune
therapy. This is because only an individual subpopulation of epitopes of these antigens are
suitable for such an application since a T cell with a corresponding TCR has to be present
and immunological tolerance for this particular epitope needs to be absent or minimal. It is
therefore important to select only those peptides from over-expressed or selectively
expressed proteins that are presented in connection with MHC molecules against which a
functional T cell can be found. Such a functional T cell is defined as a T cell which upon
stimulation with a specific antigen can be clonally expanded and is able to execute effector
functions ("effector T cell").
T-helper cells play an important role in orchestrating the effector function of CTLs in anti
tumor immunity. T-helper cell epitopes that trigger a T-helper cell response of the    THI type
support effector functions of CD8-positive killer T cells, which include cytotoxic functions
directed against tumor cells displaying tumor-associated peptide/MHC complexes on their
cell surfaces. In this way tumor-associated T-helper cell peptide epitopes, alone or in
combination with other tumor-associated peptides, can serve as active pharmaceutical
ingredients of vaccine compositions which stimulate anti-tumor immune responses.
Brief description of the drawings

    WO 2011/113819                                                        PCT/EP2011/053863
Figure 1: Exemplary mass spectrum from CDC2-001 demonstrating its presentation on
primary tumor sample GC2464. NanoESI-LCMS was performed on a peptide pool eluted
from the GC sample 2464. The mass chromatogram for m/z 597.3501 ± 0.001 Da, z              = 2
shows a peptide peak at the retention time 151.63 min. B) The detected peak in the mass
chromatogram at 151.63 min revealed a signal of m/z 597.3501 in the MS spectrum. C) A
collisionally induced decay mass spectrum from the selected precursor m/z 597.3501
recorded in the nanoESI-LCMS experiment at the given retention time confirmed the
presence of CDC2-001 in the GC2464 tumor sample. D) The fragmentation pattern of the
synthetic CDC2-001 reference peptide was recorded and compared to the generated natural
TUMAP fragmentation pattern shown in C for sequence verification.
Figure 2: Expression profiles of mRNA of selected proteins in normal tissues and in 25
gastric cancer samples
a) CDC2 (Probeset ID: 203213_at)
b) ASPM (Probeset ID: 219918_s_at)
Figure 3: Exemplary results of peptide-specific in vitro immunogenicity of class I
TUMAPs. CD8+ T cells were primed using artificial APCs loaded with relevant (left panel)
and irrelevant peptide (right panel), respectively. After three cycles of stimulation, the
detection of peptide-reactive cells was performed by double staining with relevant plus
irrelevant A*2402-multimers. Shown cells are gated on live CD8+ lymphocytes and the
numbers in the plots represent percentages of multimer-positive cells.
Detailed description of the invention
As used herein and except as noted otherwise, all terms are defined as given below. The
term "peptide" is used herein to designate a series of amino acid residues, connected one to
the other typically by peptide bonds between the alpha-amino and carbonyl groups of the
adjacent amino acids. The peptides are preferably 9 amino acids in length, but can be as
short as 8 amino acids in length, and as long as 10, 11, 12, 13 or 14 amino acids in length.
The term "oligopeptide" is used herein to designate a series of amino acid residues,
connected one to the other typically by peptide bonds between the alpha-amino and
carbonyl groups of the adjacent amino acids. The length of the oligopeptide is not critical to

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             -9
the invention, as long as the correct epitope or epitopes are maintained therein. The
oligopeptides are typically less than about 30 amino acid residues in length, and greater
than about 14 amino acids in length.
The term "polypeptide" designates a series of amino acid residues, connected one to the
other typically by peptide bonds between the alpha-amino and carbonyl groups of the
adjacent amino acids. The length of the polypeptide is not critical to the invention as long
as the correct epitopes are maintained. In contrast to the terms peptide or oligopeptide, the
term polypeptide is meant to refer to molecules containing more than about 30 amino acid
residues.
A peptide, oligopeptide, protein or polynucleotide coding for such a molecule is
"immunogenic" (and thus is an "immunogen" within the present invention), if it is capable
of inducing an immune response. In the case of the present invention, immunogenicity is
more specifically defined as the ability to induce a T-cell response. Thus, an "immunogen"
would be a molecule that is capable of inducing an immune response, and in the case of the
present invention, a molecule capable of inducing a T-cell response.
A T-cell "epitope" requires a short peptide that is bound to a class I MHC receptor, forming
a ternary complex (MHC class I alpha chain, beta-2-microglobulin, and peptide) that can be
recognized by a T cell bearing a matching T-cell receptor binding to the MHC/peptide
complex with appropriate affinity. Peptides binding to MHC class I molecules are typically
8-14 amino acids in length, and most typically 9 amino acids in length.
In humans there, are three different genetic loci that encode MHC class I molecules (the
MHC-molecules of the human are also designated human leukocyte antigens (HLA)):
HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-C. HLA-A*01, HLA-A*02, and HLA-A*024 are examples of
different MHC class I alleles that can be expressed from these loci.
Table 1: Expression frequencies F of HLA*A024 and the most frequent HLA*A02402
serotypes. Frequencies are deduced from haplotype frequencies Gf within the American
population adapted from Mori et al. (Mori et al. 1017-27) employing the Hardy-Weinberg
formula F=1-(1-G) 2 . For details refer to Chanock et al. (Chanock et al. 1211-23).

    WO 2011/113819                                                       PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 10
Expression frequencies of HLA*24 and A*2402 serotypes worldwide
Allele     Population        Calculated phenotype from Allele Frequency
A*24       Philippines       65%
A*24       Russia Nenets     61%
A*2402     Japan             59%
A*24       Malaysia          58%
A*2402     Philippines       54%
A*24       India             47%
A*24        South Korea      40%
A*24        Sri Lanka        37%
A*24        China            32%
A*2402     India             29%
A*24       Australia West    22%
A*24       USA               22%
A*24       Russia Samara     20%
A*24        South Amerika    20%
A*24       Europa            18%
As used herein, reference to a DNA sequence includes both single stranded and double
stranded DNA. Thus, the specific sequence, unless the context indicates otherwise, refers to
the single strand DNA of such sequence, the duplex of such sequence with its complement
(double stranded DNA) and the complement of such sequence. The term "coding region"
refers to that portion of a gene which either naturally or normally codes for the expression
product of that gene in its natural genomic environment, i.e., the region coding in vivo for
the native expression product of the gene.
The coding region can be from an non-mutated ("normal"), mutated or altered gene, or can
even be from a DNA sequence, or gene, wholly synthesized in the laboratory using
methods well known to those of skill in the art of DNA synthesis.
The term "nucleotide sequence" refers to a heteropolymer of deoxyribonucleotides.

    WO 2011/113819                                                       PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 11
The nucleotide sequence coding for a particular peptide, oligopeptide, or polypeptide may
be naturally occurring or they may be synthetically constructed. Generally, DNA segments
encoding the peptides, polypeptides, and proteins of this invention are assembled from
cDNA fragments and short oligonucleotide linkers, or from a series of oligonucleotides, to
provide a synthetic gene that is capable of being expressed in a recombinant transcriptional
unit comprising regulatory elements derived from a microbial or viral operon.
The term "expression product" means the polypeptide or protein that is the natural
translation product of the gene and any nucleic acid sequence coding equivalents resulting
from genetic code degeneracy and thus coding for the same amino acid(s).
The term "fragment", when referring to a coding sequence, means a portion of DNA
comprising less than the complete coding region, whose expression product retains
essentially the same biological function or activity as the expression product of the
complete coding region.
The term "DNA segment" refers to a DNA polymer, in the form of a separate fragment or
as a component of a larger DNA construct, which has been derived from DNA isolated at
least once in substantially pure form, i.e., free of contaminating endogenous materials and
in a quantity or concentration enabling identification, manipulation, and recovery of the
segment and its component nucleotide sequences by standard biochemical methods, for
example, by using a cloning vector. Such segments are provided in the form of an open
reading frame uninterrupted by internal nontranslated sequences, or introns, which are
typically present in eukaryotic genes. Sequences of non-translated DNA may be present
downstream from the open reading frame, where the same do not interfere with
manipulation or expression of the coding regions.
The term "primer" means a short nucleic acid sequence that can be paired with one strand
of DNA and provides a free 3'OH end at which a DNA polymerase starts synthesis of a
deoxyribonucleotide chain.
The term "promoter" means a region of DNA involved in binding of RNA polymerase to
initiate transcription.

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 12
The term "isolated" means that the material is removed from its original environment (e.g.,
the natural environment if it is naturally occurring). For example, a naturally-occurring
polynucleotide or polypeptide present in a living animal is not isolated, but the same
polynucleotide or polypeptide, separated from some or all of the coexisting materials in the
natural system, is isolated. Such polynucleotides could be part of a vector and/or such
polynucleotides or polypeptides could be part of a composition, and still be isolated in that
such vector or composition is not part of its natural environment.
The polynucleotides, and recombinant or immunogenic polypeptides, disclosed in
accordance with the present invention may also be in "purified" form. The term "purified"
does not require absolute purity; rather, it is intended as a relative definition, and can
include preparations that are highly purified or preparations that are only partially purified,
as those terms are understood by those of skill in the relevant art. For example, individual
clones isolated from a cDNA library have been conventionally purified to electrophoretic
homogeneity. Purification of starting material or natural material to at least one order of
magnitude, preferably two or three orders, and more preferably four or five orders of
magnitude is expressly contemplated. Furthermore, a claimed polypeptide which has a
purity of preferably 99.999%, or at least 99.99% or 99.9%; and even desirably 99% by
weight or greater is expressly contemplated.
The nucleic acids and polypeptide expression products disclosed according to the present
invention, as well as expression vectors containing such nucleic acids and/or such
polypeptides, may be in "enriched form". As used herein, the term "enriched" means that
the concentration of the material is at least about 2, 5, 10, 100, or 1000 times its natural
concentration (for example), advantageously 0.01 %, by weight, preferably at least about
0.l1% by weight. Enriched preparations of about 0.5%, 1%, 5%, 10%, and 20% by weight
are also contemplated. The sequences, constructs, vectors, clones, and other materials
comprising the present invention can advantageously be in enriched or isolated form.
The term "active fragment" means a fragment that generates an immune response (i.e., has
immunogenic activity) when administered, alone or optionally with a suitable adjuvant, to
an animal, such as a mammal, for example, a rabbit or a mouse, and also including a

     WO 2011/113819                                                       PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 13
human, such immune response taking the form of stimulating a T-cell response within the
recipient animal, such as a human. Alternatively, the "active fragment" may also be used to
induce a T-cell response in vitro.
As used herein, the terms "portion", "segment" and "fragment," when used in relation to
polypeptides, refer to a continuous sequence of residues, such as amino acid residues,
which sequence forms a subset of a larger sequence. For example, if a polypeptide were
subjected to treatment with any of the common endopeptidases, such as trypsin or
chymotrypsin, the oligopeptides resulting from such treatment would represent portions,
segments or fragments of the starting polypeptide. This means that any such fragment will
necessarily contain as part of its amino acid sequence a segment, fragment or portion, that
is substantially identical, if not exactly identical, to a sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 to 33,
which correspond to the naturally occurring, or "parent" proteins of the SEQ ID NO: 1 to
33. When used in relation to polynucleotides, these terms refer to the products produced by
treatment of said polynucleotides with any of the common endonucleases.
In accordance with the present invention, the term "percent identity" or "percent identical",
when referring to a sequence, means that a sequence is compared to a claimed or described
sequence after alignment of the sequence to be compared (the "Compared Sequence") with
the described or claimed sequence (the "Reference Sequence"). The Percent Identity is then
determined according to the following formula:
Percent Identity  = 100 [I -(C/R)]
wherein C is the number of differences between the Reference Sequence and the Compared
Sequence over the length of alignment between the Reference Sequence and the Compared
Sequence, wherein
(i) each base or amino acid in the Reference Sequence that does not have a corresponding
aligned base or amino acid in the Compared Sequence and
(ii) each gap in the Reference Sequence and
(iii) each aligned base or amino acid in the Reference Sequence that is different from an
aligned base or amino acid in the Compared Sequence, constitutes a difference; and R is the
number of bases or amino acids in the Reference Sequence over the length of the alignment
with the Compared Sequence with any gap created in the Reference Sequence also being
counted as a base or amino acid.

    WO 2011/113819                                                          PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 14
If an alignment exists between the Compared Sequence and the Reference Sequence for
which the percent identity as calculated above is about equal to or greater than a specified
minimum Percent Identity then the Compared Sequence has the specified minimum percent
identity to the Reference Sequence even though alignments may exist in which the herein
above calculated Percent Identity is less than the specified Percent Identity.
The original peptides disclosed herein can be modified by the substitution of one or more
residues at different, possibly selective, sites within the peptide chain, if not otherwise
stated. Such substitutions may be of a conservative nature, for example, where one amino
acid is replaced by an amino acid of similar structure and characteristics, such as where a
hydrophobic amino acid is replaced by another hydrophobic amino acid. Even more
conservative would be replacement of amino acids of the same or similar size and chemical
nature, such as where leucine is replaced by isoleucine. In studies of sequence variations in
families of naturally occurring homologous proteins, certain amino acid substitutions are
more often tolerated than others, and these are often show correlation with similarities in
size, charge, polarity, and hydrophobicity between the original amino acid and its
replacement, and such is the basis for defining "conservative substitutions."
Conservative substitutions are herein defined as exchanges within one of the following five
groups: Group 1-small aliphatic, nonpolar or slightly polar residues (Ala, Ser, Thr, Pro,
Gly); Group 2-polar, negatively charged residues and their amides (Asp, Asn, Glu, Gln);
Group 3-polar, positively charged residues (His, Arg, Lys); Group 4-large, aliphatic,
nonpolar residues (Met, Leu, Ile, Val, Cys); and Group 5-large, aromatic residues (Phe,
Tyr, Trp).
Less conservative substitutions might involve the replacement of one amino acid by another
that has similar characteristics but is somewhat different in size, such as replacement of an
alanine by an isoleucine residue. Highly non-conservative replacements might involve
substituting an acidic amino acid for one that is polar, or even for one that is basic in
character. Such "radical" substitutions cannot, however, be dismissed as potentially
ineffective since chemical effects are not totally predictable and radical substitutions might

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 15
well give rise to serendipitous effects not otherwise predictable from simple chemical
principles.
Of course, such substitutions may involve structures other than the common L-amino acids.
Thus, D-amino acids might be substituted for the L-amino acids commonly found in the
antigenic peptides of the invention and yet still be encompassed by the disclosure herein. In
addition, amino acids possessing non-standard R groups (i.e., R groups other than those
found in the common 20 amino acids of natural proteins) may also be used for substitution
purposes to produce immunogens and immunogenic polypeptides according to the present
invention.
If substitutions at more than one position are found to result in a peptide with substantially
equivalent or greater antigenic activity as defined below, then combinations of those
substitutions will be tested to determine if the combined substitutions result in additive or
synergistic effects on the antigenicity of the peptide. At most, no more than 4 positions
within the peptide would simultaneously be substituted.
The term "T-cell response" means the specific proliferation and activation of effector
functions induced by a peptide in vitro or in vivo. For MHC class I restricted CTLs,
effector functions may be lysis of peptide-pulsed, peptide-precursor pulsed or naturally
peptide-presenting target cells, secretion of cytokines, preferably Interferon-gamma, TNF
alpha, or IL-2 induced by peptide, secretion of effector molecules, preferably granzymes or
perforins induced by peptide, or degranulation.
Preferably, when the CTLs specific for a peptide of SEQ IDs NO: 1 to 33 are tested against
the substituted peptides, the peptide concentration at which the substituted peptides achieve
half the maximal increase in lysis relative to background is no more than about 1 mM,
preferably no more than about 1 gM, more preferably no more than about 1 nM, and still
more preferably no more than about 100 pM, and most preferably no more than about 10
pM. It is also preferred that the substituted peptide be recognized by CTLs from more than
one individual, at least two, and more preferably three individuals.

    WO 2011/113819                                                            PCT/EP2011/053863
                                              - 16
Thus, the epitopes of the present invention may be identical to naturally occurring tumor
associated or tumor-specific epitopes or may include epitopes that differ by no more than 4
residues from the reference peptide, as long as they have substantially identical antigenic
activity.
Immunotherapeutic approaches for treatment
Stimulation of an immune response is dependent upon the presence of antigens recognized
as foreign by the host immune system. The discovery of the existence of tumor associated
antigens has now raised the possibility of using a host's immune system to intervene in
tumor growth. Various mechanisms of harnessing both the humoral and cellular arms of the
immune system are currently explored for cancer immunotherapy.
Specific elements of the cellular immune response are capable of specifically recognizing
and destroying tumor cells. The isolation of cytotoxic T-cells (CTL) from tumor-infiltrating
cell populations or from peripheral blood suggests that such cells play an important role in
natural immune defenses against cancer. CD8-positive T-cells in particular, which
recognize class I molecules of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-bearing
peptides of usually 8 to 12 residues derived from proteins or defect ribosomal products
(DRIPS) located in the cytosols, play an important role in this response. The MHC
molecules of the human are also designated as human leukocyte-antigens (HLA).
MHC class I molecules can be found on most cells having a nucleus which present peptides
that result from proteolytic cleavage of mainly endogenous, cytosolic or nuclear proteins,
DRIPS, and larger peptides. However, peptides derived from endosomal compartments or
exogenous sources are also frequently found on MHC class I molecules. This non-classical
way of class I presentation is referred to as cross-presentation in literature.
For proteins to be recognized by cytotoxic T-lymphocytes as tumor-specific or -associated
antigens, and to be used in a therapy, particular prerequisites must be fulfilled. The antigen
should be expressed mainly by tumor cells and not by normal healthy tissues or in
comparably small amounts. It is furthermore desirable, that the respective antigen is not
only present in a type of tumor, but also in high concentrations (i.e. copy numbers of the
respective peptide per cell). Tumor-specific and tumor-associated antigens are often

    WO 2011/113819                                                           PCT/EP2011/053863
                                              - 17
derived from proteins directly involved in transformation of a normal cell to a tumor cell
due to a function e.g. in cell cycle control or apoptosis. Additionally, also downstream
targets of the proteins directly causative for a transformation may be upregulated und thus
be indirectly tumor-associated. Such indirectly tumor-associated antigens may also be
targets of a vaccination approach. Essential is in both cases the presence of epitopes in the
amino acid sequence of the antigen, since such peptide ("immunogenic peptide") that is
derived from a tumor associated antigen should lead to an in vitro or in vivo T-cell
response.
Basically, any peptide able to bind a MHC molecule may function as a T-cell epitope. A
prerequisite for the induction of an in vitro or in vivo T-cell-response is the presence of a T
cell with a corresponding TCR and the absence of immunological tolerance for this
particular epitope.
Therefore, TAAs are a starting point for the development of a tumor vaccine. The methods
for identifying and characterizing the TAAs are based on the use of CTL that can be
isolated from patients or healthy subjects, or they are based on the generation of differential
transcription profiles or differential peptide expression patterns between tumors and normal
tissues (Lemmel et al. 450-54;Weinschenk et al. 5818-27).
However, the identification of genes over-expressed in tumor tissues or human tumor cell
lines, or selectively expressed in such tissues or cell lines, does not provide precise
information as to the use of the antigens being transcribed from these genes in an immune
therapy. This is because only an individual subpopulation of epitopes of these antigens are
suitable for such an application since a T cell with a corresponding TCR has to be present
and immunological tolerance for this particular epitope needs to be absent or minimal. It is
therefore important to select only those peptides from over-expressed or selectively
expressed proteins that are presented in connection with MHC molecules against which a
functional T cell can be found. Such a functional T cell is defined as a T cell that upon
stimulation with a specific antigen can be clonally expanded and is able to execute effector
functions ("effector T cell").

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 18
T-helper cells play an important role in orchestrating the effector function of CTLs in anti
tumor immunity. T-helper cell epitopes that trigger a T-helper cell response of the THI
type support effector functions of CD8-positive killer T cells, which include cytotoxic
functions directed against tumor cells displaying tumor-associated peptide/MHC complexes
on their cell surfaces. In this way, tumor-associated T-helper cell peptide epitopes, alone or
in combination with other tumor-associated peptides, can serve as active pharmaceutical
ingredients of vaccine compositions that stimulate anti-tumor immune responses.
Since both types of response, CD8 and CD4 dependent, contribute jointly and
synergistically to the anti-tumor effect, the identification and characterization of tumor
associated antigens recognized by either CD8-positive CTLs (MHC class I molecule) or by
CD4-positive CTLs (MHC class II molecule) is important in the development of tumor
vaccines. It is therefore an object of the present invention, to provide compositions of
peptides that contain peptides binding to MHC complexes of either class.
Considering the severe side-effects and expense associated with treating cancer better
prognosis and diagnostic methods are desperately needed. Therefore, there is a need to
identify other factors representing biomarkers for cancer in general and gastric cancer in
particular. Furthermore, there is a need to identify factors that can be used in the treatment
of cancer in general and gastric cancer in particular.
Furthermore there is no established therapeutic design for gastric cancer patients with
biochemical relapse after radical prostatectomy, usually caused by residual tumor left in
situ in the presence of locally advanced tumor growth. New therapeutic approaches that
confer lower morbidity with comparable therapeutic efficacy relative to the currently
available therapeutic approaches would be desirable.
The present invention provides peptides that are useful in treating gastric cancer and other
tumors that overexpress the peptides of the invention. These peptides were shown by mass
spectrometry to be naturally presented by HLA molecules on primary human gastric cancer
samples (see example 1, and figure 1).

    WO 2011/113819                                                          PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 19
The source gene from which the peptides are derived were shown to be highly
overexpressed in gastric cancer, renal cell carcinoma, colon cancer, non-small cell lung
carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, prostate cancer, benign neoplasm and malignant melanoma
compared with normal tissues (see example 2, and figure 2) demonstrating a high degree of
tumor association of the peptide, i.e. these peptides are strongly presented on tumor tissue
but not on normal tissues.
HLA-bound peptides can be recognized by the immune system, specifically by T
lymphocytes/T cells. T cells can destroy the cells presenting the recognized HLA/peptide
complex, e.g. gastric cancer cells presenting the derived peptides.
All peptides, that were compatible with the validation platform -see example 3-, of the
present invention have been shown to be capable of stimulating T cell responses (see
Example 3 and Figure 3). Thus, the peptides are useful for generating an immune response
in a patient by which tumor cells can be destroyed. An immune response in a patient can be
induced by direct administration of the described peptides or suitable precursor substances
(e.g. elongated peptides, proteins, or nucleic acids encoding these peptides) to the patient,
ideally in combination with an agent enhancing the immunogenicity (i.e. an adjuvant). The
immune response originating from such a therapeutic vaccination can be expected to be
highly specific against tumor cells because the target peptides of the present invention are
not presented on normal tissues in comparable copy numbers, preventing the risk of
undesired autoimmune reactions against normal cells in the patient.
The pharmaceutical compositions comprise the peptides either in the free form or in the
form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. As used herein, "a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt" refers to a derivative of the disclosed peptides wherein the peptide is modified by
making acid or base salts of the agent. For example, acid salts are prepared from the free
base (typically wherein the neutral form of the drug has a neutral -NH2 group) involving
reaction with a suitable acid. Suitable acids for preparing acid salts include both organic
acids, e.g., acetic acid, propionic acid, glycolic acid, pyruvic acid, oxalic acid, malic acid,
malonic acid, succinic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, benzoic
acid, cinnamic acid, mandelic acid, methane sulfonic acid, ethane sulfonic acid, p
toluenesulfonic acid, salicylic acid, and the like, as well as inorganic acids, e.g.,

    WO 2011/113819                                                            PCT/EP2011/053863
                                              - 20
hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid phosphoric acid and the like.
Conversely, preparation of basic salts of acid moieties which may be present on a peptide
are prepared using a pharmaceutically acceptable base such as sodium hydroxide,
potassium hydroxide, ammonium hydroxide, calcium hydroxide, trimethylamine or the
like.
In an especially preferred embodiment, the pharmaceutical compositions comprise the
peptides as salts of acetic acid (acetates) or hydrochloric acid (chlorides).
In addition to being useful for treating cancer, the peptides of the present invention are also
useful as diagnostics. Since the peptides were generated from gastric cancer cells and since
it was determined that these peptides are not present in normal tissues, these peptides can
be used to diagnose the presence of a cancer.
The presence of claimed peptides on tissue biopsies can assist a pathologist in diagnosis of
cancer. Detection of certain peptides by means of antibodies, mass spectrometry or other
methods known in the art can tell the pathologist that the tissue is malignant or inflamed or
generally diseased. Presence of groups of peptides can enable classification or sub
classification of diseased tissues.
The detection of peptides on diseased tissue specimen can enable the decision about the
benefit of therapies involving the immune system, especially if T-lymphocytes are known
or expected to be involved in the mechanism of action. Loss of MHC expression is a well
described mechanism by which infected of malignant cells escape immunosurveillance.
Thus, presence of peptides shows that this mechanism is not exploited by the analyzed
cells.
The peptides might be used to analyze lymphocyte responses against those peptides such as
T cell responses or antibody responses against the peptide or the peptide complexed to
MHC molecules. These lymphocyte responses can be used as prognostic markers for
decision on further therapy steps. These responses can also be used as surrogate markers in
immunotherapy approaches aiming to induce lymphocyte responses by different means,
e.g. vaccination of protein, nucleic acids, autologous materials, adoptive transfer of

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 21
lymphocytes. In gene therapy settings, lymphocyte responses against peptides can be
considered in the assessment of side effects. Monitoring of lymphocyte responses might
also be a valuable tool for follow-up examinations of transplantation therapies, e.g. for the
detection of graft versus host and host versus graft diseases.
The peptides can be used to generate and develop specific antibodies against MHC/peptide
complexes. These can be used for therapy, targeting toxins or radioactive substances to the
diseased tissue. Another use of these antibodies can be targeting radionuclides to the
diseased tissue for imaging purposes such as PET. This use can help to detect small
metastases or to determine the size and precise localization of diseased tissues.
In addition, they can be used to verify a pathologist's diagnosis of a cancer based on a
biopsied sample.
Table 2 shows the peptides according to the present invention, their respective SEQ ID
NO:, and the source proteins from which these peptides may arise. All peptides bind the
HLA A*024 alleles.
Table 2: Peptides of the present invention
                                                                  Source
               SEQ ID NO: Peptide Code         Sequence           Protein(s)
               1              CDC2-001         LYQILQGIVF         CDK1
               2              ASPM-002         SYNPLWLRI          ASPM
               3              UCHL5-001        NYLPFIMEL          UCHL5
               4              MET-006          SYIDVLPEF          MET
               5              PROMI-001        SYIIDPLNL          PROMI
               6              MMP11-001        VWSDVTPLTF         MMP11
               7              MST1R-001        NYLLYVSNF          MST1R
               8              NFYB-001         VYTTSYQQI          NFYB
               9              SMC4-001         HYKPTPLYF          SMC4
               10             UQCRB-001        YYNAAGFNKL         UQCRB
               11             PPAP2C-001       AYLVYTDRL          PPAP2C

   WO 2011/113819                                                PCT/EP2011/053863
                                         -22
                12         AVL9-001         FYISPVNKL    AVL9
                13         NUF2-001         VYGIRLEHF    NUF2
                14         ABLI-001         TYGNLLDYL    ABLI
                15         MUC6-001         NYEETFPHI    MUC6
                16         ASPM-001         RYLWATVTI    ASPM
                17         EPHA2-005        VYFSKSEQL    EPHA2
                18         MMP3-001         VFIFKGNQF    MMP3
                19         NUF2-002         RFLSGIINF    NUF2
               20          PLK4-001         QYASRFVQL    PLK4
               21          ATAD2-002        KYLTVKDYL    ATAD2
               22          COL12Al-001 VYNPTPNSL         COL12A1
               23          COL6A3-001       SYLQAANAL    COL6A3
               24          FANCI-001        FYQPKIQQF    FANCI
               25          RPS11-001        YYKNIGLGF    RPS11
               26          ATAD2-001        AYAIIKEEL    ATAD2
               27          ATAD2-003        LYPEVFEKF    ATAD2
               28          HSP90B1-001      KYNDTFWKEF HSP90B1
               29          SIAH2-001        VFDTAIAHLF   SIAH2
               30          SLC6A6-001       VYPNWAIGL    SLC6A6
               31          IQGAP3-001       VYKVVGNLL    IQGAP3
               32          ERBB3-001        VYIEKNDKL    ERBB3
               33          KIF2C-001        IYNGKLFDLL   KIF2C
Further interesting HLA A*024 peptides of the invention
               SEQ     ID                                   Source
               NO:         Peptide Code      Sequence       Protein(s)
               34          CCDC88A-          QYIDKLNEL      CCDC88A
                           001
               35          CCNB1-003         MYMTVSIIDRF    CCNB1
               36          CCND2-001         RYLPQCSYF      CCND2
               37          CCNE2-001         IYAPKLQEF      CCNE2

    WO 2011/113819                                                   PCT/EP2011/053863
                                         -23
               38                            IYPDASLLI          CEACAM1,
                                                                CEACAM5,
                            CEA-010                             CEACAM6
               39           CLCN3-001        VYLLNSTTL          CLCN3
               40           DNAJC1O-001      IYLEVIHNL          DNAJC1O
               41           DNAJC1O-002      AYPTVKFYF
               42                            IFSKIVSLF          EIF2S3,
                            EIF2S3-001                          LOC255308
               43                            YYYVGFAYL          EIF3L,
                            EIF3L-001                           LOC340947
               44           EPPK1-001        RYLEGTSCI          EPPK1
               45           ERBB2-001        TYLPTNASLSF        ERBB2
               46           GPR39-001        SYATLLHVL          GPR39
               47           ITGB4-001        DYTIGFGKF          ITGB4
               48           LCN2-001         SYNVTSVLF          LCN2
               49                            SYLELVKSL          LOC642502,
                            SDHC-001                            SDHC
               50           PBK-001          SYQKVIELF          PBK
               51           POLD3-001        LYLENIDEF          POLD3
               52           PSMD14-001       VYISSLALL          PSMD14
               53           PTK2-001         RYLPKGFLNQF        PTK2
               54           RPS11-001        YYKNIGLGF          RPS11
               55           TSPAN1-002       VYTTMAEHF          TSPANI
               56           ZNF598-001       DYAYLREHF          ZNF598
               57           ADAM1O-001       LYIQTDHLFF         ADAM1O
               58           MMP12-001        TYKYVDINTF         MMP12
               59           RRM2-001         YFISHVLAF          RRM2
               60           TMPRSS4-001      VYTKVSAYL          TMPRSS4
               61           TSPAN8-001       VYKETCISF          TSPAN8
In another embodiment of the invention HLA A*02 binding peptides against gastric cancer
are disclosed. For people which are A*02 and/or A*24 positive, mixtures of the disclosed

   WO 2011/113819                                                           PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 24
peptides can be used for the treatment of gastric cancer. Preferred are mixtures of 2 to 20
peptides and mixtures of 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20
peptides.
              SEQ       ID                                              Source
              NO:            Peptide Code         Sequence              Protein(s)
              62             D102-001             ALYDSVILL             D102
              63             IGF2BP3-001          KIQEILTQV             IGF2BP3
              64             LMNB1-001            LADETLLKV             LMNB1
              65             WNT5A-001            AMSSKFFLV             WNT5A
              66             FAP-003              YVYQNNIYL             FAP
              67                                  VLEDLEVTV             COPG,
                                                                        COPG2,
                             COPG-001                                   TSGA13
              68             COL6A3-002           FLLDGSANV             COL6A3
              69             COL6A3-003           NLLDLDYEL             COL6A3
              70             COL6A3-004           FLIDSSEGV             COL6A3
              71             PSMC2-001            ALDEGDIAL             PSMC2
              72             UBE2S-001            ALNEEAGRLLL          UBE2S
              73             KIFi1-001            ILSPTVVSI             KIFI1
              74             ADAM8-001            KLLTEVHAA            ADAM8
              75             CCNB1-001            ALVQDLAKA             CCNB1
              76             CDC6-001             ILQDRLNQV             CDC6
              77             F2R-00 1             TLDPRSFLL             F2R
              78             OLFM4-001            TLDDLLLYI             OLFM4
              79             THY1-001             SLLAQNTSWLL           THY1
              80             CEP250-001           SLAEVNTQL             CEP250
              81             HIF1A-001            ALDGFVMVL             HIF1A
              82             KRAS-001             GVDDAFYTL             KRAS
              83             MET-001              YVDPVITSI             MET
              84             NCAPG-001            YLLSYIQSI            NCAPG
              85             NCAPG-002            QIDDVTIKI            NCAPG

    WO 2011/113819                                                          PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             -25
               86              TOP-004            YLYGQTTTYL           TOP2A
               87              TOP-005            KLDETGNSL            TOP2A
               88              LAMC2-002          RLDDLKMTV            LAMC2
               89              AHR-001            LTDEILTYV            AHR
               90              CCNB1-002          ILIDWLVQV            CCNB1
               91              CEACAM6-           VLYGPDVPTI           CEACAM6
                               001
               92              COPB1-001           SIFGEDALANV         COPB1
               93              HMMR-001           KLLEYIEEI            HMMR
               94              TPX2-001           KILEDVVGV            TPX2
               95                                 KIFDEILVNA           TOP2A,
                               TOP-001                                 TOP2B
Cell division cycle 2 protein (CDC2)
The serine/threonine kinase CDC2, also known as Cdkl (Cyclin-dependent kinase 1), plays
a key role in cell cycle control. It is known as the main regulator of the G2-to-M transition.
At the end of interphase, it binds to A-type cyclins. After breakdown of the nuclear
envelope, A-type cyclins are replaced by cyclin B, which forms the mitosis promoting
factor (MPF) with Cdc2. MPF is essential for driving cells through mitosis.
The function of Cdc2 in mitosis is non-redundant and cannot be compensated by the
activity of other Cdks, such as Cdk2, 4 and 6. By contrast, Cdc2 was reported to function in
other phases of the cell cycle such as the Gl-S transition as well, and it is able to substitute
for the "interphase Cdks". Thus, Cdc2 was proposed to be the only essential cell cycle Cdk.
Overexpression of Cdc2 was found in several cancers, often correlating with poor
prognosis,. Among them are prostate carcinoma, oral cavity carcinomas, oral squamous
carcinoma (OSCC), acute myeloid leukemia (AML) (Qian et al.), H. pylori-induced MALT
lymphoma (Banerjee et al. 217-25) and colon carcinoma (Yasui et al. 36-41). In gastric
carcinoma, overexpression and/or enhanced activity has been reported and could play a
causative role. Inhibitors of Cdc2 and other Cdks have been considered as drug candidates
for cancer therapy (Shapiro 1770-83).

    WO 2011/113819                                                      PCT/EP2011/053863
                                           - 26
Abnormal spindle-like microcephaly associated protein (ASPM)
Abnormal spindle-like microcephaly associated (ASPM) is the human orthologue of the
Drosophila abnormal spindle (asp). It is involved in the regulation of neurogenesis, and
mutation causes autosomal recessive primary microcephaly. ASPM is localized in the
spindle poles during mitosis. ASPM overexpression was suggested as marker and potential
therapeutic target in glioblastoma.    siRNA-mediated knockdown inhibits tumor cell
proliferation and neural stem cell proliferation. ASPM overexpression may also predict
enhanced invasive/metastatic potential, early tumor recurrence and poor prognosis in
hepatocellular carcinoma. ASPM was upregulated in immortalized cells and non-small-cell
lung cancer tissues (Jung, Choi, and Kim 703-13).
Matrix metalloproteases 3 (MMP3)
MMP3, also called progelatinase or stromelysin 1, is an endopeptidase that cleaves
extracellular  matrix (ECM) components such as          fibronectin, laminin, elastin, the
proteoglycan core protein and nonhelical regions of collagens. MMPs are important in
several physiological processes requiring ECM rearrangement, such as cell migration
during embryogenesis, tissue remodeling, vascularization, involution of the lactating breast
and wound healing. MMP3 also plays a role in platelet aggregation. Pathological conditions
involving enhanced expression and secretion of MMP3 include autoimmune inflammatory
conditions and cancer.
MMP3 is over-expressed in some tumors, and plays a role in epithelial-mesenchymal
transition (EMT). It might also contribute to early steps in cancerogenesis, triggering
epigenetic changes that result in the generation of a malignant phenotype (Lochter et al.
180-93). Polymorphisms in the MMP3 promoter that are associated with expression levels
were shown to impact risk and prognosis for some cancers like esophageal adenocarcinoma
(Bradbury et al. 793-98) and oral squamous cell carcinoma (Vairaktaris et al. 4095-100)
(Liu et al. 430-35). H.pylori-positive gastric cancer patients with enhanced MMP3- and
MMP7 serum levels showed higher lymph node invasion and shorter survival. In a cohort
of 74 gastric cancer patients, MMP3 was expressed in 27% of the cases, (Murray et al. 791
97).
c-Met

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 27
c-Met mediates the potentially oncogenic activities of the hepatocytic growth factor
(HGF)/scatter factor, including promotion of cell growth, motility, survival, extracellular
matrix dissolution, and angiogenesis. Binding of HGF activates downstream signalling
events including the Ras, phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase, phospholipase Cy, and mitogen
activated protein kinase-related pathways (Dong et al. 5911-18;Furge et al. 10722
27;Furge, Zhang, and Vande Woude 5582-89;Montesano et al. 355-65;Naldini et al. 501
04;Ponzetto et al. 4600-08). c-Met is expressed predominantly in epithelial cells.
Oncogenic activation of c-Met (also in non-epithelial malignant tissues) can result from
amplification/over-expression, activating mutations, acquisition of HGF/c-Met autocrine
loops or constitutive phosphorylation (Di Renzo et al. 147-54;Ferracini et al. 739
49;Fischer et al. 733-39;Koochekpour et al. 5391-98;Li et al. 8125-35;Maulik et al. 41
59;Qian et al. 589-96;Ramirez et al. 635-44;Tuck et al. 225-32) (Nakaigawa et al. 3699
705). Constitutive activation of c-Met in HGF-over-expressing transgenic mice promotes
broad tumorigenesis (Takayama et al. 701-06;Wang et al. 1023-34). Silencing MET results
in inhibition of tumor growth and metastasis (Corso et al. 684-93). Amplification of MET
has been associated with human gastric cancer progression (Lin et al. 5680-89).(Yokozaki,
Yasui, and Tahara 49-95).
Ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase L5 (UCHL5)
UCHL5, also known as Ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase (UCH37) or INO80R, is a
proteasome-associated    deubiquitinase. It disassembles protein-attached poly-ubiquitin
chains from the distal end by cleaving the isopeptide bond between the C-terminal Cys76
and Lys48 (Nishio et al. 855-60). In the nucleus, UCHL5 is associated with the Ino8O
chromatin-remodeling complex. Upon binding of a proteasome, it becomes activated and
may contribute to the regulation of transcription or DNA repair that has been suggested to
be mediated by Ino8O and the proteasome.
Ubiquitin specific proteases like UCHL5 are involved in several processes such as control
of cell cycle progression, differentiation, DNA replication and repair, transcription, protein
quality control, immune response and apoptosis. UCHL5 might contribute to malignant
transformation. Its activity has been shown to be upregulated in human cervical carcinoma
tissue as compared to adjacent normal tissue. It is able to deubiquitinate and thereby
stabilize the TGF-beta receptor and its downstream mediators, the Smads, thereby

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 28
enhancing TGF-beta signaling. Enhanced TGF-beta signaling can act as a tumor promoter
in late stages of cancer progression, although it has a dual function and can also be a tumor
suppressor in early stages and before initiation (Bierie and Moses 29-40;Horton et al. 138
43;Wicks et al. 8080-84;Wicks et al. 761-63).
Macrophage-stimulating protein receptor (MST 1R)
The MST1R (alias RON) receptor is a member of the Met family of cell surface receptor
tyrosine kinases and is primarily expressed on epithelial cells and macrophages. MST1R
can induce cell migration, invasion, proliferation and survival in response to its ligand.
Oncogenic properties have been shown in vitro as well as in animal models in vivo, and it is
often deregulated in human cancers (Dussault and Bellon, 2009). Clinical studies have
shown that MST1R over-expression is associated with poor diagnosis and metastasis.
MST1R expression is significant in gastric             carcinoma tissue and corresponding
paraneoplastic tissue, but is not observed in normal gastric mucosa (Zhou et al. 236-40).
Knockdown of MST1R in prostate cancer cells results in reduced endothelial cell
chemotaxis in vitro,and in reduced tumor growth and decreased microvessel density after
orthotopic transplantation into the prostate in vivo. siRNA-mediated knockdown of MST 1R
in a highly tumorigenic colon cancer cell line led to reduced proliferation as compared with
control cells.
Kinesin-like protein (KIF2C)
KIF2C      is a microtubule    depolymerase       regulating proper kinetochore-microtubule
attachment during spindle formation. It is important for anaphase chromosome segregation
and may be required to coordinate the onset of sister centromere separation. Disturbed
microtubule attachment      at kinetochores     leads to chromosome mis-segregation       and
aneuploidy, which is observed in most solid tumors (Maney et al. 67-131;Moore and
Wordeman 537-46). KIF2C is over-expressed in breast cancer cells (Shimo et al. 62-70),
colon cancer, colorectal cancer and gastric cancer (Nakamura et al. 543-49). A gastric
cancer cell line (AZ521) that stably expressed KIF2C showed a increased proliferation and
migration compared to mock-transfected cells. Elevated expression of KIF2C in gastric
cancer may be associated with lymphatic invasion, lymph node metastasis, and poor
prognosis. Treatment of breast cancer cells with small interfering RNA against KIF2C
inhibited their growth.

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 29
Structural maintenance of chromosomes proteins 4 (SMC4)
SMC proteins are chromosomal ATPases that play roles in higher-order chromosome
organization and dynamics. SMC4 is a core component of the condensin complex that plays
a role in chromatin condensation and has also been associated with nucleolar segregation,
DNA repair, and maintenance of the chromatin scaffold. The SMC4 gene was found to be
expressed highly in normal prostate and salivary gland, very weakly in colon, pancreas, and
intestine, and not at all in other tissues.RNA expression was observed at high levels in
many cancer cell lines and cancer specimens, including breast, prostate , colon and
pancreatic cancer (Egland et al. 5929-34).
Ephrin type-A receptor 2 (EPAH2)
Eph receptors are a unique family of receptor tyrosine kinases (RTK) that play critical roles
in embryonic patterning, neuronal targeting, and vascular development during normal
embryogenesis.     Stimulation of EphA2 by its ligand (ephrin-A1)          results in EphA2
autophosphorylation, the stimulation reverses oncogenic transformation. Eph receptors and
their ligands, the ephrins, are frequently overexpressed in a wide variety of cancers. EphA2
is frequently overexpressed and functionally altered in aggressive tumor cells, and is
thought to promote tumor growth by enhancing cell- extracellular matrix adhesion,
anchorage-independent growth and angiogenesis. Overexpression of EphA2 and EphrinA-1
was shown in gastric carcinoma, correlating with the depth of tumor invasion, tumor-node
metastasis (TNM) stages, lymph node metastasis and poor prognosis (Yuan et al. 2410-17).
ATAD2
ATAD2 (also known as ANCCA) is a new member of the AAA+ ATPase family proteins.
It enhances the transcriptional activity of androgen receptor (AR) and estrogen receptor
(ER), leading to transcription of genes including IGF1R, IRS-2, SGK1 and surviving (AR)
and cyclin D1, c-myc and E2F1 (ER), respectively. It also enhances the transcriptional
activity of c-Myc.
ATAD2 expression is high in several human tumors, such as breast cancer, prostate cancer
and osteosarcoma. Expression has been associated with poor prognosis.
AVL9

    WO 2011/113819                                                          PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 30
Surprisingly this protein was found as source protein, and only poor and very limited data is
available about the AVL9 protein and the function of the corresponding gene.
Collagen alpha-1(XII) chain protein (Col12A1)
Collagen alpha-1(XII) chain is a protein that in humans is encoded by the COL12A1 gene.
This gene encodes the alpha chain of type XII collagen, a member of the FACIT (fibril
associated collagens with interrupted triple helices) collagen family. Type XII collagen is a
homotrimer found in association with type I collagen, an association that is thought to
modify the interactions between collagen I fibrils and the surrounding matrix. Alternatively
spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.
Collagen alpha-3(VI) chain protein (COL6A3)
COL6A3 encodes the alpha-3 chain, one of the three alpha chains of type VI collagen. The
protein domains have been shown to bind extracellular matrix proteins, an interaction that
explains the importance of this collagen in organizing matrix components. Remodeling of
the extracellular matrix through overexpression of collagen VI contributes to cisplatin
resistance in ovarian cancer cells. The presence of collagen VI correlated with tumor grade,
an ovarian cancer prognostic        factor (Sherman-Baust      et al. 377-86).   COL6A3 is
overexpressed in colorectal tumour (Smith et al. 1452-64), salivary gland carcinoma (Leivo
et al. 104-13) and differentially expressed in gastric cancer (Yang et al. 1033-40). COL6A3
was identified as one of seven genes with tumor-specific splice variants. The validated
tumor-specific splicing alterations were highly consistent, enabling clear separation of
normal and cancer samples and in some cases even of different tumor stages (Thorsen et al.
1214-24).
Fanconi anemia, complementation group I (FANCI)
The FANCI protein localizes to chromatin in response to DNA damage and is involved in
DNA repair (Smogorzewska et al. 289-301). Mutations in the FANCI gene cause Fanconi
anemia, a genetically heterogeneous recessive disorder characterized by cytogenetic
instability, hypersensitivity to DNA crosslinking agents, increased chromosomal breakage,
and defective DNA repair. Alternative splicing of FANCI results in two transcript variants
encoding different isoforms.

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            -31
Heat shock protein 90kDa beta member 1 (HSP90B1)
HSP90 (also known as glucose-regulated protein 94, Grp94), member 1 is a human
chaperone protein. It participates in ER-associated processes: translation, protein quality
control and ER-associated degradation (ERAD), ER stress sensing and calcium binding /
retention of calcium in the ER (Christianson et al. 272-82;Fu and Lee 741-44). HSP90
contains the KDEL sequence typical for ER-retained proteins, but it also appears on the
surface of tumor cells (Altmeyer et al. 340-49), as well as extracellularly. HSPs are known
to be released from necrotic (but not apoptotic) cells and from cells stressed by various
stimuli such as heat shock and oxidative stress, and can occur in circulation (Basu et al.
1539-46;Tsan and Gao 274-79). Extracellularly, HSP90 modulates (mainly stimulates)
immune responses and is involved in antigen presentation. On the cell surface, it may serve
as receptor for pathogen entry and / or signaling (Cabanes et al. 2827-38). In        case of
tumor-specific cell surface expression or release it may induce anti-tumor immunity (Zheng
et al. 6731-35). HSP90-based vaccines have been shown to immunize against cancer and
infectious diseases in both prophylactic and therapeutic protocols (reviewed in (Bolhassani
and Rafati 1185-99;Castelli et al. 227-33;Murshid, Gong, and Calderwood 1019-30)).
However, HSP90 can also be considered as target for tumor therapy as 1) it correlates with
tumor progression and leads to resistance towards apoptosis, also upon irradiation or
chemotherapy treatment, and 2) it is overexpressed in many tumors including GC,
osteosarcoma (Guo et al. 62-67), breast carcinoma (Hodorova et al. 31-35). Overexpression
of HSP90 is associated with aggressive behavior and poor prognosis in GC (Wang, Wang,
and Ying 35-41;Zheng et al. 1042-49). Downregulation of HSP90 in GC leads to apoptosis
of cancer cells (Sheu, Liu, and Lan e1096).
Muc 6
MUC6 is expressed in mucous cells. Its primary function is thought to be the protection of
vulnerable epithelial surfaces from damaging effects of constant exposure to a wide range
of endogenous caustic or proteolytic agents (Toribara et al., 1997). MUC6 may also play a
role in epithelial organogenesis    (Reid and Harris, 1999). MUC6 expression is found in
normal gastric mucosa. It is over-expressed in some cancers like intestinal adenoma and
carcinoma, pulmonary carcinoma (Hamamoto et al. 891-96), colorectal polyps (Bartman et
al. 210-18), and breast carcinoma (Pereira et al. 210-13), whereas it is not expressed in the
respective normal tissues. The high expression rate of MUC6 in mucinous carcinoma

    WO 2011/113819                                                            PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 32
suggests was suggested to act as a barrier to cancerous extension resulting in their less
aggressive biological behaviour (Matsukita et al. 26-36). MUC6 expression was lower in
gastric carcinomas than in adenomas or normal mucosa and inversely correlated with tumor
size, depth of invasion, lymphatic and venous invasion, lymph node metastasis and UICC
staging. Down-regulation of MUC6 may contribute to malignant transformation of gastric
epithelial cells and underlie the molecular bases of growth, invasion, metastasis and
differentiation of gastric carcinoma (Zheng et al. 817-23). There is also evidence that
Helicobacter pylori infection, one of the major causes of gastric carcinoma, is associated
with reduced MUC6 expression (Kang et al. 29-35;Wang and Fang 425-31).
Kinetochore protein Nuf2
NUF2 (CDCA-1) gene encodes a protein that is highly similar to yeast Nuf2, a component
of a conserved protein complex associated with the centromere. Yeast Nuf2 disappears
from the centromere during meiotic prophase when centromeres lose their connection to the
spindle pole body, and plays a regulatory role in chromosome segregation. It was shown
that survivin and hNuf2 csiRNAs temporally knockdown their mRNAs causing
multinucleation and cell death by mitotic arrest, respectively (Nguyen et al. 394-403). Nuf2
and Hec 1 are required for organization of stable microtubule plus-end binding sites in the
outer plate that are needed for the sustained poleward forces required for biorientation at
kinetochores (DeLuca et al. 519-31).
Nuf2 protein was found to be over-expressed in NSCLC, associated with poor prognosis
(Hayama et al. 10339-48), and in cervical cancer (Martin et al. 333-59).           In surgically
resected gastric cancer tissues (diffuse type, 6; intestinal type, 4), 2 variants of NUF2 were
upregulated. The alternative splicing variants detected in this study were suggested be
potentially useful as diagnostic markers and/or novel targets for anticancer therapy
(Ohnuma et al. 57-68).
siRNA-mediated knockdown against NUF2 has been found to inhibit cell proliferation and
induction of apoptosis in NSCLC, ovarian cancer, cervical cancer, gastric cancer, colorectal
cancer and glioma (Kaneko et al. 1235-40).
Lipid phosphate phosphohydrolase 2 (PPAP2C)
Phosphatidic acid phosphatases (PAPs) convert phosphatidic acid to diacylglycerol, and
function in de novo synthesis of glycerolipids as well as in receptor-activated signal

    WO 2011/113819                                                       PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 33
transduction mediated by phospholipase D. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants
encoding distinct isoforms have been reported. PPAP2C is up-regulated in transformed
primary human adult mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), and numerous human cancers. It
might be required for increased cell proliferation. Overexpression of PPAP2C, but not a
catalytically inactive mutant, caused premature S-phase entry, accompanied by premature
cyclin A accumulation. Knockdown decreases cell proliferation by delaying entry into S
phase (Flanagan et al. 249-60).
40S ribosomal protein S11 is a protein (RPS11)
Ribosomes consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. Together these subunits
are composed of 4 RNA species and approximately 80 structurally distinct proteins. The
RPS 11 gene encodes a ribosomal protein that is a component of the 40S subunit. RPS 11
was among six genes found in a screen for fecal RNA-based markers for colorectal cancer
diagnosis. It was specifically found in cancer-patient derived fecal colonocytes (Yajima et
al. 1029-37).
E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase Seven in absentia homolog 2 (SIAH2)
SIAH2 is a E3 ubiquitin ligase. Among its substrates are beta-catenin, TRAF2, and DCC
(deleted in colorectal cancer) (Habelhah et al. 5756-65;Hu and Fearon 724-32;Nakayama,
Qi, and Ronai 443-51). SIAH2 also leads to degradation of the nuclear protein repp86,
resulting in abrogation of the mitotic arrest induced by overexpression of this protein
(Szczepanowski et al. 485-90). SIAH2 has tumor- as well as metastasis-promoting
properties via at least two pathways, reviewed in (Nakayama, Qi, and Ronai 443-51): First,
it leads to ubiquitination and degradation of proteins in the hypoxia response pathway,
which leads to enhanced transcriptional activity of hypoxia-inducible factors (HIFs)
(Nakayama, Qi, and Ronai 443-5 1)(Calzado et al. 85-9 1). Second, it suppresses Sprouty2, a
specific inhibitor of Ras/ERK signaling. SIAH2 activity is correlated with pancreatic tumor
development likely through its positive effect on Ras signaling(Nakayama, Qi, and Ronai
443-51).
Although the role of SIAH2 in cancer is partly controversial, some reports showing
association of low levels of SIAH2 with poorer prognosis or therapy response (Confalonieri
et al. 2959-68) (Jansen et al. 263-71), others show a tumorigenic function (Frasor et al.
13153-57). SIAH2 inhibition has been considered as anti-cancer treatment, as it has been

    WO 2011/113819                                                       PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 34
shown to inhibit growth of xenografts in melanoma mouse models (Qi et al. 16713-18;Shah
et al. 799-808), and of human lung cancer cell lines engrafted into nude mice (Ahmed et al.
1606-29).
Sodium- and chloride-dependent taurine transporter (SLC6A6)
SLC6A6 is a sodium- and chloride-dependent taurine transporter (TauT) (Han et al., 2006).
Taurine transporter knockout (taut-/-) mice suffer from chronic liver disease due to taurine
deficiency, which may involve mitochondrial dysfunction           (Warskulat et al., 2006).
Expression of SLC6A6 is repressed by the p53 tumour suppressor gene and is
transactivated by proto-oncogenes such as WT1, c-Jun, and c-Myb. Over-expression of
SLC6A6 protects renal cells from cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity (Han et al., 2006; Han
and Chesney, 2009). SLC6A6 mRNA expression was upregulated by tumor necrosis factor
alpha (TNF-alpha) in human intestinal epithelial Caco-2 cells (Mochizuki et al., 2005).
Ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase binding protein (UQCRB)
The protein encoded by the UQCRB-gene is part of the ubiquinol-cytochrome                  c
oxidoreductase complex. It binds ubiquinone and participates in the transfer of electrons.
Mutations in this gene are associated with mitochondrial complex III deficiency. A
pseudogene has been described on the X chromosome.
The UQCRB-gene may be a potential oncogen or a tumour suppressor gene in pancreatic
ductal adenocarcinoma (Harada et al. 13-24). It was found to be overexpressed in
hepatocellular carcinoma (Jia et al. 1133-39)
Human Epidermal growth factor Receptor 3 (ERBB3)
ERBB3 encodes a member of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) family of
receptor tyrosine kinases. It is activated by neuregulins, by other ERBB and nonERBB
receptors as well as by other kinases, and by novel mechanisms. Downstream it interacts
prominently with the phosphoinositol 3-kinase/AKT survival/mitogenic pathway, but also
with GRB, SHC, SRC, ABL, rasGAP, SYK and the transcription regulator EBP1
(Sithanandam and Anderson 413-48). ERBB3 overexpression has been found in many
cancers including gastric cancer, where it may play a key causative role and negatively

     WO 2011/113819                                                          PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 35
impacts prognosis (Kobayashi et al. 1294-301) (Slesak et al. 2727-32). (Zhang et al. 2112
18) found that over-expression of ERBB3 was more frequent in the diffuse type (26.2%) of
gastric cancer than in the intestinal type (5.0%). In both types, overexpression was
associated with poor prognosis. Approaches for targeting of ERBB3 in cancer therapy
include RNA aptamers to the extracellular domain (Chen et al. 9226-3 1), blockade of its
gene expression by synthetic transcription factors (Lund et al. 9082-91), small-molecule
inhibitors like the vitamin E isomer y-tocotrienol (Samant and Sylvester 563-74), miRNA
(Scott et al. 1479-86) and siRNA (Sithanandam et al. 1847-59).
Prominin 1 (Proml)
Function: Prominin-1, also called CD133, was identified as a molecule specific for CD34+
hematopoetic progenitor cells (Yin et al., 1997) and shown to be a marker for normal stem
cells and cancer stem cells (CSCs) of various tissues. It is located mainly in plasma
membrane protrusions, and might be involved in the organization of membrane topology or
in maintaining the lipid composition of the plasma membrane. It was suggested that a splice
isoform of prominin-1 called AC133-2 and lacking a small exon of 27 amino acids may
represent an even better stem cell marker (Mizrak et al., 2008; Bidlingmaier et al., 2008).
Only a small percentage of tumor cells is usually positive for prominin-1, as expected for a
CSC marker. Depending on the tumor type, the number of positive cells per tumor mass
reaches from 1 to 15 % and is mostly around 2 %.
Prominin-1 has been associated with tumor formation, angiogenesis and chemoresistance
(Zhu et al., 2009a) (Bruno et al., 2006; Hilbe et al., 2004) (Bertolini et al., 2009). However,
prominin-1 positive cells might be accessible by the immune system, as they can be killed
by NK cells (Castriconi et al., 2007; Pietra et al., 2009) and cytotoxic T cells (Brown et
al., 2009).
While for many cancer entities it has been shown that prominin-1 positive cells are
functionally CSCs, and expression was frequently associated with poor prognosis, there are
still controversies. Some reports state that it is neither necessary nor sufficient for
identifying CSCs (Cheng et al., 2009; Wu and Wu, 2009). Possibly a combination of
prominin-1 with other molecules such as CD44, or even multiple combinations such as
proml(+), CD34(+), CD44(+), CD38(-), CD24(-) serve as better CSC markers (Zhu et al.,
2009b; Fulda and Pervaiz, 2010)

    WO 2011/113819                                                        PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 36
In diffuse GC, PROM 1 expression was suggested based on an in silico analysis (Katoh and
Katoh, 2007) and overexpression in GC compared to normal stomach tissue at the protein
level was reported by (Smith et al., 2008). However, (Boegl and Prinz, 2009) reported that
prominin-1 expression was reduced in GC, especially in later stages, and claimed that
prominin- 1 expression rather correlates with angiogenesis - which is also reduced in later
stages - than with tumor growth. A study using GC cell lines (Takaishi et al., 2009) claims
that CD44, but not prominin-1 is a CSC marker in GC.
Matrix metalloproteinase 11 (MMP 11)
Like other MMPs, MMP1 1 is an endopeptidase with functions in processes requiring tissue
remodeling, such as development, wound healing and scar formation. It might also
negatively regulate fat homeostasis by reducing adipocyte differentiation. In contrast to
other MMPs, it is not able to cleave typical extracellular matrix molecules - except
collagen VI. However, other substrates have been identified such as alpha 2-macroglobulin,
certain serine protease inhibitors (serpins) including alpha 1 anti-trypsin, insulin-like
growth factor-binding protein-I and the laminin receptor. In cancer, MMP1 1 is mostly
expressed in stromal cells surrounding tumor tissue. This has been shown for numerous
tumor entities. It was stated that MMP1 1 is overexpressed in the stroma of most invasive
human carcinomas, but rarely in sarcomas and other nonepithelial tumors. In most but not
all cases, MMP1 1 is expressed in stroma cells directly adjacent to the tumor, whereas the
tumor cells themselves, normal tissues and stroma cells distant from the tumor are negative.
Higher levels of MMP 11 are correlated with a malignant phenotype / higher invasiveness
and bad prognosis. However, in papillary thyroid carcinomas, MMP1 1 expression was
inversely linked to aggressive characteristics. MMP1 1 was found in tumor tissue as well as
in serum of gastric cancer patients, and expression correlated with metastasis (Yang et al.).
Moreover, (Deng et al. 274-8 1) showed that MMP1 1 is highly expressed in tumor cell lines
and primary tumor of gastric cancer - in contrast to other cancer types not exclusively in
the stroma - and that it appears to enhance tumor cell proliferation.
Nuclear transcription factor Y subunit beta (NFYB)
NFYB, also called CBF-B or CBF-A is, besides NFYA and NFYC, a part of the
heterotrimeric basal transcription factor NF-Y (also CCAAT-binding factor or CBF) that
binds to CCAAT motifs - or the reverse motifs, ATTGG, called Y-box - in the promoters

     WO 2011/113819                                                       PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 37
and enhancers of numerous genes. Among the NF-Y target genes are MHC class II genes,
the PDGF beta-receptor, several heat shock proteins, the mismatch repair gene hMLH 1,
and topoisomerase II alpha.
NFYB is not a classical oncogene, however its function might contribute to tumorigenesis.
First, many cell-cycle genes such as cyclin A, cyclin B 1, Aurora A and cdkl are targets of
NF-Y. Cells are arrested at G2 / M phase without functional NFYB. (Park et al.) show that
upregulation of cyclin B2 and other cell-cycle related genes in colorectal adenocarcinoma
are due to NF-Y activity. Second, NF-Y activity counteracts apoptosis. Cells lacking NF-Y
undergo apoptosis due to p53 activation and reduced transcription of anti-apoptotic genes
containing CCAAT-boxes in their promoters, such as Bcl-2 (Benatti et al. 1415-28). Third,
its tumorigenic properties are enhanced in combination with other transcription factors. For
example, mutated p53 binds to NF-Y and p300 proteins, increasing the expression of NF
Y-induced cell cycle genes.
ABL1
The protein tyrosine kinase c-Abl         shuttles between the nuclear and cytoplasmic
compartments. Nuclear c-Abl is involved in cell growth inhibition and apoptosis, while
cytoplasmic c-Abl may play a role in actin dynamics, morphogenesis and signaling induced
by extracellular stimuli like growth factors and integrin ligands. Cytoplasmic c-Abl was
reported to promote mitogenesis.
Activity of c-Abl protein is negatively regulated by its SH3 domain, and deletion of the
SH3 domain turns ABLI into an oncogene. In chronic myeloic leukemia (CML), the gene
is activated by translocation within the BCR (breakpoint cluster region) gene on
chromosome 22. This resulting fusion protein BCR-ABL locates to the cytosol and allows
the cells to proliferate without being regulated by cytokines (Zhao et al.). c-Abl activity is
also upregulated in solid tumors, as it was shown for breast carcinomas and NSCLC.
Overexpression is not sufficient and constitutive kinase activity required protein
phosphorylation. In breast cancer cells, c-Abl phosphorylation is induced by plasma
membrane tyrosine kinases, including SFK, EGFR family members and the IGF-1 receptor.
ABL fusion proteins have not been detected in solid tumors (Lin and Arlinghaus, 2008).
ABL was shown to be espressed in gastric carcinoma and associated microvessels,
suggesting a possible role in angiogenesis. Notably, H.pylori cytotoxin-associated gene A
(CagA) leads to activation of c-Abl, which, consequently phosphorylates EGFR and, thus,

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 38
blocks EGFR endocytosis (Bauer, Bartfeld, and Meyer 156-69). Several tyrosine kinase
inhibitors are more or less specific for Abl. Imatinib (Gleevec) is used as a first line therapy
for CML and has also been approved for patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal
tumors (GIST), as it also targets KIT (Pytel et al. 66-76) (Croom and Perry, 2003). Other
inhibitors used for cancer therapy are Dasatinib and Nilotinib (Pytel et al. 66-76) (Deremer,
Ustun, and Natarajan 1956-75).
Polo-like kinase 4 (Plk4)
 Polo kinase family members (Plkl-4) are important during cell division, regulating several
steps during mitosis. Plk4 is an organizer of centriole formation and duplication
(Rodrigues-Martins et al. 1046-50). While Plkl is a clear oncogene, Plk4's function in
cancer is ambiguous. Downregulation as well as overexpression of Plk4 has been
associated with cancer in humans, mice and flies (Cunha-Ferreira et al. 43-49). For
instance, in colorectal cancer, Plk4 was found overexpressed, but a small group of patients
showed strong Plk4 downregulation (Macmillan et al. 729-40). This can be explained by
the fact that both overexpression and deficiency of Plk4 lead to aberrant centriole
formation, resulting in abnormal centrosome numbers and structures that are frequently
detected in tumor cells and contribute to mitotic aberrations that cause chromosome
missegregation and aneuploidy (Peel et al. 834-43). (Kuriyama et al. 2014-23).
(Korzeniewski et al. 6668-75).
IQ motif containing GTPase activating protein 3 (IQGAP3)
IQGAPs participate in cellular signaling pathways as well as cytoskeletal architecture and
cell adhesion. They possess a domain with sequence similarity to RasGAPs and,
correspondingly, bind to small GTPases. However (and despite their name), none of them
has GTPase-activating activity. For IQGAP1 and IQGAP2 it has been shown that they even
stabilize the GTP-bound state of Rac1 and Cdc42, and IQGAP3 was suggested to stabilize
activated Ras (Nojima et al. 971-78;White, Brown, and Sacks 1817-24). Via their IQ
domain they bind to calcium/calmodulin, and via a calponin homology domain to actin
filaments (White, Brown, and Sacks 1817-24). (Wang et al. 567-77) report that IQGAP3 is
expressed in brain, where it associates wit actin filaments as well as RacI and Cdc42. It
accumulates at the distal region of axons and promotes Rac1/Ccd42-dependent axon

     WO 2011/113819                                                       PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 39
outgrowth. The IQGAPs have been implicated in cancer. IQGAP1 is considered to be an
oncogene. It enhances several cancer-related pathways like MAP kinase, beta-catenin and
VEGF-mediated signaling and is overexpressed in many tumors.IQGAP2 rather seems to
function as tumor suppressor and was found reduced in gastric cancers with poor prognosis
(White, Brown, and Sacks 1817-24). Little information is available about IQGAP3.
(Skawran et al. 505-16) found it to be among the genes significantly upregulated in
hepatocellular carcinoma. Two studies report that IQGAP3 is specifically expressed in
proliferating (Ki67+) cells in mouse small intestine, colon and liver (Nojima et al. 971-78)
(Kunimoto et al. 621-3 1).
Coiled-coil domain containing 88a (CCDC88A)
CCDC88A is an actin-binding Akt substrate that plays a role in actin organization and Akt
dependent cell motility in fibroblasts. The CCDC88A/Akt pathway is also essential in
VEGF-mediated postneonatal angiogenesis.
CCDC88A is also highly expressed in a variety of human malignant tissues, including
breast, colon, lung, and uterine cervical carcinomas. It plays an important role in tumor
progression with aberrant activation of the Akt signaling pathway.
Cyclin BI (CCNB1)
CCNB 1 is induced during G2/M phase of mitosis and forms the mitosis-promoting factor
(MPF) together with cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (Cdkl)/Cdc2. Overexpression is found in a
variety of cancers and is often associated with poor prognosis, e.g. in breast cancer
(Aaltonen et al., 2009; Agarwal et al., 2009; Suzuki et al., 2007), medulloblastoma (de et
al., 2008), NSCLC (Cooper et al., 2009), cervical cancer (Zhao et al., 2006), and others. It
was one of the genes included in an 11-gene signature that was found to predict short
interval to disease recurrence in patients with 12 distinct types of cancer (Glinsky, 2006).
No specific information on gastric cancer was found.
Cyclin D2 (CCND2)
CCND2 binds and activates, like other D-type cyclins (D1 and D3), cyclin-dependent
kinase 4 (Cdk4) or Cdk6. This is required for Gl/S transition. CCND2 was found to be
overexpressed in many tumors, including testicular and ovarian tumors (Sicinski et al.,
1996), hematological malignancies (Hoglund et al., 1996; Gesk et al., 2006), and gastric

     WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 40
cancer, where it may be caused by H.pylori infection, and associated with poor prognosis
(Yu et al., 2003). (Yu et al., 2001) (Oshimo et al., 2003) (Takano et al., 1999) (Takano et
al., 2000).
Cyclin E2 (CCNE2)
CCNE2 binds and activates, like the other E-type cyclin CCNEl, Cdk2. This activity peaks
at Gl/S phase transition. Under healthy conditions, CCNE2 is not detectable in quiescent
cells and can only be found in actively dividing tissues (Payton and Coats, 2002). It is
often aberrantly expressed in cancer, e.g. in breast cancer, correlated to bad prognosis
(Desmedt et al., 2006; Ghayad et al., 2009; Payton et al., 2002; Sieuwerts et al., 2006), and
in metastatic prostate cancer (Wu et al., 2009).
Carcinoembryogenic antigen-related cell adhesion molecules 1, 5 and 6 (CEACAM 1, 5,
and 6)
CEACAMs are membrane-anchored glycoproteins that mediate cell-cell interactions and
activate integrin signaling pathways (Chan and Stanners, 2007). They may also serve as
receptors for pathogens such as E.coli (Berger et al., 2004) (Hauck et al., 2006) and be
involved in immune regulation (Shao et al., 2006).
CEACAM5 and CEACAM6 have pro-cancerogenic functions. They inhibit anoikis
(Ordonez et al., 2000), promote metastasis (Marshall, 2003; Ordonez et al., 2000), and
disrupt cell polarization and tissue architecture (Chan and Stanners, 2007). The role of
CEACAMI in cancer is ambiguous. It may be a tumor suppressor in early stages, and
contribute to metastasis formation, tumor immune escape and angiogenesis in later phases
(Hokari et al., 2007; Liu et al., 2007; Moh and Shen, 2009). Its functional role depends on
the isoform, as CEACAMI occurs in 11 splice variants, whose ratio determines the
signaling outcome (Gray-Owen and Blumberg, 2006; Leung et al., 2006; Neumaier et al.,
1993; Nittka et al., 2008). The ratio of the splice variants may be altered in cancer (Gaur et
al., 2008).
CEACAM5 or CEACAM6 or both are overexpressed in as many as 70% of all human
tumors, often associated with poor prognosis (Chan and Stanners, 2007; Chevinsky, 1991).
Serum CEACAM5 is an established clinical marker for colon and rectal carcinoma, high
levels indicating poor prognosis or recurrence (Chevinsky, 1991; Goldstein and Mitchell,
2005). It was also suggested as a marker for other entities including gastric cancer, however

     WO 2011/113819                                                        PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 41
with limited prognostic power (Victorzon et al., 1995). CEACAMI can be up- or
downregulated in cancer, depending on the entitiy (Kinugasa et al., 1998)        (Dango et al.,
2008) (Simeone et al., 2007). (Han et al., 2008) found abundant levels of CEACAM5 and
CEACAM6 in nine gastric cancer cell lines, while CEACAMI was undetectable. By
contrast, an analysis of primary tumor samples from 222 patients showed either
cytoplasmic or membranous staining for CEACAMI. The membrane-bound form was
related to enhanced angiogenesis (Zhou et al., 2009). Also the study by (Kinugasa et al.,
1998) showed an upregulation in gastric adenocarcinomas.
In some tumors, CEACAMI is downregulated in tumor cells, which leads to upregulation
of VEGF, and VEGF or hypoxic conditions may induce CEACAMI in the adjacent
endothelium. Accordingly, a monoclonal antibody against CEACAMI blocked VEGF
induced endothelial tube formation (Oliveira-Ferrer et al., 2004; Tilki et al., 2006; Ergun et
al., 2000).
Especially CEACAM5 has been tested as target for anti-cancer drugs, amongst others by
vaccination approaches. These studies showed that CEACAM5 can be a target of cellular
immune reactions (Cloosen et al., 2007; Marshall, 2003). An overview about CEACAM5
T cell epitopes is provided in (Sarobe et al., 2004).
Chloride channel 3 (CLCN3)
CLCN3 is a Cl- channel that may be volume-gated and contribute to the regulatory volume
decrease (RVD) that occurs as reaction to an increase in cell volume in case of conditions
like cell cycling or hypoosmosis (Lemonnier et al., 2004; Sardini et al., 2003). However,
this point is controversially discussed (Wang et al., 2004) and the volume-reducing channel
activated during apoptosis is different from CLCN3 (Okada et al., 2006).
CLCN3 expression changes during cell cycle, peaking in S phase (Wang et al., 2004).
CLCN3 currents may be important in cancer-relevant processes in entities where CLCN3 is
upregulated, such as glioma: Tumor cells need to handle proliferative volume increases,
encounter hypoosmotic conditions, e.g. in peritumoral edema (Ernest et al., 2005; Olsen et
al., 2003; Sontheimer, 2008).
Moreover, it was reported that CLCN3 enhances etoposide resistance by increasing
acidification of the late endocytic compartment (Weylandt et al., 2007).
siRNA-mediated knockdown of CLCN3 reduced the migration of nasopharyngeal
carcinoma cells in vitro (Mao et al., 2008).

    WO 2011/113819                                                       PCT/EP2011/053863
                                              - 42
DNAJC10
DNAJC 10 is a member of a supramolecular ER-associated degradation (ERAD) complex
that recognizes and unfolds misfolded proteins for their efficient retrotranslocation
(Ushioda et al., 2008). The protein was shown to be elevated in hepatocellular carcinoma
(Cunnea et al., 2007). Knockdown of DNAJC10 by siRNA in neuroectodermal tumour
cells increased the apoptotic response to the chemotherapeutic drug fenretinide (Corazzari
et al., 2007). It was shown that ERdj5 decreases neuroblastoma cell survival by down
regulating the unfolded protein response (UPR) (Thomas and Spyrou, 2009).
Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2, subunit 3 gamma (EIF2S3)
EIF2S3 is the largest subunit of a protein complex (EIF2) recruiting the initial methionyl
tRNA to the 40S ribosomal subunit (Clemens, 1997). The action of kinases that
downregulate EIF activity, such as RNA-dependent           protein kinase (PKR), may be
proapoptotic and tumor-suppressing (Mounir et al., 2009). In gastric cancer, higher levels
of phosphorylated and unphosphorylated EIF2 were reported, and a redistribution to the
nucleus was observed. This deregulation points towards an implication of eIF2alpha in
gastrointestinal cancer (Lobo et al., 2000).
Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 subunit L (EIF3L)
EIF3L is one of 10-13 subunits of EIF3, which is associated with the small ribosomal
subunit. EIF3 plays a role in prevention of premature binding of the large ribosomal
subunit. EIF3L is among the five subunits that have been reported to not be essential for
EIF3 formation (Masutani et al., 2007). A screen with an antisense-library suggested that
downregulating EIF3L enhances the anti-tumorigenic activity of 5-fluorouracil            in
hepatocellular carcinoma cells (Doh, 2008).
Epiplakin1 (EPPK1)
EPPK1 is a plakin family gene with largely unknown functions. The plakin genes are
known to function in interconnecting cytoskeletal filaments and anchoring them at plasma
membrane-associated adhesive junction (Yoshida et al., 2008).
G-protein coupled receptor 39 (GPR39)

     WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 43
GPR39 is a Gq protein-coupled receptor that is thought to be involved in gastrointestinal
and metabolic function (Yamamoto et al., 2009). Its signalling activates cAMP and serum
response elements (Holst et al., 2004). The endogenous ligand for GPR39 is probably zinc
(Chen and Zhao, 2007). GPR39 is a novel inhibitor of cell death, which might represent a
therapeutic target with implications for processes involving apoptosis and endoplasmic
reticulum stress like cancer (Dittmer et al., 2008). GPR39 was found to be up-regulated in
microarrays of both human fetal kidney HFK and blastema-enriched stem-like wilms'
tumor xenografts      (Metsuyanim et al., 2009), and in a hippocampal cell line resistant
against diverse stimulators of cell death (Dittmer et al., 2008).
ERBB2/HER2/NEU
ERBB2 is a member of the EGFR family of receptor tyrosine kinases. Its ligand is not
known, but it is the preferred heterodimerization partner for other members of the HER
family (Olayioye, 2001). In carcinomas, HER2 acts as an oncogene, mainly because high
level amplification of the gene induces protein overexpression in the cellular membrane and
subsequent acquisition of advantageous properties for a malignant cell         (Slamon et al.,
1989). Over-expression is observed in a certain percentage of many cancers, including
gastric cancer. Mostly, it is associated with bad prognosis (Song et al., 2010) (Yonemura et
al., 1991) (Uchino et al., 1993) (Mizutani et al., 1993).
ERBB2 is the target of the monoclonal antibody trastuzumab (marketed as Herceptin),
which has been suggested as treatment option for patients with HER2-positive advanced
gastric cancer, in combination with chemotherapy (Meza-Junco et al., 2009; Van Cutsem
et al., 2009). Another monoclonal antibody, Pertuzumab, which inhibits dimerization of
HER2 and HER3 receptors, is in advanced clinical trials (Kristjansdottir and Dizon, 2010).
The selective overexpression of HER2 and HER3 in the two histologic types of gastric
cancer (intestinal type and diffuse type) is strongly associated with a poor prognosis
(Zhang et al., 2009).
Beta-4 Integrin (ITGB4)
Integrins mediate cell adhesion as well as outside-in and inside-out signal transduction. The
integrin beta-4 subunit heterodimerizes with the alpha-6 subunit. The resulting integrin
promotes the formation of hemidesmosomes between the intracellular keratin cytoskeleton
and the basement membrane (Giancotti, 2007).          Integrin beta-4 has a dual function in

    WO 2011/113819                                                        PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 44
cancer, as it can mediate stable adhesion on the one hand, and pro-invasive signalling
(including Ras/Erk and P13K signalling) and angiogenesis on the other hand (Giancotti,
2007; Raymond et al., 2007). It is overexpressed in many tumors as well as in angiogenic
endothelial cells, often correlating with progression and metastasis. High levels have been
in gastric cancer, particularly in stroma-invading cells (Giancotti, 2007; Tani et al., 1996).
However, it was downregulated in undifferentiated-type gastric carcinoma as the tumor
invaded deeper, possibly du to the gradual epithelial-mesenchymal transition, as beta-4
integrin is an epithelial integrin (Yanchenko et al., 2009).
Lipocalin (LCN2)
LCN2 or neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) is an iron regulatory protein
that exists as a monomer, homodimer, or as a disulfide-linked heterodimer with MMP9
(Coles et al., 1999; Kjeldsen et al., 1993). Expression is increased in several cancers, in
some cases associated with progression. Mechanistically, it may stabilize MMP9 and alter
E-cadherin-mediated cell-cell adhesion, thereby increasing invasion. Complexes of MMP-9
and LCN2 were related with worse survival in gastric cancer (Kubben et al., 2007) (Hu et
al., 2009). Although a clear pro-tumoral effect has been observed in various tumors in
humans, some studies have demonstrated that LCN2 can inhibit the pro-neoplastic factor
HIF-lalpha, FA-Kinase phosphorylation and also VEGF synthesis, thus suggesting that, in
alternative conditions, LCN2 also, paradoxically, has an anti-tumoral and anti-metastatic
effect in neoplasias of, for example, the colon, ovary and pancreas. (Bolignano et al., 2009;
Tong et al., 2008). LCN2 may be useful for inhibiting tumor angiogenesis, in addition to
suppressing tumor metastasis, in cancers which show ras activation (Venkatesha et al.,
2006).
Succinate dehydrogenase complex, subunit C (SDHC)
SDHC is one of four nuclear-encoded subunits of succinate dehydrogenase (mitochondrial
complex II), which transfers electrons from succinate to ubiquinone, yielding fumarate and
ubiquinol. Succinate dehydrogenase deficiency may cause GISTs           (McWhinney et al.,
2007). Familial gastrointestinal stromal tumors may be caused by mutations in the subunit
genes SDHB, SDHC, and SDHD, and abdominal paragangliomas                    associated with
gastrointestinal tumors may be caused uniquely by SDHC mutations (Pasini et al., 2008).
Mutant SDHC protein in transgenic mice generates oxidative stress and can contribute to

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 45
nuclear DNA damage, mutagenesis, and ultimately, tumorigenesis            (Ishii et al., 2005).
Succinate dehydrogenase is considered a tumor suppressor (Baysal, 2003; Gottlieb and
Tomlinson, 2005). Decreased levels of this enzyme complex may result in tumorigenesis
(Eng et al., 2003).
PDZ-binding kinase (PBK)
PBK is a MEK3/6-related MAPKK which activates p38 MAP kinase, e.g. downstream of
growth factor receptors (Abe et al., 2000; Ayllon and O'connor, 2007). JNK may be a
secondary target (Oh et al., 2007). As in adults PBK is expressed in testis (see below), a
function in spermatogenesis has been proposed (Abe et al., 2000; Zhao et al., 2001). Apart
from that, it contributes to proliferation and apoptosis resistance in tumor cells: It is
phosphorylated and activated during mitosis, which is necessary for spindle formation and
cytokinesis (Gaudet et al., 2000; Matsumoto et al., 2004; Park et al., 2009) (Abe et al.,
2007). Other growth-promoting and anti-apoptotic functions include downregulation of p53
and histone phosphorylation (Park et al., 2006; Zykova et al., 2006) (Nandi et al., 2007).
PBK has been classified as cancer-testis antigen (Abe et al., 2000; Park et al., 2006) and
was found to be overexpressed in many cancers.
Polymerase (DNA-directed), delta 3, accessory subunit (POLD3)
The DNA polymerase delta complex is involved in DNA replication and repair. It consists
of the proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), the multisubunit replication factor C, and
the 4 subunit polymerase complex: POLDI, POLD2, POLD3, and POLD4                      (Liu and
Warbrick, 2006). POLD3 plays a crucial role in the efficient recycling of PCNA during
dissociation-association cycles of pol delta during elongation phase of DNA replication
(Masuda et al., 2007).
Proteasome (Prosome, macropain) 26S subunit, non-ATPase, 14 (PSMD14)
PSMD14 is a component of the 26S proteasome. It belongs to the 19S complex (19S cap;
PA700), which is responsible for substrate deubiquitination during proteasomal degradation
(Spataro    et al.,  1997).  PSMD14     overexpression   in mammalian cells        affects cell
proliferation and the response to cytotoxic drugs like vinblastine, cisplatin and doxorubicin
(Spataro et al., 2002). siRNA suppression of PSMD14 in HeLa cells resulted in a reduction
in cell viability and an increase in polyubiquitinated protein levels (Gallery et al., 2007).

    WO 2011/113819                                                          PCT/EP2011/053863
                                              - 46
Down-regulation of PSMD14 by siRNA had a considerable impact on cell viability causing
cell arrest in the GO-GI phase, ultimately leading to senescence (Byrne et al., 2010).
Proteasome (Prosome, macropain) 26S subunit, ATPase, 2 (PSMC2)
PSMC2 is part of the 26S proteasome system. It is a member of the triple-A family of
ATPases, which have a chaperone-like activity. This subunit has been shown to interact
with several of the basal transcription factors so, in addition to participation in proteasome
functions, this subunit may participate in the regulation of transcription. It was shown that
the 26S proteasome system in skeletal muscle can be activated by TNF-alpha (Tan et al.,
2006). In HBx transgenic mice, which bear the Hepatitis B regulatory gene HBx in their
germline, and develop HCC, PSMC2 and other proteasome subunits are up-regulated in
tumor tissues (Cui et al., 2006). The mRNA levels for the ATPase subunit PSMC2 of the
19S complex increased in cancer cachexia (Combaret et al., 1999).
Protein tyrosine kinase 2 (PTK2)
PTK2 is a non-receptor tyrosine kinase which modulates integrin signalling and may
promote tumor growth, progression and metastastis ((Giaginis et al., 2009); (Hauck et al.,
2002); (Zhao and Guan, 2009)). PTK2 was suggested to be a marker for carcinogenesis and
the progression of cancer (Su et al., 2002; Theocharis et al., 2009; Jan et al.,
2009)..Overexpression and/or increased activity occurs in a wide variety of human cancers
including gastric cancer. PTK2 also transduces signals downstream of the gastrin receptor,
which contributes to proliferation of gastric cancer cells (Li et al., 2008b). 8% of gastric
carcinomas have been shown to carry the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). EBV-infected human
gastric cancer cell line sublines presented increased PTK2 phosphorylation (Kassis et al.,
2002). The level of PTK2 tyrosine phosphorylation in gastric epithelial cells is reduced by
the cagA-positive Helicobacter pylori product.
Tetraspanin 1 (TSPAN1) and tetraspanin 8 (TSPAN8)
TSPAN1 and TSPAN8 belong to the family of tetraspanins which are characterized by four
transmembrane-domains and an intracellular N- and C-terminus and which have roles in a
variety of processes including cellular adhesion, motility, activation and tumor invasion.
They often form large molecular complexes with other proteins such as integrins at the cell
surface (Tarrant et al., 2003; Serru et al., 2000). The functions of TSPAN1 are yet unknown

     WO 2011/113819                                                        PCT/EP2011/053863
                                               - 47
and may include a role in secretion (Scholz et al., 2009). TSPANI is overexpressed in
several cancers, often correlating with stage, progression and worse clinical outcome.
Notably, it was reported to be overexpressed in 56.98% of 86 cases of gastric carcinoma,
and overexpression correlated positively with clinical stage, infiltration and lymph node
status and negatively with survival rates and differentiation grade of the tumor (Chen et al.,
2008). TSPAN8 has been reported as a metastasis-associated gene in many types of tumors
(PMID: 16467180). In gastrointestinal cancer, TSPAN8 expression is associated with poor
prognosis (PMID: 16849554).
Zinc finger protein 598 (ZNF598)
ZNF598 is a zinc finger protein with yet unknown function.
A disintegrin and metalloproteinase 10 (ADAM10)
ADAM 10 plays a role in angiogenesis, development and tumorigenesis. It is overexpressed
in gastric carcinoma. Selective ADAM inhibitors against ADAM-10               are undergoing
clinical trials for the treatment of cancer. (PMID: 19408347)
Matrix metalloproteinase 12 (MMP12)
MMP 12 is a zinc endopeptidase which degrades elastin and many other matrix- and non
matrix-proteins and is involved in macrophage migration and inhibition of angiogenesis
(Chakraborti et al., 2003; Chandler et al., 1996; Sang, 1998). It also plays a role in
pathological processes of tissue destruction like asthma, emphysema and chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), rheumatoid arthritis and tumor growth (Cataldo et
al., 2003; Wallace et al., 2008). MMP12 inhibitors are discussed as agents for treatment of
these conditions (Churg et al., 2007; Norman, 2009). MMP12 is frequently over-expressed
in cancer, where it may have ambiguous functions. While it may be involved in matrix
dissolution and, thus, metastasis, it can also inhibit tumor growth through production of
angiostatin, which negatively impacts angiogenesis. Enhanced MMP12 expression was
reported for GC, and shown to be favorable: It negatively correlated with microvessel
density, VEGF, tumor differentiation grade, vascular invasion, lymph node metastasis and
recurrence. Patients with MMP12 over-expression demonstrated a significantly better
survival rate (Cheng et al., 2010; Zhang et al., 2007b; Zhang et al., 2007a)

     WO 2011/113819                                                       PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 48
Ribonucleotide reductase M2 (RRM2)
RRM2 is one of two subunits of ribonucleotide reductase, which generates
deoxyribonucleotides from ribonucleotides. Overexpression of RRM2 has been observed in
tumors including gastric cancer and enhances the metastatic potential (PMID: 18941749)
(PMID: 19250552) siRNA knockdown of RRM2 slowed tumor growth in various species
(mouse, rat, monkey) (PMID: 17929316; PMID: 17404105).
Transmembrane protease, serine 4 (TMPRSS4)
TMPRSS4 is a type II transmembrane serine protease found at the cell surface that is highly
expressed in several cancer tissues, including pancreatic, colon and gastric cancer. The
biological functions of TMPRSS4 in cancer are not yet known. TMPRSS4 has four splice
variants    (Scott et al., 2001; Sawasaki et al., 2004). Expression in ovarian carcinoma
correlated with stage (Sawasaki et al., 2004). TMPRSS4 is highly elevated in lung cancer
tissues, and siRNA knockdown of TMPRSS4 by small interfering RNA treatment in lung
and colon cancer cell lines was associated with reduction of cell invasion and cell-matrix
adhesion as well as modulation of cell proliferation (Jung et al., 2008).
Deiodinase, Iodothyronine, type II (DI02)
D102 converts the prohormone thyroxine (T4) to bioactive 3,3',5-triiodothyronine (T3). It
is highly expressed in the thyroid, and expression and/or activity were found deregulated in
cancers of the thyroid (de Souza Meyer et al., 2005) (Arnaldi et al., 2005). However, it was
also found in other tissues, such as normal lung and lung cancer (Wawrzynska et al., 2003),
and in brain tumors (Murakami et al., 2000).
Insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA binding protein 3 (IGF2BP3)
IGF2BP3 is primarily present in the nucleolus, where it binds IGF2 mRNA and represses
its translation. It plays a role in embryogenesis and is downregulated in adult tissues. In
tumor cells it can be upregulated and is, thus, considered an oncofetal protein (Liao et al.
2005). In many cancers including gastric cancer it was found to be overexpressed,
associated with poor prognosis (Jeng et al. 2009)(Jiang et al. 2006). Peptides derived from
IGF2BP3 were tested in cancer vaccination studies (Kono et al. 2009).
Lamin BI (LMNB1)

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 49
Lamin BI is a protein of the nuclear lamina matrix and is involved in nuclear stability,
chromatin structure and gene expression. In early stages of apoptosis, lamin is degraded
(Neamati et al. 1995) (Sato et al. 2008b; Sato et al. 2008a; Sato et al. 2009). LMNB1 is
expressed to some extent in essentially all normal somatic cells, and preliminary studies
indicate that it may be reduced during the pathogenesis of some cancers including gastric
cancer (Moss et al. 1999). In other cancers, such as hepatocellular carcinoma, LMNB1 was
found upregulated and correlated positively with tumor stage, size and number of
nodules(Lim et al. 2002).
Wingless-type MMTV integration site family, member 5A
WNT5A is a secreted signaling protein implicated in developmental processes and
oncogenesis. Canonical WNT5A signaling through Frizzled and LRP5/LRP6 receptors
leads to maintenance of stem/progenitor cells, while non-canonical WNT5A signaling
through Frizzled and ROR2/PTK/RYK receptors controls tissue polarity, cell adhesion or
movement, e.g. at the tumor-stromal interface, leading to invasion        (Katoh and Katoh,
2007). It may be a tumor suppressor in some cancers, but is upregulated in others including
gastric cancer, where it contributes to progression and metastasis and leads to poor
prognosis (Li et al., 2010) (Yamamoto et al., 2009) (Kurayoshi et al., 2006).
Fibroblast activating protein, alpha (FAP)
FAP is an integral membrane gelatinase. Its putative serine protease activity may play a
role in the control of fibroblast growth or epithelial-mesenchymal interactions during
development, tissue repair and epithelial carcinogenesis (Scanlan et al. 1994). FAP has a
potential role in cancer growth, metastasis and angiogenesis through cell adhesion and
migration processes, as well as rapid degradation of ECM components. It is present on
tumor cells invading the ECM, in reactive cancer-associated fibroblasts, and in endothelial
cells involved in angiogenesis, but not in inactive cells of the same type. (Dolznig et al.
2005; Kennedy et al. 2009; Rettig et al. 1993; Rettig et al. 1994; Scanlan et al. 1994; Zhang
et al. 2010). FAP expression has been found in gastric cancer cells and associated stromal
fibroblasts (Zhi et al. 2010) (Chen et al. 2006)(Mori et al. 2004; Okada et al. 2003). In a
mouse model, FAP-expressing cells where shown to be a nonredundant, immune
suppressive component of the tumor microenvironment (Kraman et al. 2010). In mouse
models of tumor vaccination, FAP was successfully used as target for CD8+ and CD4+ T-

     WO 2011/113819                                                      PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 50
cell responses (Loeffler et al. 2006; Wen et al. 2010)(Lee et al. 2005) (Fassnacht et al.
2005).
Coatomer protein complex, subunit gamma (COPG);
coatomer protein complex, subunit gamma 2 (COPG2);
Coatomer protein complex, subunit beta 1 (COPB1)
COPG, COPG2 and COPB 1 are subunits of the coatomer complex, also called coat protein
complex 1 (COPI) that is associated with non-clathrin coated vesicles. COPI-coated
vesicles mediate retrograde transport from the Golgi back to the ER and intra-Golgi
transport (Watson et al., 2004). They may also be involved in anterograde transport
(Nickel et al., 1998). The retrograde trafficking regulates, amongst others, EGF-dependent
nuclear transport of EGFR, which binds to COPG (Wang et al., 2010). COPG was found to
be overexpressed in lung cancer cells and lung cancer-assocated microvascular endothelial
cells (Park et al., 2008).
The sequence of the ubiquitously expressed COPG2 is 80% identical to GOPG (Blagitko et
al., 1999). COPG2 can form a COP I-like complex in place of GOPG, which is probably
functionally redundant (Futatsumori et al., 2000).
Knockdown of COPB 1 in a cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR)
expressing cell line suggested that the coatomer complex is involved in CRTR trafficking
to the plasma membrane (Denning et al., 1992) (Bannykh et al., 2000).
Ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2S (UBE2S)
UBE2S is an auxiliary factor of the anaphase-promoting complex (APC), an E3 ubuiqitin
ligase that regulates mitotic exit and GI by targeting cell cycle regulators. UBE2S
elongates ubiquitin chains after the substrates are pre-ubiquitinated by other components
(Wu et al., 2010). UBE2S also targets the VHL protein for proteasomal degradation,
thereby stabilizing HIF-lalpha    (Lim et al., 2008), and possibly supporting proliferation,
epithelial-mesenchymal transition, and metastasis (Chen et al., 2009) (Jung et al., 2006).
UBE2S is overexpressed in several cancer entities.
Kinesin family member 11 (KIF11)

    WO 2011/113819                                                        PCT/EP2011/053863
                                              -51
KIF 11 is required for the assembly of a bipolar mitotic spindle. It has been found
upregulated in several cancers, often correlating with clinicopathological parameters  (Liu
et al., 2010)    (Peyre et al., 2010). Small molecule inhibitors of KIF1I like S-Trityl-L
cysteine (STLC), developed as potential anti-cancer drugs, arrest cells in mitosis and
promote apoptosis of cancer cells (Tsui et al., 2009) (Wiltshire et al., 2010) (Ding et al.,
2010). In the clinic, KIF 11 inhibitors have shown only modest activity (Kaan et al., 2010;
Tunquist et al., 2010; Wiltshire et al., 2010; Zhang and Xu, 2008).
A disintegrin and metalloprotease domain 8 (ADAM8)
ADAM8 was initially considered to be an immune-specific ADAM, but was found also in
other cell types, often under conditions involving inflammation and ECM remodelling,
including cancers and respiratory diseases like asthma (Koller et al. 2009). Many ADAM
species, including ADAM8, are expressed in human malignant tumors, where they are
involved in the regulation of growth factor activities and integrin functions, leading to
promotion of cell growth and invasion, although the precise mechanisms of these are not
clear at the present time (Mochizuki and Okada 2007). In mouse gastric tumors, ADAM8
and other ADAMs were increased, probably due to enhanced EGFR signaling (Oshima et
al. 2011).
Cell division cycle 6 homolog (S.cerevisiae) (CDC6)
CDC6 is essential for the initiation of DNA replication. It localizes in the nucleus during
GI, but translocates to the cytoplasm at the start of S phase. CDC6 also regulates
replication-checkpoint activation through interaction wih ATR (Yoshida et al. 2010). CDC6
deregulation may cause the inactivation of the INK4/ARF locus encoding three important
tumor suppressor genes: p16INK4a and p15INK4b, both activators of the retinoblastoma
pathway, and ARF, an activator of p53 (Gonzalez et al. 2006). siRNA knockdown of CDC6
could prevent proliferation and promote apoptosis (Lau et al. 2006). CDC6 is upregulated
in cancers including gastric cancer (Nakamura et al. 2007) (Tsukamoto et al. 2008).
F2R coagulation factor II (thrombin) receptor (F2R)
F2R, also called proteinase activated receptor (PARI) is a G-protein coupled receptor.
Signals by PARI, PAR2, and PAR4 can regulate calcium release or mitogen-activated
protein kinase activation and lead to platelet aggregation, vascular relaxation, cell

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 52
proliferation, cytokine release, and inflammation (Oikonomopoulou et al. 2010). F2R is
thought to be involved in endothelial and tumor cell proliferation and angiogenesis, and is
overexpressed in invasive and metastatic tumors of many types. The expression levels
directly correlate with the degree of invasiveness of the cancer (Garcia-Lopez et al. 2010)
(Lurje et al. 2010). In gastric carcinoma cells, F2R activation can trigger an array of
responses that promote tumor cell growth and invasion, e.g. overexpression of NF-kappaB,
EGFR, and Tenascin-C (TN-C) (Fujimoto et al. 2010). Accordingly, F2R expression in
gastric cancer was found to be associated with the depth of wall invasion, peritoneal
dissemination, and poor prognosis (Fujimoto et al. 2008). A mouse monoclonal anti-human
PARI antibody (ATAP-2), that recognizes an epitope (SFLLRNPN) within the N-terminus
of the thrombin receptor, was described as well as the PARI agonist peptide
TFLLRNPNDK (Hollenberg and Compton 2002; Mari et al. 1996; Xu et al. 1995)
Olfactomedin 4 (OLFM4)
OLFM4, whose function is largely unknown, is overexpressed in inflamed colonic
epithelium and a number of human tumor types, especially those of the digestive system
(Koshida et al., 2007). OLFM4 is a robust marker for stem cells in human intestine and
marks a subset of colorectal cancer cells (van der Flier et al., 2009). OLFM4 inhibits the
apoptosis-promoting protein GRIM-19 (Zhang et al., 2004) (Huang et al., 2010), regulates
cell cycle and promotes S phase transition in proliferation of cancer cells. In addition,
OLFM4 is associated with cancer adhesion and metastasis           (Yu et al., 2011b). Forced
overexpression of OLFM4 in murine prostate tumor cells led to more rapid tumor
formation in a syngeneic host (Zhang et al., 2004). OLFM4 was found to be overexpressed
in GC (Aung et al., 2006). Inhibition of OLFM4 expression could induce apoptosis in the
presence of cytotoxic agent in gastric cancer cells (Kim et al., 2010). Also serum OLFM4
concentration in presurgical GC patients was enhanced as compared to healthy donors (Oue
et al., 2009). OLFM4 was identified as a novel target gene for retinoic acids (RAs) and the
demethylation agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine. These two agents have proven to be effective
in treating certain myeloid leukemia patients (Liu et al., 2010).
Thy-1 cell surface antigen (THY1)
Thy-I (CD90) is a GPI-anchored glycoprotein found on many cell types including T cells,
neurons, endothelial cells and fibroblasts. Thy-i is involved in processes including

    WO 2011/113819                                                        PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 53
adhesion, nerve regeneration, tumor growth, tumor suppression, migration, cell death, and
activation of T cells. (Rege and Hagood 2006b; Rege and Hagood 2006a) (Jurisic et al.
2010). Thy-i appears to be a marker of adult but not embryonic angiogenesis (Lee et al.
1998). Moreover, it was considered as a marker for various kind of stem cells
(mesenchymal stem cells, hepatic stem cells ("oval cells")          (Masson et al. 2006),
keratinocyte stem cells (Nakamura et al. 2006) and hematopoietic stem cells (Yamazaki et
al. 2009)). Thy-i is upregulated in several cancers including gastric cancer and GISTs, for
which it was proposed to be a marker (Yang and Chung 2008; Zhang et al. 2010)
(Oikonomou et al. 2007).
Centrosomal protein 250 kDa (CEP250)
Cep250 plays a role in the cohesion of microtubule-organizing centers           (Mayor et al.,
2000). It is also named centrosomal Nek2-associated protein or C-Nap 1, as it
colocalizes with and is a substrate of the serine/threonine kinase Nek2. Nek2 kinase and its
substrates regulate the linkage between centrosomes (Bahmanyar et al., 2008). At the onset
of mitosis, when centrosomes separate for bipolar spindle formation, C-Napl                 is
phosphorylated and, subsequently, dissociates from centrosomes. In vitro experiments
showed that overexpression       of Cep250 impaired microtubule organization at the
centrosome (Mayor et al., 2002).
Hypoxia inducible factor 1, alpha subunit (basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor)
(HIF1A)
HIF1A is the oxygen-sensitive         subunit   of the hypoxia-inducible     factor (HIF), a
transcription factor active under hypoxic conditions that are frequently found in tumors. It
mediates transcription of over 60 genes involved in survival, glucose metabolism, invasion,
metastasis and angiogenesis (e.g. VEGF). HIFI is overexpressed in many cancers, often
associated with poor prognosis, and is considered an interesting target for pharmacological
manipulation (Griffiths et al. 2005; Quintero et al. 2004; Stoeltzing et al. 2004) (Zhong et
al. 1999).
In gastric cancer, HIF1A contributes to angiogenesis (Nam et al. 2011), correlates with
tumor size, lower differentiation, tumor stage shorter survival (Qiu et al. 2011) and
metastasis (Wang et al. 2010) (Han et al. 2006; Kim et al. 2009; Oh et al. 2008; Ru et al.
2007). It is also thought to lead to resistance to chemotherapeutic drugs such as 5-FU via

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 54
inhibition of drug-induced apoptosis and decrease of intracellular drug accumulation
(Nakamura et al. 2009) (Liu et al. 2008). The HIF-lalpha-inhibitor 2-methoxy-estradiol
significantly reduced metastatic properties of gastric cancer cells (Rohwer et al. 2009).
v-Ki-ras2 Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (KRAS)
KRAS is a member of the small GTPase superfamily and a protooncogene involved in early
steps of many signal transduction pathways, such as MAPK- and AKT-mediated pathways,
that are potentially oncogenic. Single amino acid substitutions lead to activating mutations,
resulting in a transforming protein that plays a key role in various malignancies including
gastric cancer    (Capella et al., 1991). Oncogenic mutations of KRAS are infrequent in
gastric cancer. In a subset of gastric cancers, the KRAS locus was amplified, resulting in
overexpression of KRAS protein. Thus, gene amplification likely forms the molecular basis
of overactivation of KRAS in gastric cancer       (Mita et al., 2009). Mutant KRAS alleles
contribute to hypoxia-driven VEGF induction (Kikuchi et al., 2009; Zeng et al., 2010).
Mutated KRAS can also be detected in serum or plasma of cancer patients and was, thus,
suggested as an easily accessible tumor marker (Sorenson, 2000). The peptide KRAS-001
is derived from only one of two splice variants - NP_004976 (188 amino acids) and not
from the splice variant - NP_203524 (189 amino acids). The splice variants differ in their
last exon, on which KRAS-001 is located.
Non-SMC condensin I complex, subunit G (NCAPG)
NCAPG is part of the condensin I complex, which is composed of structural maintenance
of chromosomes (SMC) and non-SMC proteins, and regulates chromosome condensation
and segregation during mitosis (Seipold et al., 2009). NCAPG overexpression was found in
numerous tumors including nasopharyngeal carcinoma           (Li et al., 2010), hepatocellular
carcinoma (Satow et al., 2010) and melanoma (Ryu et al., 2007). Among normal tissues,
NCAPG showed highest expression in the testis. It was suggested to be a possible
proliferation marker and a potential prognostic indicator in cancer (Jager et al., 2000).
Topoisomerase (DNA) II alpha (TOP2A) and topoisomerase (DNA) II beta (TOP2B)
TOP2A and TOP2B encode highly homologous isoforms of a DNA topoisomerase, which
controls and alters topologic states of DNA during transcription and is involved in
chromosome condensation, chromatid separation, replication and transcription.

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                              - 55
Topoisomerase is a target for several anticancer drugs, such as anthracyclins, and a variety
of mutations have been associated with drug resistance (Kellner et al., 2002) (Jarvinen and
Liu, 2006). TOP2A (not TOP2B) is essential for cell proliferation. It is located adjacent to
the HER2 oncogene and is amplified in a great majority of HER2-amplified breast tumors,
but also in such without HER2 amplification (Jarvinen and Liu, 2003), and in many other
tumor entities. Also in a subset of gastric cancers, TOP2A was found amplified and
overexpressed, frequently together with HER2 (Varis et al., 2002) (Liang et al., 2008).
Laminin, gamma 2 (LAMC2)
Laminins are the major non-collagenous constituents of basement membranes. They are
involved in cell adhesion, differentiation, migration, signaling, and metastasis. The gamma
2 chain together with alpha 3 and beta 3 chains constitute laminin 5. LAMC2 promotes
invasive growth of human cancer cells in vivo. It is highly expressed by human cancers at
the invasion front, and expression correlates with poor prognosis (Tsubota et al., 2010). A
MMP-2-generated cleavage product of laminin 5 is able to activate EGFR signaling and
promote cell motility (Schenk et al., 2003). In gastric carcinoma, LAMC2 may be induced
by members of the EGFR family or by Wnt5a, and invasive activity was shown to depend
on LAMC2 (Tsubota et al., 2010) (Yamamoto et al., 2009).
Aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR)
AHR binds planar aromatic hydrocarbons such as TCDD (2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p
dioxin), and mediates transcription of genes including xenobiotic-metabolizing enzymes
such as cytochrome P450 enzymes. It also plays a role in cell cycle progression (Barhoover
et al. 2010). AhR is thought to be partly associated with the tumor promoting activity of
dioxin, as it has pro-proliferative and anti-apoptotic functions, and may lead to deregulation
of cell-cell contact, dedifferentiation and enhanced motility (Watabe et al. 2010) (Dietrich
and Kaina 2010) (Marlowe et al. 2008). AHR expression can be down-regulated by TGF
beta (Dohr and Abel 1997; Wolff et al. 2001) and induced by Wnt or beta-catenin signaling
(Chesire et al. 2004). AHR overexpression was found in many cancers including gastric
cancer, where it correlated with the frequent CYP1A1 expression (Ma et al. 2006). AHR
expression and nuclear translocation were higher in gastric cancer than in normal tissues,
and expression increased gradually during cancerogenesis (Peng et al. 2009a). AhR
pathway activation enhances gastric cancer cell invasiveness likely through a c-Jun-

    WO 2011/113819                                                       PCT/EP2011/053863
                                              - 56
dependent induction of MMP-9 (Peng et al. 2009b). In a mouse model, expression of a
constitutively active mutant of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (CA-AhR) results in
development of stomach tumours, correlating with increased mortality (Andersson et al.
2002; Kuznetsov et al. 2005). The function of AhR in cancer appears to be ambiguous, as
some studies also point towards a tumor-suppressing activity (Gluschnaider et al.
2010)(Fan et al. 2010).
Hyaluronan-mediated motility receptor (RHAMM) (HMMR)
HMMR can occur on the cell surface where it binds hyaluronic acid (HA) and interacts
with the HA receptor CD44. This interaction plays a role in processes like cell motility,
wound healing and invasion (Gares and Pilarski, 2000). Intracellularly, HMMR associates
with the cytoskeleton, microtubules, centrosomes and the mitotic spindle and plays a role in
control of mitotic spindle integrity. HMMR is overexpressed in several cancer tissues
(Sohr and Engeland, 2008). HA was suggested to protect cancer cells against immune
attack. Serum HA is often increased in metastatic patients (Delpech et al., 1997). HMMR
was identified as promising tumor-associated antigen and possible prognostic factor in
AML and CLL. Peptides derived from HMMR have been used in anti-leukemia vaccines.
HMMR-001 was tested for in vitro immunogenicity as well, but not used for vaccination
(Tzankov et al., 2011) (Greiner et al., 2010; Schmitt et al., 2008; Tabarkiewicz and
Giannopoulos, 2010)       (Greiner et al., 2005). HMMR overexpression was also found in
several other cancers, often associated with bad prognosis. HMMR was also overexpressed
in gastric cancer, often together with CD44, and was suggested to facilitate invasion and
metastasis (Li et al., 1999) (Li et al., 2000a) (Li et al., 2000b).
TPX2, microtubule-associated, homolog (Xenopus laevis) (TPX2)
TPRX2 is a proliferation-associated protein expressed in S-, G(2)- and M-phases of the cell
cycle and regarded as a proliferation marker (Cordes et al., 2010).
It is required for normal microtubule nucleation, e.g. for assembly of mitotic spindles.
TPX2 recruits and activates Aurora A (Bird and Hyman, 2008; Moss et al., 2009).
Phosphorylation of TPX2 with Polo-like kinase 1 increases its ability to activate Aurora A
(Eckerdt et al., 2009). TPX2 is overexpressed in many tumor types and frequently co
overexpressed with Aurora-A (Asteriti et al., 2010). Examples where TPX2 overexpression
was found (frequently associated with bad prognosis or later stage) are meningioma (Stuart

     WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 57
et al., 2010), lung cancer (Kadara et al., 2009) (Lin et al., 2006; Ma et al., 2006) (Manda et
al., 1999) and hepatocellular carcinoma (Shigeishi et al., 2009b) (Satow et al., 2010) (Wang
et al., 2003).
The present invention therefore relates to a peptide comprising a sequence that is selected
from the group of SEQ ID NO: 1 to SEQ ID NO: 95 or a variant thereof which is at least
80% homolog to SEQ ID NO: I to SEQ ID NO: 95 or a variant thereof that induces T cells
cross-reacting with said peptide, wherein said peptide is not a full-length polypeptide.
The present invention further relates to a peptide comprising a sequence that is selected
from the group of SEQ ID NO: 1 to SEQ ID NO: 95 or a variant thereof which is at least
80% homolog to SEQ ID No: I to SEQ ID No. 95, wherein said peptide or variant has an
overall length of between 8 and 100, preferably between 8 and 30, and most preferred
between 8 and 14 amino acids.
The present invention further relates to the peptides previously described, having the ability
to bind to a molecule of the human major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class-I or -II.
The present invention further relates to the peptides previously described wherein the
peptide consists or consists essentially of an amino acid sequence according to SEQ ID No.
I to SEQ ID No. 95.
The present invention further relates to the peptides previously described, wherein the
peptide is modified and/or includes non-peptide bonds.
The present invention further relates to the peptides previously described, wherein the
peptide is a fusion protein, in particular comprising N-terminal amino acids of the HLA-DR
antigen-associated invariant chain (Ii).
The present invention further relates to a nucleic acid, encoding the peptides previously
described, provided, that the peptide is not the full human protein.

    WO 2011/113819                                                          PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 58
The present invention further relates to the nucleic acid previously described which is
DNA, cDNA, PNA, CNA, RNA or combinations thereof.
The present invention further relates to an expression vector capable of expressing a nucleic
acid previously described.
The present invention further relates to a peptide as described before, a nucleic acid as
described before or an expression vector as described before for use in medicine.
The present invention further relates to a host cell comprising a nucleic acid as described
before or an expression vector as described before.
The present invention further relates to the host cell described that is an antigen presenting
cell.
The present invention further relates to the host cell described wherein the antigen
presenting cell is a dendritic cell.
The present invention further relates to a method of producing a peptide described, the
method comprising culturing the host cell described and isolating the peptide from the host
cell or its culture medium.
The present invention further relates to an in vitro method for producing activated cytotoxic
T lymphocytes (CTL), the method comprising contacting in vitro CTL with antigen loaded
human class I or II MHC molecules expressed on the surface of a suitable antigen
presenting cell for a period of time sufficient to activate said CTL in an antigen specific
manner, wherein said antigen is any peptide described.
The present invention further relates to the method as described, wherein the antigen is
loaded onto class I or II MHC molecules expressed on the surface of a suitable antigen
presenting cell by contacting a sufficient amount of the antigen with an antigen-presenting
cell.

    WO 2011/113819                                                             PCT/EP2011/053863
                                              - 59
The present invention further relates to the method as described, wherein the antigen
presenting cell comprises an expression vector capable of expressing said peptide
containing SEQ ID NO 1 to SEQ ID NO 33 or said variant amino acid sequence.
The present invention further relates to activated cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL), produced
by the method described, which selectively recognise a cell which aberrantly expresses a
polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence described.
The present invention further relates to a method of killing target cells in a patient which
target cells aberrantly express a polypeptide comprising any amino acid sequence
described, the method comprising administering to the patient an effective number of
cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) as defined.
The present invention further relates to the use of any peptide described, a nucleic acid as
described, an expression vector as described, a cell as described, or an activated cytotoxic T
lymphocyte as described as a medicament or in the manufacture of a medicament.
The present invention further relates to a use as described, wherein the medicament is a
vaccine.
The present invention further relates to a use as described, wherein the medicament is
active against cancer.
The present invention further relates to a use as described, wherein said cancer cells are
gastric cancer cells, gastrointestinal, colorectal, pancreatic, lung or renal.
The present invention further relates to particular marker proteins that can be used in the
prognosis of gastric cancer.
Further, the present invention relates to the use of these novel targets for cancer treatment.
As provided herein, the proteins encoded by ABLI, ADAM10, AHR, CCND2, CDC6,
CDK1,      CEACAMI,        CEACAM5,         CEACAM6,        CEACAM6,        COL6A3,     EIF2S3,

    WO 2011/113819                                                       PCT/EP2011/053863
                                              - 60
LOC255308, EPHA2, ERBB2, ERBB3, F2R, FAP, HMMR, HSP90B1, IGF2BP3, ITGB4,
KIF2C, KRAS, LAMC2, LCN2, MET, MMP11, MMP12, MMP3, MST1R, NUF2,
OLFM4, PROMI, RRM2, THY1, TMPRSS4, TOP2A, TSPANI, WNT5A, HIF1A, and
PTK2 were described to be overexpressed in gastric cancer compared with normal gastric
and other vital tissues (e.g. liver kidney, heart) in literature.
The proteins encoded by ABLI, ADAM 10, ADAM8, AHR, ASPM, ATAD2, CCDC88A,
CCNB1, CCND2, CCNE2, CDC6, CDK1, CEACAMI, CEACAM5, CEACAM6,
CEACAM6, CLCN3, COL6A3, EPHA2, ERBB2, ERBB3, F2R, FAP, HIF1A, HMMR,
HSP90B1, IGF2BP3, IQGAP3, ITGB4, KIF 11, KIF2C, KRAS, LAMC2, LCN2, MET,
MMP11, MMP3, MST1R, MUC6, NCAPG, NFYB, NUF2, OLFM4, PBK, PLK4,
PPAP2C, PROMI, PTK2, RRM2, SIAH2, THY1, TOP2A, TPX2, TSPAN1, TSPAN8,
UBE2S, UCHL5, and WNT5A were shown to have an important role in tumorgenesis as
they are involved in malignant transformation, cell growth, proliferation, angiogenesis or
invasion into normal tissue. Also for the proteins encoded by DNAJC 10, EIF2S3, EIF3L,
POLD3, PSMC2, PSMD14, and TMPRSS4, there is some evidence for cancer-relevant
functions.
The proteins encoded by PROMI, WNT5A, SMC4, PPAP2C, GPR38, OLFM4 and THY1
have been shown to be highly expressed and/or functionally important in stem cells and/or
cancer stem cells. PROM1 has been discussed as marker for gastric cancer stem cells,
although data are controversial. Cancer stem cells are a tumor cell subpopulation with self
renewing potential required for sustained tumor growth. These cells reside in specialized
and highly organized structures, so called cancer stem cell niches that are required for the
maintenance of the self-renewing potential of cancer stem cells.
Overexpression of the proteins AHR, ASPM, ATAD2, CCNB1, CCND2, CCNE2, CDK1
(CDC2), CEACAMI, CEACAM5, CEACAM6, CEACAM6, COL6A3, EPHA2, ERBB2,
ERBB3, F2R, FAP, HIF1A, HMMR,HSP90B1, IGF2BP3, ITGB4, KIF11, KIF2C, KRAS,
LAMC2, LCN2, LMNB1, MET, MMP11, MMP3, MST1R, MUC6, NCAPG, NUF2,
OLFM4, PBK, PPAP2C, PROM1, PTK2, TMPRSS4, TPX2, TSPAN1, and WNT5A in
tumors has been shown to be associated with advanced disease stages and poor prognosis
for the patients.

    WO 2011/113819                                                          PCT/EP2011/053863
                                              - 61
Therefore, the present invention provides methods of identifying an animal, preferably a
human, which is likely to have gastric cancer. In one embodiment the likelihood
determined is between 80% to 100%. One such method comprises determining the level of
at least one of the proteins MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB and
MUC6 in a tumor sample from the animal subject. In one embodiment, the sample is
obtained by radical surgery. In another embodiment, the sample is obtained by needle
biopsy.
When the level of MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB or MUC6
determined is 20 % or more up-regulated in cells relative to that determined in benign
epithelial cells of the same specimen, the animal subject is identified as being likely to have
gastric cancer.
The more different proteins of the group comprising MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB,
PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB and MUC6 are up-regulated the higher the possibility of the
animal subject is identified as being likely to have gastric cancer.
In one embodiment the determination of the level of MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB,
PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB or MUC6 is performed in situ. In another embodiment the
determination of the level of MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB
or MUC6 is performed in vitro. In still another embodiment, the determination of the level
of MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB or MUC6 is performed in
vivo. In a preferred embodiment, the determination of the level of MST1R, UCHL5,
SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB or MUC6 is performed by Laser Capture
Microscopy coupled with a Western blot.
In a particular embodiment, the determination of the level of MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4,
NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB or MUC6 is performed with an antibody specific for
MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB or MUC6. In another such
embodiment the determination of the level of MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C,
AVL9, UQCRB or MUC6 is performed by PCR with a primer specific for an mRNA
encoding MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB or MUC6. In still

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 62
another embodiment the determination of the level of MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB,
PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB or MUC6 is performed with a nucleotide probe specific for an
mRNA encoding MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB or MUC6. In
one such embodiment, the determination of the level of MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB,
PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB or MUC6 is performed by a Northern blot. In another
embodiment, the determination of the level of MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C,
AVL9, UQCRB or MUC6 is performed by a ribonuclease protection assay. In other
embodiments, immunological tests such as enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA),
radioimmunoassays (RIA), and Western blots may be used to detect MST1R, UCHL5,
SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB and MUC6 polypeptides in a body fluid sample
(such as blood, serum, sputum, urine, or peritoneal fluid). Biopsies, tissue samples, and cell
samples (such as ovaries, lymph nodes, ovarian surface epithelial cell scrapings, lung
biopsies, liver biopsies, and any fluid sample containing cells (such as peritoneal fluid,
sputum, and pleural effusions) may be tested by disaggregating and/or solubilizing the
tissue or cell sample and subjecting it to an immunoassay for polypeptide detection, such as
ELISA, RIA, or Western blotting. Such cell or tissue samples may also be analyzed by
nucleic acid-based methods, e.g., reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT
PCR) amplification, Northern hybridization, or slot- or dot-blotting. To visualize the
distribution of tumor cells within a tissue sample, diagnostic tests that preserve the tissue
structure of a sample, e.g., immunohistological staining, in situ RNA hybridization, or in
situ RT-PCR may be employed to detect gastric cancer marker polypeptide or mRNA,
respectively. For in vivo localization of tumor masses, imaging tests such as magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) may be employed by introducing into the subject an antibody
that specifically binds a MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB or
MUC6 polypeptide (particularly a cell surface-localized polypeptide), wherein the antibody
is conjugated or otherwise coupled to a paramagnetic tracer (or other appropriate detectable
moiety, depending upon the imaging method used); alternatively, localization of an
unlabeled tumor marker-specific antibody may be detected using a secondary antibody
coupled to a detectable moiety.
In addition, the present invention further provides chimeric/fusion proteins/peptides
comprising the MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB or MUC6

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 63
polypeptides, and fragments thereof, including functional, proteolytic and antigenic
fragments.
The fusion partner or sections of a hybrid molecule suitably provide epitopes that stimulate
CD4' T-cells. CD4 stimulating epitopes are well known in the art and include those
identified in tetanus toxoid. In a further preferred embodiment the peptide is a fusion
protein, in particular comprising N-terminal amino acids of the HLA-DR antigen
associated invariant chain (Ii). In one embodiment the peptide of the invention is a
truncated human protein or a fusion protein of a protein fragment and another polypeptide
portion provided that the human portion includes one or more inventive amino acid
sequences.
Antibodies to the MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB or MUC6
polypeptides, to the chimeric/fusion proteins comprising the MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4,
NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB or MUC6 polypeptides, as well as to the fragments of
the MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB or MUC6 polypeptides,
including proteolytic, and antigenic fragments, and to the chimeric/fusion proteins/peptides
comprising these fragments are also part of the present invention. In addition, methods of
using such antibodies for the prognosis of cancer, and gastric cancer in particular, are also
part of the present invention.
The antibodies of the present invention can be polyclonal antibodies, monoclonal
antibodies and/or chimeric antibodies. Immortal cell lines that produce a monoclonal
antibody of the present invention are also part of the present invention.
One of ordinary skill in the art will understand that in some instances, higher expression of
MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB or MUC6 as a tumor marker
gene will indicate a worse prognosis for a subject having gastric cancer. For example,
relatively higher levels MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB or
MUC6 expression may indicate a relative large primary tumor, a higher tumor burden (e.g.,
more metastases), or a relatively more malignant tumor phenotype.
The more different proteins of the group comprising MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB,
PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB and MUC6 are overexpressed the worse the prognosis is.

    WO 2011/113819                                                          PCT/EP2011/053863
                                              - 64
The diagnostic and prognostic methods of the invention involve using known methods, e.g.,
antibody-based methods to detect MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9,
UQCRB and MUC6 polypeptides and nucleic acid hybridization- and/or amplification
based methods to detect MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB, and
MUC6 mRNA.
In addition, since rapid tumor cell destruction often results in autoantibody generation, the
gastric cancer tumor markers of the invention may be used in serological assays (e.g., an
ELISA test of a subject's serum) to detect autoantibodies against MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4,
NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB or MUC6 in a subject. MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB,
PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB, and MUC6 polypeptide-specific autoantibody levels that are at
least about 3-fold higher (and preferably at least 5-fold or 7-fold higher, most preferably at
least 10-fold or 20-fold higher) than in a control sample are indicative of gastric cancer.
Cell-surface localized, intracellular, and secreted MST1R, UCHL5,               SMC4, NFYB,
PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB and MUC6 polypeptides may all be employed for analysis of
biopsies, e.g., tissue or cell samples (including cells obtained from liquid samples such as
peritoneal cavity fluid) to identify a tissue or cell biopsy as containing gastric cancer cells.
A biopsy may be analyzed as an intact tissue or as a whole-cell sample, or the tissue or cell
sample may be disaggregated and/or solubilized as necessary for the particular type of
diagnostic test to be used. For example, biopsies or samples may be subjected to whole
tissue or whole-cell analysis of MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9,
UQCRB        and    MUC6       polypeptide    or   mRNA      levels   in   situ,   e.g.,  using
immunohistochemistry, in situ mRNA hybridization, or in situ RT-PCR. The skilled artisan
will know how to process tissues or cells for analysis of polypeptide or mRNA levels using
immunological methods such as ELISA, immunoblotting, or equivalent methods, or
analysis of mRNA levels by nucleic acid-based analytical methods such as RT-PCR,
Northern hybridization, or slot- or dot-blotting.
Kits for Measuring Expression Levels of MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C,
AVL9, UQCRB, and MUC6.

   WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 65
The present invention provides kits for detecting an increased expression level of MST1R,
UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB and MUC6 as a gastric cancer marker
gene in a subject. A kit for detecting gastric cancer marker polypeptide preferably contains
an antibody that specifically binds a chosen gastric cancer marker polypeptide. A kit for
detecting gastric cancer marker mRNA preferably contains one or more nucleic acids (e.g.,
one or more oligonucleotide primers or probes, DNA probes, RNA probes, or templates for
generating RNA probes) that specifically hybridize with MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB,
PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB, and MUC6 mRNA.
Particularly, the antibody-based kit can be used to detect the presence of, and/or measure
the level of, a MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB and MUC6
polypeptide that is specifically bound by the antibody or an immunoreactive fragment
thereof The kit can include an antibody reactive with the antigen and a reagent for
detecting a reaction of the antibody with the antigen. Such a kit can be an ELISA kit and
can contain a control (e.g., a specified amount of a particular gastric cancer marker
polypeptide), primary and secondary antibodies when appropriate, and any other necessary
reagents such as detectable moieties, enzyme substrates and color reagents as described
above. The diagnostic kit can, alternatively, be an immunoblot kit generally comprising the
components and reagents described herein.
A nucleic acid-based kit can be used to detect and/or measure the expression level of
MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB and MUC6 by detecting
and/or measuring the amount of MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9,
UQCRB and MUC6 mRNA in a sample, such as a tissue or cell biopsy. For example, an
RT-PCR kit for detection of elevated expression of MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB,
PPAP2C, AVL9,        UQCRB and MUC6 preferably contains oligonucleotide primers
sufficient to perform reverse transcription of gastric cancer marker mRNA to cDNA and
PCR amplification of gastric cancer marker cDNA, and will preferably also contain control
PCR template molecules and primers to perform appropriate negative and positive controls,
and internal controls for quantization. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand how
to select the appropriate primers to perform the reverse transcription and PCR reactions,
and the appropriate control reactions to be performed. Such guidance is found, for example,
in F. Ausubel et al., Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, John Wiley & Sons, New

    WO 2011/113819                                                        PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 66
York, N.Y., 1997. Numerous variations of RT-PCR are known in the art. Targeted Delivery
of immunotoxins to MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB and
MUC6 can be employed as therapeutic targets for the treatment or prevention of gastric
cancer. For example, an antibody molecule that specifically binds a cell surface-localized
MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB and MUC6 polypeptide can be
conjugated to a radioisotope or other toxic compound. Antibody conjugates are
administered to the subject so that the binding of the antibody to its cognate gastric cancer
polypeptide results in the targeted delivery of the therapeutic compound to gastric cancer
cells, thereby treating an ovarian cancer.
The therapeutic moiety can be a toxin, radioisotope, drug, chemical, or a protein (see, e.g.,
Bera et al. "Pharmacokinetics and antitumor activity of a bivalent disulfide-stabilized Fv
immunotoxin with improved antigen binding to erbB2" Cancer Res. 59:4018-4022 (1999)).
For example, the antibody can be linked or conjugated to a bacterial toxin (e.g., diptheria
toxin, pseudomonas exotoxin A, cholera toxin) or plant toxin (e.g., ricin toxin) for targeted
delivery of the toxin to a cell expressing MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C,
AVL9, UQCRB and MUC6 This immunotoxin can be delivered to a cell and upon binding
the cell surface-localized gastric cancer marker polypeptide, the toxin conjugated to the
gastric cancer marker-specific antibody will be delivered to the cell.
In addition, for any MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB and
MUC6 polypeptide for which there is a specific ligand (e.g., a ligand that binds a cell
surface-localized protein), the ligand can be used in place of an antibody to target a toxic
compound to a gastric cancer cell, as described above.
The term "antibodies" is used herein in a broad sense and includes both polyclonal and
monoclonal antibodies. In addition to intact immunoglobulin molecules, also included in
the term "antibodies" are fragments or polymers of those immunoglobulin molecules and
humanized versions of immunoglobulin molecules, so long as they exhibit any of the
desired properties (e.g., specific binding of an gastric cancer marker polypeptide, delivery
of a toxin to an gastric cancer cell expressing an gastric cancer marker gene at an increased
level, and/or inhibiting the activity of an gastric cancer marker polypeptide) described
herein.

    WO 2011/113819                                                            PCT/EP2011/053863
                                               - 67
Whenever possible, the antibodies of the invention may be purchased from commercial
sources. The antibodies of the invention may also be generated using well-known methods.
The skilled artisan will understand that either full length gastric cancer marker polypeptides
or fragments thereof may be used to generate the antibodies of the invention. A polypeptide
to be used for generating an antibody of the invention may be partially or fully purified
from a natural source, or may be produced using recombinant DNA techniques. For
example, a cDNA encoding a MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB
or MUC6 polypeptide, or a fragment thereof, can be expressed in prokaryotic cells (e.g.,
bacteria) or eukaryotic cells (e.g., yeast, insect, or mammalian cells), after which the
recombinant protein can be purified and used to generate a monoclonal or polyclonal
antibody preparation that specifically bind the gastric cancer marker polypeptide used to
generate the antibody.
One of skill in the art will know that the generation of two or more different sets of
monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies maximizes the likelihood of obtaining an antibody
with   the   specificity   and    affinity  required    for  its  intended  use    (e.g., ELISA,
immunohistochemistry, in vivo imaging, immunotoxin therapy). The antibodies are tested
for their desired activity by known methods, in accordance with the purpose for which the
antibodies are to be used (e.g., ELISA, immunohistochemistiy, immunotherapy, etc.; for
further guidance on the generation and testing of antibodies, see, e.g., Harlow and Lane,
Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring
Harbor, N.Y., 1988). For example, the antibodies may be tested in ELISA assays, Western
blots, immunohistochemical staining of formalin-fixed gastric cancers or frozen tissue
sections. After their initial in vitro characterization, antibodies intended for therapeutic or in
vivo diagnostic use are tested according to known clinical testing methods.
The term "monoclonal antibody" as used herein refers to an antibody obtained from a
substantially homogeneous         population of antibodies, i.e.; the individual antibodies
comprising the population are identical except for possible naturally occurring mutations
that may be present in minor amounts. The monoclonal antibodies herein specifically
include "chimeric" antibodies in which a portion of the heavy and/or light chain is identical
with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from a particular

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 68
species or belonging to a particular antibody class or subclass, while the remainder of the
chain(s) is identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived
from another species or belonging to another antibody class or subclass, as well as
fragments of such antibodies, so long as they exhibit the desired antagonistic activity (U.S.
Pat. No.4,816,567).
Monoclonal antibodies of the invention may be prepared using hybridoma methods. In a
hybridoma method, a mouse or other appropriate host animal, is typically immunized with
an immunizing agent to elicit lymphocytes that produce or are capable of producing
antibodies that will specifically bind to the immunizing agent. Alternatively, the
lymphocytes may be immunized in vitro.
The monoclonal antibodies may also be made by recombinant DNA methods, such as those
described in U.S. Pat. No.4,816,567. DNA encoding the monoclonal antibodies of the
invention can be readily isolated and sequenced using conventional procedures (e.g., by
using oligonucleotide probes that are capable of binding specifically to genes encoding the
heavy and light chains of murine antibodies).
In vitro methods are also suitable for preparing monovalent antibodies. Digestion of
antibodies to produce fragments thereof, particularly, Fab fragments, can be accomplished
using routine techniques known in the art. For instance, digestion can be performed using
papain. Examples of papain digestion are described in WO 94/29348 published Dec. 22,
1994 and U.S. Pat. No.4,342,566. Papain digestion of antibodies typically produces two
identical antigen binding fragments, called Fab fragments, each with a single antigen
binding site, and a residual Fe fragment. Pepsin treatment yields a fragment that has two
antigen combining sites and is still capable of cross-linking antigen.
The antibody fragments, whether attached to other sequences or not, can also include
insertions, deletions, substitutions, or other selected modifications of particular regions or
specific amino acids residues, provided the activity of the fragment is not significantly
altered or impaired compared to the nonmodified antibody or antibody fragment. These
modifications can provide for some additional property, such as to remove/add amino acids
capable of disulfide bonding, to increase its bio-longevity, to alter its secretory

    WO 2011/113819                                                           PCT/EP2011/053863
                                              - 69
characteristics, etc. In any case, the antibody fragment must possess a bioactive property,
such as binding activity, regulation of binding at the binding domain, etc. Functional or
active regions of the antibody may be identified by mutagenesis of a specific region of the
protein, followed by expression and testing of the expressed polypeptide. Such methods are
readily apparent to a skilled practitioner in the art and can include site-specific mutagenesis
of the nucleic acid encoding the antibody fragment.
The antibodies of the invention may further comprise humanized antibodies or human
antibodies. Humanized forms of non-human (e.g., murine) antibodies are chimeric
immunoglobulins, immunoglobulin chains or fragments thereof (such as Fv, Fab, Fab' or
other antigen-binding subsequences of antibodies) which contain minimal sequence derived
from non-human immunoglobulin. Humanized antibodies include human immunoglobulins
(recipient antibody) in which residues from a complementary determining region (CDR) of
the recipient are replaced by residues from a CDR of a non-human species (donor antibody)
such as mouse, rat or rabbit having the desired specificity, affinity and capacity. In some
instances, Fv framework (FR) residues of the human immunoglobulin are replaced by
corresponding non-human residues. Humanized antibodies may also comprise residues
which are found neither in the recipient antibody nor in the imported CDR or framework
sequences. In general, the humanized antibody will comprise substantially all of at least
one, and typically two, variable domains, in which all or substantially all of the CDR
regions correspond to those of a non-human immunoglobulin and all or substantially all of
the FR regions are those of a human immunoglobulin consensus sequence. The humanized
antibody optimally also will comprise at least a portion of an immunoglobulin constant
region (Fc), typically that of a human immunoglobulin.
Methods for humanizing non-human antibodies are well known in the art. Generally, a
humanized antibody has one or more amino acid residues introduced into it from a source
which is non-human. These non-human amino acid residues are often referred to as
"import" residues, which are typically taken from an "import" variable domain.
Humanization can be essentially performed by substituting rodent CDRs or CDR sequences
for the corresponding sequences of a human antibody. Accordingly, such "humanized"
antibodies are chimeric antibodies (U.S. Pat. No.4,816,567), wherein substantially less than
an intact human variable domain has been substituted by the corresponding sequence from

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 70
a non-human species. In practice, humanized antibodies are typically human antibodies in
which some CDR residues and possibly some FR residues are substituted by residues from
analogous sites in rodent antibodies.
Transgenic animals (e.g., mice) that are capable, upon immunization, of producing a full
repertoire of human antibodies in the absence of endogenous immunoglobulin production
can be employed. For example, it has been described that the homozygous deletion of the
antibody heavy chain joining region gene in chimeric and germ-line mutant mice results in
complete inhibition of endogenous antibody production. Transfer of the human germ-line
immunoglobulin gene array in such germ-line mutant mice will result in the production of
human antibodies upon antigen challenge. Human antibodies can also be produced in phage
display libraries.
Antibodies of the invention are preferably administered to a subject in a pharmaceutically
acceptable carrier. Typically, an appropriate amount of a pharmaceutically-acceptable salt
is used in the formulation to render the formulation isotonic. Examples of the
pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier include saline, Ringer's solution and dextrose solution.
The pH of the solution is preferably from about 5 to about 8, and more preferably from
about 7 to about 7.5. Further carriers include sustained release preparations such as
semipermeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing the antibody, which
matrices are in the form of shaped articles, e.g., films, liposomes or microparticles. It will
be apparent to those persons skilled in the art that certain carriers may be more preferable
depending upon, for instance, the route of administration and concentration of antibody
being administered.
The antibodies can be administered to the subject, patient, or cell by injection (e.g.,
intravenous, intraperitoneal, subcutaneous, intramuscular), or by other methods such as
infusion that ensure its delivery to the bloodstream in an effective form. The antibodies
may also be administered by intratumoral or peritumoral routes, to exert local as well as
systemic therapeutic effects. Local or intravenous injection is preferred.
Effective dosages and schedules for administering the antibodies may be determined
empirically, and making such determinations is within the skill in the art. Those skilled in

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 71
the art will understand that the dosage of antibodies that must be administered will vary
depending on, for example, the subject that will receive the antibody, the route of
administration, the particular type of antibody used and other drugs being administered. A
typical daily dosage of the antibody used alone might range from about 1 (gg/kg to up to
100 mg/kg of body weight or more per day, depending on the factors mentioned above.
Following administration of an antibody for treating gastric cancer, the efficacy of the
therapeutic antibody can be assessed in various ways well known to the skilled practitioner.
For instance, the size, number, and/or distribution of gastric cancer in a subject receiving
treatment may be monitored using standard tumor imaging techniques. A therapeutically
administered antibody that arrests tumor growth, results in tumor shrinkage, and/or
prevents the development of new tumors, compared to the disease course that would occurs
in the absence of antibody administration, is an efficacious antibody for treatment of gastric
cancer.
Because the proteins ABL1, ADAM10, AHR, CCND2, CDC6, CDK1, CEACAM1,
CEACAM5, CEACAM6, CEACAM6, COL6A3, EIF2S3, LOC255308, EPHA2, ERBB2,
ERBB3, F2R, FAP, HMMR, HSP90B1, IGF2BP3, ITGB4, KIF2C, KRAS, LAMC2,
LCN2, MET, MMP11, MMP12, MMP3, MST1R, NUF2, OLFM4, PROM1, RRM2,
THY1, TMPRSS4, TOP2A, TSPANI, WNT5A, HIF1A, and PTK2 have been shown to be
highly expressed in at least a subset of gastric cancer tissues as compared to normal tissues,
inhibition of their expression or activity may be integrated into any therapeutic strategy for
treating or preventing gastric cancer.
The principle of antisense therapy is based on the hypothesis that sequence-specific
suppression of gene expression (via transcription or translation) may be achieved by intra
cellular hybridization between genomic DNA or mRNA and a complementary antisense
species. The formation of such a hybrid nucleic acid duplex interferes with transcription of
the target tumor antigen-encoding genomic DNA, or processing/transport/translation and/or
stability of the target tumor antigen mRNA.
Antisense nucleic acids can be delivered by a variety of approaches. For example, antisense
oligonucleotides or anti-sense RNA can be directly administered (e.g., by intravenous
injection) to a subject in a form that allows uptake into tumor cells. Alternatively, viral or

    WO 2011/113819                                                          PCT/EP2011/053863
                                              - 72
plasmid vectors that encode antisense RNA (or RNA fragments) can be introduced into
cells in vivo. Antisense effects can also be induced by sense sequences; however, the extent
of phenotypic changes is highly variable. Phenotypic changes induced by effective
antisense therapy are assessed according to changes in, e.g., target mRNA levels, target
protein levels, and/or target protein activity levels.
In a specific example, inhibition of gastric tumor marker function by antisense gene therapy
may be accomplished by direct administration of antisense gastric tumor marker RNA to a
subject. The antisense tumor marker RNA may be produced and isolated by any standard
technique, but is most readily produced by in vitro transcription using an antisense tumor
marker cDNA under the control of a high efficiency promoter (e.g., the T7 promoter).
Administration of anti-sense tumor marker RNA to cells can be carried out by any of the
methods for direct nucleic acid administration described below.
An alternative strategy for inhibiting MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9,
UQCRB or MUC6 function using gene therapy involves intracellular expression of an anti
MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB or MUC6 antibody or a
portion of an anti- MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB or MUC6
antibody. For example, the gene (or gene fragment) encoding a monoclonal antibody that
specifically binds to a MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB or
MUC6 polypeptide and inhibits its biological activity is placed under the transcriptional
control of a specific (e.g., tissue- or tumor-specific) gene regulatory sequence, within a
nucleic acid expression vector. The vector is then administered to the subject such that it is
taken up by gastric cancer cells or other cells, which then secrete the anti- MST1R,
UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB or MUC6 antibody and thereby block
biological activity of the MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB and
MUC6 polypeptide. Preferably, the MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9,
UQCRB and MUC6 polypeptides are present at the extracellular surface of gastric cancer
cells.
In the methods described above, which include the administration and uptake of exogenous
DNA into the cells of a subject (i.e., gene transduction or transfection), the nucleic acids of
the present invention can be in the form of naked DNA or the nucleic acids can be in a

    WO 2011/113819                                                           PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 73
vector for delivering the nucleic acids to the cells for inhibition of gastric tumor marker
protein expression. The vector can be a commercially available preparation, such as an
adenovirus vector (Quantum Biotechnologies, Inc. (Laval, Quebec, Canada). Delivery of
the nucleic acid or vector to cells can be via a variety of mechanisms. As one example,
delivery can be via a liposome, using commercially available liposome preparations such as
LIPOFECTIN, LIPOFECTAMINE (GIBCO-                     25   BRL, Inc., Gaithersburg, Md.),
SUPERFECT (Qiagen, Inc. Hilden, Germany) and TRANSFECTAM (Promega Biotec,
Inc., Madison, Wis.), as well as other liposomes developed according to procedures
standard in the art. In addition, the nucleic acid or vector of this invention can be delivered
in vivo by electroporation, the technology for which is available from Genetronics, Inc.
(San Diego, Calif.) as well as by means of a SONOPORATION machine (ImaRx
Pharmaceutical Corp., Tucson, Arizona).
As one example, vector delivery can be via a viral system, such as a retroviral vector
system that can package a recombinant retroviral genome. The recombinant retrovirus can
then be used to infect and thereby deliver to the infected cells antisense nucleic acid that
inhibits expression of MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB or
MUC6. The exact method of introducing the altered nucleic acid into mammalian cells is,
of course, not limited to the use of retroviral vectors. Other techniques are widely available
for this procedure including the use of adenoviral vectors, adeno-associated viral (AAV)
vectors, lentiviral vectors, pseudotyped retroviral vectors. Physical transduction techniques
can also be used, such as liposome delivery and receptor-mediated and other endocytosis
mechanisms. This invention can be used in conjunction with any of these or other
commonly used gene transfer methods.
The antibodies may also be used for in vivo diagnostic assays. Generally, the antibody is
labeled with a radionucleotide (such as      IIn, 99Tc, 1C,      , 3H,    P or 3 S) so that the
tumor can be localized using immunoscintiography. In one embodiment, antibodies or
fragments thereof bind to the extracellular domains of two or more MST1R, UCHL5,
SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB, and MUC6 targets and the affinity value (Kd) is
less than 1x1OgM.

    WO 2011/113819                                                          PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 74
Antibodies for diagnostic use may be labeled with probes suitable for detection by various
imaging methods. Methods for detection of probes include, but are not limited to,
fluorescence, light, confocal and electron microscopy; magnetic resonance imaging and
spectroscopy; fluoroscopy, computed tomography and positron emission tomography.
Suitable probes include, but are not limited to, fluorescein, rhodamine, eosin and other
fluorophores, radioisotopes, gold, gadolinium and other lanthanides, paramagnetic iron,
fluorine- 18 and other positron-emitting radionuclides. Additionally, probes may be bi- or
multi-functional and be detectable by more than one of the methods listed. These antibodies
may be directly or indirectly labeled with said probes. Attachment of probes to the
antibodies includes covalent attachment of the probe, incorporation of the probe into the
antibody, and the covalent attachment of a chelating compound for binding of probe,
amongst others well recognized in the art. For immunohistochemistry, the disease tissue
sample may be fresh or frozen or may be embedded in paraffin and fixed with a
preservative such as formalin. The fixed or embedded section contains the sample are
contacted with a labeled primary antibody and secondary antibody, wherein the antibody is
used to detect the MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB, PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB and MUC6
proteins express in situ.
The present invention thus provides a peptide comprising a sequence that is selected from
the group of SEQ ID NO: 1 to SEQ ID NO: 95 or a variant thereof which is 85%,
preferably 90% and more preferred 96%, homologous to SEQ ID NO: 1 to SEQ ID NO:
95or a variant thereof that will induce T cells cross-reacting with said peptide.
The peptides of the invention have the ability to bind to a molecule of the human major
histocompatibility complex (MHC) class-I.
In the present invention, the term "homologous" refers to the degree of identity between
sequences of two amino acid sequences, i.e. peptide or polypeptide sequences. The
aforementioned "homology" is determined by comparing two sequences aligned under
optimal conditions over the sequences to be compared. The sequences to be compared
herein may have an addition or deletion (for example, gap and the like) in the optimum
alignment of the two sequences. Such a sequence homology can be calculated by creating
an alignment using, for example, the ClustalW algorithm. Commonly available sequence

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                               - 75
analysis software, more specifically, Vector NTI, GENETYX or analysis tools provided by
public databases.
A person skilled in the art will be able to assess, whether T cells induced by a variant of a
specific peptide will be able to cross-react with the peptide itself (Fong et al. 8809-14);
(Appay et al. 1805-14;Colombetti et al. 2730-38;Zaremba et al. 4570-77).
By a "variant" of the given amino acid sequence the inventors mean that the side chains of,
for example, one or two of the amino acid residues are altered (for example by replacing
them with the side chain of another naturally occurring amino acid residue or some other
side chain) such that the peptide is still able to bind to an HLA molecule in substantially the
same way as a peptide consisting of the given amino acid sequence in SEQ ID NO: 1 to 33.
For example, a peptide may be modified so that it at least maintains, if not improves, the
ability to interact with and bind to the binding groove of a suitable MHC molecule, such as
HLA-A*02 or -DR, and in that way it at least maintains, if not improves, the ability to bind
to the TCR of activated CTL.
These CTL can subsequently cross-react with cells and kill cells that express a polypeptide
which contains the natural amino acid sequence of the cognate peptide as defined in the
aspects of the invention. As can be derived from the scientific literature (Rammensee,
Bachmann, and Stevanovic) and databases (Rammensee et al. 213-19), certain positions of
HLA binding peptides are typically anchor residues forming a core sequence fitting to the
binding motif of the HLA receptor, which is defined by polar, electrophysical, hydrophobic
and spatial properties of the polypeptide chains constituting the binding groove. Thus one
skilled in the art would be able to modify the amino acid sequences set forth in SEQ ID
NO: 1 to 95, by maintaining the known anchor residues, and would be able to determine
whether such variants maintain the ability to bind MHC class I or II molecules. The
variants of the present invention retain the ability to bind to the TCR of activated CTL,
which can subsequently cross-react with- and kill cells that express a polypeptide
containing the natural amino acid sequence of the cognate peptide as defined in the aspects
of the invention.

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 76
Those amino acid residues that do not substantially contribute to interactions with the T
cell receptor can be modified by replacement with another amino acid whose incorporation
does not substantially affect T-cell reactivity and does not eliminate binding to the relevant
MHC. Thus, apart from the proviso given, the peptide of the invention may be any peptide
(by which term the inventors include oligopeptide or polypeptide), which includes the
amino acid sequences or a portion or variant thereof as given.
Table 3: Variants and motif of the peptides according to SEQ ID NO: I to 33
                                    Position     1   2    3   4    5    6   7    8   9    10
 CDC2-001          Peptide Code                 L    Y    Q   I    L    Q   G    I   V    F
 SEQ ID 1          Variants                          F
                                                                                          L
                                                                                          I
                                                     F                                    L
                                                     F                                    I
                                    Position     1   2    3   4    5    6   7    8   9
 ASPM-002          Peptide Code                  S   Y   N    P    L   W    L    R   I
 SEQ ID 2          Variants                          F
                                                                                     L
                                                                                     F
                                                     F                               L
                                                     F                               F
                                    Position     1   2    3   4    5    6   7    8   9
 UCHL5-001         Peptide Code                 N    Y    L   P    F   I    M    E   L
 SEQ ID 3          Variants                          F
                                                                                     F
                                                                                     I
                                                     F                               F
                                                     F                               I
                                    Position     1   2    3   4    5    6   7    8   9
 MET-006           Peptide Code                  S   Y    I   D    V   L    P    E   F
 SEQ ID 4          Variants                          F

  WO 2011/113819                                       PCT/EP2011/053863
                                       - 77
                                                                L
                                                                I
                                             F                  F
                                             F                  I
                              Position     1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
PROM-001         Peptide Code              S Y I I D P  L   N   L
SEQ ID 5         Variants                    F
                                                                F
                                                                I
                                             F                  F
                                             F                  I
                              Position     1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9   10
MMP11-001        Peptide Code             V  W S D V T  P   L   T   F
SEQ ID 6         Variants                    Y
                                             F
                                                                    L
                                                                    I
                                             Y                      L
                                             Y
                                             F                      L
                                             F
                              Position     1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
MST1R-001        Peptide Code             N  Y L L Y V  S   N   F
SEQ ID 7         Variants                    F
                                                                L
                                                                I
                                             F                  L
                                             F                  I
                              Position     1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
NFYB-001         Peptide Code             V  Y T T S Y  Q Q     I
SEQ ID 8         Variants                    F
                                                                L

  WO 2011/113819                                       PCT/EP2011/053863
                                       - 78
                                                                F
                                             F                  L
                                             F                  F
                              Position     1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
SMC4-001         Peptide Code             H  Y K P T P  L   Y   F
SEQ ID 9         Variants                    F
                                                                L
                                             F                  L
                                             F                  I
                              Position     1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9   10
UQCRB-001        Peptide Code             Y  Y N A A G  F   N   K   L
SEQ ID 10        Variants                    F
                                                                    F
                                                                    I
                                             F                      F
                                             F
                              Position     1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
PPAP2C-001       Peptide Code             A  Y L V Y T  D   R   L
SEQ ID 11        Variants                    F
                                                                F
                                                                I
                                             F                  F
                                             F                  I
                              Position     1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
AVL9-001         Peptide Code             F  Y I S P V  N   K   L
SEQ ID 12        Variants                    F
                                                                F
                                                                I
                                             F                  F
                                             F                  I
                              Position     1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9

  WO 2011/113819                                       PCT/EP2011/053863
                                       - 79
NUF2-001         Peptide Code             V  Y G I R L  E   H   F
SEQ ID 13        Variants                    F
                                                                L
                                                               I
                                             F                  L
                                             F                  I
                              Position     1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
ABLI-001         Peptide Code             T  Y G N L L  D   Y   L
SEQ ID 14        Variants                    F
                                                                F
                                                               I
                                             F                  F
                                             F                  I
                              Position     1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
MUC-006          Peptide Code             N  Y E E T F  P   H   I
SEQ ID 15        Variants                    F
                                                                F
                                                                L
                                             F                  F
                                             F                  L
                              Position     1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
ASPM-001         Peptide Code             R  Y L W A T  V   T   I
SEQ ID 16        Variants                    F
                                                                F
                                                                L
                                             F                  F
                                             F                  L
                              Position     1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
EPHA2-005        Peptide Code             V  Y F S K S  E   Q   L
SEQ ID 17        Variants                    F
                                                                F
                                                               I

  WO 2011/113819                                      PCT/EP2011/053863
                                       - 80
                                            F                  F
                                            F                  I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
MMP3-001         Peptide Code             V F I F K G  N   Q   F
SEQ ID 18        Variants                   Y
                                                               L
                                                               I
                                            Y                  L
                                            Y                  I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
NUF2-002         Peptide Code             R F L S G I  I   N   F
SEQ ID 19        Variants                   Y
                                                               L
                                                               I
                                            Y                  L
                                            Y                  I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
PLK4-001         Peptide Code             Q Y A S R F  V   Q   L
SEQ ID 20        Variants                   F
                                                               F
                                                               I
                                            F                  F
                                            F                  I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
ATAD2-002        Peptide Code             K Y L T V K  D   Y   L
SEQ ID 21        Variants                   F
                                                               F
                                                               I
                                            F                  F
                                            F                  I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
COL12A1-001      Peptide Code             V Y N P T P  N   S   L

  WO 2011/113819                                       PCT/EP2011/053863
                                       - 81
SEQ ID 22        Variants                    F
                                                                F
                                                                I
                                             F                  F
                                             F                  I
                              Position     1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
COL6A3-001       Peptide Code              S Y L Q A A  N   A L
SEQ ID 23        Variants                    F
                                                                F
                                                                I
                                             F                  F
                                             F                  I
                              Position     1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
FANCI-001        Peptide Code             F  Y Q P K I  Q Q     F
SEQ ID 24        Variants                    F
                                                                L
                                                                I
                                             F                  L
                                             F                  I
                              Position     1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
RSP11-001        Peptide Code             Y  Y K N I G  L   G   F
SEQ ID 25        Variants                    F
                                                                L
                                                                I
                                             F                  L
                                             F                  I
                              Position     1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
ATAD2-001        Peptide Code             A  Y A I I K  E   E   L
SEQ ID 26        Variants                    F
                                                                F
                                                                I
                                             F                  F

  WO 2011/113819                                       PCT/EP2011/053863
                                       - 82
                                             F
                              Position     1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
ATAD2-003        Peptide Code             L  Y P E V F  E   K   F
SEQ ID 27        Variants                    F
                                                                L
                                                                I
                                             F                  L
                                             F                  I
                              Position     1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9   10
HSP90B1-001      Peptide Code             K  Y N D T F  W   K   E   F
SEQ ID 28        Variants                    F
                                                                    L
                                                                    I
                                             F                      L
                                             F                      I
                              Position     1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9   10
SIAH2-001        Peptide Code             V  F D T A I  A   H   L   F
SEQ ID 29        Variants                    Y
                                                                    L
                                                                    I
                                             Y                      L
                                             Y                      I
                              Position     1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
SLC6A6-001       Peptide Code             V  Y P N W A  I   G   L
SEQ ID 30        Variants                    F
                                                                F
                                                                I
                                             F                  F
                                             F                  I
                              Position     1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
IQGAP3-001       Peptide Code             V  Y K V V G  N   L   L
SEQ ID 31        Variants                    F

  WO 2011/113819                                            PCT/EP2011/053863
                                       - 83
                                                                     F
                                                                     I
                                              F                      F
                                              F                      I
                              Position     1  2  3  4  5 6   7   8   9
ERBB3-001        Peptide Code             V   Y  I  E  K N   D   K L
SEQ ID 32        Variants                     F
                                                                     F
                                                                     I
                                              F                      F
                                              F                      I
                              Position     1  2  3  4  5 6   7   8   9   10
KIF2C-001        Peptide Code             I   Y  N  G  K L   F   D   L   L
SEQ ID 33        Variants                     F
                                                                         F
                                                                         I
                                              F                          F
                                              F                          I
                               Position     1  2  3  4 5  6   7   8   9    10
CDC2-001         Peptide Code               L  Y  Q  I L  Q   G   I   V F
SEQ ID 1         Variants                      F
                                                                          L
                                                                          I
                                               F                          L
                                               F                          I
                               Position     1  2  3  4 5  6   7   8   9
ASPM-002         Peptide Code               S  Y  N  P L  W L     R   I
SEQ ID 2         Variants                      F
                                                                      L
                                                                      F
                                               F                      L
                                               F                      F

  WO 2011/113819                                      PCT/EP2011/053863
                                     - 84
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
UCHL5-001        Peptide Code            N  Y L P F I  M   E   L
SEQ ID 3         Variants                   F
                                                               F
                                                               I
                                            F                  F
                                            F                  I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
MET-006          Peptide Code             S Y I D V L  P   E   F
SEQ ID 4         Variants                   F
                                                               L
                                                               I
                                            F                  F
                                            F                  I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
PROM-001         Peptide Code             S Y I I D P  L   N   L
SEQ ID 5         Variants                   F
                                                               F
                                                               I
                                            F                  F
                                            F                  I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9    10
MMP11-001        Peptide Code            V  W S D V T  P   L   T    F
SEQ ID 6         Variants                   Y
                                            F
                                                                    L
                                                                    I
                                            Y                       L
                                            Y
                                            F                       L
                                            F
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9

  WO 2011/113819                                      PCT/EP2011/053863
                                     - 85
MST1R-001        Peptide Code            N  Y L L Y V  S   N   F
SEQ ID 7         Variants                   F
                                                               L
                                                               I
                                            F                  L
                                            F                  I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
NFYB-001         Peptide Code            V  Y T T S Y  Q Q     I
SEQ ID 8         Variants                   F
                                                               L
                                                               F
                                            F                  L
                                            F                  F
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
SMC4-001         Peptide Code             H Y K P T P  L   Y   F
SEQ ID 9         Variants                   F
                                                               L
                                            F                  L
                                            F                  I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9    10
UQCRB-001        Peptide Code            Y  Y N A A G  F   N   K    L
SEQ ID 10        Variants                   F
                                                                    F
                                                                    I
                                            F                       F
                                            F
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
PPAP2C-001       Peptide Code            A  Y L V Y T  D   R   L
SEQ ID 11        Variants                   F
                                                               F
                                                               I

  WO 2011/113819                                      PCT/EP2011/053863
                                     - 86
                                            F                  F
                                            F                  I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
AVL9-001         Peptide Code             F Y I S P V  N   K L
SEQ ID 12        Variants                   F
                                                               F
                                                               I
                                            F                  F
                                            F                  I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
NUF2-001         Peptide Code            V  Y G I R L  E   H   F
SEQ ID 13        Variants                   F
                                                               L
                                                               I
                                            F                  L
                                            F                  I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
ABLI-001         Peptide Code             T Y G N L L  D   Y L
SEQ ID 14        Variants                   F
                                                               F
                                                               I
                                            F                  F
                                            F                  I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
MUC-006          Peptide Code            N  Y E E T F  P   H   I
SEQ ID 15        Variants                   F
                                                               F
                                                               L
                                            F                  F
                                            F                  L
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
ASPM-001         Peptide Code             R Y L W A T  V   T   I

  WO 2011/113819                                      PCT/EP2011/053863
                                     - 87
SEQ ID 16        Variants                   F
                                                               F
                                                               L
                                            F                  F
                                            F                  L
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
EPHA2-005        Peptide Code            V  Y F S K S  E   Q   L
SEQ ID 17        Variants                   F
                                                               F
                                                               I
                                            F                  F
                                            F                  I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
MMP3-001         Peptide Code            V  F I F K G  N   Q   F
SEQ ID 18        Variants                   Y
                                                               L
                                                               I
                                            Y                  L
                                            Y                  I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
NUF2-002         Peptide Code             R F L S G I  I   N   F
SEQ ID 19        Variants                   Y
                                                               L
                                                               I
                                            Y                  L
                                            Y                  I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
PLK4-001         Peptide Code             Q Y A S R F  V   Q   L
SEQ ID 20        Variants                   F
                                                               F
                                                               I
                                            F                  F

  WO 2011/113819                                      PCT/EP2011/053863
                                     - 88
                                            F
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
ATAD2-002        Peptide Code             K Y L T V K  D   Y L
SEQ ID 21        Variants                   F
                                                               F
                                                               I
                                            F                  F
                                            F                  I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
COL12A-001       Peptide Code            V  Y N P T P  N   S   L
SEQ ID 22        Variants                   F
                                                               F
                                                               I
                                            F                  F
                                            F                  I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
COL6A3-001       Peptide Code             S Y L Q A A  N   A L
SEQ ID 23        Variants                   F
                                                               F
                                                               I
                                            F                  F
                                            F                  I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
FANCI-001        Peptide Code             F Y Q P K I  Q Q     F
SEQ ID 24        Variants                   F
                                                               L
                                                               I
                                            F                  L
                                            F                  I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
RSP11-001        Peptide Code            Y  Y K N I G  L   G   F
SEQ ID 25        Variants                   F

  WO 2011/113819                                      PCT/EP2011/053863
                                     - 89
                                                               L
                                                               I
                                            F                  L
                                            F                  I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
ATAD2-001        Peptide Code            A  Y A I I K  E   E   L
SEQ ID 26        Variants                   F
                                                               F
                                                               I
                                            F                  F
                                            F                  I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9
ATAD2-003        Peptide Code             L Y P E V F  E   K   F
SEQ ID 27        Variants                   F
                                                               L
                                                               I
                                            F                  L
                                            F                  I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9    10
HSP90B1-001      Peptide Code             K Y N D T F  W   K E      F
SEQ ID 28        Variants                   F
                                                                    L
                                                                    I
                                            F                       L
                                            F                       I
                              Position    1 2 3 4 5 6  7   8   9    10
SIAH2-001        Peptide Code            V  F D T A I  A   H   L    F
SEQ ID 29        Variants                   Y
                                                                    L
                                                                    I
                                            Y                       L
                                            Y                       I

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                           - 90
                                    Position    1   2    3    4     5   6    7    8   9
 SLC6A6-001        Peptide Code                V    Y    P    N     W A      I    G   L
 SEQ ID 30         Variants                         F
                                                                                      F
                                                                                      I
                                                    F                                 F
                                                    F                                 I
                                    Position    1   2    3    4     5   6    7    8   9
 IQGAP3-001        Peptide Code                V    Y    K    V    V    G    N    L   L
 SEQ ID 31         Variants                         F
                                                                                      F
                                                                                      I
                                                    F                                 F
                                                    F                                 I
                                    Position    1   2    3    4     5   6    7    8   9
 ERBB3-001         Peptide Code                V    Y    I    E     K   N    D    K   L
 SEQ ID 32         Variants                         F
                                                                                      F
                                                                                      I
                                                    F                                 F
                                                    F                                 I
                                    Position    1   2    3    4     5   6    7    8   9    10
 KIF2C-001         Peptide Code                 I   Y    N    G     K   L    F    D   L    L
 SEQ ID 33         Variants                         F
                                                                                           F
                                                                                           I
                                                    F                                      F
                                                    F                                      I
Longer peptides may also be suitable. It is also possible, that MHC class I epitopes,
although usually between 8-11 amino acids long, are generated by peptide processing from
longer peptides or proteins that include the actual epitope. It is preferred that the residues

    WO 2011/113819                                                           PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 91
that flank the actual epitope are residues that do not substantially affect proteolytic cleavage
necessary to expose the actual epitope during processing.
Accordingly, the present invention also provides peptides and variants of MHC class I
epitopes wherein the peptide or variant has an overall length of between 8 and 100,
preferably between 8 and 30, and most preferred between 8 and 14, namely 8, 9, 10, 11, 12,
13, 14 amino acids.
Of course, the peptide or variant according to the present invention will have the ability to
bind to a molecule of the human major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I. Binding
of a peptide or a variant to a MHC complex may be tested by methods known in the art.
In a particularly preferred embodiment of the invention the peptide consists or consists
essentially of an amino acid sequence according to SEQ ID NO: 1 to SEQ ID NO: 95.
"Consisting essentially of' shall mean that a peptide according to the present invention, in
addition to the sequence according to any of SEQ ID NO: 1 to SEQ ID NO: 95 or a variant
thereof contains additional N- and/or C-terminally located stretches of amino acids that are
not necessarily forming part of the peptide that functions as an epitope for MHC molecules
epitope.
Nevertheless, these stretches can be important to provide an efficient introduction of the
peptide according to the present invention into the cells. In one embodiment of the present
invention, the peptide is a fusion protein which comprises, for example, the 80 N-terminal
amino acids of the HLA-DR antigen-associated invariant chain (p33, in the following "Ii")
as derived from the NCBI, GenBank Accession number X00497.
In addition, the peptide or variant may be modified further to improve stability and/or
binding to MHC molecules in order to elicit a stronger immune response. Methods for such
an optimization of a peptide sequence are well known in the art and include, for example,
the introduction of reverse peptide bonds or non-peptide bonds.

    WO 2011/113819                                                          PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 92
In a reverse peptide bond amino acid residues are not joined by peptide (-CO-NH-) linkages
but the peptide bond is reversed. Such retro-inverso peptidomimetics may be made using
methods known in the art, for example such as those described in Meziere et al (1997) J.
Immunol. 159, 3230-3237, incorporated herein by reference. This approach involves
making pseudopeptides containing changes involving the backbone, and not the orientation
of side chains. Meziere et al (1997) show that for MHC binding and T helper cell
responses, these pseudopeptides are useful. Retro-inverse peptides, which contain NH-CO
bonds instead of CO-NH peptide bonds, are much more resistant to proteolysis.
A non-peptide bond is, for example, -CH 2-NH, -CH 2 S-, -CH 2 CH 2-, -CH=CH-, -COCH 2 -,
CH(OH)CH 2-, and -CH 2 SO-. United States Patent 4,897,445 provides a method for the
solid phase synthesis of non-peptide bonds (-CH 2-NH) in polypeptide chains which
involves polypeptides synthesized by standard procedures and the non-peptide bond
synthesized by reacting an amino aldehyde and an amino acid in the presence of
NaCNBH 3 .
Peptides comprising the sequences described above may be synthesized with additional
chemical groups present at their amino and/or carboxy termini, to enhance the stability,
bioavailability, and/or affinity of the peptides. For example, hydrophobic groups such as
carbobenzoxyl, dansyl, or t-butyloxycarbonyl groups may be added to the peptides' amino
termini. Likewise, an acetyl group or a 9-fluorenylmethoxy-carbonyl group may be placed
at the peptides' amino termini. Additionally, the hydrophobic group, t-butyloxycarbonyl, or
an amido group may be added to the peptides' carboxy termini.
Further, the peptides of the invention may be synthesized to alter their steric configuration.
For example, the D-isomer of one or more of the amino acid residues of the peptide may be
used, rather than the usual L-isomer. Still further, at least one of the amino acid residues of
the peptides of the invention may be substituted by one of the well known non-naturally
occurring amino acid residues. Alterations such as these may serve to increase the stability,
bioavailability and/or binding action of the peptides of the invention.
Similarly, a peptide or variant of the invention may be modified chemically by reacting
specific amino acids either before or after synthesis of the peptide. Examples for such

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 93
modifications are well known in the art and are summarized e.g. in R. Lundblad, Chemical
Reagents for Protein Modification, 3rd ed. CRC Press, 2005, which is incorporated herein
by reference. Chemical modification of amino acids includes but is not limited to,
modification by acylation, amidination, pyridoxylation of lysine, reductive alkylation,
trinitrobenzylation of amino groups with 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulphonic acid (TNBS),
amide modification of carboxyl groups and sulphydryl modification by performic acid
oxidation of cysteine to cysteic acid, formation of mercurial derivatives, formation of
mixed disulphides with other thiol compounds, reaction with maleimide,
carboxymethylation with iodoacetic acid or iodoacetamide and carbamoylation with
cyanate at alkaline pH, although without limitation thereto. In this regard, the skilled person
is referred to Chapter 15 of Current Protocols In Protein Science, Eds. Coligan et al. (John
Wiley and Sons NY 1995-2000) for more extensive methodology relating to chemical
modification of proteins.
Briefly, modification of e.g. arginyl residues in proteins is often based on the reaction of
vicinal dicarbonyl compounds such as phenylglyoxal, 2,3-butanedione,                  and 1,2
cyclohexanedione to form an adduct. Another example is the reaction of methylglyoxal
with arginine residues. Cysteine can be modified without concomitant modification of other
nucleophilic sites such as lysine and histidine. As a result, a large number of reagents are
available for the modification of cysteine. The websites of companies such as Sigma
Aldrich (http://www.sigma-aldrich.com) provide information on specific reagents.
Selective reduction of disulfide bonds in proteins is also common. Disulfide bonds can be
formed and oxidized during the heat treatment of biopharmaceuticals.
Woodward's Reagent K may be used to modify specific glutamic acid residues. N-(3
(dimethylamino)propyl)-N'-ethylcarbodiimide can be used to form intra-molecular
crosslinks between a lysine residue and a glutamic acid residue.
For example, diethylpyrocarbonate is a reagent for the modification of histidyl residues in
proteins. Histidine can also be modified using 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal.

    WO 2011/113819                                                            PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 94
The reaction of lysine residues and other a-amino groups is, for example, useful in binding
of peptides to surfaces or the cross-linking of proteins/peptides. Lysine is the site of
attachment of poly(ethylene)glycol and the major site of modification in the glycosylation
of proteins.
Methionine residues in proteins can be modified with e.g. iodoacetamide,
bromoethylamine, and chloramine T.
Tetranitromethane and N-acetylimidazole can be used for the modification of tyrosyl
residues. Cross-linking via the formation of dityrosine can be accomplished with hydrogen
peroxide/copper ions.
Recent studies on the modification of tryptophan have used N-bromosuccinimide, 2
hydroxy-5-nitrobenzyl bromide or 3-bromo-3-methyl-2-(2-nitrophenylmercapto)-3H-indole
(BPNS-skatole).
Successful modification of therapeutic proteins and peptides with PEG is often associated
with an extension of circulatory half-life            while   cross-linking   of proteins    with
glutaraldehyde, polyethyleneglycol diacrylate and formaldehyde is used for the preparation
of hydrogels. Chemical modification of allergens for immunotherapy is often achieved by
carbamylation with potassium cyanate.
A peptide or variant, wherein the peptide is modified or includes non-peptide bonds is a
preferred embodiment of the invention. Generally, peptides and variants (at least those
containing peptide linkages between amino acid residues) may be synthesized by the Fmoc
polyamide mode of solid-phase peptide synthesis as disclosed by Lu et al (1981) and
references therein. Temporary N-amino group protection is afforded by the 9
fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl (Fmoc) group. Repetitive cleavage of this highly base-labile
protecting group is done using 20% piperidine in N, N-dimethylformamide. Side-chain
functionalities may be protected as their butyl ethers (in the case of serine threonine and
tyrosine), butyl esters (in the case of glutamic acid and aspartic acid), butyloxycarbonyl
derivative (in the case of lysine and histidine), trityl derivative (in the case of cysteine) and
4-methoxy-2,3,6-trimethylbenzenesulphonyl       derivative (in the case of arginine). Where

    WO 2011/113819                                                       PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 95
glutamine or asparagine are C-terminal           residues,   use  is  made   of the    4,4'
dimethoxybenzhydryl group for protection of the side chain amido functionalities. The
solid-phase support is based on a polydimethyl-acrylamide polymer constituted from the
three monomers dimethylacrylamide (backbone-monomer), bisacryloylethylene diamine
(cross linker) and acryloylsarcosine methyl ester (functionalizing agent). The peptide-to
resin cleavable linked agent used is the acid-labile 4-hydroxymethyl-phenoxyacetic acid
derivative. All amino acid derivatives are added as their preformed symmetrical anhydride
derivatives with the exception of asparagine and glutamine, which are added using a
reverse d N, N-dicyclohexyl-carbodiimide/1hydroxybenzotriazole          mediated   coupling
procedure. All coupling and deprotection reactions are monitored using ninhydrin,
trinitrobenzene sulphonic acid or isotin test procedures. Upon completion of synthesis,
peptides are cleaved from the resin support with concomitant removal of side-chain
protecting groups by treatment with 95% trifluoroacetic acid containing a 50 % scavenger
mix. Scavengers commonly used include ethandithiol, phenol, anisole and water, the exact
choice depending on the constituent amino acids of the peptide being synthesized. Also a
combination of solid phase and solution phase methodologies for the synthesis of peptides
is possible (see, for example (Bruckdorfer, Marder, and Albericio 29-43) and the references
as cited therein).
Trifluoroacetic acid is removed by evaporation in vacuo, with subsequent trituration with
diethyl ether affording the crude peptide. Any scavengers present are removed by a simple
extraction procedure which on lyophilisation of the aqueous phase affords the crude peptide
free of scavengers. Reagents for peptide synthesis are generally available from e.g.
Calbiochem-Novabiochem (UK) Ltd, Nottingham NG7 2QJ, UK.
Purification may be performed by any one, or a combination of, techniques such as re
crystallization,    size  exclusion    chromatography,     ion-exchange    chromatography,
hydrophobic interaction chromatography and (usually) reverse-phase high performance
liquid chromatography using e.g. acetonitril/water gradient separation.
Analysis of peptides may be carried out using thin layer chromatography, electrophoresis,
in particular capillary electrophoresis, solid phase extraction (CSPE), reverse-phase high
performance liquid chromatography, amino-acid analysis after acid hydrolysis and by fast

    WO 2011/113819                                                          PCT/EP2011/053863
                                              - 96
atom bombardment (FAB) mass spectrometric analysis, as well as MALDI and ESI-Q-TOF
mass spectrometric analysis.
A further aspect of the invention provides a nucleic acid (for example a polynucleotide)
encoding a peptide or peptide variant of the invention. The polynucleotide may be, for
example, DNA, cDNA, PNA, CNA, RNA or combinations thereof, either single- and/or
double-stranded, or native or stabilized forms of polynucleotides, such as, for example,
polynucleotides with a phosphorothioate backbone and it may or may not contain introns so
long as it codes for the peptide. Of course, only peptides that contain naturally occurring
amino acid residues joined by naturally occurring peptide bonds are encodable by a
polynucleotide. A still further aspect of the invention provides an expression vector capable
of expressing a polypeptide according to the invention.
A variety of methods have been developed to link polynucleotides, especially DNA, to
vectors for example via complementary cohesive termini. For instance, complementary
homopolymer tracts can be added to the DNA segment to be inserted to the vector DNA.
The vector and DNA segment are then joined by hydrogen bonding between the
complementary homopolymeric tails to form recombinant DNA molecules.
 Synthetic linkers containing one or more restriction sites provide an alternative method of
joining the DNA segment to vectors. Synthetic linkers containing a variety of restriction
endonuclease sites are commercially available from a number of sources including
International Biotechnologies Inc, New Haven, CN, USA.
A desirable method of modifying the DNA encoding the polypeptide of the invention
employs the polymerase chain reaction as disclosed by (Saiki et al. 487-91)). This method
may be used for introducing the DNA into a suitable vector, for example by engineering in
suitable restriction sites, or it may be used to modify the DNA in other useful ways as is
known in the art. If viral vectors are used, pox- or adenovirus vectors are preferred.
The DNA (or in the case of retroviral vectors, RNA) may then be expressed in a suitable
host to produce a polypeptide comprising the peptide or variant of the invention. Thus, the
DNA encoding the peptide or variant of the invention may be used in accordance with

    WO 2011/113819                                                        PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 97
known techniques, appropriately modified in view of the teachings contained herein, to
construct an expression vector, which is then used to transform an appropriate host cell for
the expression and production of the polypeptide of the invention. Such techniques include
those disclosed in US Patent Nos. 4,440,859, 4,530,901, 4,582,800, 4,677,063, 4,678,751,
4,704,362, 4,710,463, 4,757,006, 4,766,075, and 4,810,648.
The DNA (or in the case of retroviral vectors, RNA) encoding the polypeptide constituting
the compound of the invention may be joined to a wide variety of other DNA sequences for
introduction into an appropriate host. The companion DNA will depend upon the nature of
the host, the manner of the introduction of the DNA into the host, and whether episomal
maintenance or integration is desired.
Generally, the DNA is inserted into an expression vector, such as a plasmid, in proper
orientation and correct reading frame for expression. If necessary, the DNA may be linked
to the appropriate transcriptional and translational regulatory control nucleotide sequences
recognized by the desired host, although such controls are generally available in the
expression vector. The vector is then introduced into the host through standard techniques.
Generally, not all of the hosts will be transformed by the vector. Therefore, it will be
necessary to select for transformed host cells. One selection technique involves
incorporating into the expression vector a DNA sequence, with any necessary control
elements, that codes for a selectable trait in the transformed cell, such as antibiotic
resistance.
Alternatively, the gene for such selectable trait can be on another vector, which is used to
co-transform the desired host cell.
Host cells that have been transformed by the recombinant DNA of the invention are then
cultured for a sufficient time and under appropriate conditions known to those skilled in the
art in view of the teachings disclosed herein to permit the expression of the polypeptide,
which can then be recovered.
Many expression systems are known, including bacteria (for example E. coli and Bacillus
subtilis), yeasts (for example Saccharomyces cerevisiae), filamentous fungi (for example

    WO 2011/113819                                                          PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 98
Aspergillus spec.), plant cells, animal cells and insect cells. Preferably, the system can be
mammalian cells such as CHO cells available from the ATCC Cell Biology Collection.
A typical mammalian cell vector plasmid for constitutive expression comprises the CMV or
SV40 promoter with a suitable poly A tail and a resistance marker, such as neomycin. One
example is pSVL available from Pharmacia, Piscataway, NJ, USA. An example of an
inducible mammalian expression vector is pMSG, also available from Pharmacia. Useful
yeast plasmid vectors are pRS403-406 and pRS413-416 and are generally available from
Stratagene Cloning Systems, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA. Plasmids pRS403, pRS404,
pRS405 and pRS406 are Yeast Integrating plasmids (YIps) and incorporate the yeast
selectable markers HIS3, TRPI, LEU2 and URA3. Plasmids pRS413-416 are Yeast
Centromere plasmids (Ycps). CMV promoter-based vectors (for example from Sigma
Aldrich) provide transient or stable expression, cytoplasmic expression or secretion, and N
terminal or C-terminal tagging in various combinations of FLAG, 3xFLAG, c-myc or
MAT. These fusion proteins allow for detection, purification and analysis of recombinant
protein. Dual-tagged fusions provide flexibility in detection.
The strong human cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter regulatory region drives constitutive
protein expression levels as high as 1 mg/L in COS cells. For less potent cell lines, protein
levels are typically -0.1 mg/L. The presence of the SV40 replication origin will result in
high levels of DNA replication in SV40 replication permissive COS cells. CMV vectors,
for example, can contain the pMB1 (derivative of pBR322) origin for replication in
bacterial cells, the b-lactamase gene for ampicillin resistance selection in bacteria, hGH
polyA, and the fl origin. Vectors containing the preprotrypsin leader (PPT) sequence can
direct the secretion of FLAG fusion proteins into the culture medium for purification using
ANTI-FLAG antibodies, resins, and plates. Other vectors and expression systems are well
known in the art for use with a variety of host cells.
The present invention also relates to a host cell transformed with a polynucleotide vector
construct of the present invention. The host cell can be either prokaryotic or eukaryotic.
Bacterial cells may be preferred prokaryotic host cells in some circumstances and typically
are a strain of E. coli such as, for example, the E. coli strains DH5 available from Bethesda
Research Laboratories Inc., Bethesda, MD, USA, and RR1 available from the American

    WO 2011/113819                                                        PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 99
Type Culture Collection (ATCC) of Rockville, MD, USA (No ATCC 31343). Preferred
eukaryotic host cells include yeast, insect and mammalian cells, preferably vertebrate cells
such as those from a mouse, rat, monkey or human fibroblastic and colon cell lines. Yeast
host cells include YPH499, YPH500 and YPH501, which are generally available from
Stratagene Cloning Systems, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA. Preferred mammalian host cells
include Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells available from the ATCC as CCL61, NIH
Swiss mouse embryo cells NIH/3T3 available from the ATCC as CRL 1658, monkey
kidney-derived COS-1 cells available from the ATCC as CRL 1650 and 293 cells which are
human embryonic kidney cells. Preferred insect cells are Sf9 cells which can be transfected
with baculovirus expression vectors. An overview regarding the choice of suitable host
cells for expression can be found in, for example, the textbook of Paulina Balbis and
Argelia Lorence "Methods in Molecular Biology Recombinant Gene Expression, Reviews
and Protocols," Part One, Second Edition, ISBN 978-1-58829-262-9, and other literature
known to the person of skill.
Transformation of appropriate cell hosts with a DNA construct of the present invention is
accomplished by well known methods that typically depend on the type of vector used.
With regard to transformation of prokaryotic host cells, see, for example, Cohen et al
(1972) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 69, 2110, and Sambrook et al (1989) Molecular
Cloning, A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, NY.
Transformation of yeast cells is described in Sherman et al (1986) Methods In Yeast
Genetics, A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor, NY. The method of Beggs (1978)
Nature 275,104-109 is also useful. With regard to vertebrate cells, reagents useful in
transfecting such cells, for example calcium phosphate and DEAE-dextran or liposome
formulations, are available from Stratagene Cloning Systems, or Life Technologies Inc.,
Gaithersburg, MD 20877, USA. Electroporation is also useful for transforming and/or
transfecting cells and is well known in the art for transforming yeast cell, bacterial cells,
insect cells and vertebrate cells.
Successfully transformed cells, i.e. cells that contain a DNA construct of the present
invention, can be identified by well known techniques such as PCR. Alternatively, the
presence of the protein in the supernatant can be detected using antibodies.

     WO 2011/113819                                                          PCT/EP2011/053863
                                               - 100
It will be appreciated that certain host cells of the invention are useful in the preparation of
the peptides of the invention, for example bacterial, yeast and insect cells. However, other
host cells may be useful in certain therapeutic methods. For example, antigen-presenting
cells, such as dendritic cells, may usefully be used to express the peptides of the invention
such that they may be loaded into appropriate MHC molecules. Thus, the current invention
provides a host cell comprising a nucleic acid or an expression vector according to the
invention.
In a preferred embodiment the host cell is an antigen presenting cell, in particular a
dendritic cell or antigen presenting cell. APCs loaded with a recombinant fusion protein
containing prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP) are currently under investigation for the
treatment of prostate cancer (Sipuleucel-T) (Rini et al. 67-74;Small et al. 3089-94).
A further aspect of the invention provides a method of producing a peptide or its variant,
the method comprising culturing a host cell and isolating the peptide from the host cell or
its culture medium.
In another embodiment the peptide, the nucleic acid or the expression vector of the
invention are used in medicine. For example, the peptide or its variant may be prepared for
intravenous (i.v.) injection, sub-cutaneous (s.c.) injection, intradermal (i.d.) injection,
intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection, intramuscular (i.m.) injection. Preferred methods of peptide
injection include s.c., i.d., i.p., i.m., and i.v. Preferred methods of DNA injection include
i.d., i.m., s.c., i.p. and i.v. Doses of e.g. between 50 gg and 1.5 mg, preferably 125 gg to
500 gg, of peptide or DNA may be given and will depend on the respective peptide or
DNA. Dosages of this range were successfully used in previous trials (Brunsvig et al. 1553
64;Staehler et al.).
Another aspect of the present invention includes an in vitro method for producing activated
T cells, the method comprising contacting in vitro T cells with antigen loaded human MHC
molecules expressed on the surface of a suitable antigen-presenting cell for a period of time
sufficient to activate the T cell in an antigen specific manner, wherein the antigen is a
peptide according to the invention. Preferably a sufficient amount of the antigen is used
with an antigen-presenting cell.

    WO 2011/113819                                                        PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 101
Preferably the mammalian cell lacks or has a reduced level or function of the TAP peptide
transporter. Suitable cells that lack the TAP peptide transporter include T2, RMA-S and
Drosophila cells. TAP is the transporter associated with antigen processing.
The human peptide loading deficient cell line T2 is available from the American Type
Culture Collection, 12301 Parklawn Drive, Rockville, Maryland 20852, USA under
Catalogue No CRL 1992; the Drosophila cell line Schneider line 2 is available from the
ATCC under Catalogue No CRL 19863; the mouse RMA-S cell line is described in Karre
et al 1985.
Preferably, the host cell before transfection expresses substantially no MHC class I
molecules. It is also preferred that the stimulator cell expresses a molecule important for
providing a co-stimulatory signal for T-cells such as any of B7.1, B7.2, ICAM-1 and LFA
3. The nucleic acid sequences of numerous MHC class I molecules and of the costimulator
molecules are publicly available from the GenBank and EMBL databases.
In case of a MHC class I epitope being used as an antigen, the T cells are CD8-positive
CTLs.
If an antigen-presenting cell is transfected to express such an epitope, preferably the cell
comprises an expression vector capable of expressing a peptide containing SEQ ID NO: 1
to SEQ ID NO: 95 or a variant amino acid sequence thereof
A number of other methods may be used for generating CTL in vitro. For example, the
methods described in Peoples et al (1995) and Kawakami et al (1992) use autologous
tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes in the generation of CTL. Plebanski et al (1995) makes use
of autologous peripheral blood lymphocytes (PLBs) in the preparation of CTL. Jochmus et
al (1997) describes the production of autologous CTL by pulsing dendritic cells with
peptide or polypeptide, or via infection with recombinant virus. Hill et al (1995) and
Jerome et al (1993) make use of B cells in the production of autologous CTL. In addition,
macrophages pulsed with peptide or polypeptide, or infected with recombinant virus, may
be used in the preparation of autologous CTL. S. Walter et al. 2003 describe the in vitro

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 102
priming of T cells by using artificial antigen presenting cells (aAPCs), which is also a
suitable way for generating T cells against the peptide of choice. In this study, aAPCs were
generated by the coupling of preformed MHC:peptide complexes to the surface of
polystyrene particles (microbeads) by biotin:streptavidin biochemistry. This system permits
the exact control of the MHC density on aAPCs, which allows to selectively elicit high- or
low-avidity antigen-specific T cell responses with high efficiency from blood samples.
Apart from MHC:peptide complexes, aAPCs should carry other proteins with co
stimulatory activity like anti-CD28 antibodies coupled to their surface. Furthermore such
aAPC-based systems often require the addition of appropriate soluble factors, e. g.
cytokines like interleukin-12.
Allogeneic cells may also be used in the preparation of T cells and a method is described in
detail in WO 97/26328, incorporated herein by reference. For example, in addition to
Drosophila cells and T2 cells, other cells may be used to present antigens such as CHO
cells, baculovirus-infected insect cells, bacteria, yeast, vaccinia-infected target cells. In
addition plant viruses may be used (see, for example, Porta et al (1994)) which describes
the development of cowpea mosaic virus as a high-yielding system for the presentation of
foreign peptides.
The activated T cells that are directed against the peptides of the invention are useful in
therapy. Thus, a further aspect of the invention provides activated T cells obtainable by the
foregoing methods of the invention.
Activated T cells, which are produced by the above method, will selectively recognize a
cell that aberrantly expresses a polypeptide that comprises an amino acid sequence of SEQ
ID NO: I to 95.
Preferably, the T cell recognizes the cell by interacting through its TCR with the
HLA/peptide-complex (for example, binding). The T cells are useful in a method of killing
target cells in a patient whose target cells aberrantly express a polypeptide comprising an
amino acid sequence of the invention wherein the patient is administered an effective
number of the activated T cells. The T cells that are administered to the patient may be
derived from the patient and activated as described above (i.e. they are autologous T cells).

    WO 2011/113819                                                          PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 103
Alternatively, the T cells are not from the patient but are from another individual. Of
course, it is preferred if the individual is a healthy individual. By "healthy individual" the
inventors mean that the individual is generally in good health, preferably has a competent
immune system and, more preferably, is not suffering from any disease which can be
readily tested for, and detected.
In vivo, the target cells for the CD8-positive T cells according to the present invention can
be cells of the tumor (which sometimes express MHC class I) and/or stromal cells
surrounding the tumor (tumor cells) (which sometimes also express MHC class I; (Dengjel
et al. 4163-70)).
The T cells of the present invention may be used as active ingredients of a therapeutic
composition. Thus, the invention also provides a method of killing target cells in a patient
whose target cells aberrantly express a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence of
the invention, the method comprising administering to the patient an effective number of T
cells as defined above.
By "aberrantly expressed" the inventors also mean that the polypeptide is over-expressed
compared to normal levels of expression or that the gene is silent in the tissue from which
the tumor is derived but in the tumor it is expressed. By "over-expressed" the inventors
mean that the polypeptide is present at a level at least 1.2-fold of that present in normal
tissue; preferably at least 2-fold, and more preferably at least 5-fold or 10-fold the level
present in normal tissue.
T cells may be obtained by methods known in the art, e.g. those described above.
Protocols for this so-called adoptive transfer of T cells are well known in the art and can be
found, e.g. in (Dudley et al. 850-54;Dudley et al. 2346-57;Rosenberg et al. 889
97;Rosenberg et al. 1676-80;Yee et al. 16168-73); reviewed in (Gattinoni et al. 383-93) and
(Morgan et al.).
Any molecule of the invention, i.e. the peptide, nucleic acid, expression vector, cell,
activated CTL, T-cell receptor or the nucleic acid encoding it is useful for the treatment of

    WO 2011/113819                                                          PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 104
disorders, characterized by cells escaping an immune response. Therefore any molecule of
the present invention may be used as medicament or in the manufacture of a medicament.
The molecule may be used by itself or combined with other molecule(s) of the invention or
(a) known molecule(s).
Preferably, the medicament of the present invention is a vaccine. It may be administered
directly into the patient, into the affected organ or systemically i.d., i.m., s.c., i.p. and i.v.,
or applied ex vivo to cells derived from the patient or a human cell line which are
subsequently administered to the patient, or used in vitro to select a subpopulation of
immune cells derived from the patient, which are then re-administered to the patient. If the
nucleic acid is administered to cells in vitro, it may be useful for the cells to be transfected
so as to co-express immune-stimulating cytokines, such as interleukin-2. The peptide may
be substantially pure, or combined with an immune-stimulating adjuvant (see below) or
used in combination with immune-stimulatory cytokines, or be administered with a suitable
delivery system, for example liposomes. The peptide may also be conjugated to a suitable
carrier such as keyhole limpet haemocyanin (KLH) or mannan (see WO 95/18145 and
Longeneckerl993). The peptide may also be tagged, may be a fusion protein, or may be a
hybrid molecule. The peptides whose sequence is given in the present invention are
expected to stimulate CD4 or CD8 T cells. However, stimulation of CD8 CTLs is more
efficient in the presence of help provided by CD4 T-helper cells. Thus, for MHC Class I
epitopes that stimulate CD8 CTL the fusion partner or sections of a hybrid molecule
suitably provide epitopes which stimulate CD4-positive T cells. CD4- and CD8-stimulating
epitopes are well known in the art and include those identified in the present invention.
In one aspect, the vaccine comprises at least one peptide having the amino acid sequence
set forth in SEQ ID NO:1 to 33 and at least one additional peptide, preferably two to 50,
more preferably two to 25, even more preferably two to 15 and most preferably two, three,
four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve or thirteen peptides. The peptide(s)
may be derived from one or more specific TAAs and may bind to MHC class I molecules.
The polynucleotide may be substantially pure, or contained in a suitable vector or delivery
system. The nucleic acid may be DNA, cDNA, PNA, CNA, RNA or a combination thereof.
Methods for designing and introducing such a nucleic acid are well known in the art. An

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 105
overview is provided by e.g. (Pascolo et al. 117-22). Polynucleotide vaccines are easy to
prepare, but the mode of action of these vectors in inducing an immune response is not
fully understood. Suitable vectors and delivery systems include viral DNA and/or RNA,
such as systems based on adenovirus, vaccinia virus, retroviruses, herpes virus, adeno
associated virus or hybrids containing elements of more than one virus. Non-viral delivery
systems include cationic lipids and cationic polymers and are well known in the art of DNA
delivery. Physical delivery, such as via a "gene-gun," may also be used. The peptide or
peptides encoded by the nucleic acid may be a fusion protein, for example with an epitope
that stimulates T cells for the respective opposite CDR as noted above.
The medicament of the invention may also include one or more adjuvants. Adjuvants are
substances that non-specifically enhance or potentiate the immune response (e.g., immune
responses mediated by CTLs and helper-T (TH) cells to an antigen, and would thus be
considered useful in the medicament of the present invention. Suitable adjuvants include,
but are not limited to, 1018 ISS, aluminium salts, Amplivax@, AS15, BCG, CP-870,893,
CpG7909, CyaA, dSLIM, flagellin or TLR5 ligands derived from flagellin, FLT3 ligand,
GM-CSF, IC30, IC31, Imiquimod (ALDARA@), resiquimod, ImuFact IMP321,
Interleukins as IL-2, IL-13, IL-21, Interferon-alpha or -beta, or pegylated derivatives
thereof, IS Patch, ISS, ISCOMATRIX, ISCOMs, JuvImmune, LipoVac, MALP2, MF59,
monophosphoryl lipid A, Montanide IMS 1312, Montanide ISA 206, Montanide ISA 50V,
Montanide ISA-5 1, water-in-oil and oil-in-water emulsions, OK-432, OM-174, OM-197
MP-EC, ONTAK, OspA, PepTel@ vector system, poly(lactid co-glycolid) [PLG]-based and
dextran microparticles, talactoferrin SRL 172, Virosomes and other Virus-like particles, YF
17D, VEGF trap, R848, beta-glucan, Pam3Cys, Aquila's QS21 stimulon, which is derived
from saponin, mycobacterial extracts and synthetic bacterial cell wall mimics, and other
proprietary adjuvants such as Ribi's Detox, Quil, or Superfos. Adjuvants such as Freund's
or GM-CSF are preferred. Several immunological adjuvants (e.g., MF59) specific for
dendritic cells and their preparation have been described previously (Allison and Krummel
932-33). Also cytokines may be used. Several cytokines have been directly linked to
influencing dendritic cell migration to lymphoid tissues (e.g., TNF-), accelerating thel
maturation of dendritic cells into efficient antigen-presenting cells for T-lymphocytes (e.g.,
GM-CSF, IL-I and IL-4) (U.S. Pat. No. 5,849,589, specifically incorporated herein by

    WO 2011/113819                                                        PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 106
reference in its entirety) and acting as immunoadjuvants (e.g., IL-12, IL-15, IL-23, IL-7,
IFN-alpha. IFN-beta) [Gabrilovich 1996].
CpG immunostimulatory oligonucleotides have also been reported to enhance the effects of
adjuvants in a vaccine setting. Without being bound by theory, CpG oligonucleotides act by
activating the innate (non-adaptive) immune system via Toll-like receptors (TLR), mainly
TLR9. CpG triggered TLR9 activation enhances antigen-specific humoral and cellular
responses to a wide variety of antigens, including peptide or protein antigens, live or killed
viruses, dendritic cell vaccines, autologous cellular vaccines and polysaccharide conjugates
in both prophylactic and therapeutic vaccines. More importantly it enhances dendritic cell
maturation and differentiation, resulting in enhanced activation of THI cells and strong
cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) generation, even in the absence of CD4 T cell help. The       THI
bias induced by TLR9 stimulation is maintained even in the presence of vaccine adjuvants
such as alum or incomplete Freund's adjuvant (IFA) that normally promote a     TH2  bias. CpG
oligonucleotides show even greater adjuvant activity when formulated or co-administered
with other adjuvants or in formulations such as microparticles, nanoparticles, lipid
emulsions or similar formulations, which are especially necessary for inducing a strong
response when the antigen is relatively weak. They also accelerate the immune response
and enable the antigen doses to be reduced by approximately two orders of magnitude, with
comparable antibody responses to the full-dose vaccine without CpG in some experiments
(Krieg 471-84). US Pat. No. 6,406,705 BI describes the combined use of CpG
oligonucleotides, non-nucleic acid adjuvants and an antigen to induce an antigen-specific
immune response. A CpG TLR9 antagonist is dSLIM (double Stem Loop
Immunomodulator) by Mologen (Berlin, Germany) which is a preferred component of the
pharmaceutical composition of the present invention. Other TLR binding molecules such as
RNA binding TLR 7, TLR 8 and/or TLR 9 may also be used.
Other examples for useful adjuvants include, but are not limited to chemically modified
CpGs (e.g. CpR, Idera), dsRNA analogues such as Poly(I:C) and derivates thereof (e.g.
AmpliGen@, Hiltonol@, poly-(ICLC), poly(IC-R), poly(I:C12U), non-CpG bacterial DNA
or RNA as well as immunoactive small molecules and antibodies such as
cyclophosphamide,     sunitinib, Bevacizumab, celebrex, NCX-4016,        sildenafil, tadalafil,
vardenafil, sorafenib, temozolomide, temsirolimus, XL-999, CP-547632, pazopanib, VEGF

    WO 2011/113819                                                        PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 107
Trap, ZD2171, AZD2171, anti-CTLA4, other antibodies targeting key structures of the
immune system (e.g. anti-CD40, anti-TGFbeta, anti-TNFalpha receptor) and SC58175,
which may act therapeutically and/or as an adjuvant. The amounts and concentrations of
adjuvants and additives useful in the context of the present invention can readily be
determined by the skilled artisan without undue experimentation.
Preferred adjuvants are imiquimod, resiquimod, GM-CSF, cyclophosphamide, sunitinib,
bevacizumab, interferon-alpha, CpG oligonucleotides and derivates, poly-(I:C) and
derivates, RNA, sildenafil, and particulate formulations with PLG or virosomes.
In a preferred embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition according to the invention the
adjuvant is selected from the group consisting of colony-stimulating factors, such as
Granulocyte Macrophage Colony Stimulating Factor (GM-CSF, sargramostim), imiquimod,
resiquimod, and interferon-alpha.
In a preferred embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition according to the invention the
adjuvant is selected from the group consisting of colony-stimulating factors, such as
Granulocyte Macrophage Colony Stimulating Factor (GM-CSF,                    sargramostim),
immiquimod and resimiquimod.
In a preferred embodiment of the pharmaceutical composition according to the invention,
the adjuvant is imiquimod or resiquimod.
This composition is used for parenteral administration, such as subcutaneous, intradermal,
intramuscular or oral administration. For this, the peptides and optionally other molecules
are dissolved or suspended in a pharmaceutically acceptable, preferably aqueous carrier. In
addition, the composition can contain excipients, such as buffers, binding agents, blasting
agents, diluents, flavours, lubricants, etc.. The peptides can also be administered together
with immune stimulating substances, such as cytokines. An extensive listing of excipients
that can be used in such a composition, can be, for example, taken from A. Kibbe,
Handbook     of Pharmaceutical     Excipients,     3. Ed. 2000,   American   Pharmaceutical
Association and pharmaceutical press. The composition can be used for a prevention,

    WO 2011/113819                                                            PCT/EP2011/053863
                                              - 108
prophylaxis and/or therapy of adenomateous or cancerous                    diseases.  Examplary
formulations can be found in EP2113253.
The present invention provides a medicament that useful in treating cancer, in particular
gastric cancer, renal cell carcinoma, colon cancer, non-small cell lung carcinoma,
adenocarcinoma, prostate cancer, benign neoplasm and malignant melanoma.
The present invention further includes a kit comprising:
(a) a container that contains a pharmaceutical composition as described above, in solution
or in lyophilized form;
(b) optionally a second container containing a diluent or reconstituting solution for the
lyophilized formulation; and
(c) optionally, instructions for (i) use of the solution or (ii) reconstitution and/or use of the
lyophilized formulation.
The kit may further comprise one or more of (iii) a buffer, (iv) a diluent, (v) a filter, (vi) a
needle, or (v) a syringe. The container is preferably a bottle, a vial, a syringe or test tube;
and it may be a multi-use container. The pharmaceutical composition is preferably
lyophilized.
Kits of the present invention preferably comprise a lyophilized formulation of the present
invention in a suitable container and instructions for its reconstitution and/or use. Suitable
containers include, for example, bottles, vials (e.g. dual chamber vials), syringes (such as
dual chamber syringes) and test tubes. The container may be formed from a variety of
materials such as glass or plastic. Preferably the kit and/or container contains instructions
on or associated with the container that indicates directions for reconstitution and/or use.
For example, the label may indicate that the lyophilized formulation is to reconstituted to
peptide concentrations as described above. The label may further indicate that the
formulation is useful or intended for subcutaneous administration.
The container holding the formulation may be a multi-use vial, which allows for repeat
administrations (e.g., from 2-6 administrations) of the reconstituted formulation. The kit

    WO 2011/113819                                                            PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 109
may further comprise a second container comprising a suitable diluent (e.g., sodium
bicarbonate solution).
Upon mixing of the diluent and the lyophilized formulation, the final peptide concentration
in the reconstituted formulation is preferably at least 0.15 mg/mL/peptide (=75gg) and
preferably not more than 3 mg/mL/peptide (=1500gg). The kit may further include other
materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint, including other buffers,
diluents, filters, needles, syringes, and package inserts with instructions for use.
Kits of the present invention may have a single container that contains the formulation of
the pharmaceutical compositions according to the present invention with or without other
components (e.g., other compounds or pharmaceutical compositions of these other
compounds) or may have distinct container for each component.
Preferably, kits of the invention include a formulation of the invention packaged for use in
combination with the co-administration of a second compound (such as adjuvants (e.g.
GM-CSF), a chemotherapeutic agent, a natural product, a hormone or antagonist, a anti
angiogenesis agent or inhibitor, a apoptosis-inducing            agent or a chelator) or a
pharmaceutical composition thereof. The components of the kit may be pre-complexed or
each component may be in a separate distinct container prior to administration to a patient.
The components of the kit may be provided in one or more liquid solutions, preferably, an
aqueous solution, more preferably, a sterile aqueous solution. The components of the kit
may also be provided as solids, which may be converted into liquids by addition of suitable
solvents, which are preferably provided in another distinct container.
The container of a therapeutic kit may be a vial, test tube, flask, bottle, syringe, or any other
means of enclosing a solid or liquid. Usually, when there is more than one component, the
kit will contain a second vial or other container, which allows for separate dosing. The kit
may also contain another container for a pharmaceutically acceptable liquid. Preferably, a
therapeutic kit will contain an apparatus (e.g., one or more needles, syringes, eye droppers,
pipette, etc.), which enables administration of the agents of the invention that are
components of the present kit.

    WO 2011/113819                                                      PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             -110
The present formulation is one that is suitable for administration of the peptides by any
acceptable route such as oral (enteral), nasal, ophthal, subcutaneous, intradermal,
intramuscular, intravenous or transdermal. Preferably the administration is s.c., and most
preferably, i.d. Administration may be by infusion pump.
Since the peptides of the invention derived from MST1R, UCHL5, SMC4, NFYB,
PPAP2C, AVL9, UQCRB and MUC6 were isolated from gastric cancer, the medicament of
the invention is preferably used to treat gastric cancer.
The present invention will now be described in the following examples that describe
preferred embodiments thereof, nevertheless, without being limited thereto. For the
purposes of the present invention, all references as cited herein are incorporated by
reference in their entireties.
EXAMPLES
EXAMPLE 1:
Identification of tumor associated peptides presented on cell surface
Tissue samples
Patients' tumor tissues were provided by Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine
(KPUM), Kyoto, Japan, Osaka City University Graduate School of Medicine (OCU),
Osaka, Japan, and University Hospital Tiibingen, Germany. Written informed consents of
all patients had been given before surgery. Tissues were shock-frozen in liquid nitrogen
immediately after surgery and stored until isolation of TUMAPs at -80'C.
Isolation of HLA peptides from tissue samples
HLA peptide pools from shock-frozen tissue samples were obtained by immune
precipitation from solid tissues according to a slightly modified protocol (Falk, K.1991;
Seeger, F.H.T1999} using the HLA-A, -B, -C-specific antibody W6/32, the HLA-A*02
specific antibody BB7.2, CNBr-activated sepharose, acid treatment, and ultrafiltration.
Methods

    WO 2011/113819                                                     PCT/EP2011/053863
                                           - 111
The HLA peptide pools as obtained were separated according to their hydrophobicity by
reversed-phase chromatography (nanoAcquity UPLC system, Waters) and the eluting
peptides were analyzed in an LTQ-Orbitrap hybrid mass spectrometer (ThermoFisher
Scientific) equipped with an ESI source. Peptide pools were loaded directly onto the
analytical fused-silica micro-capillary column (75 gm i.d. x 250 mm) packed with 1.7 gm
C18 reversed-phase material (Waters) applying a flow rate of 400 nL per minute.
Subsequently, the peptides were separated using a two-step 180 minute-binary gradient
from 10% to 33% B at a flow rate of 300 nL per minute. The gradient was composed of
Solvent A (0.1% formic acid in water) and solvent B (0.1% formic acid in acetonitrile). A
gold coated glass capillary (PicoTip, New Objective) was used for introduction into the
nanoESI source. The LTQ-Orbitrap mass spectrometer was operated in the data-dependent
mode using a TOP5 strategy. In brief, a scan cycle was initiated with a full scan of high
mass accuracy in the orbitrap (R   =  30 000), which was followed by MS/MS scans also in
the orbitrap (R  = 7500) on the 5 most abundant precursor ions with dynamic exclusion of
previously selected ions. Tandem mass spectra were interpreted by SEQUEST and
additional manual control. The identified peptide sequence was assured by comparison of
the generated natural peptide fragmentation pattern with the fragmentation pattern of a
synthetic sequence-identical reference peptide. Fig 1 shows an exemplary spectrum
obtained from tumor tissue for the MHC class I associated peptide CDC2-001 and its
elution profile on the UPLC system.
EXAMPLE 2
Expression profiling of genes encoding the peptides of the invention
Not all peptides identified as being presented on the surface of tumor cells by MHC
molecules are suitable for immunotherapy, because the majority of these peptides are
derived from normal cellular proteins expressed by many cell types. Only few of these
peptides are tumor-associated and likely able to induce T cells with a high specificity of
recognition for the tumor from which they were derived. In order to identify such peptides
and minimize the risk for autoimmunity induced by vaccination the inventors focused on
those peptides that are derived from proteins that are over-expressed on tumor cells
compared to the majority of normal tissues.

    WO 2011/113819                                                        PCT/EP2011/053863
                                           -112
The ideal peptide will be derived from a protein that is unique to the tumor and not present
in any other tissue. To identify peptides that are derived from genes with an expression
profile similar to the ideal one the identified peptides were assigned to the proteins and
genes, respectively, from which they were derived and expression profiles of these genes
were generated.
RNA sources and preparation
Surgically removed tissue specimens were provided by different clinical sites (see Example
1) after written informed consent had been obtained from each patient. Tumor tissue
specimens were snap-frozen in liquid nitrogen immediately after surgery and later
homogenized with mortar and pestle under liquid nitrogen. Total RNA was prepared from
these samples using TRI Reagent (Ambion, Darmstadt, Germany) followed by a cleanup
with RNeasy (QIAGEN, Hilden, Germany); both methods were performed according to the
manufacturer's protocol.
Total RNA from healthy human tissues was obtained commercially (Ambion, Huntingdon,
UK; Clontech, Heidelberg, Germany; Stratagene, Amsterdam, Netherlands; BioChain,
Hayward, CA, USA). The RNA from several individuals (between 2 and 123 individuals)
was mixed such that RNA from each individual was equally weighted. Leukocytes were
isolated from blood samples of 4 healthy volunteers.
Quality and quantity of all RNA samples were assessed on an Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer
(Agilent, Waldbronn, Germany) using the RNA 6000 Pico LabChip Kit (Agilent).
Microarray experiments
Gene expression analysis of all tumor and normal tissue RNA samples was performed by
Affymetrix Human Genome (HG) U133A or HG-U133 Plus 2.0 oligonucleotide
microarrays (Affymetrix, Santa Clara, CA, USA). All steps were carried out according to
the Affymetrix manual. Briefly, double-stranded cDNA was synthesized from 5-8 gg of
total RNA, using SuperScript RTII (Invitrogen) and the oligo-dT-T7 primer (MWG
Biotech, Ebersberg, Germany) as described in the manual. In vitro transcription was
performed with the BioArray High Yield RNA Transcript Labelling Kit (ENZO
Diagnostics, Inc., Farmingdale, NY, USA) for the U133A arrays or with the GeneChip IVT

    WO 2011/113819                                                          PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 113
Labelling Kit (Affymetrix) for the U133 Plus 2.0 arrays, followed by cRNA fragmentation,
hybridization, and staining with streptavidin-phycoerythrin and biotinylated anti
streptavidin antibody (Molecular Probes, Leiden, Netherlands). Images were scanned with
the Agilent 2500A GeneArray Scanner (U133A) or the Affymetrix Gene-Chip Scanner
3000 (U133 Plus 2.0), and data were analyzed with the GCOS software (Affymetrix), using
default settings for all parameters. For normalisation, 100 housekeeping genes provided by
Affymetrix were used. Relative expression values were calculated from the signal log ratios
given by the software and the normal kidney sample was arbitrarily set to 1.0.
The expression profiles of source genes of the present invention that are highly over
expressed in gastric cancer are shown in Fig. 2.
EXAMPLE 3
In vitro immunogenicity for IMA941 MHC class I presented peptides
In order to obtain information regarding the immunogenicity of the TUMAPs of the present
invention, we performed investigations using a well established in vitro stimulation
platform already described by (Walter, S, Herrgen, L, Schoor, 0, Jung, G, Wernet, D,
Buhring, HJ, Rammensee, HG, and Stevanovic, S; 2003, Cutting edge: predetermined
avidity of human        CD8   T   cells  expanded     on calibrated    MHC/anti-CD28-coated
microspheres, J. Immunol., 171, 4974-4978). With this system we could show positive
immunogenicity (i. e. expansion of specific T cells) results for 47 of 54 tested HLA
A*2402 restricted TUMAPs and for 3 of 3 tested HLA-A*0201 restricted TUMAPs of the
invention, demonstrating that these peptides are T-cell epitopes against which CD8+
precursor T cells exist in humans (Table 4).
In vitro priming of CD8+ T cells
In order to perform in vitro stimulations by artificial antigen presenting cells (aAPC) loaded
with peptide-MHC complex (pMHC) and anti-CD28 antibody, we first isolated CD8 T
cells from fresh HLA-A*24 leukapheresis products or from HLA-A*2 buffy coats of
healthy donors obtained from the Blood Bank Tuebingen.
CD8 T cells were either directly enriched or PBMCs (peripheral blood mononuclear cells)
were isolated first by using standard gradient separation medium (PAA, C61be, Germany).

    WO 2011/113819                                                      PCT/EP2011/053863
                                           -114
Isolated CD8 lymphocytes or PBMCs were incubated until use in T-cell medium (TCM)
consisting of RPMI-Glutamax (Invitrogen, Karlsruhe, Germany) supplemented with 10%
heat inactivated human AB serum (PAN-Biotech, Aidenbach, Germany), 100 U/ml
Penicillin / 100 gg/ml Streptomycin (Cambrex, Cologne, Germany), 1 mM sodium
pyruvate (CC Pro, Oberdorla, Germany), 20 gg/ml Gentamycin (Cambrex). 2.5 ng/ml IL-7
(PromoCell, Heidelberg, Germany) and 10 U/ml IL-2 (Novartis Pharma, Niirnberg,
Germany) cytokines were added to the TCM for this culture step. Isolation of CD8+
lymphocytes was performed by positive selection using CD8 MicroBeads (Miltenyi Biotec,
Bergisch-Gladbach, Germany).
Generation of pMHC/anti-CD28 coated beads, T-cell stimulations and readout was
performed as described before (Walter et al. 4974-78) with minor modifications. Briefly,
biotinylated peptide-loaded recombinant HLA-A*2402 and HLA-A*0201               molecules
lacking the transmembrane domain and biotinylated at the carboxy terminus of the heavy
chain were produced. The purified costimulatory mouse IgG2a anti human CD28 Ab 9.3
(Jung, Ledbetter, and Muller-Eberhard 4611-15) was chemically biotinylated using Sulfo
N-hydroxysuccinimidobiotin as recommended by the manufacturer (Perbio, Bonn,
Germany). Beads used were 5.6 pm large streptavidin coated polystyrene particles (Bangs
Laboratories, Illinois, USA). pMHC used as high and low immunogenic controls were
A*0201/MLA-001 (peptide ELAGIGILTV from modified Melan-A/MART-1)                       and
A*0201/DDX5-001 (YLLPAIVHI from DDX5), respectively.
800.000 beads / 200 gl were coated in 96-well plates in the presence of 600 ng biotin-anti
CD28 plus 200 ng relevant biotin-pMHC (high density beads). Stimulations were initiated
in 96-well plates by co-nincubating 1x10 6 CD8+ T cells with 2x10 5 washed coated beads in
200 gl TCM supplemented with 5 ng/ml IL-12 (PromoCell) for 3-4 days at 37'C, 5% CO 2
and 95% relative humidity. Half of the medium was then exchanged by fresh TCM
supplemented with 80 U/ml IL-2 and incubation was continued for 3-4 days at 37'C. This
stimulation cycle was performed for a total of three times.
Finally, multimer analyses were performed by staining cells with fluorescent A*0201 or
A*2402 HLA multimers (produced as described by {Altman, 1996 ALTMAN1996 /id})
and CD8-FITC antibody clone SKI (BD, Heidelberg, Germany) or additionally with a
viability marker (Live/dead-Aqua or -Violet dye (Invitrogen, Karlsruhe, Germany)), and

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                           - 115
were conducted on a four-color FACSCalibur (BD) or a LSRII SORP cytometer (BD;
eighteen color, equipped with a blue (488 nm), violet (405 nm), red (640 nm) and green
(532 nm), respectively. Peptide specific cells were calculated as percentage of total CD8+
T cells. Evaluation of multimer analysis was done using the FCSExpress or FlowJo
software (Tree Star, Oregon, USA).        In vitro priming of specific multimer+ CD8+
lymphocytes was detected by appropriate gating and by comparing to negative control
stimulations. Immunogenicity for a given antigen was detected if at least one evaluable in
vitro stimulated well of one healthy donor was found to contain specific CD8+ T-cells after
in vitro stimulation (i.e. the fraction of multimer+ cell population within this well
constituted at least 1% of the CD8+ cells, the frequency was at least 10-fold over the
median of the respective negative controls (stimulation with irrelevant and staining with
relevant multimer) and the cells were not located on the diagonal of the plot).
In vitro immunogenicity for IMA941 peptides
For 47 of 54 tested HLA-A*2402 peptides and for 3 of 3 tested HLA-A*0201 peptides, in
vitro immunogenicity could be demonstrated by generation of peptide specific T-cell lines.
Exemplary flow cytometry results after TUMAP-specific multimer staining for two
peptides of the invention are shown in figure 3 together with a corresponding negative
control. Results for 54 A*2402 and 3 A*0201 peptides of the invention are summarized in
Table 4.
Table 4: In vitro immunogenicity of HLA class I peptides of the invention
Results of in vitro immunogenicity experiments conducted by Immatics are showing the
percentage of positive tested donors and wells among evaluable. At least four donors and
48 wells were evaluable for each peptide.
SEQ ID NO:                Antigen                 Donors                 Wells
                                                  positivelevaluable      positivelevaluable
                                                  [%]                     [%]
1                         CDC2-001                83                     28
2                         ASPM-002                67                      32
18                        MMP3-001                11                      1
4                         MET-006                 67                     21
3                         UCHL5-001               75                      12

   WO 2011/113819                        PCT/EP2011/053863
                              - 116
7                 MST1R-001         50  13
33                KIF2C-001         17  2
9                 SMC4-001          73  10
17                EPHA2-005         0   0
5                 PROMI-001         83  26
6                 MMP11-001         33  11
8                 NFYB-001          50  7
16                ASPM-001          17  3
20                PLK4-001          60  5
14                ABLI-001          83  18
26                ATAD2-001         33  3
21                ATAD2-002         17  1
27                ATAD2-003         0   0
12                AVL9-001          100 31
22                COL12Al-001       0   0
23                COL6A3-001        0   0
24                FANCI-001         17  1
28                HSP90B1-001       50  7
15                MUC6-001          83  22
13                NUF2-001          100 50
19                NUF2-002          50  6
11                PPAP2C-001        83  29
25                RPS11-001         17  3
29                SIAH2-001         50  8
30                SLC6A6-001        17  1
10                UQCRB-001         83  24
31                IQGAP3-001        100 24
32                ERBB3-001         83
                  CCDC88A-001       0   0
                  CCNB1-003         33  3
                  CCND2-001         17  10
                  CCNE2-001         0   0

    WO 2011/113819                                                    PCT/EP2011/053863
                                        -117
                          CEA-010              40                    3
                          CLCN3-001            33                    6
                          DNAJC1O-001          50                     15
                          DNAJC1O-002          33                    3
                          EIF2S3-001           17                     1
                          EIF3L-001            100                   29
                          EPPK1-001            17                     1
                          GPR39-001            50                    6
                          ITGB4-001            67                    20
                          LCN2-001             17                     1
                          SDHC-001             33                    3
                          PBK-001              0                     0
                          POLD3-001            67                    7
                          PSMD14-001           17                     1
                          PTK2-001             17                    4
                          TSPAN1-002           17                     1
                          ZNF598-001           83                     17
The following peptides were already described in other applications by immatics and
included in the vaccines IMA901 (MET-00 1 and TOP-00 1), IMA910 (MET-00 1 and TOP
001) and IMA950 (IGF2BP3-001). As for example MET-001 leads to extremely good in
vivo reactions, the data can be seen as an indication for the clinical usefulness of the
peptides of the invention,
SEQ ID NO:               Antigen              Donors                 Wells
                                              positivelevaluable     positivelevaluable
                                              [0/]                   [%]
                         IGF2BP3-001          50                     21
                         MET-001              67                     42
                         TOP-001             40                      10

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                           - 118
Reference List
Ahmed, A. U., et al. "Effect of disrupting seven-in-absentia homolog 2 function on lung
cancer cell growth." J Natl.Cancer Inst. 100.22 (2008): 1606-29.
Allison, J. P. and M. F. Krummel. "The Yin and Yang of T cell costimulation." Science
270.5238 (1995): 932-33.
Altmeyer, A., et al. "Tumor-specific cell surface expression of the-KDEL containing,
endoplasmic reticular heat shock protein gp96." Int J Cancer 69.4 (1996): 340-49.
Appay, V., et al. "Decreased specific CD8+ T cell cross-reactivity of antigen recognition
following vaccination with Melan-A peptide." Eur.J Immunol. 36.7 (2006): 1805-14.
Banerjee, S. K., et al. "Expression of cdc2 and cyclin BI in Helicobacter pylori-associated
gastric MALT and MALT lymphoma : relationship to cell death, proliferation, and
transformation." Am J Pathol. 156.1 (2000): 217-25.
Bartman, A. E., et al. "Aberrant expression of MUC5AC and MUC6 gastric mucin genes in
colorectal polyps." Int J Cancer 80.2 (1999): 210-18.
Basu, S., et al. "Necrotic but not apoptotic cell death releases heat shock proteins, which
deliver a partial maturation signal to dendritic cells and activate the NF-kappa B pathway."
Int Immunol. 12.11 (2000): 1539-46.
Bauer, B., S. Bartfeld, and T. F. Meyer. "H. pylori selectively blocks EGFR endocytosis via
the non-receptor kinase c-Abl and CagA." Cell Microbiol. 11.1 (2009): 156-69.
Benatti, P., et al. "A balance between NF-Y and p53 governs the pro- and anti-apoptotic
transcriptional response." Nucleic Acids Res 36.5 (2008): 1415-28.
Bertolini, G., et al. "Highly tumorigenic lung cancer CD133+ cells display stem-like
features and are spared by cisplatin treatment." Proc Natl.Acad.Sci.U.S.A 106.38 (2009):
16281-86.
Bierie, B. and H. L. Moses. "TGF-beta and cancer." Cytokine Growth Factor Rev. 17.1-2
(2006): 29-40.
Bitoun, E. and K. E. Davies. "The robotic mouse: unravelling the function of AF4 in the
cerebellum." Cerebellum. 4.4 (2005): 250-60.
Bolhassani, A. and S. Rafati. "Heat-shock proteins as powerful weapons in vaccine
development." Expert.Rev.Vaccines. 7.8 (2008): 1185-99.

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 119
Borset, M., et al. "The role of hepatocyte growth factor and its receptor c-Met in multiple
myeloma and other blood malignancies." Leuk.Lymphoma 32.3-4 (1999): 249-56.
Bradbury, P. A., et al. "Matrix metalloproteinase 1, 3 and 12 polymorphisms and
esophageal adenocarcinoma risk and prognosis." Carcinogenesis 30.5 (2009): 793-98.
Brown, C. E., et al. "Recognition and killing of brain tumor stem-like initiating cells by
CD8+ cytolytic T cells." Cancer Research 69.23 (2009): 8886-93.
Bruckdorfer, T., 0. Marder, and F. Albericio. "From production of peptides in milligram
amounts for research to multi-tons              quantities   for  drugs    of   the    future."
Curr.Pharm.Biotechnol. 5.1 (2004): 29-43.
Brunsvig, P. F., et al. "Telomerase peptide vaccination: a phase I/II study in patients with
non-small cell lung cancer." Cancer Immunol.Immunother. 55.12 (2006): 1553-64.
Cabanes, D., et al. "Gp96 is a receptor for a novel Listeria monocytogenes virulence factor,
Vip, a surface protein." EMBO J 24.15 (2005): 2827-38.
Calzado, M. A., et al. "An inducible autoregulatory loop between HIPK2 and Siah2 at the
apex of the hypoxic response." Nat.Cell Biol. 11.1 (2009): 85-91.
Castelli, C., et al. "Heat shock proteins: biological functions and clinical application as
personalized vaccines for human cancer." Cancer Immunol.Immunother. 53.3 (2004): 227
33.
Castriconi, R., et al. "Both CD133+ and C." Eur.J Immunol. 37.11 (2007): 3190-96.
Chanock, S. J., et al. "HLA-A, -B, -Cw, -DQA1 and -DRB1 Alleles in a Caucasian
Population from Bethesda, USA." Hum.Immunol. 65 (2004): 1211-23.
Chen, C. H., et al. "Inhibition of heregulin signaling by an aptamer that preferentially binds
to  the   oligomeric     form  of human      epidermal    growth  factor   receptor-3."   Proc
Natl.Acad.Sci.U.S.A 100.16 (2003): 9226-31.
Chen, Z. and J. J. O'Shea. "Regulation of IL-17 production in human lymphocytes."
Cytokine 41.2 (2008): 71-78.
Cho, S. 0., et al. "Helicobacter pylori in a Korean Isolate Expressed Proteins Differentially
in Human Gastric Epithelial Cells." Dig.Dis.Sci. (2009).
Christianson, J. C., et al. "OS-9 and GRP94 deliver mutant alphal-antitrypsin to the Hrdl
SELIL ubiquitin ligase complex for ERAD." Nat.Cell Biol. 10.3 (2008): 272-82.
Cisek, L. J. and J. L. Corden. "Phosphorylation of RNA polymerase by the murine
homologue of the cell-cycle control protein cdc2." Nature 339.6227 (1989): 679-84.

    WO 2011/113819                                                        PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 120
Colombetti, S., et al. "Prolonged TCR/CD28 engagement drives IL-2-independent T cell
clonal expansion through signaling mediated by the mammalian target of rapamycin." J
Immunol. 176.5 (2006): 2730-38.
Confalonieri, S., et al. "Alterations of ubiquitin ligases in human cancer and their
association with the natural history of the tumor." Oncogene 28.33 (2009): 2959-68.
Corso, S., et al. "Silencing the MET oncogene leads to regression of experimental tumors
and metastases." Oncogene 27.5 (2008): 684-93.
Cox, C. V., et al. "Expression of CD 133 on leukemia-initiating cells in childhood ALL."
Blood 113.14 (2009): 3287-96.
Cunha-Ferreira, I., et al. "The SCF/Slimb ubiquitin ligase limits centrosome amplification
through degradation of SAK/PLK4." Curr.Biol. 19.1 (2009): 43-49.
DeLuca, J. G., et al. "HecI and nuf2 are core components of the kinetochore outer plate
essential for organizing microtubule attachment sites." Mol.Biol.Cell 16.2 (2005): 519-31.
Deng, H., et al. "Matrix metalloproteinase 11 depletion inhibits cell proliferation in gastric
cancer cells." Biochem.Biophys.Res Commun. 326.2 (2005): 274-81.
Dengjel, J., et al. "Unexpected Abundance of HLA Class II Presented Peptides in Primary
Renal Cell Carcinomas." Clin Cancer Res. 12.14 (2006): 4163-70.
Deremer, D. L., C. Ustun, and K. Natarajan. "Nilotinib: a second-generation tyrosine kinase
inhibitor for the treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia." Clin Ther. 30.11 (2008):
1956-75.
Di Renzo, M. F., et al. "Overexpression and amplification of the met/HGF receptor gene
during the progression of colorectal cancer." Clin.Cancer Res. 1.2 (1995): 147-54.
Dong, G., et al. "Hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor-induced activation of MEK and
P13K signal pathways contributes to expression of proangiogenic cytokines interleukin-8
and vascular endothelial growth factor in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma." Cancer
Res. 61.15 (2001): 5911-18.
Dudley, M. E., et al. "Cancer regression and autoimmunity in patients after clonal
repopulation with antitumor lymphocytes." Science 298.5594 (2002): 850-54.
Dudley, M. E., et al. "Adoptive cell transfer therapy following non-myeloablative but
lymphodepleting chemotherapy for the treatment of patients with refractory metastatic
melanoma." J.Clin.Oncol. 23.10 (2005): 2346-57.

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                              - 121
Duong, C., et al. "Pretreatment gene expression profiles can be used to predict response to
neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy in esophageal cancer." Ann Surg Oncol 14.12 (2007):
3602-09.
Egland, K. A., et al. "High expression of a cytokeratin-associated protein in many cancers."
Proc Natl.Acad.Sci.U.S.A 103.15 (2006): 5929-34.
Eramo, A., et al. "Identification and expansion of the tumorigenic lung cancer stem cell
population." Cell Death Differ 15.3 (2008): 504-14.
Esashi, F., et al. "CDK-dependent phosphorylation of BRCA2 as a regulatory mechanism
for recombinational repair." Nature 434.7033 (2005): 598-604.
Escobar, M. A., et al. "Profiling of nuclear extract proteins from human neuroblastoma cell
lines: the search for fingerprints." J Pediatr.Surg 40.2 (2005): 349-58.
Ferracini, R., et al. "The Met/HGF receptor is over-expressed in human osteosarcomas and
is activated by either a paracrine or an autocrine circuit." Oncogene 10.4 (1995): 739-49.
Fischer, J., et al. "Duplication and overexpression of the mutant allele of the MET proto
oncogene in multiple hereditary papillary renal cell tumours." Oncogene 17.6 (1998): 733
39.
Flanagan, J. M., et al. "Genomics screen in transformed stem cells reveals RNASEH2A,
PPAP2C, and ADARBI as putative anticancer drug targets." Mol.Cancer Ther. 8.1 (2009):
249-60.
Fong, L., et al. "Altered peptide ligand vaccination with Flt3 ligand expanded dendritic
cells for tumor immunotherapy." Proc.Natl.Acad.Sci.U.S.A 98.15 (2001): 8809-14.
Frasor, J., et al. "Estrogen down-regulation of the corepressor N-CoR: mechanism and
implications for estrogen            derepression    of    N-CoR-regulated genes."       Proc
Natl.Acad.Sci.U.S.A 102.37 (2005): 13153-57.
Frew, I. J., et al. "Generation and analysis of Siah2 mutant mice." Mol.Cell Biol. 23.24
(2003): 9150-61.
Fu, Y. and A. S. Lee. "Glucose regulated proteins in cancer progression, drug resistance
and immunotherapy." Cancer Biol.Ther. 5.7 (2006): 741-44.
Furge, K. A., et al. "Suppression of Ras-mediated tumorigenicity and metastasis through
inhibition of the Met receptor tyrosine kinase." Proc.Natl.Acad.Sci.U.S.A 98.19 (2001):
10722-27.
Furge, K. A., Y. W. Zhang, and G. F. Vande Woude. "Met receptor tyrosine kinase:
enhanced signaling through adapter proteins." Oncogene 19.49 (2000): 5582-89.

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 122
Gattinoni, L., et al. "Adoptive immunotherapy for cancer: building on success."
Nat.Rev.Immunol. 6.5 (2006): 383-93.
Gherardi, E. and M. Stoker. "Hepatocyte growth factor--scatter factor: mitogen, motogen,
and met." Cancer Cells 3.6 (1991): 227-32.
Glen, A., et al. "iTRAQ-facilitated proteomic analysis of human prostate cancer cells
identifies proteins associated with progression." J Proteome.Res 7.3 (2008): 897-907.
Gnjatic, S., et al. "NY-CO-58/KIF2C is overexpressed in a variety of solid tumors and
induces frequent T cell responses in patients with colorectal cancer." Int J Cancer (2009).
Guo, W. C., et al. "Expression and its clinical significance of heat shock protein gp96 in
human osteosarcoma." Neoplasma 57.1 (2010): 62-67.
Habelhah, H., et al. "Stress-induced decrease in TRAF2 stability is mediated by Siah2."
EMBO J 21.21 (2002): 5756-65.
Hamamoto, A., et al. "Aberrant expression of the gastric mucin MUC6 in human
pulmonary adenocarcinoma xenografts." Int J Oncol 26.4 (2005): 891-96.
Harada, T., et al. "Genome-wide analysis of pancreatic cancer using microarray-based
techniques." Pancreatology. 9.1-2 (2009): 13-24.
Harper, L. J., et al. "Stem cell patterns in cell lines derived from head and neck squamous
cell carcinoma." J Oral Pathol.Med 36.10 (2007): 594-603.
Hayama, S., et al. "Activation of CDCA1-KNTC2, members of centromere protein
complex, involved in pulmonary carcinogenesis." Cancer Research 66.21 (2006): 10339
48.
Hayashi, M., et al. "High expression of HER3 is associated with a decreased survival in
gastric cancer." Clinical Cancer Research 14.23 (2008): 7843-49.
Heike, M., et al. "Expression of stress protein gp96, a tumor rejection antigen, in human
colorectal cancer." Int J Cancer 86.4 (2000): 489-93.
Hodorova, I., et al. "Gp96 and its different expression in breast carcinomas." Neoplasma
55.1 (2008): 31-35.
Horton, R. A., et al. "A substrate for deubiquitinating enzymes based on time-resolved
fluorescence resonance energy transfer between terbium and yellow fluorescent protein."
Anal.Biochem. 360.1 (2007): 138-43.
House, C. M., A. Moller, and D. D. Bowtell. "Siah proteins: novel drug targets in the Ras
and hypoxia pathways." Cancer Research 69.23 (2009): 8835-38.

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                           - 123
Howard, E. W., et al. "Decreased adhesiveness, resistance to anoikis and suppression of
GRP94 are integral to the survival of circulating tumor cells in prostate cancer." Clin
Exp.Metastasis 25.5 (2008): 497-508.
Hu, G. and E. R. Fearon. "Siah-1 N-terminal RING domain is required for proteolysis
function, and C-terminal sequences regulate oligomerization and binding to target
proteins." Mol.Cell Biol. 19.1 (1999): 724-32.
Huang, Y., et al. "Characterization of GPR56 protein and its suppressed expression in
human pancreatic cancer cells." Mol.Cell Biochem. 308.1-2 (2008): 133-39.
Jansen, M. P., et al. "Downregulation of SIAH2, an ubiquitin E3 ligase, is associated with
resistance to endocrine therapy in breast cancer." Breast Cancer Res Treat. 116.2 (2009):
263-71.
Jia, H. L., et al. "Gene expression profiling reveals potential biomarkers of human
hepatocellular carcinoma." Clinical Cancer Research 13.4 (2007): 1133-39.
Jucker, M., et al. "The Met/hepatocyte growth factor receptor (HGFR) gene is
overexpressed in some cases of human leukemia and lymphoma." Leuk.Res. 18.1 (1994):
7-16.
Jung, G., J. A. Ledbetter, and H. J. Muller-Eberhard. "Induction of cytotoxicity in resting
human T lymphocytes bound to tumor cells by antibody heteroconjugates." Proc Natl Acad
Sci U S A 84.13 (1987): 4611-15.
Jung, H. M., S. J. Choi, and J. K. Kim. "Expression profiles of SV40-immortalization
associated genes upregulated in various human cancers." J Cell Biochem. 106.4 (2009):
703-13.
Kaneko, N., et al. "siRNA-mediated knockdown against CDCA1                and KNTC2, both
frequently overexpressed in colorectal and gastric cancers, suppresses cell proliferation and
induces apoptosis." Biochem.Biophys.Res Commun. 390.4 (2009): 1235-40.
Kang, H. M., et al. "Effects of Helicobacter pylori Infection on gastric mucin expression." J
Clin Gastroenterol. 42.1 (2008): 29-35.
Ko, M. A., et al. "Plk4 haploinsufficiency causes mitotic infidelity and carcinogenesis."
Nat.Genet. 37.8 (2005): 883-88.
Kobayashi, M., et al. "Activation of ErbB3-PI3-kinase pathway is correlated with
malignant phenotypes of adenocarcinomas." Oncogene 22.9 (2003): 1294-301.
Koochekpour, S., et al. "Met and hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor expression in
human gliomas." Cancer Res. 57.23 (1997): 5391-98.

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 124
Korzeniewski, N., et al. "Cullin 1 functions as a centrosomal suppressor of centriole
multiplication by regulating polo-like kinase 4 protein levels." Cancer Research 69.16
(2009): 6668-75.
Krieg, A. M. "Therapeutic potential of Toll-like receptor 9 activation." Nat.Rev.Drug
Discov. 5.6 (2006): 471-84.
Kunimoto, K., et al. "Involvement of IQGAP3, a regulator of Ras/ERK-related cascade, in
hepatocyte proliferation in mouse liver regeneration and development." J Cell Physiol
220.3 (2009): 621-31.
Kuriyama, R., et al. "Gamma-tubulin-containing abnormal centrioles are induced by
insufficient Plk4 in human HCT1 16 colorectal cancer cells." J Cell Sci. 122.Pt 12 (2009):
2014-23.
Lee, H. S., et al. "MUCI, MUC2, MUC5AC, and MUC6 expressions in gastric carcinomas:
their roles as prognostic indicators." Cancer 92.6 (2001): 1427-34.
Leivo, I., et al. "Characterization of gene expression in major types of salivary gland
carcinomas with epithelial differentiation." Cancer Genet.Cytogenet. 156.2 (2005): 104-13.
Lemmel, C., et al. "Differential quantitative analysis of MHC ligands by mass spectrometry
using stable isotope labeling." Nat.Biotechnol. 22.4 (2004): 450-54.
Li, G., et al. "Downregulation of E-cadherin and Desmoglein 1 by autocrine hepatocyte
growth factor during melanoma development." Oncogene 20.56 (2001): 8125-35.
Lim, S. 0., et al. "Expression of heat shock proteins (HSP27, HSP60, HSP70, HSP90,
GRP78, GRP94) in hepatitis B virus-related hepatocellular carcinomas and dysplastic
nodules." World J Gastroenterol. 11.14 (2005): 2072-79.
Lin, W., et al. "Tyrosine kinases and gastric cancer." Oncogene 19.49 (2000): 5680-89.
Liu, B. and Z. LI. "Endoplasmic reticulum HSP90bl (gp96, grp94) optimizes B-cell
function via chaperoning integrin and TLR but not immunoglobulin." Blood 112.4 (2008):
1223-30.
Liu, S. Y., et al. "Requirement of MMP-3 in anchorage-independent growth of oral
squamous cell carcinomas." J Oral Pathol.Med 36.7 (2007): 430-35.
Lochter, A., et al. "The significance of matrix metalloproteinases during early stages of
tumor progression." Ann N.Y.Acad.Sci. 857 (1998): 180-93.
Lund, C. V., et al. "Zinc finger transcription factors designed for bispecific coregulation of
ErbB2 and ErbB3 receptors: insights into ErbB receptor biology." Mol.Cell Biol. 25.20
(2005): 9082-91.

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 125
Ma, S., et al. "Identification and characterization of tumorigenic liver cancer
stem/progenitor cells." Gastroenterologv 132.7 (2007): 2542-56.
MacLeod, R. J., M. Hayes, and I. Pacheco. "Wnt5a secretion stimulated by the extracellular
calcium-sensing receptor inhibits defective Wnt signaling in colon cancer cells." Am J
Physiol Gastrointest.Liver Physiol 293.1 (2007): G403-G41 1.
Macmillan, J. C., et al. "Comparative expression of the mitotic regulators SAK and PLK in
colorectal cancer." Ann Surm Oncol 8.9 (2001): 729-40.
Maney, T., et al. "The kinetochore of higher eucaryotes: a molecular view." Int Rev.Cytol.
194 (2000): 67-131.
Martin, C. M., et al. "Gene expression profiling in cervical cancer: identification of novel
markers for disease diagnosis and therapy." Methods Mol.Biol. 511 (2009): 333-59.
Matsukita, S., et al. "Expression of mucins (MUC1, MUC2, MUC5AC and MUC6) in
mucinous carcinoma of the breast: comparison with invasive                ductal carcinoma."
Histopathology 42.1 (2003): 26-36.
Maulik, G., et al. "Role of the hepatocyte growth factor receptor, c-Met, in oncogenesis and
potential for therapeutic inhibition." Cytokine Growth Factor Rev. 13.1 (2002): 41-59.
Mizrak, D., M. Brittan, and M. Alison. "CD133: molecule of the moment." J Pathol. 214.1
(2008): 3-9.
Montesano, R., et al. "Differential effects of hepatocyte growth factor isoforms on epithelial
and endothelial tubulogenesis." Cell Growth Differ. 9.5 (1998): 355-65.
Monzani, E., et al. "Melanoma contains CD133 and ABCG2 positive cells with enhanced
tumourigenic potential." Eur.J Cancer 43.5 (2007): 935-46.
Moore, A. and L. Wordeman. "The mechanism, function and regulation of depolymerizing
kinesins during mitosis." Trends Cell Biol. 14.10 (2004): 537-46.
Morgan, R. A., et al. "Cancer Regression in Patients After Transfer of Genetically
Engineered Lymphocytes." Science (2006).
Mori, M., et al. "HLA gene and haplotype frequencies in the North American population:
the National Marrow Donor Program Donor Registry." Transplantation 64.7 (1997): 1017
27.
Murray, G. I., et al. "Matrix metalloproteinases and their inhibitors in gastric cancer." Gut
43.6 (1998): 791-97.
Murshid, A., J. Gong, and S. K. Calderwood. "Heat-shock proteins in cancer vaccines:
agents of antigen cross-presentation." Expert.Rev.Vaccines. 7.7 (2008): 1019-30.

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                              - 126
Nakaigawa, N., et al. "Inactivation of von Hippel-Lindau gene induces constitutive
phosphorylation of MET protein in clear cell renal carcinoma." Cancer Res. 66.7 (2006):
3699-705.
Nakamura, Y., et al. "Clinicopathological and biological significance of mitotic
centromere-associated kinesin overexpression in human gastric cancer." Br.J Cancer 97.4
(2007): 543-49.
Nakayama, K., J. Qi, and Z. Ronai. "The ubiquitin ligase Siah2 and the hypoxia response."
Mol.Cancer Res 7.4 (2009): 443-5 1.
Naldini, L., et al. "Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) stimulates the tyrosine kinase activity
of the receptor encoded by the proto-oncogene c-MET." Oncogene 6.4 (1991): 501-04.
Nguyen,    Q. N., et al. "Light controllable siRNAs regulate gene suppression and phenotypes
in cells." Biochim.Biophys.Acta 1758.3 (2006): 394-403.
Nishio, K., et al. "Crystal structure of the de-ubiquitinating enzyme UCH37 (human UCH
L5) catalytic domain." Biochem.Biophys.Res Commun. 390.3 (2009): 855-60.
Nojima, H., et al. "IQGAP3 regulates cell proliferation through the Ras/ERK signalling
cascade." Nat.Cell Biol. 10.8 (2008): 971-78.
Nomura, H., et al. "Enhanced production of matrix metalloproteinases and activation of
matrix metalloproteinase 2 (gelatinase A) in human gastric carcinomas." Int J Cancer 69.1
(1996): 9-16.
Nomura, H., et al. "Network-based analysis of calcium-binding protein genes identifies
Grp94 as a target in human oral carcinogenesis." Br.J Cancer 97.6 (2007): 792-801.
Ohnuma, S., et al. "Cancer-associated splicing variants of the CDCA1 and MSMB genes
expressed in cancer cell lines and surgically resected gastric cancer tissues." Surgerv 145.1
(2009): 57-68.
Park, Y. H., et al. "Capecitabine in combination with Oxaliplatin (XELOX) as a first-line
therapy for advanced gastric cancer." Cancer Chemother.Pharmacol. (2007).
Pascolo, S., et al. "The non-classical HLA class I molecule HFE does not influence the NK
like activity contained in fresh human PBMCs and does not interact with NK cells."
Int.Immunol. 17.2 (2005): 117-22.
Peel, N., et al. "Overexpressing centriole-replication proteins in vivo induces centriole
overduplication and de novo formation." Curr.Biol. 17.10 (2007): 834-43.

    WO 2011/113819                                                          PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 127
Pereira, M. B., et al. "Immunohistochemical study of the expression of MUC5AC and
MUC6 in breast carcinomas and adjacent breast tissues." J Clin Pathol. 54.3 (2001): 210
13.
Pietra, G., et al. "Natural killer cells kill human melanoma cells with characteristics of
cancer stem cells." Int Immunol. 21.7 (2009): 793-801.
Poller, D. N., et al. "Production and characterization of a polyclonal antibody to the c-erbB
3 protein: examination of c-erbB-3 protein expression in adenocarcinomas." J Pathol. 168.3
(1992): 275-80.
Pons, E., C. C. Uphoff, and H. G. Drexler. "Expression of hepatocyte growth factor and its
receptor c-met in human leukemia-lymphoma cell lines." Leuk.Res. 22.9 (1998): 797-804.
Ponzetto, C., et al. "A novel recognition motif for phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase binding
mediates its association with the hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor receptor." Mol.Cell
Biol. 13.8 (1993): 4600-08.
Poppe, M., et al. "Phosphorylation of Helicobacter pylori CagA by c-Abl leads to cell
motility." Oncogene 26.24 (2007): 3462-72.
Pytel, D., et al. "Tyrosine kinase blockers: new hope for successful cancer therapy."
Anticancer Agents Med Chem. 9.1 (2009): 66-76.
Qi, J., et al. "The ubiquitin ligase Siah2 regulates tumorigenesis and metastasis by HIF
dependent and -independent pathways." Proc Natl.Acad.Sci.U.S.A 105.43 (2008): 16713
18.
Qian, C. N., et al. "Met protein expression level correlates with survival in patients with
late-stage nasopharyngeal carcinoma." Cancer Res. 62.2 (2002): 589-96.
Qian, Z., et al. "Cytogenetic and genetic pathways in therapy-related acute myeloid
leukemia." Chem.Biol.Interact. (2009).
Ramirez, R., et al. "Over-expression of hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor (HGF/SF)
and the HGF/SF receptor (cMET) are associated with a high risk of metastasis and
recurrence for children and young adults with papillary thyroid carcinoma."               Clin
Endocrinol.(Oxf) 53.5 (2000): 635-44.
Rammensee, H. G., et al. "SYFPEITHI: database for MHC ligands and peptide motifs."
Immunogenetics 50.3-4 (1999): 213-19.
Rammensee, H. G., J. Bachmann, and S. Stevanovic. MHC Ligands and Peptide Motifs.
Springer-Verlag, Heidelberg, Germany, 1997.

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                             - 128
Rappa, G., 0. Fodstad, and A. Lorico. "The stem cell-associated antigen CD133 (Prominin
1) is a molecular therapeutic target for metastatic melanoma." Stem Cells 26.12 (2008):
3008-17.
Richardson, G. D., et al. "CD 133, a novel marker for human prostatic epithelial stem cells."
J Cell Sci. 117.Pt 16 (2004): 3539-45.
Rini, B. I., et al. "Combination immunotherapy with prostatic acid phosphatase pulsed
antigen-presenting    cells  (provenge)   plus bevacizumab       in patients  with   serologic
progression of prostate cancer after definitive local therapy." Cancer 107.1 (2006): 67-74.
Rodrigues-Martins, A., et al. "Revisiting the role of the mother centriole in centriole
biogenesis." Science 316.5827 (2007): 1046-50.
Rosenberg, S. A., et al. "A progress report on the treatment of 157 patients with advanced
cancer using lymphokine-activated killer cells and interleukin-2 or high-dose interleukin-2
alone." N.Engl.J.Med. 316.15 (1987): 889-97.
Rosenberg, S. A., et al. "Use of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes and interleukin-2 in the
immunotherapy of patients with metastatic melanoma. A preliminary report." N.Engl.J Med
319.25 (1988): 1676-80.
Rott, R., et al. "Monoubiquitylation of alpha-synuclein by seven in absentia homolog
(SIAH) promotes its aggregation in dopaminergic cells." J Biol.Chem. 283.6 (2008): 3316
28.
Rutella, S., et al. "Cells with characteristics of cancer stem/progenitor cells express the
CD133 antigen in human endometrial tumors." Clinical Cancer Research 15.13 (2009):
4299-311.
Saiki, R. K., et al. "Primer-directed enzymatic amplification of DNA with a thermostable
DNA polymerase." Science 239.4839 (1988): 487-91.
Samant, G. V. and P. W. Sylvester. "gamma-Tocotrienol inhibits ErbB3-dependent
PI3K/Akt mitogenic signalling in neoplastic mammary epithelial cells." Cell Prolif. 39.6
(2006): 563-74.
Sanidas, E. E., et al. "Expression of the c-erbB-3 gene product in gastric cancer." Int J
Cancer 54.6 (1993): 935-40.
Scott, G. K., et al. "Coordinate suppression of ERBB2 and ERBB3 by enforced expression
of micro-RNA miR-125a or miR-125b." J Biol.Chem. 282.2 (2007): 1479-86.
Sergina, N. V., et al. "Escape from HER-family tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy by the
kinase-inactive HER3." Nature 445.7126 (2007): 437-41.

    WO 2011/113819                                                          PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 129
Shah, M., et al. "Inhibition of Siah2 ubiquitin ligase by vitamin K3 (menadione) attenuates
hypoxia and MAPK signaling and blocks melanoma tumorigenesis."                  Pigment Cell
Melanoma Res 22.6 (2009): 799-808.
Shapiro, G. I. "Cyclin-dependent kinase pathways as targets for cancer treatment." J Clin
Oncol 24.11 (2006): 1770-83.
Sherman-Baust, C. A., et al. "Remodeling of the extracellular matrix through
overexpression of collagen VI contributes to cisplatin resistance in ovarian cancer cells."
Cancer Cell 3.4 (2003): 377-86.
Sheu, M. L., S. H. Liu, and K. H. Lan. "Honokiol induces calpain-mediated glucose
regulated protein-94 cleavage and apoptosis in human gastric cancer cells and reduces
tumor growth." PLoS.ONE. 2.10 (2007): e1096.
Shimo, A., et al. "Involvement of kinesin family member 2C/mitotic centromere-associated
kinesin overexpression in mammary carcinogenesis." Cancer Sci. 99.1 (2008): 62-70.
Singh, S. K., et al. "Identification of a cancer stem cell in human brain tumors." Cancer
Res. 63.18 (2003): 5821-28.
Singh, S. K., et al. "Identification of human brain tumour initiating cells." Nature 432.7015
(2004): 396-401.
Sithanandam, G. and L. M. Anderson. "The ERBB3 receptor in cancer and cancer gene
therapy." Cancer Gene Ther. 15.7 (2008): 413-48.
Sithanandam, G., et al. "Inactivation of ErbB3 by siRNA promotes apoptosis and attenuates
growth and invasiveness of human lung adenocarcinoma cell line A549." Oncogene 24.11
(2005): 1847-59.
Skawran, B., et al. "Gene expression profiling in hepatocellular carcinoma: upregulation of
genes in amplified chromosome regions." Mod.Pathol. 21.5 (2008): 505-16.
Slesak, B., et al. "Expression of epidermal growth factor receptor family proteins (EGFR,
c-erbB-2 and c-erbB-3) in gastric cancer and chronic gastritis." Anticancer Res 18.4A
(1998): 2727-32.
Small, E. J., et al. "Placebo-controlled phase III trial of immunologic therapy with
sipuleucel-T (APC8015) in patients with metastatic, asymptomatic hormone refractory
prostate cancer." J Clin Oncol. 24.19 (2006): 3089-94.
Smith, L. M., et al. "CD133/prominin-1 is a potential therapeutic target for antibody-drug
conjugates in hepatocellular and gastric cancers." Br.J Cancer 99.1 (2008): 100-09.

    WO 2011/113819                                                          PCT/EP2011/053863
                                              - 130
Smith, M. J., et al. "Analysis of differential gene expression in colorectal cancer and stroma
using fluorescence-activated cell sorting purification." Br.J Cancer 100.9 (2009): 1452-64.
Smogorzewska, A., et al. "Identification of the FANCI protein, a monoubiquitinated
FANCD2 paralog required for DNA repair." Cell 129.2 (2007): 289-301.
Staehler, M., Stenzl, A., Dietrich, P. Y., Eisen, T., Haferkamp, A., Beck, J., Mayer, A.,
Walter, S., Singh-Jasuja, H.,        and Stief, C. A phase I study to evaluate safety,
immunogenicity and anti-tumor activity of the multi-peptide vaccine IMA901 in renal cell
carcinoma patients (RCC). Journal of Clinical Oncology, 2007 ASCO Annual Meeting
Proceedings Part I Vol 25, No. 18S (June 20 Supplement), 2007: 5098. 6-20-2007.
Ref Type: Abstract
Stemmann, 0., et al. "Dual inhibition of sister chromatid separation at metaphase." Cell
107.6 (2001): 715-26.
Suetsugu, A., et al. "Characterization of CD133+ hepatocellular carcinoma cells as cancer
stem/progenitor cells." Biochem.Biophys.Res.Commun. 351.4 (2006): 820-24.
Suva, M. L., et al. "Identification of Cancer Stem Cells in Ewing's Sarcoma." Cancer
Research (2009).
Swallow, C. J., et al. "Sak/Plk4 and mitotic fidelity." Oncogene 24.2 (2005): 306-12.
Szczepanowski, M., et al.           "Regulation of repp86 stability by human             Siah2."
Biochem.Biophys.Res Commun. 362.2 (2007): 485-90.
Tajima, Y., et al. "Gastric and intestinal phenotypic marker expression in early
differentiated-type tumors of the stomach: clinicopathologic significance and genetic
background." Clinical Cancer Research 12.21 (2006): 6469-79.
Takaishi, S., et al. "Identification of gastric cancer stem cells using the cell surface marker
CD44." Stem Cells 27.5 (2009): 1006-20.
Takayama, H., et al. "Diverse tumorigenesis associated with aberrant development in mice
overexpressing hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor." Proc.Natl.Acad.Sci.U.S.A 94.2
(1997): 701-06.
Teofili, L., et al. "Expression of the c-met proto-oncogene and its ligand, hepatocyte growth
factor, in Hodgkin disease." Blood 97.4 (2001): 1063-69.
Thorsen, K., et al. "Alternative splicing in colon, bladder, and prostate cancer identified by
exon array analysis." Mol.Cell Proteomics. 7.7 (2008): 1214-24.
Tirino, V., et al. "The role of CD133 in the identification and characterisation of tumour
initiating cells in non-small-cell lung cancer." Eur.J Cardiothorac.Surg 36.3 (2009): 446-53.

    WO 2011/113819                                                       PCT/EP2011/053863
                                           - 131
Todaro, M., et al. "Colon cancer stem cells dictate tumor growth and resist cell death by
production of interleukin-4." Cell Stem Cell 1.4 (2007): 389-402.
Topol, L., et al. "Wnt-5a inhibits the canonical Wnt pathway by promoting GSK-3
independent beta-catenin degradation." J Cell Biol. 162.5 (2003): 899-908.
Toribara, N. W., et al. "Human gastric mucin. Identification of a unique species by
expression cloning." J Biol.Chem. 268.8 (1993): 5879-85.
Tsan, M. F. and B. Gao. "Heat shock protein and innate immunity." Cell Mol.Immunol. 1.4
(2004): 274-79.
Tuck, A. B., et al. "Coexpression of hepatocyte growth factor and receptor (Met) in human
breast carcinoma." Am.J.Pathol. 148.1 (1996): 225-32.
Vairaktaris, E., et al. "Association of -1171         promoter polymorphism of matrix
metalloproteinase-3 with increased risk for oral cancer." Anticancer Res 27.6B (2007):
4095-100.
Vandenbroeck, K., E. Martens, and I. Alloza. "Multi-chaperone complexes regulate the
folding of interferon-gamma in the endoplasmic reticulum." Cytokine 33.5 (2006): 264-73.
Walter, S., et al. "Cutting edge: predetermined avidity of human CD8 T cells expanded on
calibrated MHC/anti-CD28-coated microspheres." J.Immunol. 171.10 (2003): 4974-78.
Wang,   Q., et al. "Overexpression of endoplasmic reticulum molecular chaperone GRP94
and GRP78 in human lung cancer tissues and its significance." Cancer Detect.Prev. 29.6
(2005): 544-51.
Wang, R., et al. "Activation of the Met receptor by cell attachment induces and sustains
hepatocellular carcinomas in transgenic mice." J.Cell Biol. 153.5 (2001): 1023-34.
Wang, R. Q. and D. C. Fang. "Effects of Helicobacter pylori infection on mucin expression
in gastric carcinoma and pericancerous tissues." J Gastroenterol.Hepatol. 21.2 (2006): 425
31.
Wang, S., et al. "IQGAP3, a novel effector of Rac1 and Cdc42, regulates neurite
outgrowth." J Cell Sci. 120.Pt 4 (2007): 567-77.
Wang, X., et al. "Immunolocalisation of heat shock protein 72 and glycoprotein 96 in
colonic adenocarcinoma." Acta Histochem. 110.2 (2008): 117-23.
Wang, X. P., et al. "Expression and significance of heat shock protein 70 and glucose
regulated protein 94 in human esophageal carcinoma." World J Gastroenterol. 11.3 (2005):
429-32.

    WO 2011/113819                                                       PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 132
Wang, X. P., et al. "Correlation between clinicopathology and expression of heat shock
protein 70 and glucose-regulated protein 94 in human colonic adenocarcinoma." World J
Gastroenterol. 11.7 (2005): 1056-59.
Wang, X. P.,    Q. X.  Wang, and X. P. Ying. "Correlation between clinicopathology and
expression of heat shock protein 72 and glycoprotein 96 in human gastric adenocarcinoma."
Tohoku J Exp.Med 212.1 (2007): 35-41.
Weinschenk, T., et al. "Integrated functional genomics approach for the design of patient
individual antitumor vaccines." Cancer Res. 62.20 (2002): 5818-27.
White, C. D., M. D. Brown, and D. B. Sacks. "IQGAPs in cancer: a family of scaffold
proteins underlying tumorigenesis." FEBS Lett. 583.12 (2009): 1817-24.
Wicks, S. J., et al. "Reversible ubiquitination regulates the Smad/TGF-beta signalling
pathway." Biochem.Soc Trans. 34.Pt 5 (2006): 761-63.
Wicks, S. J., et al. "The deubiquitinating enzyme UCH37 interacts with Smads and
regulates TGF-beta signalling." Oncogene 24.54 (2005): 8080-84.
Yajima, S., et al. "Expression profiling of fecal colonocytes for RNA-based screening of
colorectal cancer." Int J Oncol 31.5 (2007): 1029-37.
Yang, L., et al. "IL-21 and TGF-beta are required for differentiation of human T(H)17
cells." Nature (2008).
Yang, S., et al. "Molecular basis of the differences between normal and tumor tissues of
gastric cancer." Biochim.Biophys.Acta 1772.9 (2007): 1033-40.
Yao, D. F., et al. "Abnormal expression of HSP gp96 associated with HBV replication in
human hepatocellular carcinoma." Hepatobiliary.Pancreat.Dis.Int 5.3 (2006): 381-86.
Yasui, W., et al. "Increased expression of p34cdc2 and its kinase activity in human gastric
and colonic carcinomas." Int J Cancer 53.1 (1993): 36-41.
Yee, C., et al. "Adoptive T cell therapy using antigen-specific CD8+ T cell clones for the
treatment of patients with metastatic melanoma: in vivo persistence, migration, and
antitumor effect of transferred T cells." Proc.Natl.Acad.Sci.U.S.A 99.25 (2002): 16168-73.
Yin, S., et al. "CD 133 positive hepatocellular carcinoma cells possess high capacity for
tumorigenicity." Int.J Cancer 120.7 (2007): 1444-50.
Yokozaki, H., W. Yasui, and E. Tahara. "Genetic and epigenetic changes in stomach
cancer." Int Rev.Cytol. 204 (2001): 49-95.
Yuan, W., et al. "Expression of EphA2 and E-cadherin in gastric cancer: correlated with
tumor progression and lymphogenous metastasis." Pathol.Oncol Res 15.3 (2009): 473-78.

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                           - 133
Yuan, W. J., et al. "Over-expression of EphA2 and EphrinA-1                 in human gastric
adenocarcinoma and its prognostic value for postoperative patients." Dig.Dis.Sci. 54.11
(2009): 2410-17.
Zaremba, S., et al. "Identification of an enhancer agonist cytotoxic T lymphocyte peptide
from human carcinoembryonic antigen." Cancer Res. 57.20 (1997): 4570-77.
Zhang, X., R. M. Kedl, and J. Xiang. "CD40 ligation converts TGF-beta-secreting
tolerogenic    CD4-8-     dendritic cells into IL-12-secreting         immunogenic     ones."
Biochem.Biophys.Res Commun. 379.4 (2009): 954-58.
Zhang, X. L., et al. "Comparative study on overexpression of HER2/neu and HER3 in
gastric cancer." World J Surg 33.10 (2009): 2112-18.
Zhao, C., et al. "Hedgehog signalling is essential for maintenance of cancer stem cells in
myeloid leukaemia." Nature (2009).
Zheng, H., et al. "Cell surface targeting of heat shock protein gp96 induces dendritic cell
maturation and antitumor immunity." J Immunol. 167.12 (2001): 6731-35.
Zheng, H., et al. "MUC6 down-regulation correlates with gastric carcinoma progression
and a poor prognosis: an immunohistochemical study with tissue microarrays." J Cancer
Res Clin Oncol 132.12 (2006): 817-23.
Zheng, H. C., et al. "Overexpression of GRP78 and GRP94 are markers for aggressive
behavior and poor prognosis in gastric carcinomas." Hum.Pathol. 39.7 (2008): 1042-49.
Zhou, G., et al. "2D differential in-gel electrophoresis for the identification of esophageal
scans cell cancer-specific protein markers." Mol.Cell Proteomics. 1.2 (2002): 117-24.
Zhou, L., et al. "TGF-beta-induced        Foxp3 inhibits T(H)17 cell differentiation by
antagonizing RORgammat function." Nature 453.7192 (2008): 236-40.
Zhu, K. J., et al. "Imiquimod inhibits the differentiation but enhances the maturation of
human monocyte-derived dendritic cells." Int Immunopharmacol. 9.4 (2009): 412-17.

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 134
                                            Claims
1. A peptide comprising a sequence that is selected from the group of SEQ ID No. 1 to SEQ
ID No. 95 or a variant thereof which is at least 80%, preferably 90 and more preferred 95%
homolog to SEQ ID No. 1 to SEQ ID No. 95 or a variant thereof that induces T cells cross
reacting with said peptide, wherein said peptide is not a full-length polypeptide.
2. The peptide according to Claim 1, wherein said peptide or variant has an overall length
of between 8 and 100, preferably between 8 and 30, and most preferred between 8 and 14
amino acids.
3. The peptide according to any of Claims 1 to 2, having the ability to bind to a molecule of
      the human major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class-I or -II.
4. The peptide according to any one of Claims 1 to 3, wherein the peptide consists or
      consists essentially of an amino acid sequence according to SEQ ID No. I to SEQ ID
      No. 95.
5. The peptide according to any of Claims 1 to 5, wherein the peptide is modified and/or
      includes non-peptide bonds.
6. The peptide according to any of Claims 1 to 5, wherein the peptide is a fusion protein, in
      particular comprising N-terminal amino acids of the HLA-DR antigen-associated
      invariant chain (Ii).
7. A nucleic acid, encoding a peptide according to any one of Claims 1 to 6, provided, that
      the peptide is not the full human protein.
8. The nucleic acid according to Claim 7 which is DNA, cDNA, PNA, CNA, RNA or
      combinations thereof
9. An expression vector capable of expressing a nucleic acid according to Claim 7 or 8.

    WO 2011/113819                                                          PCT/EP2011/053863
                                           - 135
10. A peptide according to any one of Claims I to 6, a nucleic acid according to Claim 7 or
      8 or an expression vector according to Claim 9 for use in medicine.
11. A host cell comprising a nucleic acid according to Claim 7 or 8 or an expression vector
     according to Claim 9.
12. The host cell according to Claim 11 that is an antigen presenting cell.
13. The host cell according to claim 12, wherein the antigen presenting cell is a dentritic
     cell.
14. A method of producing a peptide according to any one of Claims I to 6, the method
     comprising culturing the host cell according to Claim 11 and isolating the peptide
     from the host cell or its culture medium.
15. An in vitro method for producing activated cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL), the method
     comprising contacting in vitro CTL with antigen loaded human class I or II MHC
     molecules expressed on the surface of a suitable antigen-presenting cell for a period
     of time sufficient to activate said CTL in an antigen specific manner, wherein said
     antigen is a peptide according to any one of claims I to 6.
16. The method according to Claim 15, wherein the antigen is loaded onto class I or II
     MHC molecules expressed on the surface of a suitable antigen-presenting cell by
     contacting a sufficient amount of the antigen with an antigen-presenting cell.
17. The method according to Claim 15, wherein the antigen-presenting cell comprises an
     expression vector capable of expressing said peptide containing SEQ ID NO 1 to SEQ
     ID NO 95 or said variant amino acid sequence.
18. Activated cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL), produced by the method according to any
     one of Claims 15 to 17, which selectively recognise a cell which aberrantly expresses
     a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence given in any one of Claims 1 to 4.

    WO 2011/113819                                                         PCT/EP2011/053863
                                            - 136
19. A method of killing target cells in a patient which target cells aberrantly express a
     polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence given in any one of Claims 1 to 4, the
     method comprising administering to the patient an effective number of cytotoxic T
     lymphocytes (CTL) as defined in Claim 15.
20. Use of a peptide according to any one of claims 1 to 6, a nucleic acid according to claim
     7 or 8, an expression vector according to claim 9, a cell according to claim 11 to 13,
     or an activated cytotoxic T lymphocyte according to claim 18 as a medicament or in
     the manufacture of a medicament.
21. Use according to claim 20, wherein the medicament is a vaccine.
22. Use according to claim 20 or 21, wherein the medicament is active against cancer.
23. Use according to claim 22, wherein said cancer cells are gastric cancer cells,
     gastrointestinal, colorectal, pancreatic, lung or renal.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                       2 0 1 5 0 2 1 3 Se q u e n c e Li s t i n g Pa g e s
<removed-date>
                                                       SEQUENCE LI STI NG
              <1 1 0 >   i mma t i c s b i o t e c h n o l o g i e s Gmb H
              <1 2 0 >   No v e l i mmu n o t h e r a p y a g a i n s t s e v e r a l t u mo r s i n c l u d i n g
                         ga s t r oi nt e s t i na l a nd ga s t r i c c a nc e r
              <1 3 0 >   I 3 1 8 9 0 PCT
              <1 5 0 >   GB1 0 0 4 5 5 1 . 6
              <1 5 1 >   2010- 03- 19
              <1 5 0 >   US 6 1 / 3 1 5 , 7 0 4
<removed-apn>
              <1 5 1 >   2010- 03- 19
              <1 6 0 >   95
              <1 7 0 >   Pa t e n t I n v e r s i o n 3 . 5
              <2 1 0 >   1
              <2 1 1 >   10
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   1
              Le u Ty r Gl n I l e Le u Gl n Gl y I l e Va l Ph e
              1                    5                         10
              <2 1 0 >   2
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   2
              Se r Ty r As n Pr o Le u Tr p Le u Ar g I l e
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   3
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   3
              As n Ty r Le u Pr o Ph e I l e Me t Gl u Le u
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   4
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   4
              Se r Ty r I l e As p Va l Le u Pr o Gl u Ph e
              1                    5
              <2 1 0 >   5
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   5
                                                                             Pa g e 1

                                               2 0 1 5 0 2 1 3 Se q u e n c e Li s t i n g Pa g e s
<removed-date>
              Se r Ty r I l e I l e As p Pr o Le u As n Le u
              1                     5
              <2 1 0 >   6
              <2 1 1 >   10
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   6
              Va l Tr p Se r As p Va l Th r Pr o Le u Th r Ph e
<removed-apn>
              1                   5                        10
              <2 1 0 >   7
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   7
              As n Ty r Le u Le u Ty r Va l Se r As n Ph e
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   8
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   8
              Va l Ty r Th r Th r Se r Ty r Gl n Gl n I l e
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   9
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   9
              Hi s Ty r Ly s Pr o Th r Pr o Le u Ty r Ph e
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   10
              <2 1 1 >   10
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   10
              Ty r Ty r As n Al a Al a Gl y Ph e As n Ly s Le u
              1                   5                        10
              <2 1 0 >   11
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   11
              Al a Ty r Le u Va l Ty r Th r As p Ar g Le u
              1                   5
                                                                    Pa g e 2

                                               2 0 1 5 0 2 1 3 Se q u e n c e Li s t i n g Pa g e s
<removed-date>
              <2 1 0 >   12
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   12
              Ph e Ty r I l e Se r Pr o Va l As n Ly s Le u
              1                    5
<removed-apn>
              <2 1 0 >   13
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   13
              Va l Ty r Gl y I l e Ar g Le u Gl u Hi s Ph e
              1                    5
              <2 1 0 >   14
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   14
              Th r Ty r Gl y As n Le u Le u As p Ty r Le u
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   15
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   15
              As n Ty r Gl u Gl u Th r Ph e Pr o Hi s I l e
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   16
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   16
              Ar g Ty r Le u Tr p Al a Th r Va l Th r I l e
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   17
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   17
              Va l Ty r Ph e Se r Ly s Se r Gl u Gl n Le u
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   18
                                                                    Pa g e 3

                                               2 0 1 5 0 2 1 3 Se q u e n c e Li s t i n g Pa g e s
<removed-date>
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   18
              Va l Ph e I l e Ph e Ly s Gl y As n Gl n Ph e
              1                    5
              <2 1 0 >   19
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   19
              Ar g Ph e Le u Se r Gl y I l e I l e As n Ph e
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   20
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   20
              Gl n Ty r Al a Se r Ar g Ph e Va l Gl n Le u
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   21
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   21
              Ly s Ty r Le u Th r Va l Ly s As p Ty r Le u
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   22
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   22
              Va l Ty r As n Pr o Th r Pr o As n Se r Le u
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   23
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   23
              Se r Ty r Le u Gl n Al a Al a As n Al a Le u
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   24
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
                                                                    Pa g e 4

                                               2 0 1 5 0 2 1 3 Se q u e n c e Li s t i n g Pa g e s
<removed-date>
              <4 0 0 >   24
              Ph e Ty r Gl n Pr o Ly s I l e Gl n Gl n Ph e
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   25
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   25
<removed-apn>
              Ty r Ty r Ly s As n I l e Gl y Le u Gl y Ph e
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   26
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   26
              Al a Ty r Al a I l e I l e Ly s Gl u Gl u Le u
              1                    5
              <2 1 0 >   27
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   27
              Le u Ty r Pr o Gl u Va l Ph e Gl u Ly s Ph e
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   28
              <2 1 1 >   10
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   28
              Ly s Ty r As n As p Th r Ph e Tr p Ly s Gl u Ph e
              1                   5                        10
              <2 1 0 >   29
              <2 1 1 >   10
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   29
              Va l Ph e As p Th r Al a I l e Al a Hi s Le u Ph e
              1                   5                         10
              <2 1 0 >   30
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   30
                                                                    Pa g e 5

                                             2 0 1 5 0 2 1 3 Se q u e n c e Li s t i n g Pa g e s
<removed-date>
              Va l Ty r Pr o As n Tr p Al a I l e Gl y Le u
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   31
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   31
              Va l Ty r Ly s Va l Va l Gl y As n Le u Le u
              1                   5
<removed-apn>
              <2 1 0 >   32
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   32
              Va l Ty r I l e Gl u Ly s As n As p Ly s Le u
              1                    5
              <2 1 0 >   33
              <2 1 1 >   10
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   33
              I l e Ty r As n Gl y Ly s Le u Ph e As p Le u Le u
              1                    5                        10
              <2 1 0 >   34
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   34
              Gl n Ty r I l e As p Ly s Le u As n Gl u Le u
              1                    5
              <2 1 0 >   35
              <2 1 1 >   11
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   35
              Me t Ty r Me t Th r Va l Se r I l e I l e As p Ar g Ph e
              1                   5                          10
              <2 1 0 >   36
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   36
              Ar g Ty r Le u Pr o Gl n Cy s Se r Ty r Ph e
              1                   5
                                                                     Pa g e 6

                                               2 0 1 5 0 2 1 3 Se q u e n c e Li s t i n g Pa g e s
<removed-date>
              <2 1 0 >   37
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   37
              I l e Ty r Al a Pr o Ly s Le u Gl n Gl u Ph e
              1                    5
              <2 1 0 >   38
<removed-apn>
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   38
              I l e Ty r Pr o As p Al a Se r Le u Le u I l e
              1                    5
              <2 1 0 >   39
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   39
              Va l Ty r Le u Le u As n Se r Th r Th r Le u
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   40
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   40
              I l e Ty r Le u Gl u Va l I l e Hi s As n Le u
              1                    5
              <2 1 0 >   41
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   41
              Al a Ty r Pr o Th r Va l Ly s Ph e Ty r Ph e
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   42
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   42
              I l e Ph e Se r Ly s I l e Va l Se r Le u Ph e
              1                    5
              <2 1 0 >   43
              <2 1 1 >   9
                                                                    Pa g e 7

                                               2 0 1 5 0 2 1 3 Se q u e n c e Li s t i n g Pa g e s
<removed-date>
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   43
              Ty r Ty r Ty r Va l Gl y Ph e Al a Ty r Le u
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   44
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
<removed-apn>
              <4 0 0 >   44
              Ar g Ty r Le u Gl u Gl y Th r Se r Cy s I l e
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   45
              <2 1 1 >   11
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   45
              Th r Ty r Le u Pr o Th r As n Al a Se r Le u Se r Ph e
              1                   5                        10
              <2 1 0 >   46
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   46
              Se r Ty r Al a Th r Le u Le u Hi s Va l Le u
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   47
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   47
              As p Ty r Th r I l e Gl y Ph e Gl y Ly s Ph e
              1                    5
              <2 1 0 >   48
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   48
              Se r Ty r As n Va l Th r Se r Va l Le u Ph e
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   49
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
                                                                    Pa g e 8

                                               2 0 1 5 0 2 1 3 Se q u e n c e Li s t i n g Pa g e s
<removed-date>
              <4 0 0 >   49
              Se r Ty r Le u Gl u Le u Va l Ly s Se r Le u
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   50
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   50
<removed-apn>
              Se r Ty r Gl n Ly s Va l I l e Gl u Le u Ph e
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   51
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   51
              Le u Ty r Le u Gl u As n I l e As p Gl u Ph e
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   52
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   52
              Va l Ty r I l e Se r Se r Le u Al a Le u Le u
              1                    5
              <2 1 0 >   53
              <2 1 1 >   11
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   53
              Ar g Ty r Le u Pr o Ly s Gl y Ph e Le u As n Gl n Ph e
              1                   5                        10
              <2 1 0 >   54
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   54
              Ty r Ty r Ly s As n I l e Gl y Le u Gl y Ph e
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   55
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   55
              Va l Ty r Th r Th r Me t Al a Gl u Hi s Ph e
                                                                    Pa g e 9

                                               2 0 1 5 0 2 1 3 Se q u e n c e Li s t i n g Pa g e s
<removed-date>
              1                        5
              <2 1 0 >   56
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   56
              As p Ty r Al a Ty r Le u Ar g Gl u Hi s Ph e
              1                   5
<removed-apn>
              <2 1 0 >   57
              <2 1 1 >   10
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   57
              Le u Ty r I l e Gl n Th r As p Hi s Le u Ph e Ph e
              1                    5                        10
              <2 1 0 >   58
              <2 1 1 >   10
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   58
              Th r Ty r Ly s Ty r Va l As p I l e As n Th r Ph e
              1                   5                         10
              <2 1 0 >   59
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   59
              Ty r Ph e I l e Se r Hi s Va l Le u Al a Ph e
              1                    5
              <2 1 0 >   60
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   60
              Va l Ty r Th r Ly s Va l Se r Al a Ty r Le u
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   61
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   61
              Va l Ty r Ly s Gl u Th r Cy s I l e Se r Ph e
              1                   5
                                                                   Pa g e 1 0

                                               2 0 1 5 0 2 1 3 Se q u e n c e Li s t i n g Pa g e s
<removed-date>
              <2 1 0 >   62
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   62
              Al a Le u Ty r As p Se r Va l I l e Le u Le u
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   63
              <2 1 1 >   9
<removed-apn>
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   63
              Ly s I l e Gl n Gl u I l e Le u Th r Gl n Va l
              1                    5
              <2 1 0 >   64
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   64
              Le u Al a As p Gl u Th r Le u Le u Ly s Va l
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   65
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   65
              Al a Me t Se r Se r Ly s Ph e Ph e Le u Va l
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   66
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   66
              Ty r Va l Ty r Gl n As n As n I l e Ty r Le u
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   67
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   67
              Va l Le u Gl u As p Le u Gl u Va l Th r Va l
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   68
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
                                                                   Pa g e 1 1

                                               2 0 1 5 0 2 1 3 Se q u e n c e Li s t i n g Pa g e s
<removed-date>
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   68
              Ph e Le u Le u As p Gl y Se r Al a As n Va l
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   69
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
<removed-apn>
              <4 0 0 >   69
              As n Le u Le u As p Le u As p Ty r Gl u Le u
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   70
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   70
              Ph e Le u I l e As p Se r Se r Gl u Gl y Va l
              1                    5
              <2 1 0 >   71
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   71
              Al a Le u As p Gl u Gl y As p I l e Al a Le u
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   72
              <2 1 1 >   11
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   72
              Al a Le u As n Gl u Gl u Al a Gl y Ar g Le u Le u Le u
              1                   5                        10
              <2 1 0 >   73
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   73
              I l e Le u Se r Pr o Th r Va l Va l Se r I l e
              1                    5
              <2 1 0 >   74
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   74
                                                                   Pa g e 1 2

                                               2 0 1 5 0 2 1 3 Se q u e n c e Li s t i n g Pa g e s
<removed-date>
              Ly s Le u Le u Th r Gl u Va l Hi s Al a Al a
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   75
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   75
              Al a Le u Va l Gl n As p Le u Al a Ly s Al a
<removed-apn>
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   76
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   76
              I l e Le u Gl n As p Ar g Le u As n Gl n Va l
              1                    5
              <2 1 0 >   77
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   77
              Th r Le u As p Pr o Ar g Se r Ph e Le u Le u
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   78
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   78
              Th r Le u As p As p Le u Le u Le u Ty r I l e
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   79
              <2 1 1 >   11
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   79
              Se r Le u Le u Al a Gl n As n Th r Se r Tr p Le u Le u
              1                   5                        10
              <2 1 0 >   80
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   80
              Se r Le u Al a Gl u Va l As n Th r Gl n Le u
              1                   5
                                                                   Pa g e 1 3

                                               2 0 1 5 0 2 1 3 Se q u e n c e Li s t i n g Pa g e s
<removed-date>
              <2 1 0 >   81
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   81
              Al a Le u As p Gl y Ph e Va l Me t Va l Le u
              1                   5
<removed-apn>
              <2 1 0 >   82
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   82
              Gl y Va l As p As p Al a Ph e Ty r Th r Le u
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   83
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   83
              Ty r Va l As p Pr o Va l I l e Th r Se r I l e
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   84
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   84
              Ty r Le u Le u Se r Ty r I l e Gl n Se r I l e
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   85
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   85
              Gl n I l e As p As p Va l Th r I l e Ly s I l e
              1                    5
              <2 1 0 >   86
              <2 1 1 >   10
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   86
              Ty r Le u Ty r Gl y Gl n Th r Th r Th r Ty r Le u
              1                   5                        10
              <2 1 0 >   87
                                                                   Pa g e 1 4

                                               2 0 1 5 0 2 1 3 Se q u e n c e Li s t i n g Pa g e s
<removed-date>
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   87
              Ly s Le u As p Gl u Th r Gl y As n Se r Le u
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   88
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   88
              Ar g Le u As p As p Le u Ly s Me t Th r Va l
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   89
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   89
              Le u Th r As p Gl u I l e Le u Th r Ty r Va l
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   90
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   90
              I l e Le u I l e As p Tr p Le u Va l Gl n Va l
              1                     5
              <2 1 0 >   91
              <2 1 1 >   10
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   91
              Va l Le u Ty r Gl y Pr o As p Va l Pr o Th r I l e
              1                   5                        10
              <2 1 0 >   92
              <2 1 1 >   11
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   92
              Se r I l e Ph e Gl y Gl u As p Al a Le u Al a As n Va l
              1                    5                        10
              <2 1 0 >   93
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
                                                                   Pa g e 1 5

                                               2 0 1 5 0 2 1 3 Se q u e n c e Li s t i n g Pa g e s
<removed-date>
              <4 0 0 >   93
              Ly s Le u Le u Gl u Ty r I l e Gl u Gl u I l e
              1                   5
              <2 1 0 >   94
              <2 1 1 >   9
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   94
<removed-apn>
              Ly s I l e Le u Gl u As p Va l Va l Gl y Va l
              1                    5
              <2 1 0 >   95
              <2 1 1 >   10
              <2 1 2 >   PRT
              <2 1 3 >   Ho mo s a p i e n s
              <4 0 0 >   95
              Ly s I l e Ph e As p Gl u I l e Le u Va l As n Al a
              1                    5                         10
                                                                   Pa g e 1 6

