ABSTRACT
The signal system is a psychological tool that may be used to help people
improve their behaviour. It may be used to address a broad range of
issues across a variety of environments and situations, the three most
common anticipated uses being to help people improve their attention,
emotional self-regulation, and social skills. The signal system has two
main components: (1) a signal sending apparatus with distinctly
identifiable activating mechanisms (e.g. buttons) for user 1; and (2) an
alerting apparatus that user 2 may wear, hold, or keep on his person.
User 1 may use the signal sending apparatus to discreetly transmit a
signal to the alerting apparatus, which activates upon receiving the signal.
This tool allows people to provide individualised instruction and support in
a manner that no other existing product does.

DRAWINGS
             (V\2
   FIGURE 1
        _____
                  2
  FIGURE 2

                            ALERTING APPARATUS
TITLE
[0001] The invention is titled 'signal system.'
FIELD
[0002] The field for the invention titled 'signal system' is psychology,
though it should be noted that this invention will be used in educational
settings.
BACKGROUND
[0003] The field of psychology may be defined as the scientific study of
human behaviour. Psychologists seek to identify and understand the
internal mental processes as well as the environmental variables that may
explain and predict both healthy and maladaptive human behaviour. The
information psychologists have obtained through scientific and clinical
study of human behaviour has been used to improve the human condition
in countless ways (Lilienfeld, Lynn, Namy, & Woolf, 2013).
[0004] Such is the case with this invention, a psychological tool
developed by a school psychologist, that flexibly allows one person to
support another by communicating a time-sensitive message in a discreet
manner. For example, teachers and parents may use the signal system to
help young people improve their behaviour. It may be used to address a
broad range of issues across a variety of environments and situations, the
three most common anticipated uses being to help people improve their:
(1) attention; (2) emotional and behavioural self-regulation (e.g. anger
management); and (3) social skills. Based on the seminal research of B.F.
Skinner and Ivan Pavlov, this invention may work through the process of

associative learning (Pavlov, 1960; Skinner, 1963). The person who
receives the timely signal is taught to associate or connect some response
behaviour with the stimuli provided by the alerting apparatus, which
emits a signal such as a vibration, sound, and/or light.
SUMMARY
[0005] When children struggle to focus, regulate emotions and
behaviours, or socially interact appropriately, parents are frequently
directed to their paediatrician. While medications can and do help many
people, they typically have side effects (Barkley, R. A., McMurray, M. B.,
Edelbrock, C. S., & Robbins, K., 1990). Furthermore, they are often
prescribed and used when it is not necessary. Even when medications are
appropriately and successfully used, it is also important to note that they
do not teach people anything. That is why medication should not
necessarily be considered the solution for many issues relevant to this
invention, but rather an aide to support the efficacy of instruction and
other interventions like this invention.
[0006] To address the attention, social, and emotional difficulties that
many people experience, parents and teachers need to offer their children
and students individualised instruction and support regardless of decisions
regarding diagnosis and medication. At the same time, though, parents
and teachers do not want their children and students to be singled out,
stigmatized, embarrassed, or labelled in a negative way by that very help.
[0007] There are products currently available that facilitate the use of
self-monitoring interventions for improved attention, emotional
regulation, and social functioning. For example, the MotivAider helps
individuals to set goals and receive reminders in support of these goals.
Just as with medications, self-monitoring interventions and tools that
support them such as the Motivaider can be helpful and appropriate for

many people (Behavioural Dynamics, Inc, 2017). However, the reminders
for such tools are automatically sent at pre-determined times irrespective
of the individual's current behaviour. Furthermore, by their very nature
these types of self-monitoring tools do not allow the teacher or support
person to communicate any feedback to the individual regarding their
behaviour. As a result, the individual using the self-monitoring tool will
often receive the signal at a time when he does not need a reminder and
yet not receive the signal at a time when he does.
[0008] Of course, parents, teachers, and other support people can
verbally tell the individual what to say or do when they notice the
individual becoming distracted, emotional, or socially inappropriate. While
this may be appropriate and helpful at times, there are also many
circumstances where it could be counterproductive. For example, a
student may feel embarrassed by and resentful towards a teacher who
continually redirects him in front of his peers. Furthermore, there are
many situations where it is not even possible for people to immediately
communicate this feedback at the time that the individual needs it. For
example, a child at a theme park may not notice his mother waving at
him or hear her calling him as he walks off towards something that
caught his eye. Similarly, a teacher in a classroom is often unable to stop
what he is doing to remind a student what she should be thinking or
doing at that particular moment.
[0009] This invention allows the teacher, parent, or other support person
(user 1) to send a noticeable signal at the very moment a reminder is
needed by the individual (user 2). In other words, the user with the signal
sending apparatus may immediately send a signal to the individual with
the alerting apparatus when he observes the individual to need a
reminder. Furthermore, user 1 may effectively communicate this reminder
in a discreet manner whereby the only people who know that the
reminder was given are the person who gave it and the individual who

received it. Finally, user 1 may send the signal and be confident that user
2 receives the message without the need to move to user 2's location or
even stop what she is doing. For example, a teacher in a classroom could
continue providing a whole-class lecture while simultaneously providing
the reminder to the student by activating the alerting apparatus with the
signal sending apparatus in his pocket. For these reasons, this invention
effectively and efficiently addresses a need in a manner that no other
existing product does.
[0010] While it has been explained how this invention can address a need
that medications, verbal redirections, and self-monitoring interventions
cannot, it may not yet be clear why existing wireless technologies such as
mobile phones could not be used to address this need. Indeed, current
technologies, including but not limited to mobile phones, exist for
wirelessly sending signals from one device to another. However, there are
multiple important distinctions between this invention and existing
products. First, this invention allows the person with the signal sending
apparatus (user 1) the key advantage of being able to transmit a signal
without even looking at any component of the signal system or user 2.
While mobile phones and other devices require the user to view the
interface in order to use them, this invention allows the user to identify
and send the appropriate signal without looking at the signal sending
apparatus because each possible signal to be sent is associated with its
own activating mechanism (e.g. button) that has defining features
identifiable by touch through differences in shape and/or texture. And
second, mobile phones typically require the user to awaken and/or unlock
them for use, for example by pressing a button and/or entering a code. In
the time it takes to ready the phone to send the signal, the opportunity to
send the signal at the ideal moment for feedback may have passed. In
contrast, this invention allows the user to send the signal at the very
moment it is needed without even taking it out of one's pocket. And third,
mobile phones are often not allowed at educational institutions because of

the potential disruptions and distractions caused by their calling, texting,
internet browsing, and other ICT features. The signal system, having
been developed for a very specific but important purpose, has none of
these features and thus presents none of these problems. Thus, mobile
phones and related devices have not been used to address the needs
fulfilled by this invention because they cannot effectively do so.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0011] The invention may be better understood with reference to the
illustrations of embodiments of the invention which:
Figure 1 is an elevation of the signal sending apparatus with activating
mechanisms distinctly identifiable by touch/feel (labelled 1 in Figure 1) for
user 1 as well as a toggle switch (labelled 2 in Figures 1 and 2) on the
side to change the target alerting apparatus.
Figure 2 is a sideways elevation of signal sending apparatus showing only
the toggle switch (labelled 2 in Figures 1 and 2).
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0012] This invention has two main components: (1) a small signal
sending apparatus-as shown in Figures 1 and 2-that can fit in the palm
of user 1's hand or pocket; and (2) an alerting apparatus, which is not
shown in the Figures as it may come in a diversity of shapes and sizes
and may be worn, held, or kept by user 2. User 1 may remotely,
wirelessly, and discreetly send a signal to user 2. The alerting apparatus
can emit signals in multiple forms such as sounds, vibrations, and lights.
The user of the signal sending apparatus, e.g. a teacher, can identify the
activating mechanism for each signal form by touch via its distinctive feel
due to specific textures and/or shapes. As shown in Figure 1, the signal
sending apparatus has multiple distinct activating mechanisms (labelled 1
in Figure 1) identifiable by touch. The signal sending apparatus also has a

mechanism (labelled 2 in Figures 1 and 2) that allows user 1 to toggle
between different alerting apparatuses. This allows the user of the signal
sending apparatus, e.g. a classroom teacher, to send signals to multiple
users of alerting apparatuses, e.g. different students, in the same room or
area. At this point, the signal sending and alerting apparatuses are
designed to communicate via Bluetooth Low Energy and powered by 3V
2032 batteries. Software for the signal system will allow user 1 to collect,
collate, and display data regarding the use of the signal system and user
2's progress towards goals (e.g. improved attention to task).
CITATION LIST
Barkley, R. A., McMurray, M. B., Edelbrock, C. S., and Robbins, K. (1990).
       Side Effects of Metlyiphenidate in Children With Attention Deficit
       Hyperactivity Disorder: A Systemic, Placebo-Controlled Evaluation.
       Pediatrics, 86(2). Retrieved from
       http://pediatrics.aa ppublications.org/content/86/2/184.short
Behavioural Dynamics Inc. (2017, July 29). MotivAider: Making people
       better, one habit at a time. Retrieved from http://habitchange.com/
Lilienfeld, S. 0., Lynn, S. J., Namy, L. L, and Woolf, N. J. (2013).
       Psychology: From inquiry to understanding (3rd ed.). New York:
Pavlov, I. P. (1960). Conditioned reflex: An investigation of the
       physiological activity of the cerebral cortex. Oxford, England: Dover
       Publications.
Skinner, B. F. (1963). Operant behaviour. American Psychologist, 18(8),
       503-515. http://dx.doi.org/10.1037/h0045185

CLAIMS
 1.    The signal system, comprising (1) a signal sending apparatus for
user 1; and (2) an alerting apparatus for user 2.
2.     The signal system as claimed in claim 1, whereby the signal sending
apparatus communicates with the alerting apparatus such that no direct
physical link is required between the two apparatuses.
3.     The signal system as claimed in claim 2, and including a multiplicity
of alerting apparatuses, each capable of communicating with the signal
sending apparatus.
4.     The signal system as claimed in claim 3, and including a signal
sending apparatus with multiple activating mechanisms (e.g. buttons)
that are distinctly identifiable by touch via texture and shape, said
mechanisms being adapted to communicate with selected alerting
apparatuses.
5.     The signal system as claimed in claim 4, and including a switch on
the signal sending apparatus that allows the user to toggle between and
thus transmit signals to different alerting apparatuses.

                              1/1
<removed-date>
              DRAWINGS
                          1
<removed-apn>
                          2
               FIGURE 1
                          2
               FIGURE 2

