  ABSTRACT
  The present invention relates to a composition for preventing or treating hyperlipidemia, fatty
  liver disease or arteriosclerosis, comprising an oxyntomodulin derivative as an active ingredient.
  The oxyntomodulin derivative has a high ability to activate GLP- 1 receptor and glucagon
5 receptor compared to native oxyntomodulin and has the effects of reducing the blood total
  cholesterol, low-density cholesterol and triglyceride levels that were increased by high-fat diet,
  and increasing high-density cholesterol levels and the high-density cholesterol/low-density
  cholesterol ratio. Thus, the oxyntomodulin derivative can be effectively used for the treatment of
  hyperlipidemia and related diseases.

    [DESCRIPTION]
    [Invention Title]
          Composition for Treating Hyperlipidemia Comprising Oxyntomodulin
   Derivative
 5  [Technical Field]
          The present invention relates to a composition for preventing or treating
   hyperlipidemia, fatty liver disease or arteriosclerosis, which comprises an
   oxyntomodulin derivative as an active ingredient, and to a method for treating
   hyperlipidemia, fatty liver disease or arteriosclerosis using the composition.
 0  [Background Art]
          In recent years, in Korea, the intake of fats from foods has increased due
   to economic growth and the westernization of eating habits, and metabolic diseases
   such as hyperlipidemia, diabetes, hypertension, arteriosclerosis and fatty liver
   disease, which are caused by a lack of exercise, have increased.
 5        Hyperlipidemia refers to a condition associated with elevated levels of
   lipids, such as free cholesterol, cholesterol esters, phospholipids and
   triglycerides, in blood.   Hyperlipidemia can appear in three forms: (1)
   hypercholesterolemia, (2) hypertriglyceridemia, and (3) combined hyperlipidemia
   (hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia). Hyperlipidemia is generally
20 classified into primary hyperlipidemia and secondary hyperlipidemia.      Primary
   hyperlipidemia is generally caused by genetic defects, whereas secondary
   hyperlipidemia is caused by various disease conditions, drugs and dietary habits.
   In addition, hyperlipidemia is also caused by a combination of the primary and
   secondary causes of hyperlipidemia.    As criteria for the diagnosis of
25 hyperlipidemia, a total cholesterol level of 220mg/dl or higher and a triglyceride
   level of 150 mg/dl or higher are generally used.
          There are various forms of cholesterol that naturally occur in mammals.
   Low-density (LDL) cholesterol is known to be harmful to health, and it is known
                                            1

   that an increase in LDL cholesterol increases the risk of heart disease (Assman
   et al., Am. J. Card, 1996).     In addition, high-density (HDL) cholesterol is
   regarded as good cholesterol and is essential for health, because it prevents
   atherosclerosis or the like.
 5        Although hyperlipidemia does not show specific symptoms by itself,
   excessive lipids in blood adhere to the blood vessel walls to reduce the blood
   vessel size and cause atherosclerosis by inflammatory reactions.    For this reason,
   coronary heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, obstruction of peripheral blood
   vessels, etc., can occur (E. Falk et al., Circulation, 1995).      In addition,
 0 excessive blood lipids are accumulated in liver tissue, and thus can cause fatty
   liver disease. The fatty liver refers to a condition in which the ratio of fats
   in the weight of the liver is more than 5%.      The fatty liver can be caused not
   only by excessive intake of fats, but also by intake of alcohol.
          Current methods that are used to reduce blood lipid levels include dietary
 5 therapy, exercise therapy and drug therapy.     However, dietary therapy or excise
   therapy is difficult to strictly control and perform, and the therapeutic effect
   thereof is also limited.
          Drugs for reducing lipid levels, developed to date, include bile acid
   binding resin, cholesterol-lowering drugs such as HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors
20 important in cholesterol biosynthesis, triglyceride-lowering drugs such as fibric
   acid derivatives and nicotinic acid, etc.    However, these drugs were reported to
   have side effects such as hepatic toxicity, gastrointestinal disorder and
   carcinogenesis.   Thus, there is an urgent need for the development of drugs that
   can be used to treat hyperlipidemia and related diseases (e.g., atherosclerosis
25 and fatty liver disease) while having less side effects.
          As a candidate for such drugs, oxyntomodulinhas recently received attention.
   Oxyntomodulin is produced from pre-glucagon and is a peptide that can bind to both
   glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and glucagon receptor to perform dual function.
                                            2

   Because of such characteristics, oxyntomodulin has been studied for various
   purposes, including the treatment of obesity, hyperlipidemia and fatty liver
   disease.   However, oxyntomodulin has a problem in that it should be administered
   at a high dose, because it has a short half-life in vivo and the activity thereof
 5 is insufficient for use in the treatment of obesity, hyperlipidemia and fatty liver
   disease.
          Accordingly, the present inventors have developed an oxyntomodulin
   derivative having increased activity compared to native oxyntomodulin and have
   found that the oxyntomodulin derivative reduced the content and ratio of lipids
 0 in blood in a hyperlipidemia-induced hamster model, indicating that the derivative
   can be effectively used for the treatment of hyperlipidemia diseases, thereby
   completing the present invention.
    [Disclosure]
    [Technical Problem]
 5        It is an object of the present invention to provide a composition for
   preventing or treating hyperlipidemia, fatty liver disease or atherosclerosis,
   which contains an oxyntomodulin derivative as an active ingredient.
          Another object of the present invention is to provide a method for treating
   hyperlipidemia, fatty liver disease or atherosclerosis, the method comprising a
20 step of administering an oxyntomodulin derivative to a subject.
          Still another object of the present invention is to provide the use of an
   oxyntomodulin derivative in the preparation of a medicament for preventing or
   treating hyperlipidemia, fatty liver disease or atherosclerosis.
    [Technical Solution]
25        To achieve the above objects, in one aspect, the present invention provides
   a composition for preventing or treating hyperlipidemia, fatty liver disease or
   atherosclerosis, which contains an oxyntomodulin derivative as an active
   ingredient.
                                            3

          As used herein, the term "oxyntomodulin" refers to a peptide produced from
   pre-glucagon that a precursor of glucagon.      In the present invention,
   oxyntomodulin is meant include native oxyntomodulin and its precursor, analog
   (derivative),  fragment and variant.   Preferably, oxyntomodulin has an amino acid
 5 sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 (HSQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQDFVQWLMNTKRNRNNIA).
          As used herein, the term "oxyntomodulin variant" is a peptide that has one
   or more amino acid residues different from those of the amino acid sequence of
   native oxyntomodulin and possesses a function of activating GLP-1 and glucagon
   receptors.   The oxyntomodulin variant can be prepared by any one of substitution,
 0 addition, deletion, modification, or a combination thereof of some amino acids
   of native oxyntomodulin.
          As used herein, the term "oxyntomodulin derivative" refers to a peptide,
   peptide derivative or peptide mimic that is prepared by the addition, deletion
   or substitution of some amino acids of native oxyntomodulin and can activate both
 5 GLP-1 receptor and glucagon receptor at a high level compared to the level activated
   by native oxyntomodulin.
          As used herein, the term "oxyntomodulin fragment" refers to a fragment
   having an addition or deletion of one or more amino acids at the amino or carboxyl
   terminal end of native oxyntomodulin,   in which the added amino acids may also be
20 non-naturally occurring amino acids (e.g., D-type amino acid).      Such amino acids
   have a function of regulating blood glucose levels in vivo.
          Methods for preparing the oxyntomodulin variant, derivative and fragment
   may be used alone or in combination.   For example, the present invention includes
   a peptide that has one or more amino acids different from those of native peptide
25 and deamination of the N-terminal amino acid residues and has a function of
   activating both GLP-1 receptor and glucagon receptor.
          Amino acids mentioned herein are abbreviated according to the nomenclature
   rules of IUPAC-IUB as follows:
                                             4

          Alanine   A;               Arginine   R;
          Asparagine    N;        Aspartic acid     D;
          Cysteine     C;           Glutamic acid     E;
 5        Glutamine    Q;          Glycine    G;
          Histidine    H;              Isoleucine    I;
          Leucine    L;                Lysine    K;
          Methionine    M;           Phenylalanine      F
          Proline   P;                Serine    S;
 0        Threonine     T;         Tryptophan   W;
          Tyrosine        Y;         Valine        V.
           In the present invention, the oxyntomodulin derivative encompasses any
   peptide that is prepared by the substitution, addition, deletion or
 5 post-translational modification (e.g., methylation, acylation, ubiquitination,
   or intramolecular covalent bonding) of amino acids in the amino acid sequence of
   SEQ ID NO: 1 and can activate both the glucagon and GLP-1 receptors.    Upon
   substitution or addition of amino acids, not only 20 amino acids commonly found
   in human proteins, but also atypical or non-naturally occurring amino acids can
20 be used.    Commercial sources of atypical amino acids include Sigma-Aldrich,
   ChemPep Inc., and Genzyme Pharmaceuticals.    The peptides including these amino
   acids and atypical peptide sequences may be synthesized and purchased from
   commercial suppliers, for example, American Peptide Company or Bachem (USA) or
   Anygen (Korea).
25
           In a specific embodiment of the present invention, the oxyntomodulin
   derivative of the present invention is a novel peptide including the amino acid
   sequence of the following formula 1:
                                           5

          [Formula 11
          R1-X1-X2-GTFTSD-X3-X4-X5-X6-X7-X8-X9-X1O-X11-X12-X13-X14-X15-X16-X17-X1
   8-X19-X20-X21-X22-X23-X24-R2
          wherein
 5        RI is histidine, desamino-histidyl,   dimethyl-histidyl
   (N-dimethyl-histidyl), beta-hydroxyimidazopropionyl, 4-imidazoacetyl,
   beta-carboxy imidazopropionyl or tyrosine;
          X1 is Aib (aminosiobutyric acid), d-alanine, glycine, Sar(N-methylglycine),
   serine, or d-serine;
 0        X2 is glutamic acid or glutamine;
          X3 is leucine or tyrosine;
          X4 is serine or alanine;
          X5 is lysine or arginine;
          X6 is glutamine or tyrosine;
 5        X7 is leucine or methionine;
          X8 is aspartic acid or glutamic acid;
          X9 is glutamic acid, serine, alpha-methyl-glutamic acid or is deleted;
          X10 is glutamine, glutamic acid, lysine, arginine or serine or is deleted;
          Xi is alanine, arginine or valine or is deleted;
20        X12 is alanine, arginine, serine or valine or is deleted;
          X13 is lysine, glutamine, arginine or alpha-methyl-glutamic acid or is
   deleted;
          X14 is aspartic acid, glutamic acid or leucine or is deleted;
          X15 is phenylalanine or is deleted;
25        X16 is isoleucine or valine or is deleted;
          X17 is alanine, cysteine, glutamic acid, lysine, glutamine or
   alpha-methyl-glutamic acid or is deleted;
          X18 is tryptophan or is deleted;
                                            6

          X19 is alanine, isoleucine, leucine, serine or valine or is deleted;
          X20 is alanine, lysine, methionine, glutamine or arginine or is deleted;
          X21 is asparagine or is deleted;
          X22 is alanine, glycine or threonine or is deleted;
 5        X23 is cysteine or lysine or is deleted;
          X24 is a peptide having 2 to 10 amino acids consisting of a combination of
   alanine, glycine and serine or is deleted; and
          R2 is KRNRNNIA (SEQ ID NO: 35), GPSSGAPPPS (SEQ ID NO: 36), GPSSGAPPPSK (SEQ
   ID NO: 37), HSQGTFTSDYSKYLD (SEQ ID NO: 38), HSQGTFTSDYSRYLDK (SEQ ID NO: 39),
 0 HGEGTFTSDLSKQMEEEAVK (SEQ ID NO: 40) or is deleted (excluded if the amino acid
   sequence of formula 1 is identical to that of SEQ ID NO: 1).
          In order to increase the activity of wild-type oxyntomodulin for the
   glucagon receptor and the GLP-1 receptor, the oxyntomodulin derivative of the
 5 present invention may be substituted with 4-imidazoacetyl obtained by deletion
   of the alpha carbon of histidine at position 1 of the amino acid sequence of SEQ
   ID NO: 1, desamino-histidyl obtained by deletion of the N-terminal amino group,
   dimethyl-histidyl (N-dimethyl-histidyl) obtained by modification of the
   N-terminal amino group with two methyl groups, beta-hydroxy imidazopropionyl
20 obtained by substitution of the N-terminal amino group with a hydroxyl group, or
   beta-carboxy imidazopropionyl obtained by substitution of the N-terminal amino
   group with a carboxyl group.    In addition, the GLP-1 receptor-binding region may
   be substituted with amino acids that enhance hydrophobic and ionic bonds or a
   combination thereof.    A portion of the oxyntomodulin sequence may be substituted
25 with the amino acid sequence of GLP-1 or Exendin-4 to increase the activity of
   the GLP-1 receptor.
          Further, a portion of the oxyntomodulin sequence may be substituted with
   a sequence that enhances alpha helix.     Preferably, amino acids at positions 10,
                                             7

   14,  16, 20, 24 and 28 of the amino acid sequence of formula 1 may be substituted
   with amino acids or amino acid derivatives consistingof Tyr(4-Me), Phe, Phe(4-Me),
   Phe(4-Cl), Phe(4-CN), Phe(4-NO2),Phe(4-NH 2 ), Phg, Pal, Nal, Ala(2-thienyl) and Ala
   (benzothienyl) that are known to stabilize alpha helix, and the type and number
 5 of alpha helix-stabilizing amino acid or amino acid derivatives to be inserted
   are not limited.
           Preferably, amino acids at positions 10 and 14, 12 and 16, 16 and 20, 20
   and 24, and 24 and 28 of the amino acid sequence may be also substituted with
   glutamic acid or lysine so as to form rings, and the number of rings to be inserted
 0 is not limited.    Most preferably, the oxyntomodulin derivative may have an amino
   acid sequence selected from among the following formulas 1 to 6.
           In a specific embodiment, the oxyntomodulin derivative of the present
   invention is a novel peptide including the amino acid sequence of the following
   formula 2, obtained by substitution of the amino acid sequence of oxyntomodulin
 5 with that of exendin or GLP-1:
           [Formula 21
           Ri-A-R3
           In another specific embodiment, the oxyntomodulin derivative of the present
   invention is a novel peptide including the amino acid sequence of the following
20 formula 3, which is prepared by linking a portion of the amino acid sequence of
   oxyntomodulin and a portion of the amino acid sequence of exendin or GLP-1 via
   a proper amino acid linker:
           [Formula 31
           R1-B-C-R4
25         In still another specific embodiment,   the oxyntomodulin derivative of the
   present invention is a novel peptide including the amino acid sequence of the
   following formula 4, wherein a portion of the amino acid sequence of oxyntomodulin
   is substituted with an amino acid capable of enhancing the binding affinity to
                                             8

   GLP-1 receptor, for example, Leu at position 26 which binds with GLP-1 receptor
   by hydrophobic interaction is substituted with the hydrophobic residue Ile or Val.
           [Formula 41
          R1-SQGTFTSDYSKYLD-D1-D2-D3-D4-D5-LFVQW-D6-D7-N-D8-R3
 5         In still another specific embodiment, the oxyntomodulin derivative of the
   present invention is a novel peptide including the amino acid sequence of the
   following formula 5, wherein a portion of the amino acid sequence of native
   oxyntomodulin is deleted, added, or substituted with other amino acids in order
   to increase the abilities of native oxyntomodulin to activate GLP-1 receptor and
 0 glucagon receptor:
           [Formula 51
          R1-El-QGTFTSDYSKYLD-E2-E3-RA-E4-E5-FV-E6-WLMNT-E7-R5
           In formulas 2 to 5, RI is as described in formula 1;
          A is selected from the group consisting of SQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQDFVQWLMNT
 5 (SEQ ID NO: 41), SQGTFTSDYSKYLDEEAVRLFIEWLMNT (SEQ ID NO: 42),
   SQGTFTSDYSKYLDERRAQDFVAWLKNT (SEQ ID NO: 43), GQGTFTSDYSRYLEEEAVRLFIEWLKNG (SEQ
   ID NO: 44), GQGTFTSDYSRQMEEEAVRLFIEWLKNG (SEQ ID NO: 45),
   GEGTFTSDLSRQMEEEAVRLFIEWAA (SEQ ID NO: 46), and SQGTFTSDYSRQMEEEAVRLFIEWLMNG (SEQ
   ID NO: 47);
20        B is selected from the group consisting of SQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQDFVQWLMNT
   (SEQ ID NO: 41), SQGTFTSDYSKYLDEEAVRLFIEWLMNT (SEQ ID NO: 42),
   SQGTFTSDYSKYLDERRAQDFVAWLKNT (SEQ ID NO: 43), GQGTFTSDYSRYLEEEAVRLFIEWLKNG (SEQ
   ID NO: 44), GQGTFTSDYSRQMEEEAVRLFIEWLKNG (SEQ ID NO: 45),
   GEGTFTSDLSRQMEEEAVRLFIEWAA (SEQ ID NO: 46), SQGTFTSDYSRQMEEEAVRLFIEWLMNG (SEQ ID
25 NO: 47), GEGTFTSDLSRQMEEEAVRLFIEW (SEQ ID NO: 48), and SQGTFTSDYSRYLD (SEQ ID NO:
   49);
          C is a peptide having 2 to 10 amino acids consisting of a combination of
   alanine, glycine and serine;
                                            9

          D1 is serine, glutamic acid or arginine;
          D2 is arginine, glutamic acid or serine;
          D3 is arginine, alanine or valine;
          D4 is arginine, valine or serine;
 5        D5 is glutamine, arginine or lysine;
          D6 is isoleucine, valine or serine;
          D7 is methionine, arginine or glutamine;
          D8 is threonine, glycine or alanine;
          El is serine, Aib, Sar, d-alanine or d-serine;
 0        E2 is serine or glutamic acid;
          E3 is arginine or lysine;
          E4 is glutamine or lysine;
          E5 is aspartic acid or glutamic acid;
          E6 is glutamine, cysteine or lysine;
 5        E7 is cysteine or lysine or is deleted;
          R3 is KRNRNNIA (SEQ ID NO: 35), GPSSGAPPPS (SEQ ID NO: 36) or GPSSGAPPPSK
   (SEQ ID NO: 37);
          R4 is HSQGTFTSDYSKYLD (SEQ ID NO: 38), HSQGTFTSDYSRYLDK (SEQ ID NO: 39) or
   HGEGTFTSDLSKQMEEEAVK (SEQ ID NO: 40); and
20        R5 is KRNRNNIA (SEQ ID NO: 35), GPSSGAPPPS (SEQ ID NO: 36) or GPSSGAPPPSK
   (SEQ ID NO: 37) or is deleted (excluded if the amino acid sequences of formulas
   2 to 5 are identical to that of SEQ ID NO: 1).
          Preferably, the oxyntomodulin derivative of the present invention may be
   a novel peptide of the following formula 6:
25        [Formula 61
          R1-X1-X2-GTFTSD-X3-X4-X5-X6-X7-X8-X9-X1O-X11-X12-X13-X14-X15-X16-X17-X1
   8-X19-X20-X21-X22-X23-X24-R2
          wherein RI is histidine, desamino-histidyl, 4-imidazoacetyl or tyrosine;
                                           10

          X1 is Aib(aminosiobutyric acid), glycine, serine or d-serine;
          X2 is glutamic acid or glutamine;
          X3 is leucine or tyrosine;
          X4 is serine or alanine;
 5        X5 is lysine or arginine;
          X6 is glutamine or tyrosine;
          X7 is leucine or methionine;
          X8 is aspartic acid or glutamic acid;
          X9 is glutamic acid or alpha-methyl-glutamic acid or is deleted;
 0        X10 is glutamine, glutamic acid, lysine or arginine or is deleted;
          X11 is alanine or arginine or is deleted;
          X12 is alanine or valine or is deleted;
          X13 is lysine, glutamine, arginine or alpha-methyl-glutamic acid or is
   deleted;
 5        X14 is aspartic acid, glutamic acid or leucine or is deleted;
          X15 is phenylalanine or is deleted;
          X16 is isoleucine or valine or is deleted;
          X17 is alanine, cysteine, glutamic acid, glutamine or alpha-methyl-glutamic
   acid or is deleted;
20        X18 is tryptophan or is deleted;
          X19 is alanine, isoleucine, leucine or valine or is deleted;
          X20 is alanine, lysine, methionine or arginine or is deleted;
          X21 is asparagine or is deleted;
          X22 is threonine or is deleted;
25        X23 is cysteine, lysine or is deleted;
          X24 is a peptide having 2 to 10 amino acids consisting of glycine or is
   deleted; and
          R2 is KRNRNNIA (SEQ ID NO: 35), GPSSGAPPPS (SEQ ID NO: 36), GPSSGAPPPSK (SEQ
                                            11

   ID NO: 37), HSQGTFTSDYSKYLD (SEQ ID NO: 38), HSQGTFTSDYSRYLDK (SEQ ID NO: 39) or
   HGEGTFTSDLSKQMEEEAVK (SEQ ID NO: 40) or is deleted (excluded if the amino acid
   sequence of formula 6 is identical to that of SEQ ID NO: 1).
           More preferably, the oxyntomodulin derivative of the present invention may
 5 be selected from the group consisting of the peptides of SEQ ID NOs: 2 to 34.  Even
   more preferably, the oxyntomodulin derivative of the present invention may be an
   oxyntomodulin derivative described in Table 1 of Example 2-1.
           In an example of the present invention, oxyntomodulin derivatives having
   the amino acid sequences of SEQ ID NOs: 2 to 34, respectively, were prepared, and
 0 it was found that the oxyntomodulin derivatives showed excellent GLP-1 receptor
   and glucagon receptor activities compared to native oxyntomodulin (Example 2).
   In other words, it could be seen from the above results that the oxyntomodulin
   derivative of the present invention exhibited excellent therapeutic effects
   against hyperlipidemia, fatty liver disease or atherosclerosis by activating the
 5 GLP-1 receptor and the glucagon receptor.
           The oxyntomodulin derivatives of the present invention are present in the
   form of conjugates comprising various polymer in order to improve the therapeutic
   effect and in vivo half-life of the derivatives.
           The conjugate of the present invention shows an increase in the duration
20 of effects compared to native oxyntomodulin, and the long-acting conjugates
   include an oxyntomodulin prepared by the modification, substitution, addition or
   deletion of the amino acids of native oxyntomodulin, an oxyntomodulin conjugated
   to a biodegradable polymer such as polyethylene glycol (PEG), an oxyntomodulin
   conjugated to a polysaccharide such as albumin, antibody, elastin, fibronectin
25 or chitin or to a long-acting protein such as an immunoglobulin fragment, an
   oxyntomodulin conjugated to fatty acid having the ability of binding to albumin
   in vi vo, or an oxyntomodulin encapsulated in biodegradable nanoparticles, and the
   type of long-acting conjugate that is used in the present invention is not limited.
                                            12

           Preferably, the conjugate is a conjugate wherein an oxyntomodulin
   derivative having an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of
   SEQ ID NOs: 2 to 34 is linked to an immunoglobulin Fc region via a non-peptidyl
   polymer.
 5         The immunoglobulin Fc region is a biodegradable polypeptide that is
   metabolized in vivo,and thus is safe for use as a carrier for a drug.        The
   immunoglobulin Fc region has a low molecular weight compared to the entire
   immunoglobulin molecule, and thus is advantageous in terms of the preparation,
   purification and yield of conjugates.      In addition, because the amino acid
 0 sequence differs between antibodies, a Fab portion showing high non-homogeneity,
   and thus the homogeneity of the material can be greatly increased and the
   possibility of inducing blood antigenicity can also be reduced.
           As used herein, the term "immunoglobulin Fc region" refers to a protein that
   contains the heavy-chain constant region 2 (CH2)    and heavy-chain constant region
 5 3 (CH3)  of an immunoglobulin, excluding the heavy-chain and light-chain variable
   regions, the heavy-chain constant region 1 (CHI)      and the light-chain constant
   region 1 (CLi) of the immunoglobulin.      It may further include a hinge region at
   the heavy-chain constant region.     Also, the immunoglobulin Fc region of the
   present invention may be an expanded Fc region including part or all of the
20 heavy-chain constant region 1 (CH1) and/or the light-chain constant region 1 (CL1),
   except for the heavy-chain and light-chain variable regions, as long as it has
   an effect that is substantially equal to or better than the native protein.    Also,
   the immunoglobulin Fc region may be a region having a deletion of a portion of
   a relatively long amino acid sequence corresponding to CH2 and/or CH3.
25 Specifically, the immunoglobulin Fc region of the present invention may comprise
   1) a CHI  domain, a CH2 domain, a CH3 domain and a CH4 domain, 2) a CHI domain and
   a CH2 domain, 3) a CHI   domain and a CH3 domain, 4) a CH2 domain and a CH3 domain,
   5) a combination of one or more domains and an immunoglobulin hinge region (or
                                             13

   a portion of the hinge region), or 6) a dimer of each domain of the heavy-chain
   constant regions and the light-chain constant region.
          The immunoglobulin Fc region of the present invention includes a native
   amino acid sequence, and a sequence derivative (mutant) thereof.      As used herein,
 5 the term "amino acid sequence derivative" refers to a sequence that is different
   from the native amino acid sequence due to the deletion, insertion,
   non-conservative or conservative substitution or a combination thereof of one or
   more amino acid residues of the native amino acid sequence.      For example,  in the
   case of an IgG Fc, amino acid residues at positions 214 to 238, 297 to 299, 318
 0 to 322, or 327 to 331, which are known to be important in binding, may be used
   as suitable sites for modification.
           In addition, other various derivatives are possible, including one that has
   a deletion of a region capable of forming a disulfide bond, or a deletion of some
   amino acid residues at the N-terminal end of native Fc or an addition of amethionine
 5 residue at the N-terminal end of native Fc.  Further, to remove effector functions,
   a deletion may occur in a complement-binding site, such as a Clq-binding site and
   an ADCC (antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity) site.        Techniques of
   preparing such sequence derivatives of the immunoglobulin Fc region are disclosed
   in International Patent Publication Nos. WO 97/34631 and WO 96/32478.
20        Amino acid exchanges in proteins and peptides, which do not generally alter
   the activity of the proteins or peptides, are known in the art (H. Neurath, R.
   L. Hill, The Proteins, Academic Press, New York, 1979).       The most commonly
   occurring exchanges are Ala/Ser, Val/Ile, Asp/Glu, Thr/Ser, Ala/Gly, Ala/Thr,
   Ser/Asn, Ala/Val, Ser/Gly, Thy/Phe, Ala/Pro, Lys/Arg, Asp/Asn, Leu/Ile, Leu/Val,
25 Ala/Glu and Asp/Gly, in both directions.      In addition, the Fc region may, if
   necessary, be modified by phosphorylation, sulfation, acrylation, glycosylation,
   methylation, farnesylation, acetylation, amidation, and the like.
          The above-described Fc derivatives show biological activity identical to
                                            14

   that of the Fc region of the present invention or have increased structural
   stability against heat, pH, or the like.
           In addition, this Fc region may be obtained from native forms isolated from
   humans and other animals including cows, goats, pigs, mice, rabbits, hamsters,
 5 rats and guinea pigs, or may be recombinants or derivatives thereof, obtained from
   transformed animal cells or microorganisms.    Herein, the Fc region may be obtained
   from a native immunoglobulin by isolating a whole immunoglobulin from a living
   human or animal body and treating it with proteinase.      When the whole
   immunoglobulin is treated with papain, it is digested into Fab and Fc regions,
 0 and when the whole immunoglobulin is treated with pepsin, it is digested into pF'c
   and F(ab) 2 fragments.   Fc or pF'c can be isolated using size exclusion
   chromatography or the like.     Preferably, a human-derived Fc region is a
   recombinant immunoglobulin Fc region obtained from a microorganism.
           In addition, the immunoglobulin Fc region of the present invention may be
 5 in the form of having native sugar chains or increased or decreased sugar chains
   compared to a native form, or may be in a deglycosylated form.       The increase,
   decrease or removal of the immunoglobulin Fc sugar chains may be achieved by
   conventional methods such as a chemical method, an enzymatic method and a genetic
   engineering method using a microorganism.     The Fc region obtained by removal of
20 sugar chains from Fc shows a significant decrease in binding affinity to the C1q
   part of the first complement component C1 and a decrease or loss in
   antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity or complement-dependent
   cytotoxicity, and thus does not induce unnecessary immune responses in vivo.      In
   this regard, an immunoglobulin Fc region in a deglycosylated or aglycosylated form
25 may be more suitable to the object of the present invention as a drug carrier.
           As used herein, the term "deglycosylation" refers to enzymatically removing
   sugar moieties from an Fc region, and the term "aglycosylation" refers to an
   unglycosylated Fc region produced in a prokaryote, preferably E.coli.
                                            15

           Meanwhile, the immunoglobulin Fc region may be derived from humans or other
   animals including cows, goats, pigs, mice, rabbits, hamsters, rats and guinea pigs,
   and preferably from humans.
           In addition, the immunoglobulin Fc region may be derived from IgG, IgA, IgD,
 5 IgE, IgM, or a combination or hybrid thereof.      Preferably, it is derived from IgG
   or IgM, which are among the most abundant proteins in human blood, and most
   preferably from IgG, which is known to enhance the half-lives of ligand-binding
   proteins.
           As used herein, the term "combination" means that polypeptides encoding
 0 single-chain immunoglobulin Fc regions of the same origin are linked to a
   single-chain polypeptide of a different origin to form a dimer or multimer.
   Specifically, a dimer or multimer maybe formed from two or more fragments selected
   from the group consisting of IgG Fc, IgA Fc, IgM Fc, IgD Fc, and IgE Fc fragments.
           As used herein, the term "hybrid" means that sequences corresponding to two
 5 or more immunoglobulin Fc fragments of different origins are present in a
   single-chain immunoglobulin Fc region.       In the present invention, various forms
   of hybrid are possible.     In other words, a hybrid composed of 1 to 4 domains
   selected from the group consisting of the CHI, CH2, CH3 and CH4 of IgG Fc, IgM
   Fc, IgA Fc, IgE Fc and IgD Fc is possible, and it may include a hinge.
20         Meanwhile, IgG can also be sub-classified into IgGi, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4,
   and in the present invention, a combination or hybrid of these subclasses is also
   possible.    Preferably, IgG is the IgG2 ad IgG4 subclass, and most preferably, it
   is the Fc region of IgG4 that substantially lacks effector functions such as
   complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDC).
25         In other words, the most preferred immunoglobulin Fc region that is used
   as a drug carrier in the present invention is an Fe region derived from human IgG4.
   A human-der ivwed Fe region is more preferable than a non-human-der ived Fe region,
   which may act as an ant igen in the human body and cause undesirable e immune responses
                                              16

   such as the product ion of a new ant ibody against the ant igen.
            As used herein, the term "non-peptidyl polymer" refers to a biocompatible
   polymer i including two or more repeat ing units linked to each other by any covalent
   bond in place of a peptide bond.      In the present invent ion, the non-peptidy
 5 po i ymer may be int er changeable used wi t the non-pept i dy   i Iinker .
            The non-pept idy! polymer that can be used in the present invent   IHon may be
   selected from the group consist ing of polyethylene glycol , polypropylene glycol,
   an ethylene glycol/propylene glycol copolymer, polyoxethylated polyol, po iyvinyl
   alcohol, polysaccharides, dextran, polyvinyl ethyl ether, biodegradable polymers
 0 such as P A (poIy(iaciic acid)) and PLGA (polylactic-glycol ic acid),           i pid
   po lymers, chit ins. hvaluronic acid. and combinat ions their eof.      Preferably, the
   non-peptidyl polymer is polyethylene glycol.        In addition, derivatives thereof
   known in the art and derivatives that may be easily prepared by a method known
   in the art are included in the scope of the present invention.
 5          The peptide linker that is used in a fusion protein obtained by a
   conventional inframe fusion method has drawbacks in that it is easily cleaved by
   proteinase in vivo,and thus a sufficient effect of increasing the serum half-life
   of the active drug by a carrier cannot be obtained as expected.          However, in the
   present invention, the polymer having resistance to proteinase can be used to
20 maintain the serum half-life of the peptide, similar to the carrier.         Therefore,
   any non-peptidyl polymer can be used without limitation in the present invention,
   as long as it is a polymer having the aforementioned function, that is, a polymer
   having resistance to proteinase in vivo.     The non-pept idyl polymer has a molecular
   weight in the range of 1 to 100 kDa, and preferably 1 to 20 kDa.       The non-peptidyl
25 polymer of the present invention, which is linked to the immunoglobulin Fc region,
   may be one kind of polymer or a combination of different polymers.
            The non-peptidyl polymer that is used in the present invention may have a
   reactive group capable of binding to the immunoglobulin Fc region and the protein
                                              17

   drug.   The reactive group at both ends of the non-peptidyl polymer is preferably
   selected from the group consisting of a reactive aldehyde group, a propionaldehyde
   group, a butyraldehyde group, a maleimide group and a succinimide derivative.
          The succinimide derivative may be succinimidyl propionate, hydroxy
 5 succinimidyl, succinimidyl carboxymethyl, or succinimidyl carbonate.       In
   particular, when the non-peptidyl polymer has a reactive aldehyde group at both
   ends thereof, non-specific reactions can be minimized, and a physiologically
   active polypeptide and an immunoglobulin can be effectively bound to one and the
   other end of the non-peptidyl polymer, respectively.     A final product generated
 0 by reductive alkylation with an aldehyde bond is much more stable than that linked
   by an amide bond.    The aldehyde reactive group selectively binds to an N-terminus
   at a low pH and can form a covalent bond with a lysine residue at a high pH such
   as pH 9.0.
          The reactive groups at both ends of the non-peptidyl polymer may be the same
 5 or different.   For example, the non-peptidyl polymer may possess a maleimide group
   at one end, and an aldehyde group, a propionaldehyde group or a butyraldehyde group
   at the other end.    When a polyethylene glycol having a reactive hydroxy group at
   both ends thereof is used as the non-peptidyl polymer, the hydroxy group may be
   activated to various reactive groups byknown chemical reactions, or apolyethylene
20 glycol having a commercially available modified reactive group may be used so as
   to prepare the long acting conjugate of the present invention.
          The conjugate of the present invention may be one in which one end of the
   non-peptidyl polymer and the other are linked to an amine group or a thiol group
   of the immunoglobulin Fc region and the oxyntomodulin derivative, respectively.
25        The non-peptidyl polymer of the present invention has a functional group
   at both ends which can be linked to either an immunoglobulin Fc region or a protein
   drug. The functional groups can be an aldehyde group, a propionaldehyde group,
   a butyraldehyde group, a maleimide group and a succinimide derivative (i.e.,
                                            18

   succinimidyl propionate, hydroxy succinimidyl, succinimidyl carboxymethyl, or
   succinimidyl carbonate), but are not limited thereto.
          The reactive groups at both ends of the linker that is the non-peptidyl
   polymer may be the same or different.   For example, the non-peptidyl polymer may
 5 have a maleimide group at one end and an aldehyde group, a propionaldehyde group
   or a butyraldehyde group at the other end.     For example, when the non-peptidyl
   polymer has a reactive aldehyde group at one end and a reactive maleimide group
   at the other end, non-specific reactions can be minimized, and a physiologically
   active polypeptide and an immunoglobulin can be effectively bound to both ends
 0 of the non-peptidyl polymer.   According to anembodiment of thepresent invention,
   a conjugate was synthesized by linking oxyntomodulin or its derivative to the
   immunoglobulin Fc region via a covalent bond using the non-peptidyl polymer PEG
   including a propionaldehyde group alone or both a maleimide group and an aldehyde
   group.
 5        The pharmaceutical composition of the present invention can be used for the
   prevention or treatment of hyperlipidemia, fatty liver disease or atherosclerosis.
          As used herein, the term "prevention" refers to all actions that inhibit
   or delay the development of a target disease.     As used herein, the term
   "prevention" means administering the oxyntomodulin derivative of the present
20 invention to inhibit or delay the development of hyperlipidemia, fatty liver
   disease or atherosclerosis, which shows an increase in blood total cholesterol
   and low-density cholesterol levels and a decrease in high-density cholesterol
   levels.
          As used herein, the term "treatment" refers to all actions that alleviate,
25 ameliorate or relieve the symptoms of the disease developed.   As used herein, the
   term "treatment" means administering the oxyntomodulin derivative of the present
   invention to alleviate, ameliorate or relieve hyperlipidemia, fatty liver disease
   or atherosclerosis, which shows an increase in blood total cholesterol and
                                            19

   low-density cholesterol levels and a decrease in high-density cholesterol levels.
          As used herein, the term "hyperlipidemia" refers to a condition associated
   with abnormally elevated levels of lipids, such as free cholesterol,       cholesterol
   esters, phospholipids and triglycerides, in blood.       Although hyperlipidemia does
 5 not show speci f i c symptoms by itse f , excessive lipids in blood adhere to the blood
   vessel walls to reduce the blood vessel size and cause atherosclerosis by
   inflammatory reactions.        For this reason, coronary heart disease,
   cerebrovascular disease, obstruction of peripheral blood vessels, etc., can occur.
          Thus, the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention can be used
 0 for the treatment of not only hyperlipidemia, fatty liver disease or
   atherosclerosis, but also coronary heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, or
   obstruction of peripheral blood vessels.
          As usedherein, the term "fatty liver disease" refers to a condition inwhich
   the ratio of fats in the weight of the liver is more than 5%.          In the present
 5 invention, fatty liver diseases include non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD),
   alcoholic fatty liver disease, nutritional fatty liver disease, starvation fatty
   liver disease, obesity fatty liver disease, diabetic fatty liver disease or
   steatohepatitis.      The non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is meant to include
   primary and secondary non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, but may preferably be
20 a non-alcoholic fatty liver disease resulting from primary hyperlipidemia,
   diabetes or obesity.
           In addition, in the present invention, non-alcoholic fat ty liver disease
   is meant to include simple steatosis, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, and liver
   fibrosis and liver cirrhosis which result from the progression of such diseases.
25        Atherosclerosis refers to a vascular disease in which atheroma is formed
   as a result of deposition of cholesterol in the endothelium of blood vessels and
   proliferation of endothelial cells.
           In an example of the present invention, a long-acting oxyntomodulin
                                               20

   derivative conjugate was prepared by linking the oxyntomodulin derivative to the
   immunoglobulin Fc region by a covalent bond using polyethylene glycol, and the
   prepared conjugate was administered to hamster animal models having hyperlipidemia
   induced by intake of high-fat diet.     As a result, it was shown that the group
 5 administered with the long-acting oxyntomodulin derivative conjugate according
   to the present invention showeda significant decrease inblood triglyceride levels
   (FIG.  1), a significant decrease in blood total cholesterol levels (FIG. 2),   and
   a significant decrease in blood low-density (LDL) cholesterol levels, compared
   to the hyperlipidemia-induced animal models.     In addition, it was observed that
 0 the group administered with the long-acting oxyntomodulin derivative conjugate
   according to the present invention showed a significant increase in blood
   high-density (HDL)   cholesterol levels (FIG. 4) and a significant increase in the
   blood HDL-cholesterol/LDL-cholesterol ratio (FIG. 5), compared to the
   hyperlipidemia-induced animal models.
 5         Further, it could be seen that the long-acting oxyntomodulin derivative
   conjugate according to the present invention showed a decrease in blood total
   cholesterol levels (FIG. 6) and a decrease in blood LDL-cholesterol and
   triglyceride levels (FIG. 7), compared toVICTOZA* that is acommercial long-acting
   GLP-lanalog.    In addition, it couldbe seen that administration of the long-acting
20 oxyntomodulin derivative conjugate of the present invention showed increases in
   blood HDL-cholesterol level and the HDL/LDL-cholesterol ratio compared to
   administration of VICTOZA*(FIGS.8 and 9).    Particularly, a long-acting conjugate
   of the peptide of SEQ ID NO: 25 with Fc showed significant increases in blood HDL
   levels and HDL/LDL-cholesterol ratio compared to VICTOZA*.
25         In other words, the oxyntomodulin derivative according to the present
   invention reduce blood lipid levels, and thus can be used as an agent for treating
   hyperlipidemia, fatty liver disease or art-eriosclerosis.     In addition, the
                                            21

   conjugate of the present invention has an excellent ability to activate GLP-1
   receptor and glucagon receptor compared to native oxyntomodulin and shows an
   increased blood half-life in vivo, and thus the activity thereof can be maintained
   in vivo for an extended period of time.
 5        The oxyntomodulin derivative of the present invention can increase the
   activity of a factor (Protein kinase C-( or PKC-() regulating the activity of
   enzymes that are involved in the lipolysis of fats, and increase the expression
   of a factor (Glut2) that is involved in the lipolysis of fats, thereby treating
   hyperlipidemia, fatty liver disease or arteriosclerosis, but the scope of the
 0 present iinvent ion is not I imitfled to the above mechan isnM of act ion.
          The pharmaceutical composition of the present invention may further
   comprise a pharmaceutical agent exhibiting preventive or therapeutic effects
   against hyperlipidemia, fatty liver disease or arteriosclerosis.         Specifically,
   the composition of the present invention may further comprise a pharmaceutical
 5 agent known as an agent for treating hyperlipidemia, fatty liver disease or
   arteriosclerosis in order to administer the pharmaceutical agent in combination
   with the der ivat ive of [tie present invert ion.
          Thus, the composition of the presen t invention may be administered alone
   or in combination with other drugs in order to prevent or treat hyperlipidemia,
20 fatty liver disease or arteriosclerosis,
          As used herein, the term "administration" means introducing a givenmaterial
   into a patient by any appropriate method.     The derivative of the present invention
   may be administered by any general route, as long as it can reach a target tissue.
   Specifically, the derivative of the present invention may be administered
25 intraperitoneally, intravenously, intramuscularly, subcutaneously,
   intradermally, orally, locally, intranasally, intrapulmonarilyor intrarectally,
   but is not limited thereto.    However, because the peptide is digested when being
   administered orally, the oral composition is preferably formulated so that the
                                              22

   active ingredient is coated or protected from degradation in the stomach.
   Preferably, the composition of the present invention may be administered in an
   injectable form.    In addition, the pharmaceutical composition of the present
   invention may be administered using any system capable of delivering the active
 5 ingredient to target cells.
          The pharmaceutical composition comprising the oxyntomodulin derivative of
   the present invention may further comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
   For oral administration, pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include a binder,
   a lubricant, a disintegrant, an excipient, a solubilizer, a dispersing agent, a
 0 stabilizer, a suspending agent, a colorant, and a flavorant.      For injectable
   preparations, pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include a buffer, a
   preservative, an analgesic, a solubilizer, an isotonic agent, and a stabilizer.
   For topical administration, pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include a base,
   an excipient, a lubricant, and a preservative.
 5        The pharmaceutical composition of the present invention may be formulated
   in various dosage forms using the aforementioned pharmaceutically acceptable
   carriers.   For example, for oral administration, the pharmaceutical composition
   may be formulated into tablets, troches, capsules, elixirs, suspensions, syrups,
   wafers or the like.   For injectable preparations, the pharmaceutical composition
20 maybe provided in the form of a unit dosage ampoule or amultiple dosage container.
   The pharmaceutical composition may also be formulated into solutions, suspensions,
   tablets, pills, capsules and sustained-release preparations.
          Meanwhile, examples of the carrier, excipient and diluent suitable for
   formulation include lactose, dextrose, sucrose, sorbitol, mannitol, xylitol,
25 erythritol, maltitol, starch, acacia rubber, alginate, gelatin, calcium phosphate,
   calcium silicate, cellulose, methylcellulose, microcrystalline cellulose,
   polyvinylpyrrolidone, water, methylhydroxybenzoate, propylhydroxybenzoate,    talc,
   magnesium stearate and mineral oils.   In addition, the pharmaceutical composition
                                            23

   of the present invention may further include fillers, anti-coagulating agents,
   lubricants, wetting agents, flavors, preservative and the like.
          The dose of the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention is
   determined according to the kind of active ingredient, together with various
 5 factors such as the disease to be treated, the route of administration, the
   patient's age, sex and weight, and the severity of the disease.
          The pharmaceutical composition of the present invention has a long in vivo
   half-life and excellent-potency, and thus the number and frequency of
   administration of the pharmaceutical composition can be significantly reduced.
 0        In another embodiment, the present invention provides a method for treating
   hyperlipidemia, fatty liver disease or arteriosclerosis, the method comprising
   a step of administering the oxyntomodulin derivative of the present invention to
   a subject.
          The above oxyntomodulin, hyperlipidemia, fatty liver disease and
 5 arteriosclerosis are as described above.
          As used herein, the term "subject" refers to a subject suspected of having
   hyperlipidemia, fatty liver disease or arteriosclerosis.     Specifically, the term
   means mammals,  including humans,  rats and domestic animals, which have or are at
   the risk of developing the above disease.     In addition, the subject may be any
20 subject that can be treated by the oxyntomodulin derivative of the present
   invention.
          The therapeutic method of the present invention may comprise administering
   a pharmaceutically effective amount of the pharmaceutical composition comprising
   the conjugate.   The total daily dose of the composition can be determined through
25 appropriate medical judgment by a physician, and the composition may be
   administered once or several times.   However, in view of the purpose of the present
   invention, the specific therapeutically effective dose of the composition for any
   particular patient may vary depending on various factors well known in the medical
                                            24

   field, including the kind and degree of response to be achieved, concrete
   compositions according to whether other agents are used therewith or not, the
   patient'age, body weight, health condition, sex and diet, the time and route of
   administration, the secretion rate of the composition, the duration of treatment,
 5 other drugs used in combination or coincident with the composition of the present
   invention, and other factors known in the medical field.
           In still another aspect, the present invention provides a method for
   preparing an oxyntomodulin derivative conjugate.
          The preparation method may comprise the steps of: (1) covalently linking
 0 a non-peptidyl polymer having a reactive aldehyde, maleimide or succinimide group
   to the amine or thiol group of an oxyntomodulin derivative peptide; (2) separating
   the oxyntomodulin derivative peptide, having the non-peptidyl polymer covalently
   bonded thereto at positions other than the amino terminal end, from the reaction
   mixture of step (1); and (3)  covalently an immunoglobulin Fc region to the other
 5 end of the linked non-peptidyl polymer, thereby producing a peptide conjugate
   comprising the immunoglobulin Fc region and the oxyntomodulin derivative peptide,
   linked to one and the other end of the non-peptidyl polymer, respectively.
          More specifically, the preparation method may comprise the steps of: 1)
   covalently linking a non-peptidyl polymer, having a reactive aldehyde group and
20 a reactive maleimide group at one and the other end thereof, respectively, to the
   cysteine residue of an oxyntomodulin derivative; (2) separating the oxyntomodulin
   derivative, having the non-peptidyl polymer covalently linked to the cysteine
   residue, from the reaction mixture of step (1); and (3) covalently an
   immunoglobulin Fc region to the other end of the linked non-peptidyl polymer,
25 thereby producing a peptide conjugate comprising the immunoglobulin Fc region and
   the oxyntomodulin derivative peptide, linked to one and the other end of the
   non-peptidyl polymer, respectively.
           In still another aspect, the present invention provides the use of the
                                            25

   oxyntomodulin derivative in the preparation of a medicament for preventing or
   treating hyperlipidemia, fatty liver disease or arteriosclerosis.
    [Advantageous Effects]
          The oxyntomodulin derivative of the present invention has a high ability
 5 to activate GLP-1 receptor and glucagon receptor compared to native oxyntomodulin
   and exhibits the effects of reducing the blood total cholesterol, low-density
   cholesterol and triglyceride levels that were increased by high-fat diet, and
   increasing high-density cholesterol levels and the high-density
   cholesterol/low-density cholesterol ratio.      Thus, the oxyntomodulin derivative
 0 of the present invention can be effectively used for the treatment of
   hyperlipidemia and related diseases.
    [Description of Drawings]
          FIG. 1 is a graph showing the change in blood triglyceride levels caused
   by administration of a long-acting oxyntomodulin derivative to high-fat
 5 diet-induced hyperlipidemia hamsters (#:     indicates a significant increase
   compared to ageneral diet group within a confidence of 99.9%(p<0.001);*: indicates
   a significant decrease compared to a high-fat diet group within a confidence of
   99.9% (p<0.001).
        FIG. 2 is a graph showing the change in blood total cholesterol levels caused
20 by administration of a long-acting oxyntomodulin derivative to high-fat
   diet-induced hyperlipidemia hamsters (#:     indicates a significant increase
   compared to a general diet group within a confidence of 99.9%(p<0.001);*: indicates
   a significant decrease compared to a high-fat diet group within a confidence of
   99.9% (p<0.001).
25        FIG. 3 is a graph showing the change in blood LDL-cholesterol levels caused
   by administration of a long-acting oxyntomodulin derivative to high-fat
   diet-induced hyperlipidemia hamsters (#:     indicates a significant increase
   compared to a general diet group within a confidence of 99.9%(p<0.001);*: indicates
                                            26

   a significant decrease compared to a high-fat diet group within a confidence of
   99.9% (p<0.001).
        FIG. 4 is a graph showing the change in blood HDL-cholesterol levels caused
   by administration of a long-acting oxyntomodulin derivative to high-fat
 5 diet-induced hyperlipidemia hamsters (*:     indicates a significant decrease
   compared to a high-fat diet group within a confidence of 99% (p<0.01).
       FIG. 5 is a graph showing the change in blood HDL/LDL-cholesterol levels caused
   by administration of a long-acting oxyntomodulin derivative to high-fat
   diet-induced hyperlipidemia hamsters (*:     shows a significant decrease compared
 0 to a high-fat diet group within a confidence of 95% (p<0.05).
          FIG. 6 is a graph showing the change in blood total cholesterol levels caused
   by administration of VICTOZA* or a long-acting oxyntomodulin derivative to
   high-fat diet-induced hyperlipidemia hamsters (***:      indicates a significant
   decrease compared to a high-fat diet group within a confidence of 99.9%(p<0.001).
 5        FIG. 7 is a graph showing the change in blood LDL-cholesterol levels caused
   by administration of VICTOZA* or a long-acting oxyntomodulin derivative to
   high-fat diet-induced hyperlipidemia hamsters (***:      indicates a significant
   decrease compared to a high-fat diet group within a confidence of 99.9%(p<0.001).
          FIG. 8 is a graph showing the change in blood HDL-cholesterol levels caused
20 by administration of VICTOZA* or a long-acting oxyntomodulin derivative to
   high-fat diet-induced hyperlipidemia hamsters (*:      indicates a significant
   decrease compared to a high-fat diet group within a confidence of 95% (p<0.05).
          FIG. 9 is a graph showing the change in blood HDL/LDL-cholesterol levels
   caused by administration of VICTOZA* or a long-acting oxyntomodulin derivative
25 to high-fat diet-induced hyperlipidemia hamsters (**:      indicates a significant
   decrease compared to a high-fat diet group within a confidence of 99% (p<0.01).
          FIG. 10 is a graph showing the change in blood triglyceride levels caused
                                             27

   by administration of VICTOZA* or a long-acting oxyntomodulin derivative to
   high-fat diet-induced hyperlipidemia hamsters (***:      indicates a significant
   decrease compared to a high-fat diet group within a confidence of 99.9%(p<0.001).
    [Mode for Invention]
 5        Hereinafter, the present invention will be described in further detail with
   reference to examples.   It is to be understood, however, that these examples are
   for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to limit the scope of the
   present invention.
 0        Example 1: Production for cell line for in vitro activation
          Example 1-1: Production of cell line showing cAMP response to GLP-1
          Using a portion corresponding to the ORF (open reading frame) of cDNA
   (OriGene Technologies,  Inc. USA) of the human GLP-1 receptor gene as a template,
   PCR was performed using reverse and forward primers including a HindIll cleavage
 5 site and an EcoRI cleavage site, respectively, thereby obtaining a PCR product.
          Forward primer: 5'-CCCGGCCCCCGCGGCCGCTATTCGAAATAC-3' (SEQ ID NO: 50)
          Reverse primer: 5'-GAACGGTCCGGAGGACGTCGACTCTTAAGATAG-3' (SEQ ID NO: 51)
          The PCR product was cloned into the known animal cell expression vector
   x0GC/dhfr, thereby constructing the recombinant vector x0GC/GLP-1R.
20        The recombinant vector x0GC/GLP-1R was introduced into a CHO DG44 cell line,
   cultured in DMEM/F12 (10% FBS) medium, using lipofectamine (Invitrogene, USA),
   to obtain a transformant.    The transformant was incubated in a selective medium
   containing 1 mg/mL G418 and 10 nM methotraxate, and monoclonal cell lines were
   selected therefrom.   Then, a cell line showing a good concentration-dependent cAMP
25 response to GLP-1 was finally selected from the monoclonal cell lines.
          Example 1-2: Production of cell line showing cAMP response to glucagon
          Using a portion corresponding to the ORF (open reading frame) of cDNA
                                            28

   (OriGene Technologies, Inc. USA) of the human glucagon receptor gene as a template,
   PCR was performed using reverse and forward primers including an EcoRI cleavage
   site and a XhoI cleavage site, respectively, thereby obtaining a PCR product.
          Forward primer: 5'-CAGCGACACCGACCGTCCCCCCGTACTTAAGGCC-3'      (SEQ ID NO: 52)
 5        Reverse Primer: 5'-CTAACCGACTCTCGGGGAAGACTGAGCTCGCC-3' (SEQ ID NO: 53)
          The PCR product was cloned into the known animal cell expression vector
   x0GC/dhfr, thereby constructing the recombinant vector x0GC/GCGR.
          The recombinant vector x0GC/GCGR was introduced into a CHO DG44 cell line,
   cultured in DMEM/F12 (10% FBS) medium, using lipofectamine (Invitrogene, USA),
 0 to obtain a transformant.    The transformant was incubated in a selective medium
   containing 1 mg/mL G418 and 10 nM methotraxate, and monoclonal cell lines were
   selected therefrom.   Then, a cell line showing a good concentration-dependent cAMP
   response to glucagon was finally selected from the monoclonal cell lines.
 5        Example 2: In vitro activity of oxyntomodulin derivatives
          Example 2-1: Synthesis of oxyntomodulin derivatives
          In order to measure the in vitro activities of oxyntomodulin derivatives,
   oxyntomodulin derivatives having the amino acid sequences shown in Table 1 below.
    [Table 1]
20 Oxyntomodulin and oxyntomodulin derivatives
   SEQ ID NOs      Sequences
   SEQ ID NO: 1 HSQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQDFVQWLMNTKRNRNNIA
   SEQ ID NO: 2 CA-SQGTFTSDYSKYLDEEAVRLFIEWLMNTKRNRNNIA
   SEQ ID NO: 3 CA-SQGTFTSDYSKYLDERRAQDFVAWLKNTGPSSGAPPPS
   SEQ ID NO: 4 CA-GQGTFTSDYSRYLEEEAVRLFIEWLKNGGPSSGAPPPS
   SEQ ID NO: 5 CA-GQGTFTSDYSRQMEEEAVRLFIEWLKNGGPSSGAPPPS
   SEQ ID NO: 6 CA-GEGTFTSDLSRQMEEEAVRLFIEWAAHSQGTFTSDYSKYLD
   SEQ ID NO: 7 CA-SQGTFTSDYSRYLDEEAVRLFIEWLMNTK
                                            29

SEQ ID NO: 8 CA-SQGTFTSDLSRQLEEEAVRLFIEWLMNK
SEQ ID NO: 9 CA-GQGTFTSDYSRYLDEEAVXLFIEWLMNTKRNRNNIA
SEQ ID NO: 10 CA-SQGTFTSDYSRQMEEEAVRLFIEWLMNGGPSSGAPPPSK
SEQ ID NO: 11 CA-GEGTFTSDLSRQMEEEAVRLFIEWAAHSQGTFTSDYSRYLDK
SEQ ID NO: 12 CA-SQGTFTSDYSRYLDGGGHGEGTFTSDLSKQMEEEAVK
SEQ ID NO: 13 CA-SQGTFTSDYSRYLDXEAVXLFIEWLMNTK
SEQ ID NO: 14 CA-GQGTFTSDYSRYLDEEAVXLFIXWLMNTKRNRNNIA
SEQ ID NO: 15 CA-GQGTFTSDYSRYLDEEAVRLFIXWLMNTKRNRNNIA
SEQ ID NO: 16 CA-SQGTFTSDLSRQLEGGGHSQGTFTSDLSRQLEK
SEQ ID NO: 17 CA-SQGTFTSDYSRYLDEEAVRLFIEWIRNTKRNRNNIA
SEQ ID NO: 18   A-SQGTFTSDYSRYLDEEAVRLFIEWIRNGGPSSGAPPPSK
SEQ ID NO: 19   A-SQGTFTSDYSRYLDEEAVKLFIEWIRNTKRNRNNIA
SEQ ID NO: 20   A-SQGTFTSDYSRYLDEEAVKLFIEWIRNGGPSSGAPPPSK
SEQ ID NO: 21   A-SQGTFTSDYSRQLEEEAVRLFIEWVRNTKRNRNNIA
SEQ ID NO: 22 DA-SQGTFTSDYSKYLDEKRAKEFVQWLMNTK
SEQ ID NO: 23 HAibQGTFTSDYSKYLDEKRAKEFVCWLMNT
SEQ ID NO: 24 HAibQGTFTSDY SKYLDEKRAK EFVQWLMNTC
SEQ ID NO: 25 HAibQGTFTSDYSKYLDEKRAKEFVQWLMNTC
SEQ ID NO: 26 HAibQGTFTSDYSKYLDEKRAKEFVQWLMNTC
SEQ ID NO: 27 HAibQGTFTSDYSKYLDEQAAKEFICWLMNT
SEQ ID NO: 28 HAibQGTFTSDY SKYLDEKRAK EFVQWLMNT
SEQ ID NO: 29 H(d)SQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQDFVQWLMNTKRNRNNIA
SEQ ID NO: 30 CA-SQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQDFVQWLMNTKRNRNNIA
SEQ ID NO: 31 CA-(d)SQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQDFVQWLMNTKRNRNNIA
SEQ ID NO: 32 CA-AibQGTFTSDYSKYLDEKRAKEFVQWLMNTC
SEQ ID NO: 33 HAibQGTFTSDYAKYLDEKRAKEFVQWLMNTC
SEQ ID NO: 34 YAibQGTFTSDYSKYLDEKRAKEFVQWLMNTC
       In Table 1 above, the amino acids indicated by the bold letters mean ring
                                       30

   formation, and the amino acids indicated byXmean alpha-methyl-glutamic acid that
   is  a non-native amino acid.       In addition,    CA indicates 4-imidazoacetyl,       DA
   indicates    desamino-histidyl,   Aib  indicates    aminosiobutyric    acid,   and  (d)S
   indicates d-serine.
 5
          Example    2-2:  Measurement   of    in vitro    activities   of   oxyntomodulin
   derivatives
           In order to measure the effects of anti-obesity peptides,          the in vitro
   activities of cells were measured using the transformants prepared in Examples1-1
 0 and 1-2.
          Each of the transformants was transformed so as to express each of human
   GLP-1 receptor and glucagon receptor genes in CHO (Chinese hamster ovary) and was
   suitable for measuring the activities of GLP-1 and glucagon.        Thus, the activity
   of each    of  the  oxyntomodulin   derivatives    was  measured   using each of      the
 5 transformants.
          Specifically, each of the transformants was subcultured twice or three times
   a week, and the cells were dispensed into each well of a 96-well plate at a density
   of 1 X 105cells/well and cultured for 24 hours.
          The cultured cells were washed with KRB buffer, suspended in 40 ml of 1 mM
20 IBMX-containing KRB buffer, and then allowed to stand at room temperature for 5
   minutes.    Each of oxyntomodulin and the oxyntomodulin derivatives (SEQ ID NOs:
   2-6, 8, 10-13, 17, 18, 23-25, 27, 28 and 32-34) was serially diluted by five-fold
   from 1000 nM to 0.02 nM, and 40 m of each of the dilutions was added to the cells,
   which were then incubated in a C02 incubatorat370 C for 1 hour. Then, 20 ml of cell
25 lysis buffer was added to lyse the cells, and the concentration of cAMP in each
   of the cell lysates was measured using a cAMP assay kit (Molecular Device, USA).
   From the results of the measurement,    EC5 0values were calculated and compared with
   each other (Table2).
                                             31

 [Table 2]
Comparison of in vitro activities of GLP-1 receptor and glucagon receptor between
oxyntomodulin derivatives
     SEQ ID NOs                      EC5 0(nM)
                        CHO/GLP-IR              CHO/GCGR
    SEQ ID NO: 1         50 - 210                10 - 43
    SEQ ID NO: 2           51.8                    12.8
    SEQ ID NO: 3          >1,000                  637.7
    SEQ ID NO: 4             5.5                 >1,000
    SEQ ID NO: 5             5.9                 >1,000
    SEQ ID NO: 6           500.1                 >1,000
    SEQ ID NO: 8           419.6                 >1,000
   SEQ ID NO: 10          >1,000                 >1,000
   SEQ ID NO: 11          >1,000                 >1,000
   SEQ ID NO: 12          >1,000                 >1,000
   SEQ ID NO: 13          >1,000                 >1,000
   SEQ ID NO: 17           97.9                  >1,000
   SEQ ID NO: 18           96.3                  >1,000
   SEQ ID NO: 23             2.46                   5.8
   SEQ ID NO: 24             1.43                   6.95
   SEQ ID NO: 25              1.9                    1.3
   SEQ ID NO: 27          2.8-5.5                3.1-5.6
   SEQ ID NO: 28             3.1                    0.3
   SEQ ID NO: 32           41.3                    17.7
   SEQ ID NO: 33             2.2                   80.2
   SEQ ID NO: 34            12.5                   1.04
       As can be seen in Table 2 above,      the oxyntomodulin derivatives showed
                                        32

   excellent in vitro GLP-1 and glucagon activities compared to the oxyntomodulin
   of SEQ ID NO:1.
           Oxyntomodulin is known to have the effect of treating hyperlipidemia, fatty
   liver disease or arteriosclerosis by activating GLP-1 receptor             and glucagon
 5 receptor.    The oxyntomodulin derivatives according to the present invention have
   an excellent activity to activate GLP-1 receptor and glucagon receptor compared
   to native oxyntomodulin, and thus can be used to treat hyperlipidemia and the fatty
   liver disease and arteriosclerosis related to hyperlipidemia, in place of native
   oxyntomodul in.
 0
           Example 3: Preparation of a conjugate comprising an oxyntomodulin derivative
   (SEQ ID NO: 23) with immunoglobul in Fc (immunoglobulin Fc-conjugated oxyntomodul in
   derivative 23)
 5         In order to pegylate a cysteine residue at position 24 of an oxyntomodulin
   der ivat ive o f SEQ ID NO: 24 wi th MAL-10K-ALD PEG (NOF. , Japan) , the oxynt omodul in
   derivative (SEQ ID NO: 23) and MAL-10K-ALD PEG were allowed to react with each
   other at     molar ratio of 1:3 at a protein concentration of 3mg/m              at room
   temperature for 3 hours.     The reaction was performed in 50mM Tris buffer (pH 8.0)
20 containing IM guanidine.      After completion of the reaction, the reaction solution
   was purified using SOURCE S under the following conditions, thereby obtaining an
   oxyntomodulin mono-pegylated into the cysteine:        column: SOURCE S, flow rate: 2.0
   m/min, gradient: A 0 -100% 50 min B (A: 20 mM Na-citrate, pH 3.0 + 45% ethanol,
   B: A + IM KCl)).
25         Then, the purified mono-pegylated oxyntomodulin derivative (SEQ ID NO: 23)
   and immunoglobulin Fc were allowed to react with each other at a molar ratio of
   1:5 at a protein concentration of 20 mg/m      at 4 'C for 16 hours.   The reaction was
   performed in 100 mM potassium phosphate buffer (pH 6.0) containing 20mM SCB as
                                               33

   a reducing agent.    After completion of the reaction, the reaction solution was
   purified under the following conditions, thereby obtaining a conjugate comprising
   the oxyntomodulin derivative (SEQ ID NO: 23) and immunoglobulin: column: SOURCE
   15Q, flow rate: 2.0 m /min, gradient: A 0 -      4% 1 min, B -  20% 80 min B (A: 20mM
 5 Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, B: A + IM NaCl)); source ISO column: SOURCE ISO, flow rate: 2.0
   m/min, gradient: B 0 -      100% 100 min A, (A: 20mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, B: A + 1.1M
   AS).
           Example 4: Preparation of a conjugate comprising an oxyntomodulin derivative
 0 (SEQ ID NO: 25) with immunoglobul in Fc (immunoglobulin Fc-conjugated oxyntomodul in
   derivative 25)
           In order to pegylate a cysteine residue at position 30 of an oxyntomodulin
   derivative of SEQ ID NO: 25 with MAL-10K-ALD PEG, the oxyntomodulin derivative
 5 (SEQ ID NO: 25) and MAL-10K-ALD PEG were allowed to react with each other at     molar
   ratio of 1:3 at a protein concentration of 3 mg/me at room temperature for 3 hours.
   The reaction was performed in 50mM Tris buffer (pH 8.0) containing IM guanidine.
   After completion of the reaction, the reaction solution was purified using SOURCE
   S   under   the   following    conditions,   thereby   obtaining    an   oxyntomodulin
20 mono-pegylated into the cysteine:     column: SOURCE S, flow rate: 2.0 m /min,    flow
   rate: A 0 -100% 50 min B (A: 20 mM Na-citrate, pH 3.0 + 45% ethanol, B: A + iM
   KCl).
           Then, the purified mono-pegylated oxyntomodulin derivative (SEQ ID NO: 25)
   and immunoglobulin Fc were allowed to react with each other at a molar ratio of
25 1:5 at a protein concentration of 20 mg/m     at 4 'C for 16 hours.   The reaction was
   performed in 100 mM potassium phosphate buffer (pH 6.0) containing 20mM SCB as
   a reducing agent.    After completion of the reaction, the reaction solution was
                                              34

   purified under the following conditions, thereby obtaining a conjugate comprising
   the oxyntomodulin derivative (SEQ ID NO: 25) and immunoglobulin: SOURCE 15Q column:
   SOURCE 15Q, flow rate: 2.0 m/min, flow rate: A 0 -+ 4% 1 min B -+ 20% 80 min B
   (A: 20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, B: A + IM NaCl); and Source ISO column: SOURCE ISO,
 5 flow rate: 2.0 m/min, flow rate: B 0 -+ 100% 100 min A (A: 20mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5,
   B: A + 1.1M AS).
           Example 5: Effect of long-acting oxyntomodulin on reduction in lipid in
   hyperlipidemia model hamsters
 0
           Example 5-1: Grouping of test animals
           8 week-old male hamsters (Golden Syrian hamsters, 120-130 g) were purchased
   from Vital River China.     It is known that hamsters show blood lipid profiles
   similar to humans, unlike other rodents, and are sensitive to high-fat diets.
 5 The animals were allowed access to a sterilized high-fat diet (Purina 5001
   containing 11.5% maize oil, 11.5% coconut oil, 0.5% cholesterol, and 0.25%
   deoxycholate; Dyets, Bethlehem, PA) or a standard rodent diet (low fat, 2018;
   Harlan Teklad, Madison, WI).     A normal diet group was allowed access to filtered
   and UV-sterilized tap water, and a high-fat diet group was allowed access to water
20 containing 10% fructose.    The animals were kept in a breeding chamber satisfying
   GLP standards under a 12-hr light/12-hr dark cycle (lighting: am 6 to pm 6), and
   all the experimental procedures were performed according to the standard guideline
   for animal experiments.    Drug administration was started after 3 weeks of
   hyperlipidemia induction, and the animals were divided into four groups (n=6)     as
25 shown in Table 3 below.
     [Table 3]
   Groups                       Drugs administered         Method of administration
                                            35

   Normal group                Vehicle (DPBS)            Administered
                                                          subcutaneously once a week
   Hyperlipidemia-induced      Vehicle (DPBS)
   group
                               3.25 nmol/kg     of SEQ ID
                               NO: 25-Fc conjugate
                               8.96 nmo/kg of SEQ ID NO:
                               23-Fc conjugate
          Specifically,  group 1 (normal group) was fed with a normal       feed and
   administered subcutaneously with 5 ml/kg of Dulbecco's phosphate buffered saline
   (DPBS, Sigma) once or more a week.
          Group 2 (hyperlipidemia-induced group) was fed with a high-fat diet to
 5 induce hyperlipidemia,   and then administered subcutaneously with 5 ml/kg of
   Dulbecco's phosphate buffered saline (DPBS, Sigma) once or more a week.
          Group 3 (hyperlipidemia-induced    group + group administered with 3.25
   nmol/kg of SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate) was fed with a high-fat diet to induce
   hyperlipidemia, and then administered with 3.25 nmol/kg of the SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc
10 conjugate (prepared in Example 4) once a week at an injection dose of 5 ml/kg.
          Group 4 (hyperlipidemia-induced    group + group administered with 8.96
   nmol/kg of SEQ ID NO: 23-Fc conjugate) was fed with a high-fat diet to induce
   hyperlipidemia, and then administered with 8.96 nmol/kg of the SEQ ID NO: 23-Fc
   conjugate (prepared in Example 3) once a week at an injection dose of 5 ml/kg.
15        Saline or the drug was administered into each group (n=6)  for 2 weeks,and
   then the effects thereof on a reduction in lipid levels were analyzed.
                                           36

          Example 5-2: Analysis of effect of long-acting oxyntomodulin derivative
   conjugate on reduction in lipid levels
           In order to examine the effect of the long-acting oxyntomodulin derivative
   conjugate on a reduction in lipid levels in hamsters, the following experiment
 5 was performed.
          Blood was collected from the hamsters which were administered or not
   administered with the long-acting oxyntomodulin derivative as described in Example
   5-1, and the lipid levels of the blood were analyzed using HITACHI 7020.               The
   results of the analysis are shown in FIGS. 1 to 5.
 0        FIGS. I to5 show the change inblood triglyceride levels (FIG. 1), the change
   in blood total cholesterol levels (FIG. 2), the change in LDL-cholesterol           levels
   (FIG. 3), blood HDL-cholesterol levels (FIG.           4),  and the change in the blood
   HDL/LDL-cholesterol      ratio (FIG.    5).    The obtained results were statistically
   processed, and the mean values and the standard deviations of the mean values were
 5 calculated.     In the verification of significance between the groups (n-6),data
   were statistically processed using Dunnett's test of one-way ANOVA, and a value
   of p<0.05 was considered statistically significant.
          Specifically,      in the results of measurement of blood triglyceride levels,
   it was seen that, in the case of hamsters fed with a high-fat diet, the triglyceride
20 levels were significantly        increased,    but when the    long-acting oxyntomodulin
   derivative    (SEQ   ID NO:   25-Fc conjugate or SEQ ID NO: 23-Fc conjugate)           was
   administered     into the hamsters,       the triglyceride    levels were   significantly
   decreased (FIG. 1).
           In the results of measurement of blood total cholesterol levels, it was seen
25 that, in the case of hamsters fed with a high-fat diet, the blood total cholesterol
   levels were significantly        increased,    but when the    long-acting oxyntomodulin
   derivative    (SEQ   ID NO:   25-Fc conjugate or SEQ ID NO: 23-Fc conjugate)           was
   administered     into   the   hamsters,    the   blood  total   cholesterol  levels   were
                                                  37

   significantly decreased (FIG. 2).
           In the results of measurement of blood LDL-cholesterol levels, it was seen
   that, in the case of hamsters fed with a high-fat diet, the blood LDL-cholesterol
   levels were significantly     increased,   but when the   long-acting oxyntomodulin
 5 derivative    (SEQ ID NO:  25-Fc conjugate or SEQ ID NO: 23-Fc conjugate)         was
   administered into the hamsters, the blood LDL-cholesterol cholesterol levels were
   significantly decreased (FIG. 3).
           In the results of measurement of blood HDL-cholesterol levels, the group
   administered with the SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate or the SEQ ID NO: 23-Fc conjugate
 0 showed a significant increase in the blood HDL-cholesterol levels compared to the
   high-fat diet hamster group (FIG. 4).
           In the results of measurement of blood HDL/LDL-cholesterol leve ls, the group
   administered with the SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate or the SEQ ID NO: 23-Fc conjugate
   showed a significant increase in the blood HDL/LDL-cholesterol ratio compared to
 5 the high-fat diet hamster group (FIG. 5).
           From the above results, it could be seen that the inventive oxyntomodulin
   derivative conjugate comprising the immunoglobulin Fc region covalently linked
   to the oxyntomodulin derivative       by PEG prevents   the accumulation of blood
   triglyceride and low-density (LDL) cholesterol,    and thus can be effectively used
20 for   the   treatment   of hyperlipidemia    or related    fatty   liver  disease  or
   arteriosclerosis.
           Example 6: Analysis of effects of known long-acting GLP-1 analog and
   long-acting oxyntomodulin derivative conjugate
25
           VICTOZA* is a Iong-act ing gIucagon-li ke pept ide-1,   ILP-1 analog which is
   currently markeited as an agent For treating diabetes and is known to have the
   effects of treating obesity and increasing HDL cholesterol levels.
                                             38

            The effect of reducing lipid levels was compared between the oxyntomodulin
   der i vat ive con jugate and known VICT0ZA* .
            As descr ibed in Example'5, hamsters were divided into a normal hamster group
   and hamster groups fed with a high-fat diet.           The normal hamster group was
 5 administered subcutaneously wi th 5 mi /kg of DPBS once or more a week.    The hamster
   groups fed with high---fat diet were divided into a group administered subcutaneously
   wi th 5 ml/kg of DPBS once or more a week, a group administered subcutaneously wi th
   35.5 nmol/kg of VICTOZA* once or more a week a group administered subcutaneously
   with 3.25 nmoi/kg of the SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate,and a group administered
 0 subcutaneously with 8.96 nmol/kg ofthe SEQ ID NO:23-Fc conjugate,and the blood
   lipid levels of the groups were analyzed.
            As a result,     it could be seen that admini strat ion of the inventive
   long-act ing oxyntomodul in der ivat ive conjugate (SEQ ID NO: 295-Fcconjugate or SEQ
   ID NO: 23-Fc conjugate) showed a decrease in blood total cholesterol levels (FIG.
 5 6)    and   a decrease    in  blood  LDL-cholesterol    level  (FIG.  7)  compared  to
   administration of commercial ViCTOZA*.
             In addit ion,  it  could be seen that administrat ion of the invent ive
   long-act ing oxyntomodul in der ivat ive conjugate (SEQ TID NO: 25-F> conjugate or SEQ
   ID NO: 23-Fe conjugate) showed increases in blood iDL-cholesterol levels and the
20 HDL/LDL-cholesterol ratio compared to administration of VICTOZA(FIGS.8 and 9).
   Particularly,      the long-acting SEQ ID NO: 25-Fc conjugate showed significant
   increases in blood HDL-cholesterol        levels and the HDL/LDL-cholesterol     ratio
   compared to VICTOZA#.
             In addition, administration of the inventive long-acting oxyntomodulin
25 derivative conjugate (SEQ ID NO: 25-Fe conjugate or SEQ ID NO: 23-Fc conjugate)
   showed a decrease in blood triglyceride levels compared to administration of
   VICTOZA*.
                                               39

         From the above results, it can be seen that the long-act ing oxyntomodulin
  derivative conjugate of the present invention exhibits a lipid-lowering ef feet
  that is equal to or higher than that of known VICTOZA*,   and thus the conjugate
  can be effectively used as an agent    for treating hyperlipidemia,   fatty liver
5 disease or arteriosclerosis.
                                          40

     [CLAIMS]
     [Claim 1]
           A composition for preventing or treating hyperlipidemia, fatty liver
   disease or arteriosclerosis, comprising an oxyntomodulin derivative as an active
 5 ingredient.
     [Claim 2]
           The composition according to claim 1, wherein the oxyntomodulin derivative
   has an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 2
   to 34.
 0   [Claim 3]
           The composition according to claim 1, wherein the oxyntomodulin derivative
   is in the form of a conjugate linked to one selected from the group consisting
   of an immunoglobulin fragment, an antibody, elastin, albumin and fibronectin.
     [Claim 4]
 5         The composition according to claim 3, wherein the conjugate is a conjugate
   in which the oxyntomodulin derivative having the amino acid sequence selected from
   the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 2 to 34 is linked to an immunoglobulin Fc region
   via a non-peptidyl polymer.
     [Claim 5]
20         The composition according to 4, wherein the non-peptidyl polymer is selected
   from the group consisting of polyethylene glycol, polypropylene glycol, an
   ethylene glycol/propylene glycol copolymer, polyoxyethylated polyol, polyvinyl
   alcohol, polysaccharides, dextran, polyvinyl ethyl ether, PLA (polylactic acid),
   PL1GA (polylactic--glycolic acid),  lipid polymers,   chitins, hyaluronic acid, and
25 combinations thereof.
     [Claim 6]
           The composition according to claim 4, wherein one end of the non-peptidyl
   polymer and the other are linked to an amine group or a thiol group of the
                                            41

   immunoglobulin Fc region and the oxyntomodulin derivative, respectively.
    [Claim 7]
          The composition according to claim 1, further comprising a pharmaceutical
   agent showing preventive or therapeutic effects against hyperlipidemia, fatty
 5 liver disease or arteriosclerosis.
    [Claim 8]
          The composition according to claim 1, wherein the fatty liver disease is
   non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, alcoholic fatty liver disease, nutritional
   fatty liver disease, starvation fatty liver disease, obesity fatty liver disease,
 0 diabetic fatty liver disease or steatohepatitis.
    [Claim 9]
          The composition according to claim 8, wherein the non-alcoholic fatty liver
   disease results from hyperlipidemia, diabetes or obesity.
    [Claim 10]
 5        The composition according to claim 8, wherein the non-alcoholic fatty liver
   disease is selected from the group consisting of simple steatosis, non--alcoholic
   sleatohepatitis, liver fibrosis and liver cirrhosis.
    [Claim 11]
          A method for preventing or treating hyperlipidemia, fatty liver disease or
20 arteriosclerosis, comprising a step of         an         oxyntomodulin derivative
   to a subject.
    [Claim 12]
          Use of an oxyntomodulin derivative in preparation of a medicament for
   preventing or treating hyperlipidemia, fatty liver disease or arteriosclerosis.
25
                                           42

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
