   ABSTRACT
                  An apparatus and method for raising chickens from hatchlings is
   disclosed, including a plurality of rows of feed stations arranged at spaced positions
 5 and a plurality of rows of water supply stations. Each row of feed stations has a feed
   supply line connected along the row for dispensing feed to each of the feed stations
   and a plurality of rows of water supply stations. Each row of water supply stations
   has a water supply line for dispensing water to the water supply stations where rows
   of stations are connected to a lift system for raising the stations from the floor. A first
10 strip of biodegradable paper sheet is unrolled underneath the row of feed stations
   and a second strip of biodegradable paper sheet is unrolled underneath the row of
   water supply stations which is colored with a color selected to be attractive to
   hatchlings, typically red.
15 Figure 3 for publication.

     3/4
IA
         IrK
   j/A

                                                 1
       APPARATUS FOR RAISING HATCHLINGS INCLUDING A PAPER STRIP
   FIELD
                  This disclosure relates an improved apparatus and/or method for use
 5 in rearing hatchlings in the time period immediately after hatching and particularly to
   the use of a paper strip which is colored red for attracting the hatchlings.
   DEFINITION
                    In the specification the term "comprising" shall be understood to have
10 a broad meaning similar to the term "including" and will be understood to imply the
   inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion
   of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps. This definition also applies
   to variations on the term "comprising" such as "comprise" and "comprises".
15 SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE
                  According to a first aspect of the disclosure there is provided a method
   for raising chickens from hatchlings to a larger size comprising:
                  in a barn having a floor and walls for containing the hatchlings
   mounting a row of feed stations arranged at spaced positions across the floor with a
20 feed supply line connected along the row for dispensing feed to each of the feed
   stations and a row of water supply stations arranged at spaced positions across the
   floor with a water supply line connected along the row for dispensing water to each

                                               2
   of the water supply stations, raising the water supply stations and the row of feed
   stations from the floor on a lift system;
                  laying a plurality of parallel strips of biodegradable paper sheet
   material unrolled along the floor of the barn;
 5                with the row of water supply stations and the row of feed stations raised
   from the floor on the lift system, applying to each of the plurality of parallel strips of
   biodegradable paper a layer of feed material;
                  wherein each of the plurality of parallel strips of biodegradable paper
   is colored red so as to be attractive to the hatchlings;
10                and when the layer of feed is at least partly depleted, operating the lift
   system to lower the row of water supply stations and the row of feed stations to a
   position at or adjacent the floor for taking of water and feed by the hatchlings, the
   row of water supply stations and the row of feed stations overlying one or more of
   the plurality of parallel strips.
15                Preferably the row of feed stations includes a plurality of feed supply
   dishes into which feed is deposited from the feed supply line and a plurality of feed
   drops where the feed is deposited directly onto the strip of paper.
                  Preferably the feed drops are shut off when the hatchlings are old and
   mature enough to always access the feed in the dishes.
20                Preferably the feed drops of the row of feed stations are located
   intermediate the feed supply dishes.
                  Preferably the row of water supply stations are arranged such that the
   water is deposited directly onto the strip of paper.

                                               3
                  At least one embodiment of the disclosure provides an improved
   apparatus and/or method for use in rearing hatchlings in the time period immediately
   after hatching.
                  According to a further aspect of the disclosure there is provided a
 5 method for raising chickens from hatchlings to a larger size comprising:
                  in a barn having a floor and walls for containing the hatchlings
   mounting a row of feed stations arranged at spaced positions across the floor with a
   feed supply line connected along the row for dispensing feed to each of the feed
   stations and a row of water supply stations arranged at spaced positions across the
10 floor with a water supply line connected along the row for dispensing water to each
   of the water supply stations, laying a plurality of parallel strips of biodegradable paper
   sheet material unrolled along the floor of the barn;
                  applying to each of the plurality of parallel strips of biodegradable
   paper a layer of feed material;
15                wherein each of the plurality of parallel strips of biodegradable paper
   is colored red on at least an upper surface so as to be attractive to the hatchlings.
                  Preferably the paper has a coating layer of red coloring applied to only
   one surface of the paper. That is, instead of coloring the paper through the thickness,
   a layer is applied only to one surface. In this arrangement, preferably the paper is
20 rolled into a roll of the paper where the surface of the paper which is coated red is
   on the inside of the roll and the other surface is on the outside. In this way, when
   unrolled, the colored layer is naturally on the top of the paper facing upwardly for
   receiving the layer of feed.

                                               4
                  Preferably the paper is embossed such that portions thereof are at a
   different height relative to other portions. That is preferably the paper is embossed
   with raised patches projecting upwardly in the upper or colored surface.
                  Preferably the coating layer of red coloring entirely covers the upper
 5 surface of the paper. However it may be applied in patches for example only at the
   raised portions of the embossment.
                  Preferably the raised patches have transverse dimensions less than
   1.0 inch and preferably less than 0.5 inch.
                  Preferably the paper is colored red by a coating layer on the upper
10 surface which is a water based paint. This allows the layer applied to contain a
   flavor/scenting material attractive to the hatchlings and also an anti-bacterial and/or
   disinfectant material.
                  In accordance with another aspect of the disclosure, the method
   includes transporting the hatchlings to the barn in a transport tray where at least an
15 inside surface of the transport tray is colored red and the hatchlings are placed in
   the barn on the strips of paper which are colored red with the layer of the feed
   material thereon. This operation of exposing the hatchlings to the red color at a very
   early stage in their life customizes them to this color and makes the effect of the
   colored paper more effective. This occurs even though most of the paper is covered
20 by the feed itself which is not so colored as the hatchlings expose the red color by
   pecking away the feed material which has been found to be particularly effective at
   attracting them to the paper and the feed on the paper.

                                               5
                  According to a further aspect of the disclosure there is provided a
   method for raising chickens from hatchlings to a larger size comprising:
                  in a barn having a floor and walls for containing the hatchlings
   mounting a row of feed stations arranged at spaced positions across the floor with a
 5 feed supply line connected along the row for dispensing feed to each of the feed
   stations and a row of water supply stations arranged at spaced positions across the
   floor with a water supply line connected along the row for dispensing water to each
   of the water supply stations, transporting the hatchlings to the barn in a transport
   tray;
10                where at least an inside surface of the transport tray is colored red so
   as to be attractive to the hatchlings;
                  on the floor, laying the hatchlings on the floor so as to be supported
   relative to the floor by a layer of sheet material;
                  where at least an upper surface of the layer of sheet material is colored
15 red so as to be attractive to the hatchlings; and
                  applying a layer of feed material onto the layer of sheet material on the
   floor.
                  In one embodiment, the transport tray is deposited on the floor with the
   hatchlings contained therein and the tray provides the layer of sheet material on
20 which the hatchlings are supported. This method therefore does not use the paper
   strips but instead uses the cardboard transport tray itself as the protective sheet on
   which the hatchlings are laid which is then covered by the layer of feed material. The

                                                6
   cardboard tray is then left in place and decomposes over time when the hatchlings
   have grown sufficiently to take feed from the feeder and water line.
                  In another embodiment the hatchlings are deposited from the tray onto
   the layer of sheet material on which the hatchlings are supported which is laid on the
 5 floor. In this case the tray is typically formed of a reusable plastics material and is
   removed from the barn after the hatchlings are deposited.
                  According to another aspect of the disclosure there is provided an
   apparatus for raising chickens from hatchlings to a larger size comprising:
                  a roll of biodegradable paper sheet for laying along the floor of a barn
10 onto which the hatchlings are placed arranged for raising the chickens from the
   hatchlings to a larger size;
                  wherein the biodegradable paper is colored red to be attractive to
   hatchlings.
                  The paper may have a coating layer of red coloring applied to only one
15 surface of the paper.
                  The apparatus may further include any one or more of the features
   described in any one of the preceding aspects of the disclosure.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
20                One embodiment of the disclosure will now be described in conjunction
   with the accompanying drawings in which:
                  Figure 1 is a side elevational view of a prior art apparatus for
   dispensing a paper layer for raising hatchlings.

                                               7
                   Figure 2 is a top plan view of the apparatus of Figure 1.
                   Figure 3 is a longitudinal cross-sectional view of a barn showing the
   strip laid on the floor underneath a row of feeders.
                   Figure 4 is a transverse cross-sectional view of a barn showing the
 5 strip laid on the floor underneath a row of feeders and a row of water nipples.
                   Figure 5 is a top plan view of a portion only of the paper of Figures 1,
   3 and 4
                   Figure 6 is a cross-sectional view along the lines 6-6 of Figure 5.
                   Figure 7 is a cross-sectional view through a delivery tray for
10 transporting the hatchlings to the barn of Figure 1.
                   Figure 8 is a cross-sectional view similar to that of Figure 4 showing
   an alternative arrangement in which the hatchlings are laid on the floor of the barn
   underneath the water and feeding lines in the delivery trays.
15 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
                   In the figures is shown an apparatus for laying a strip of sheet material
   10 from a roll 11 and for depositing upon the strip 10 a layer 12 of a particulate feed
   material for hatchlings or chicks 13. The strip 10 is laid flat upon a floor 14 of a
   containment pen, the floor being formed of suitable materials well known to one killed
20 in the art for raising birds from hatchlings.
                   The apparatus comprises a trailer 15 including a frame 16 and ground
   heels 17. The frame 16 includes frame members arranged to support a hopper 17
   carried on the frame. The arrangement of the frame members will be well known to

                                                8
   one skilled in the art so that detailed description is not required. The hopper 17
   includes vertical side walls and inclined hopper bottom walls 19 and 20. The frame
   provides a hitch 21 at the forward end for attachment to a suitable tractor 22.
                   The frame 16 carries a pair of forwardly extending support walls 23
 5 and 24 which extend forwardly from the front of the support legs 25 of the hopper.
   The side wall 23 and 24 are spaced by a width equal to the width of the roll 11 so
   that the roll is supported between the side walls on a support shaft 27. The roll is
   thus supported on the front of the hopper between the hopper and the tractor at a
   position spaced upwardly from the floor. The frame defines frame members which
10 are spaced apart by a width greater than the width of the strip on the roll 11 so that
   the strip is free to fall downwardly between the frame members and between the
   wheels to lie upon the floor 14.
                   The strip is preferably formed of a biodegradable paper material which
   can be laid over the floor to provide a smooth support surface for receiving the feed
15 and the hatchlings. The sheet material is of a nature which protects the hatchlings
   from the rough floor and supports the feed so that it is protected against being lost
   within the floor surface. Thus the hatchlings can be placed upon the paper or other
   sheet material and supported thereon in a manner which provides immediate access
   to the feed around them on the paper.
20                 The hopper 17 has the side walls 19 converging inwardly and
   downwardly to the ends of a bottom nozzle or slot 30 extending across the width of
   the apparatus. The rolls 20 also converge inwardly and downwardly to define sides
   31 of the nozzle.

                                                 9
                  The width of the nozzle 30 is arranged to be slightly less than the width
   of the sheet material. Thus as shown in Figure 4, the layer 12 falls from the nozzle
   30 onto the sheet 10 and defines ends 12A of the layer 12 which are spaced inwardly
   from side edges 10A of the strip material leaving a narrow band of the strip material
 5 which is free from the layer.
                  As the nozzle has a constant width across its full length, the layer that
   is discharged from the hopper is of a constant thickness, provided that the vehicle is
   moved across the floor at a constant speed.
                  Thus the arrangement has the advantage that the layer of feed material
10 can be spread evenly across the sheet as close as possible to the edges without risk
   of losing feed material over the edges so that there are no bare patches on the sheet
   and no piles of excess feed on the sheet.
                  The rate of feed through the nozzle can be controlled by a closure plate
   31 shown best in Figure 1 which is operated by a link 32 movable by a lever 33
15 operable by an operator seated on a seat 34 of the tractor 22. Thus depending upon
   the flowability of the feed material in particulate form but in the hopper and depending
   upon the speed of movement across the floor, the operator can move the closure
   plate 31 to a required position to adjust the width of the slot. The closure plate is
   located underneath the slot or nozzle 30 so that it can be moved wholly out of the
20 way of the nozzle allowing the full width of the nozzle to discharge the feed material
   or it can be moved to a position fully closing the nozzle to close off feed when not
   required or it can be moved to an intermediate position thus adjusting the width of
   the nozzle 30.

                                                  10
                   In operation, the operator grasps a portion of the strip material and
   pulls it underneath the hopper from the roll 11 so that the strip material is located on
   the floor behind the trailer 15. With the strip material so in place, the operator opens
   the nozzle 30 by operating the lever 33 to allow an initial portion of feed material onto
 5 the strip in the layer 12. Thus the strip is held onto the floor by the weight of the feed
   material and is properly located on the floor without creases, folding or slippage by
   the weight of the feed material as the feed material is deposited onto the strip as the
   vehicle is moved forwardly over the floor.
                   The strip is thus laid in long lengths along the length of the containment
10 pen with the feed material spread evenly over the strip material for receiving the
   hatchlings 13.
                   In conventional manner, hatchlings can be carried manually and
   deposited carefully onto the feed material. The fact that the feed material is evenly
   spread allows the hatchlings to be dropped simply onto the paper at any position on
15 the paper strip with the knowledge that the hatchling will be located on feed making
   it immediately accessible to the hatchling. Even the weakest hatchlings therefore
   can access feed immediately on becoming aware of their location allowing them to
   have access to the materials necessary for their growth thus reducing morbidity and
   loss.
20                 The arrangement thus provides a roll of biodegradable paper sheet for
   laying along the floor of a barn onto which the hatchlings are placed arranged for
   raising the chickens from the hatchlings to a larger size.

                                               11
                  Turning now to Figures 3 and 4, there is shown an apparatus for raising
   chickens from hatchlings to a larger size including a barn 40 having a floor 42
   covered by a layer 43 of straw or similar protective and absorbent material and walls
   41 where the barn is closed for containing the hatchlings 45.
 5                 In the barn is provided a series of rows 46 of feed stations. The rows
   are arranged at spaced positions across the floor. Each row includes a feed supply
   line 47 connected along the row 46 for dispensing feed to each of the feed stations
   48, 49. The feed stations are attached to the feed line 47 and the row of feed stations
   is connected to a lift system 50 for raising the feed stations from the floor to a raised
10 position for cleaning of the floor and laying of paper while the floor is unencumbered
   by the feed line. There is also provided a series of rows of water supply stations 51
   arranged at spaced positions across the floor and alternating with the feed lines.
   Each water supply row comprises a water supply line 54 connected along the row
   with a series of spaced water nipples 52 for dispensing water to each of the water
15 supply stations. The row 51 of water supply stations is also connected to a lift system
   53 for raising the water supply stations from the floor in a similar manner to the feed
   stations.
                   In this arrangement, the machine above is used to lay a first strip 55 of
   biodegradable paper sheet unrolled along the floor of the barn underneath the row
20 of feed stations and a second strip 56 of biodegradable paper sheet unrolled along
   the floor of the barn underneath the row of water supply stations.
                  An additional strip can be laid between the rows of water and feed
   supply lines.

                                                 12
                   The biodegradable paper is colored with a color selected to be
   attractive to hatchlings. It is known that certain colors and particularly red or a color
   sufficiently close to red is suitable to provide attraction to the hatchlings. The specific
   color to be selected is any red color, but other suitable colors can be used which can
 5 be found to be more attractive to the hatchlings than the natural brown color of
   traditional paper or of white paper.
                   The row 46 of feed stations includes a plurality of feed supply dishes
   48A at the stations 48 into which feed is deposited from the feed supply line and a
   plurality of feed drops 49A at the stations 49 where the feed is deposited directly
10 onto the strip of paper. In this way in an initial feed supply process a feed supply
   member such as an auger in the line 47 is operated to drop feed both into the dishes
   and onto the paper. The hatchlings can take the feed from the paper until they are
   ready to feed from the dishes. The colored paper attracts the hatchlings to the feed
   line and to the water line so that they have access to the materials when otherwise
15 they may not reach the materials and perish.
                   The feed drops 49 which are located intermediate the feed supply
   dishes 48A include a manually operable valve 49B which can be shut off when the
   hatchlings are old and mature enough to always access the feed in the dishes 48A.
                   The row of water supply stations or nipples 52 are arranged such that
20 the water is deposited directly onto the strip of paper so that the hatchlings are
   attracted to the water supply again to reduce the possibility of their perishing through
   failure to move to the required location.

                                                13
                   The arrangement described above thus provides a method for raising
   chickens from hatchlings to a larger size including the barn 40 having a floor 42 and
   walls 41 for containing the hatchlings. A row of feed stations 48 is arranged at spaced
   positions across the floor with a feed supply line 47 connected along the row for
 5 dispensing feed to each of the feed stations. A row 51 of water supply stations 52
   is arranged at spaced positions across the floor 42 with a water supply line 54
   connected along the row for dispensing water to each of the water supply stations.
                   In this method, when it is required to populate the barn with hatchlings,
   the water supply stations and the row of feed stations are raised from the floor 42 on
10 a lift system 50.
                   As described above the cart is used for laying a plurality of parallel
   strips of biodegradable paper sheet material unrolled along the floor of the barn.
                   With the row of water supply stations and the row of feed stations
   raised from the floor on the lift system, the cart acts to apply to each of the plurality
15 of parallel strips 10 of biodegradable paper a layer 12 of feed material.
                   As shown in Figure 6, each of the plurality of parallel strips of
   biodegradable paper is colored red by a coating layer 101 so as to be attractive to
   the hatchlings. Thus the paper has a coating layer 101 of red coloring applied to only
   the top surface 102 of the paper. That is, instead of coloring the paper through the
20 thickness, the layer 101 is applied only to one surface 102. In this arrangement,
   preferably the paper is rolled into a roll of the paper where the surface of the paper
   which is coated red is on the inside of the roll as shown in Figure 1 and the other
   surface 103 is on the outside.       In this way, when unrolled, the colored layer is

                                              14
   naturally on the top of the paper 10 facing upwardly for receiving the layer 12 of the
   feed as dispensed by the cart.
                  Also during manufacture where the layer 101 is applied to the surface
   102, the surface 103 of the paper is embossed by contact with an embossing roller
 5 pressed onto the surface 103 such that portions 105 thereof are pushed upwardly to
   a raised or a different height relative to other portions 106. That is preferably the
   paper is embossed with raised patches projecting upwardly in the upper or colored
   surface.
                  The coating layer 101 of red coloring entirely covers the upper surface
10 of the paper including the raised portions 105 and the lower portions 106.
                  The raised patches 105 can be generally diamond shaped as shown
   and have transverse dimensions D less than 1.0 inch and preferably less than 0.5
   inch. This dimension is selected so that the feet of the hatchlings are received on
   the lower portions and are restricted from sliding sideways in a splaying action by
15 engaging the sides of the raised portions 105. The presence of the indentations or
   embossment in the upper surface also acts to resist the tendency of the feed layer
   12 to slide off the edges of the paper.
                  The coating layer 101 on the upper surface is a water based paint and
   is mixed with other ingredients.
20                A first ingredient added to the coating is a flavor/scenting material so
   as to provide to the paper a flavor and/or scenting material attractive to the
   hatchlings. This enhances the attractiveness of the paper to draw the hatchlings to
   the paper area and the feed thereon.

                                              15
                  Also an anti-bacterial and/or disinfectant material can be added. The
   disinfectant material can be of the type sold under the trade mark "Aquamaster" by
   Nuvac Eco-Science Inc of Valcourt Quebec. This is a product can be mixed with
   water or feed and taken orally by the birds or can be mixed with water and used as
 5 a disinfectant wash. The material acts as a bactericide and virus reduction material.
   When applied to the paper the material can reduce the development of bacteria from
   feces and when taken orally by the hatchlings can act internally to reduce illness and
   mortality.
                  The method further includes transporting the hatchlings to the barn in
10 a transport tray 110 shown in Figure 7 where at least an inside surface 111 of the
   transport tray is colored red by a layer 112 as described above. The whole tray may
   be red or the bottom surface of a next tray in the stack may also be red so that the
   hatchlings when contained in the stack are fully exposed to the red color. The tray
   has a base 113 and upstanding sides 114 to contain the hatchlings. Although not
15 shown, the walls and base formed of a relatively stiff plastics material have stacking
   components which allow one tray to be stacked on the previous tray to hold the trays
   spaced to contain the hatchlings therebetween. Also typically when turned through
   90 degrees the trays can be placed one on the next without the spacing for the
   hatchlings after the hatchlings are dispensed to allow the trays to be returned in a
20 stack of reduced height. That is in this embodiment the hatchlings are dispensed
   from the trays onto the paper on the floor of the barn. The empty trays are then
   returned for the next batch of hatchlings. The hatchlings are placed in the barn on
   the strips of paper which are colored red with the layer of the feed material thereon.

                                               16
   This operation of exposing the hatchlings to the red color at a very early stage while
   in the delivery tray customizes them to this color and makes the effect of the colored
   paper more effective. This occurs even though most of the red paper is covered by
   the feed itself which is not so colored.     The hatchlings expose the red color by
 5 pecking away the feed material 12 to expose portions of the 115 of the paper
   between the layer of feed. This exposing of the red paper by the hatchlings pecking
   has been found to be particularly effective at attracting them to the paper and the
   feed on the paper.
                   In another embodiment shown in Figure 8, the transport tray 121 is
10 deposited on the floor with the hatchlings contained therein and the tray provides the
   layer of sheet material on which the hatchlings are supported. This method therefore
   does not use the paper strips but instead uses the base 122 cardboard transport tray
   itself as the protective sheet with a top covering layer 123 of the red color containing
   the above defined ingredients. The hatchlings remain in place in the tray and the
15 base of the tray is then covered by the layer 12 of feed material. The cardboard tray
   121 is then left in place and decomposes over time when the hatchlings have grown
   sufficiently to take feed from the feeder and water line.

                                               17
   CLAIMS:
                   1.      Apparatus for raising chickens from hatchlings to a larger size
   comprising:
                   a roll of biodegradable paper sheet for laying along the floor of a barn
 5 onto which the hatchlings are placed arranged for raising the chickens from the
   hatchlings to a larger size;
                   wherein the biodegradable paper is colored red to be attractive to
   hatchlings.
                   2.      The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the paper has a
10 coating layer of red coloring applied to only one surface of the paper.
                   3.      The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the paper is rolled
   into a roll of the paper where the surface of the paper which is coated red is on the
   inside of the roll and the other surface is on the outside.
                   4.      The apparatus according to claim 2 or claim 3, wherein the
15 coating layer of red coloring entirely covers said one surface of the paper.
                   5.      The apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein
   the paper is embossed such that portions thereof are at a different height relative to
   other portions.
                   6.      The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the paper is
20 embossed with raised patches projecting upwardly in said one surface.
                   7.      The apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the raised patches
   have transverse dimensions less than 1.0 inch (25.4mm) and preferably less than
   0.5 inch (12.7mm).

                                              18
                 8.      The apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein
   the paper is colored red by a coating layer on the upper surface which is a water
   based paint.
                 9.      The apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein
 5 the paper carries a flavor/scenting material attractive to the hatchlings.
                 10.     The apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein
   the paper carries an anti-bacterial and/or disinfectant material.
                 11.     Apparatus for raising chickens from hatchlings to a larger size
   comprising:
10               a tray arranged for transporting a plurality of hatchlings all laid on a
   base of the tray for transport to a barn for raising the chickens from hatchlings to a
   larger size;
                 wherein at least an inside surface of at least a part of the tray is a red
   color which is attractive to the hatchlings.
15               12.     The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the tray is
   arranged to be stacked on another tray while carrying the hatchlings and wherein a
   bottom surface of a next above tray is also colored red.
                 13.     The apparatus according to claim 11 or claim 12, wherein the
   tray is formed of a disposable card material.
20               14.     The apparatus according to claim 11 or claim 12, wherein the
   tray is formed of a plastics material.
                 15.     A method for raising chickens from hatchlings to a larger size
   comprising:

                                               19
                  in a barn having a floor and walls for containing the hatchlings
   mounting a row of feed stations arranged at spaced positions across the floor with a
   feed supply line connected along the row for dispensing feed to each of the feed
   stations and a row of water supply stations arranged at spaced positions across the
 5 floor with a water supply line connected along the row for dispensing water to each
   of the water supply stations, raising the water supply stations and the row of feed
   stations from the floor on a lift system;
                  laying a plurality of parallel strips of biodegradable paper sheet
   material unrolled along the floor of the barn;
10                with the row of water supply stations and the row of feed stations raised
   from the floor on the lift system, applying to each of the plurality of parallel strips of
   biodegradable paper a layer of feed material;
                  wherein each of the plurality of parallel strips of biodegradable paper
   is colored red so as to be attractive to the hatchlings;
15                and when the layer of feed is at least partly depleted, operating the lift
   system to lower the row of water supply stations and the row of feed stations to a
   position at or adjacent the floor for taking of water and feed by the hatchlings, the
   row of water supply stations and the row of feed stations overlying one or more of
   the plurality of parallel strips.
20                16.     The method according to claim 15, wherein the row of feed
   stations includes a plurality of feed supply dishes into which feed is deposited from
   the feed supply line and a plurality of feed drops where the feed is deposited directly
   onto the strip of paper.

                                               20
                  17.     The method according to claim 16, wherein the feed drops are
   shut off when the hatchlings are old and mature enough to always access the feed
   in the dishes.
                  18.     The method according to any one of claims 15 to 17, wherein
 5 the feed drops of the row of feed stations are located intermediate the feed supply
   dishes.
                  19.     The method according to any one of claims 15 to 18, wherein
   the row of water supply stations are arranged such that the water is deposited
   directly onto the strip of paper.
10                20.     A method for raising chickens from hatchlings to a larger size
   comprising:
                  in a barn having a floor and walls for containing the hatchlings
   mounting a row of feed stations arranged at spaced positions across the floor with a
   feed supply line connected along the row for dispensing feed to each of the feed
15 stations and a row of water supply stations arranged at spaced positions across the
   floor with a water supply line connected along the row for dispensing water to each
   of the water supply stations, laying a plurality of parallel strips of biodegradable paper
   sheet material unrolled along the floor of the barn;
                  applying to each of the plurality of parallel strips of biodegradable
20 paper a layer of feed material;
                  wherein each of the plurality of parallel strips of biodegradable paper
   is colored red on at least an upper surface so as to be attractive to the hatchlings.

                                               21
                   21.   The method according to claim 20, wherein the paper has a
   coating layer of red coloring applied to only one surface of the paper.
                   22.   The method according to claim 21, wherein the paper is rolled
   into a roll of the paper where the surface of the paper which is coated red is on the
 5 inside of the roll and the other surface is on the outside.
                   23.   The method according to any one of claims 20 to 22, wherein
   the coating layer of red coloring entirely covers said one surface of the paper.
                   24.   The method according to any one of claims 20 to 23, wherein
   the paper is embossed such that portions thereof are at a different height relative to
10 other portions.
                   25.   The method according to claim 24, wherein the paper is
   embossed with raised patches projecting upwardly in said one surface.
                   26.   The method according to claim 24 or claim 25, wherein the
   raised patches have transverse dimensions less than 1.0 inch (25.4mm) and
15 preferably less than 0.5 inch (12.7mm).
                   27.   The method according to any one of claims 20 to 26, wherein
   the paper is colored red by a coating layer on the upper surface which is a water
   based paint.
                   28.   The method according to any one of claims 20 to 27, wherein
20 the paper contains a flavor/scenting material attractive to the hatchlings.
                   29.   The method according to any one of claims 20 to 28, wherein
   the paper contains an anti-bacterial and/or disinfectant material.

                                              22
                  30.    The method according to any one of claims 20 to 29, including
   transporting the hatchlings to the barn in transport tray where at least an inside
   surface of the transport tray is colored red so as to be attractive to the hatchlings
   and the hatchlings are placed in the barn on the strips of paper which are colored
 5 red with the layer of the feed material thereon.
                  31.    A method for raising chickens from hatchlings to a larger size
   comprising:
                  in a barn having a floor and walls for containing the hatchlings
   mounting a row of feed stations arranged at spaced positions across the floor with a
10 feed supply line connected along the row for dispensing feed to each of the feed
   stations and a row of water supply stations arranged at spaced positions across the
   floor with a water supply line connected along the row for dispensing water to each
   of the water supply stations, transporting the hatchlings to the barn in a transport
   tray;
15                where at least an inside surface of the transport tray is colored red so
   as to be attractive to the hatchlings;
                  laying the hatchlings on the floor so as to be supported relative to the
   floor by a layer of sheet material;
                  where at least an upper surface of the layer of sheet material is colored
20 red so as to be attractive to the hatchlings; and
                  applying a layer of feed material onto the layer of sheet material on the
   floor.

                                            23
                32.    The method according to claim 31, wherein the transport tray is
  deposited on the floor with the hatchlings contained therein and the tray provides the
  layer of sheet material on which the hatchlings are supported.
                33.    The method according to claim 31 or claim 32, wherein the
5 hatchlings are deposited from the tray onto the layer of sheet material on which the
  hatchlings are supported which is laid on the floor.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702>

