   ABSTRACT:
                       A method for analysing a sample comprising a first material and a second
   material of generally different densities and having a junction therebetween, the method
 5 comprising defining a region of interest in a cross sectional image of at least a portion of the
   sample that includes said junction, determining a density profile of the sample within the
   region of interest and crossing the junction, determining a representative density of said
   second material, and analysing said sample using said junction used to distinguish said first
   and second materials.
10
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                    2/29
                                Memory
                RAM             EPROM         Mass storage
                                                   device     34
                 36                 38               40
                                 Figure 3
             28 Processing controller    Memory            34
                Processor          22    ROI result storage   70
32 3                  Display      42 **
                    controller           File result storage  72
      User            DICOM
   interface        file poller
                   DICOM file      46      Density
                    converter               profile       58
                        Fil                analyzer
                        File       48
                      selector                Rol         60
                        File       50      rejecter
                      digitizer          Initial result   62
                        Rol        52     integrator
                      selector           Final result     64
                       Bone        54     integrator
                     identifier              Index        66
                    Specimen       56    determiner
                      position              Result        68
                     adjuster               output
                                 Figure 4

                                                       -  1
                                        ANALYSIS METHOD AND SYSTEM
   RELATED APPLICATION
                       This application is divided from and claims the benefit of the filing and priority
   dates of Australian patent application no. 2015203523 filed 25 June 2015, itself a divisional
 5 application of Australian patent application no. 2010292991 which is based on Australian
   patent application no. 2009904407 filed 11 September 2009, the content of each of these
   cited applications as filed is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
                       The present invention relates to an analysis method and system for identifying
10 (including automatically if desired) an object or structure from its surrounding environment,
   separating or distinguishing an object or structure from its surrounding environment, and
   analysing the object or structure, using - for example - an image of the object or structure,
   and is of particular but by no means exclusive application in the analysis of biological tissue
   including the analysis of bone (in vivo or otherwise) and diagnosis of disease such as bone
15 disease, and the analysis or characterization of materials and geological samples. In a
   particular embodiment, the invention relates to the identification and distinguishing of bone
   from surrounding tissue (such as muscle and fat), the analysis of its structure and the
   detection of decayed or abnormal bone (and hence in some case fracture-vulnerable bone).
   In another particular embodiment, the invention relates to the location or identification of a
20 foreign body embedded within biological tissue (such as muscle).
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
                       Currently, bone density is the commonly used tool to predict fracture risk and
   evaluate the effects of treatment on bone but it lacks sensitivity and specificity. More than
   half of all hip fractures occur in women determined to be without osteoporosis with dual
25 energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) with a T-score              -2.5. Furthermore, most women with
   osteoporosis as defined by DEXA BMD do not sustain fractures (Delmas P.D., Seeman E.
   Changes in bone mineral density explain little of the reduction in vertebral or nonvertebral
   fracture risk with anti-resorptive therapy, Bone 34(4) (2004) p.599-60 4 ). During drug
   therapy, only a small proportion of the fracture risk reduction is explained by the increase in
30 bone density (Ott S.M., When bone mass fails to predict bone failure, Calcif. Tissue Int.
   53(Suppll) pp.S7-S13). This lack of sensitivity and specificity partly is partly due to the fact
   that fracture risk is not only determined by bone density but also bone structure (Zebaze
   R.M. and Seeman S., Measuring Femoral Neck Strength: Lost in Translation?, IBMS
   BoneKEy 5 (2008) pp.336-339).
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                             -   2
                       Consequently, techniques such as quantitative computed tomography (CT) and
   magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are being used to produce images that are then
   analysed to predict fracture risk, quantify the effects of drugs and determine the
   effectiveness of various strategies (such as exercise or diet) for the prevention of bone loss.
 5 However, parameters derived from these imaging modalities have not proved to be
   significantly better than bone density measurement, and cannot presently be used as a
   substitute for bone density measurement.
                       The problem with these approaches lies not only in image acquisition but also,
   and more significantly, in image processing. One of the most important problems with
10 existing techniques for assessing bone structure from such images is their reliance on fixed
   arbitrary thresholds to identify bone within a region of interest (ROI) and to segment (i.e.
   separate) bone into its various compartments (usually cortical and trabecular bone). Bone
   architecture differs from person to person and, for this reason, the use of fix thresholds has
   different and unpredictable consequences on bones from different individuals.                    Hence, the
15 use of a fixed threshold can create apparent differences where none exist, or obscure
   differences when they exist.
                        Furthermore, current methods employ a simplistic model of bone structure. In
   particular, these methods treat bone as a structure made of two distinct compartments
   (cortical and trabecular bone). In fact, the so-called 'compact' bone and trabecular
20 ('spongy') bone are extremes of a continuum of variation in porosity from the periosteum to
   the inner marrow cavity.
                        In addition, current methods employ so-called 'phantom calibration' to determine
   the density associated with each pixel within an image. This density is then used to identify
   bone and assess its structure (hence the term quantitative computed tomography (QCT)).
25 Existing calibration procedures are specific to each scanner manufacturer, so bone structure
   analysis - performed by software embedded in the scanner - is manufacturer specific.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
                       According to a first broad aspect of the invention, there is provided a method for
   analysing a sample comprising a first material and a second material of generally different
30 densities and having a junction (abrupt or otherwise) therebetween, the method comprising:
                                  defining a region of interest in a cross sectional image of at least a portion
                       of the sample that includes said junction;
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                           -   3
                                  determining a density profile of the sample within the region of interest and
                       crossing the junction;
                                  determining a representative density of said second material (such as from
                       the density profile); and
 5                                analysing said sample using said junction used to distinguish said first and
                       second materials.
                       The characteristics of the invention allow the method to operate automatically
   (and the system described below to be automated).
                       The method may include locating the junction (using, for example, a distance
10 function relative to a suitably selected point) in the density profile between the first material
   and the second material.
                       Thus, the first and second materials could be two biological tissues of different
   densities (such as bone or a tumour and surrounding soft tissue respectively), but could be
   any two materials that allow a cross sectional image to be made and have generally different
15 densities. For example, the method and system could be used to identify and provide an
   analysis or characterization of a sample comprising a bullet (or other metallic object)
   embedded in muscle or other biological tissue.
                       This is achieved, it will be noted, without requiring the use of thresholds in the
   image analysis, such as to distinguish bone from surrounding soft tissues or into various
20 compartments.
                        It should also be noted that "material" is used in its broadest sense. A material
   may be an object (or part thereof), a structure within an object, a volume of gas, or a largely
   evacuated volume.
                        In one embodiment, the method further comprises determining an architecture of
25 the first material (such as a bone architecture).
                        In another embodiment, the method comprises detecting decay or abnormality in
   the first material (such as decay or abnormality in the structure of bone). For example, the
   method may include identifying fracture-vulnerable bone.
                        Locating the junction in the density profile may comprise locating a point in the
30 density profile that is closest to a reference point having the same position as the
   representative density of the first material and a density similar or lower than that of second
   material.
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                        In this embodiment, locating the junction may involve finding a minimum in the
   expression             xi + y          in a reference frame within the density profile centred on
   (xi, y 1 ) = (0,0).
                        In this embodiment, locating the junction may involve finding a maximum in the
 5 expression             x        + y? in a reference frame within the density profile centred on
   (xi, y 1 )          =    (0,0).
                        In another embodiment, locating the junction involves locating a point of greatest
   rate of change in the density profile in a portion of said region of interest that is bounded by
   said point of maximum density difference and that includes said second material.
10                      In still another embodiment, locating the junction involves locating a point of
   smallest rate of change in the density profile in a portion of said region of interest that is
   bounded by said point of maximum density difference and that includes said second
   material.
                        In a certain embodiment, locating the junction includes locating a point of
15 inflexion in the density profile.
                        In still another embodiment, locating the junction includes forming a second
   order derivative of the density profile (that is, of one or more portions of the density profile,
   for example, in the highest 'hills' as described below), such as to locate a point of inflexion in
   a first order derivative in one or more segments of the density profile curve (corresponding,
20 for example, to respective compartments within the sample).
                        In some embodiments, the region of interest includes at least one further junction
   that is between said first material and a further portion of said sample that comprises either
   said second material, a third material or a vacancy, and the method further comprises:
                                  determining a representative density of said further portion; and
25                                locating a further junction in said density profile in a portion of said region
                       of interest that is bounded by said point of maximum density and that includes
                       said further portion.
                        In this embodiment, the method may include further analysing the first material
   by using only portions of said sample between the junction in said density profile and the
30 further junction in said density profile.
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                             -  5
                        Locating the further junction in the density profile may comprise locating a point
   in the density profile that is closest to a further reference point having the same position as
   point of maximum density difference and the same density as the representative density of
   the further portion.
 5                     The method may further comprise optimizing the position of the selected region
   of interest for use by the density profile analyzer in determining the density profile by
   adjusting the position of the region of interest.
                       The method may further comprise merging a plurality of regions of interest.
                       The method may further comprise identifying one or more points of inflexion in
10 the density profile, particularly within the first material.
                       The method may further comprise identifying one or more points of inflexion in
   the density profile (such as within the first material), to define a plurality of compartments
   within the sample.
                        For example, bone may be characterized as a plurality of compartments
15 according to this embodiment, hence without using thresholds.
                        In one embodiment, the first material is bone, and the compartments comprise
   any one or more of:
                                  a compartment bounded by a periosteal boundary and a beginning of the
                       cortex;
20                                a compartment bounded by a beginning of the cortex and a beginning of
                       the compact cortex;
                                  a compact (or hard) cortex compartment;
                                  a trabecularized cortex compartment;
                                  a cortico-trabecular junction compartment; and
25                                a trabecular compartment.
                       The importance of distinguishing the periosteal boundary, the beginning of the
   cortex and the beginning of the hard cortex arises because: (i) the periosteal boundary is the
   edge marking the beginning of the bone (though some voxels may comprise different
   proportion of tissue and bone, so may be tainted by artefacts such as partial volume effects
30 (PVE), (ii) the beginning of the cortex marks the point where most of the attenuation within
   voxels are due to bone tissue, and hence the point where the bone is considered to start,
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                            -   6
   and (iii) the beginning of the compact cortex corresponds to the first strip with attenuation
   almost exclusively due to bone tissue with almost no artifact due PVE .
                       Hence, voxels or pixels located between the periosteal boundary and the
   beginning of the hard cortex are tainted by partial volume effects (PVE), that is, their
 5 attenuation is partly due to surrounding soft tissues or other artefacts.
                        In this embodiment, it should be noted, these compartments can be defined in
   different terms but to essentially the same effect. Thus, in a this embodiment, the first
   material is bone, and the compartments comprise any one or more of:
                                  a compartment bounded by a periosteal boundary and a beginning of the
10                     compact cortex;
                                  a compartment bounded by a beginning of the compact cortex and the
                       beginning of the an outer transition zone;
                                  an outer transition zone;
                                  an inner transition zone and;
15                                a trabecular compartment.
                       The ability to identify this transition between the periosteal boundary (viz. purely
   soft tissue) and the beginning of the compact cortex (purely bone) is unique to the method of
   this aspect, and may have many important advantageous applications. According to this
   aspect, the influence of artefacts such as PVE on the assessment of the structure may be
20 allowed for, the dimensions of the bone may be determined, and the structure of the bone
   may be assessed with minimal artefact from PVE.
                        Hence, in one embodiment, the method includes minimizing PVEs when
   analysing bone structure, while in another embodiment the method includes determining the
   dimensions of a structure within an image (such as a tumour, an abscess or a haemorrhage)
25 while minimizing PVEs.
                        In one embodiment, the method includes determining a proportion of the cortex
   that has a trabecular-like appearance.
                        In one embodiment, the method includes determining an average of the cortical
   thicknesses of the compact cortex.
30                      In one embodiment, the method includes determining an average of the cortical
   thicknesses of the cortical mass.
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                        In one embodiment, the method includes determining an average of the cortical
   thicknesses of the trabecularized cortex.
                        In one embodiment, the portion includes a trabecular portion of said bone
   sample and a cortical portion of said bone sample.
 5                     The method may include imaging the internal region of the bone sample.
                       The imaging may comprise computed tomography imaging.
                        In certain embodiments, the imaging is conducted in vivo.
                        In one embodiment, the portion of the sample comprises a radial strip.
                        In an embodiment, the method comprises imaging a plurality of portions of the
10 sample and determining respective density profiles (such as radial bone density profiles) of
   each of said portions.
                       The method may include automatically identifying bone within a sample.
                       The method may include determining any one or more indices from the group
   consisting of:
15                                the thickness of the cortex, of the trabecularized cortex or of the transition
                       zone;
                                  the cortical area or of the trabecularized cortex;
                                  the porosity of cortex, of the trabecularized cortex, or of the transition zone;
                                 whether the cortex or the trabecularized cortex is normal regardless of its
20                     absolute thickness or area;
                                 whether the cortex or the trabecularized cortex has been subject to
                       resorption (and, hence, has lost bone); and
                                  trabecular architecture and porosity from the analysis of the profile;
                       The method may include determining              the loss of differentiation between the
25 cortical and the trabecular compartments.
                       The method may include identifying non-bone tissue (i.e. pores and fat tissues)
   within the periosteal envelope.
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                   -   8
                       The method may comprise determining a radius, perimeter length or cross
   sectional area of the first material (such as one or more radii of a bone sample point by point
   around the perimeter of the bone sample).
                       The method may comprise determining the second moment area (or moment of
 5 inertia) of the first material (such as bone point by point around the perimeter of the bone
   sample).
                       The method may comprise determining a mass adjusted second moment area of
   a cross section of bone point-by-point around its perimeter
                       The method may comprise determining the section moduli (and mass adjusted
10 section moduli) of a cross section of bone.
                       The method may comprise determining a buckling ratio (or a mass adjusted
   buckling ratio) of a cross section of bone.
                       The method may comprise determining the area of a cross section of bone.
                       The method may comprise determining the perimeter of a cross section of bone.
15                     The method may comprise determining the section moduli (and mass adjusted
   section moduli) of a cross section of bone using specific functions described below to
   separate bone from soft tissues.
                       The method may comprise determining the polar moment of inertia moduli (and
   mass adjusted polar moment of inertia) of a cross section of bone using specific functions
20 described below.
                       The method may comprise determining the radii of the cross section of bone
   point-by-point around its perimeter, such as by using specific functions described below.
                       The method may comprise identifying trabecular bone within the sample and
   determining one or more trabecular indices, such as trabecular size or trabecular separation.
25                     The method may comprise determining the degree of mineralization of bone
   using the surrounding muscular tissue as referent.
                       The method may comprise determining the absolute density (such as in g/cc or
   mgHA/cc equivalent) of a constituent (or element) within the region of interest ROI using the
   attenuation of the second material (such as muscle tissue) as referent.
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                        - 9
                       The method may comprise determining the relative density (such as in percent)
   of an object (or structure) within the region of interest using the attenuation of the second
   material (such as muscle tissue) as referent.
                        In this embodiment, the method may comprise identifying abnormality within the
 5 bone sample from any one or more of the indices.
                        In one embodiment, the method includes determining whether the bone sample
   is abnormal based on having an abnormal cortex, an abnormal trabecular compartment, or
   both an abnormal cortex and an abnormal trabecular compartment.
                       The system and method may be embodied in a computer-readable medium that
10 can be installed in personal computers, CT machines or MRI machines allowing a flexible
   and robust analysis of images for automated radiological diagnosis of diseases and, in
   particular, allowing automated analysis of bone structure to diagnosis osteoporosis, assess
   fracture risk and the effects of disease and treatments in bone using CT, QCT and MRI
   source files (DICOM, JPEG, TIFF or other imaging files) in vivo and in vitro. The invention is
15 expected to be useful in the diagnosis of osteoporosis, of certain metabolic bone diseases
   (e.g. osteomalacia or paget disease) and infiltrative bone diseases such as bone metastasis.
                        It should also be noted the present invention allows the assessment of sample
   (such as bone) structure and diagnosis of bone diseases such as osteoporosis using, for
   example, a personal computer (operated by, for example, a physician or scientist).
20                      In one embodiment, the method comprises identifying and analyzing a necrotic
   mass from surrounding healthy soft tissue from the difference in attenuation between the
   necrotic mass and the surrounding healthy tissue. This has applications for the diagnosis
   and the monitoring for example of internal (or deep) abscesses.
                        In one embodiment, the method comprises identifying and analyzing an ectopic
25 calcification from surrounding soft tissue. This has potential applications for the diagnosis
   and monitoring of cardiovascular diseases.
                        In one embodiment, the method comprises identifying and analyzing kidney
   stones. Kidney stones have a majority (80%) of calcium content and hence can be treated
   as bone tissue in an ectopic position. This will a mean for an automated diagnosis of the
30 majority (perhaps 80%) of kidney stones.
                       Thus, the lifetime prevalence of kidney stones is 10% or roughly around 2 million
   patients per year in the USA, so an automated diagnosis of this condition will be of great
   help for health care professionals and, in particular, for radiologists.
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                            -   10
                        In one embodiment, the method comprises identifying and analyzing a calcified
   other tumour.
                        In one embodiment, the method comprises identifying and analyzing an object
   within an image in a non-medical discipline.
 5                      In a particularly advantageous embodiment, analyzing the sample comprises
   analyzing the image using a rotatory arm width.
                       According to this broad aspect, the invention also provides a method for
   analysing a sample comprising a first material and a second material of generally different
   densities and having a junction therebetween, the method comprising:
10                                defining a region of interest in a cross sectional image of at least a portion
                       of the sample that includes said junction;
                                  determining an arm width over which said portion of said sample is locally
                        linear; and
                                  analyzing said image including rotating said arm width, translating said arm
15                     width, or both by rotating and translating said arm width.
                        In a second broad aspect, the invention provides a system for analysing a
   sample comprising a first material and a second material of generally different densities and
   having a junction therebetween, the system comprising:
                                  a region of interest selector for selecting a region of interest in a cross
20                     sectional image of at least a portion of the sample that includes said junction;
                                  a density profile analyzer for determining a density profile of the sample
                       within the region of interest and crossing the junction, for determining a
                       representative density of said second material, and for performing an analysis of
                       said sample using said junction to distinguish said first and second materials;
25                     and
                                  an output for outputting a result of said analysis.
                       The system may include a region of interest position adjuster, adapted to
   optimize the position of the selected region of interest for use by the density profile analyzer
   in determining the density profile.
30                     The system may include a region of interest merger, adapted to merge a plurality
   of regions of interest.
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                        -  11
                       Thus, the analysis of the sample may involve using the region of interest selector
   plural times, producing a plurality of regions of interest; the region of interest merger is
   adapted to merge the plurality of regions of interest (generally after each has been
   successfully tested for suitability), including correctly handling overlapping portions of the
 5 plurality of regions of interest, to construct an image, such as a cross sectional image, of the
   sample.
                       The density profile analyzer may also be adapted for locating the junction (using,
   for example, a distance function) in the density profile between the first material and the
   second material.
10                     The system (and in particular the density profile analyzer) may have one or more
   modules adapted to perform respective optional steps of the method of the first aspect.
                       The system may include an evacuatable sample chamber or alternatively a
   sample may comprise a second material of known characteristics (such as water) placed
   around the first material to serve as a referent for the analysis of the first material (just as,
15 with bone in vivo, the sample comprises bone surrounded by muscle, which can be
   essentially treated as water).
                       This allows a sample to be created wherein one of the first and second materials
   comprises an evacuated volume (such as adjacent to or surrounding the other of the
   materials).
20                     According to a further broad aspect, the invention provides executable
   instructions or software (such as embodied in a computer readable medium, for example
   with the executable instructions or software imbedded or permanently stored therein), that,
   when executed by a computer or processor of a computer, cause the computer or processor
   of the computer to perform the method for analysing a sample described above.
25                     The result of the analysing step would generally be outputted, either for review or
   further analysis, but may be outputted to a memory or memory medium, such as for later
   review or further analysis.
                       According to another broad aspect, the invention provides a computing device
   provided with executable instructions or software that, when executed by the computing
30 device or by a processor of the computing device, cause the computing device or processor
   of the computing device to perform the method for analysing a sample described above.
                        It should be noted that any of the various features of each of the above aspects
   of the invention can be combined as suitable and desired. It should also be noted that
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                          -  12
   embodiments that refer to the analysis of bone may also be applied, suitably modified where
   necessary, to other samples.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING
                        In order that the invention may be more clearly ascertained, embodiments will
 5 now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawing, in
   which:
                        Figure 1 is a schematic view of a system for detecting fracture-vulnerable bone
   according to an embodiment of the present invention;
                        Figure 2 is a schematic view of the image processor of the system of figure 1;
10                      Figure 3 is a schematic view of the memory of the processing controller of the
   image processor of the system of figure 1;
                        Figure 4 is another, more detailed schematic view of the image processor of the
   system of figure 1;
                        Figure 5 is a system flow diagram of the system of figure 1 (including interaction
15 with a user and customer);
                        Figure 6 is an exemplary image of bone as output by the image processor of the
   system of figure 1;
                        Figure 7A is a schematic depiction of the determination of the centre of mass of
   a bone sample by the image processor of the system of figure 1;
20                      Figure 7B is a schematic depiction of the rotation of an image of a bone sample
   by the image processor of the system of figure 1, both clockwise and anticlockwise;
                        Figure 8A is an exemplary image derived by the image processor of the system
   of figure 1 from a DICOM file of a region of interest (ROI);
                        Figure 8B is the image of figure 8A shown in negative for additional clarity;
25                      Figure 9 is a plot of bone strip density (in mgHA/cc) against line number for the
   image of figure 8A as determined by the image processor of the system of figure 1;
                        Figure 10 is a plot of the first derivative of the density profile curve of figure 9, as
   determined by the image processor of the system of figure 1;
                        Figure 11 is a plot comparable to that of figure 9, illustrating the determination of
30 the periosteal boundary by the image processor of the system of figure 1;
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                          -  13
                        Figure 12 is a plot comparable to that of figure 9, illustrating the determination of
   the beginning of the compact cortex by the image processor of the system of figure 1;
                        Figure 13 is a plot comparable to that of figure 9, illustrating the determination of
   the end of the cortical mass by the image processor of the system of figure 1;
 5                      Figure 14 is a plot of the first order derivative data of figure 10, binarized by the
   image processor of the system of figure 1, for determining the beginning and the end of the
   cortex;
                        Figure 15 is a plot comparable to that of figure 9, illustrating the determination of
   the end of the compact cortex by the image processor of the system of figure 1;
10                      Figure 16 is a plot comparable to figure 9, summarizing the results of the
   identification steps performed by the image processor of the system of figure 1;
                        Figure 17 is another exemplary image derived by the image processor of the
   system of figure 1 from a DICOM file of a region of interest (upper register) and a copy of
   this image shown in negative for additional clarity (lower register), with compartment
15 boundaries identified by the image processor of the system of figure 1 labelled;
                        Figure 18 is a plot of bone strip density (in mgHA/cc) against line number for the
   image of figure 17 as determined by the image processor of the system of figure 1;
                        Figure 19 is an exemplary image of a bone sample with 'floating cortical' bone
   identified with the system of figure 1;
20                      Figures 20A and 20B illustrate the preparatory steps performed by the image
   processor of the system of figure 1 for rotating a region of interest within an image;
                        Figure 20C is a flow diagram of the image recognition and image analysis
   rotations performed by the image processor of the system of figure 1;
                        Figure 21 is a BVE scale used by image processor of the system of figure 1 to
25 analyse and characterize the bone during the analysis rotation;
                        Figures 22A, 22B and 22C depict the process of image binarization performed
   by the image processor of the system of figure 1, where figure 22A is an exemplary image of
   a bone sample, figure 22B illustrates the identification of pores within the cortical mass in
   one column, and figure 22C is a binarized plot of bone versus non-bone pixels along the line
30 analysed;
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                         -   14
                        Figure 23 is a flow diagram illustrating the use of the system of figure 1 to
   identify an object of known dimensions within an image, isolate and determine its
   dimensions;
                        Figure 24 is a schematic depiction of the determination of the geometric centre
 5 of a bone sample by the image processor of the system of figure 1 for the case where the
   pixel of representative density is not generally central to the sample;
                        Figure 25 is a flow diagram illustrating the use of the system of figure 1 to
   identify an object of known dimensions within an image, isolate the object and determine its
   dimensions;
10                      Figure 26 is a view of a control screen of the image processor of the system of
   figure 1;
                        Figures 27A, 27B, 27C, 27D, 27E and 27F are plots, resulting from the
   exemplary use of figure 25, of thickness, radius, external perimeter, cross section, internal
   perimeter and internal surface area as a function of the ROls respectively;
15                      Figure 28 is a cross-sectional grayscale image of an exemplary phantom sample
   for use with the system of figure 1, comprising a plastic tube with drilled holes;
                        Figure 29 is a plot of porosity of several plastic tubes comparable to that shown
   in figure 28 obtained using the system of figure 1 against known porosity;
                        Figure 30 is a plot of porosity of four phantom samples of different but known
20 concentrations of hydroxapatite obtained using the system of figure 1 against known
   porosity;
                        Figures 31A and 31B are micrographs of bone samples analyzed with the
   system of figure 1;
                        Figures 32A and 32B are micrographs of further bone samples analyzed with the
25 system of figure 1;
                        Figure 33 is a micrograph of another bone sample analyzed with the system of
   figure 1;
                        Figure 34A is a plot of BMD T-scores against porosity for 24 specimens,
   illustrating the poor correlation between the levels of porosity measured directly from SEM
30 images and BMD diagnosis thresholds in the 24 specimens analyzed;
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                         -  15
                        Figure 34B is a plot of percentage porosity determined by the system of figure 1
   against percentage porosity measured directly from SEM images;
                        Figure 35 illustrates the positions of points m, n and o within a density profile
   curve determined by the system of figure 1 when compared with direct observation of the
 5 corresponding SEM image, for a bone sample;
                        Figure 36 illustrates the positions of points m, n and o within a density profile
   curve determined by the system of figure 1 when compared with direct observation of the
   corresponding SEM image, for another bone sample;
                        Figure 37A is a plot of age-related increase in activation frequency (Ac.F) per
10 year measured directly by histomorphometry as a function of age;
                        Figure 37B is a plot of age-related increase in porosity measured using the
   system of figure 1, for comparison with the data of figure 37A;
                        Figure 38A is a greyscale image of a distal radius reconstructed from high
   resolution peripheral quantitative computed tomography (HRpQCT) data;
15                      Figure 38B is an image of the sample depicted in figure 38A, reconstructed by
   the system of figure 1 after extraction of the periosteal surface;
                        Figure 38C is another view of the sample of figure 38A, showing the
   segmentation of the same image by the system of figure 1 into four bone compartments;
                        Figure 38D is a plot extracted from figure 38C of the outer transition zone only;
20                      Figure 38E is a plot extracted from figure 38C of the inner transition zone only;
                        Figures 38F and 38G are greyscale versions of, respectively, figures 38B and
   38C;
                        Figure 39A is an image generated by the system of figure 1 of a sample
   comprising the head of a safety pin embedded in muscle;
25                      Figure 39B is an enlargement of the initial region of interest of the image of
   figure 39A;
                        Figure 40 includes a plot of the density profile curve (upper register) associated
   with ROI, of the image of figure 39A and a plot of the function ki (lower register) associated
   with the density profile curve, both generated by the system of figure 1;
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                         - 16
                        Figure 41A is a cross sectional view of a distal radius generated by a system of
   the background art;
                        Figure 41 B is a cross sectional view of the same distal radius generated by the
   system of figure 1;
 5                      Figure 42A is a cross sectional view of a tibia, with bone and background
   delineated by a system of the background art; and
                        Figure 42B is a cross sectional view of the same tibia, with bone and background
   delineated by the system of figure 1.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS
10                     According to an embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a system
   for detecting fracture-vulnerable bone, shown schematically at 10 in figure 1.
                       System 10 comprises a CT scanner 12, CT control system 14 and an image
   analyser in the form of image processor 16. Image processor 16 includes a user interface
   18 comprising an input device and an output device. The input device is in the form of a
15 keyboard 20 for controlling image processor 16, and the output device is in the form of a
   display 22 for displaying images from the CT scanner 12 before and after processing by
   image processor 16. CT scanner 12 is configured to perform CT scans of a sample located
   within central scanning volume 24 of CT scanner 12 and to output digitized scan data to CT
   control system 14; CT control system 14 is configured to generate image data from the data
20 received from CT scanner 12, and to output these image data to image processor 16.
                        In this embodiment, the image data comprises a set of individual image slices or
   strips through the sample but, in other embodiments, other sections may be used (such as
   coronal, transverse or oblique sections).
                        It will be appreciated that system 10 may operate in online and off-line modes.
25 In the online mode, image processor 16 receives data directly from CT control system 14
   (during or soon after scanning of the sample). Such an arrangement may be used in a
   clinical setting, especially if the detection of any fracture-vulnerable bone is urgent. In this
   online mode, the data is transmitted to image processor 16 via a data link (connected to
   respective USBs of the CT control system 14 and image processor 16) or a communications
30 network (to which CT control system 14 and image processor 16 are both connected, such
   as in the form of the internet); this link or network is shown schematically in figure 1 at 26.
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                        -  17
                        In the off-line mode, image processor 16 receives data collected earlier by CT
   scanner 12 and CT control system 14; the data may be transmitted to image processor 16
   via communications link or network 26, or by any other suitable means (including on portable
   computer readable medium, such as CD-ROM, flash card or the like).
 5                      Image processor 16 includes a processing controller 28 that is in data
   communication with input 20 and output 22 and configured to process image processing
   instructions in accordance with a processing procedure (discussed below) and to output
   processing outcomes (which may comprise images and/or detection results) to display 22.
                        Referring to figure 2, processing controller 28 comprises a digital processor 30
10 that processes the processing instructions in accordance with the processing procedure and
   - and described above - outputs processing outcomes to display 22. Keyboard 20 and
   display 22 together constitute a user interface 32. Typically, the processing instructions are
   stored as program code in a memory 34 of processing controller 28 but can also be
   hardwired. Herein the term "processor" is used to refer generically to any device that can
15 process processing instructions in accordance with the processing procedure and may
   comprise: a microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable logic device or other
   computational device, a general purpose computer (e.g. a PC) or a server.
                        Figure 3 shows a block diagram of the main components of memory 34.
   Memory 34 includes RAM 36, EPROM 38 and a mass storage device 40. RAM 36 typically
20 temporarily holds program files for execution by the processor 30 and related data. EPROM
   38 may be a boot ROM device and/or may contain some system or processing related code.
   Mass storage device 40 is typically used for processing programs.
                        Figure 4 is another schematic view of user interface 32 and processing controller
   28 of system 10 of figure 1, with more detail shown in processing controller 28. Specifically,
25 processor 30 of processing controller 28 includes a display controller 42 for controlling
   display 22, a DICOM file poller 44 for polling DICOM ('Digital Imaging and Communications
   in Medicine') files from a staging area (typically CT control system 14), a DICOM file
   converter 46 for converting DICOM files into images for display, a file selector 48
   controllable to select the files to be processed by image processor 16, a file digitizer 50 for
30 digitizing the selected files, a ROI selector 52 for selecting regions of interest, a bone
   identifier 54 for identifying bone within a region of interest, a specimen position adjuster 56,
   a density profile analyzer 58 for analyzing the density profile of a sample of bone, a ROI
   rejecter 60, an initial result integrator 62, a final result integrator 64, an index determiner 66,
   and a result output 68. Index determiner 66 is adapted to determine various indices
35 characterizing the bone sample, such that image processor 16 can transforms image data
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                        -   18
   indicative of the appearance of a bone sample into indices indicative of various physical
   properties of the sample.
                        Memory 34 of processing controller 28 includes a ROI result storage 70 and a
   file result storage 72.
 5                     The processing instructions that embody the processing procedure are in the
   form, as described above, of program code stored in memory 34, and are adapted to control
   processing controller 26 to perform the processing procedure, as shown schematically in
   figure 5. Referring to figure 5, image processor 16 receives (in either online or off-line
   mode) a DICOM file (collected - possibly in vivo - of a sample of bone) by polling CT control
10 system 14, and stores the file in memory 34. The received file, in this embodiment, is a
   DICOM file but in other embodiments may be in a different image format, such as JPEG or
   TIFF. Image processor 16 converts the file into an image and outputs the image to display
   22 so that the user can view the image to be processed. Figure 6 is an example of such an
   image 80 of a sample of bone 82 surrounded by soft tissue 84. This allows the user to
15 assess the adequacy of the sample by verifying that the appropriate file (e.g. correct bone
   site) has been uploaded and that the image is of sufficient quality for the processing to
   proceed. If these conditions are satisfied, the user controls image processor 16 to select the
   individual files from within the DICOM file (that is, corresponding to specific image slices
   through a region of interest (ROI) that he or she wishes to analyze) for processing. If the
20 user does not specify the individual files to be processed, image processor 16 continues with
   a default selection of the number of slices. The user then controls image processor 16 to
   commence the processing procedure.
                       The user may also control system 10 to skip the step of viewing the image if
   sufficiently confident that the image is of high enough quality such that no additional
25 verification is needed. In these circumstances, system 10 automatically uploads and
   analyses the sample without further user intervention, and image processor 16 initiates
   analysis without instructions from the user.
                        Initially, image processor 16 digitizes the files using conventional techniques.
   Any other desired, conventional pre-processing may also be performed at this point.
30                     The first step performed by image processor 16 is to identify the material of
   interest (in this example, bone). This initial identification of the material of interest is done by
   localizing a point with a density representative of the density of the material. In the case of a
   CT scan image sample containing bone tissue, a point (B) with the representative density is
   the pixel with the highest attenuation (or density). (In other embodiments, the point with the
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                          - 19
   density representative of density of the material to be analysed may the point with the lowest
   attenuation value, which may be - for example - for the initial identification of an abscess, as
   abscesses have low attenuation values.)
                        From point B (cf. figure 7A), image processor 16 uses radii r, r2 , r3 and r4 of the
 5 bone at 00, 90, 1800 and 2700 respectively to determine a geometric centre (C) of
   coordinates (x,y), in this embodiment according to:
                                   (X,y)   =         2--      r (-2   +               (1)
                        Image processor 16 also determines the centroid (i.e. centre of mass) G        (XG, yG)
   from the initial centre (I) as:
                                                            n
                                                            E Ai    * xi
              10                                             Ai *xi
                                                            n
             10=
                                                             EAi * Yj
                                                         XG Ai * Yj
                       Al is the of attenuation (or density) of pixel i and xi and yi its coordinates in the
   referential of centre (C). This process is illustrated in figure 7A for the example of figure 6.
                       Depending on the indices to be computed, image processor 16 uses either C or
   G.
15                      Image processor 16 next determines the appropriate arm width (AW) for the
   analysis. Image processor 16 does not analyse the entire cross section (or file content) at
   the same time. Each file is subdivided into regions of interest (ROI) of specific length              (LROI)
   and width. A ROI may be referred to as an 'arm', so the width of the ROI is called 'arm
   width' or AW. The AW used by image processor 16 depends on the indices to be
20 determined and, as is described below, the size of the material to be analysed. Image
   processor 16 employs an appropriate AW in the form of:
                                     AW    ; ri  * tan(arccos (A)),                 (2)
                       where A is the estimated curvature of the bone from the chosen centre (C or G)
   and r; is the smallest of the four radii (viz. r1 , r2 , r3 and r4) calculated above.
25                      For most indices, image processor 16 commences from centre C, and A is set to
   a value of 0.98; this AW is designated as AW 1. For a A of 0.98, there is a negligible effect
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                       - 20
   (0.02) from the curvature of the bone on the analysis. That is, the bone appears - in effect
   essentially locally 'flat', which is why the arccosine value of 0.98 is chosen. For example,
   the smallest radius at the distal radius is -8 mm giving image processor 16 an AW of -1.62
   mm at the distal radius. The smallest radius at the tibia is 12 mm, for which image
 5 processor 16 employs an AW of -2.42 mm. The AW is chosen to be wide enough to allow
   pores and resorption cavities to be detected in the density profile curve (as seen above).
   Pores and resorption cavities can be up to 600 microns in diameter in humans, so the AW
   used by image processor 16 should be greater than or equal to 1 mm when the porosity of
   human bone is being assessed. Notably, as no two bones have exactly the same
10 dimensions, images of no two bones are processed in the same fashion by image processor
   16, and the processing of bone structure according to this embodiment is specific to each
   bone.
                        For other indices, such as strength parameters or external dimensions, image
   processor 16 commences from G and uses another arm width (represented by AW 2 ). AW 2
15 is determined by image processor 16 with a much smaller curvature A (0.999) according to:
                                   AW2 = ri * tan(arccos (O. 999) ).             (3)
                       AW 2 is smaller than AW, because the desire here is to have the periosteal and
   endocortical surfaces small enough to be representative of small arcs, as the immediate aim
   is to perform an accurate calculation of the internal and external geometry of the cross
20 section (rather than detect porosity). At the distal radius and tibia respectively, AW 2 is
   between -360 microns and 590 microns.
                        Image processor 16 can employ a greater default curvature, but a value of A of
   0.999 is employed in this embodiment. A A value of 0.999 is used in this example to
   determine the precision and the accuracy of the analysis provided by image processor 16. It
25 should also be noted that A is a user controllable setting in image processor 16. This and
   other such settings allow the user to minimize the effect on the analysis of irregularities of
   the periosteal rim (i.e. deviation from a portion of circle). As such it is controllable by the
   user to minimize any potential error produced by periosteal rims of ROls deviating from
   portions of circles. The default value of A = 0.999 is used by image processor 16 because,
30 with this value, and in view of the ranges of human bone diameters in vivo (typically less
   than 5 cm), AW 2 is 1 mm or less. That is, the periosteal boundary of a bone is regular at a
   local level (within, say, a length of 1 mm).
                       As image processor 16 employs a calibration, image processor 16 can readily
   identify muscle tissue and uses muscle density as a referent. The ratio of muscle to non
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                           - 21
   muscle tissue is then used as a form of calibration. This is why, for many calculations,
   identifying the muscle and retrieving its density is employed in the processing performed by
   image processor 16 (for which reason image processor 16 employs a different arm width,
   AW 3 , as described below). Two of the advantages resulting from this are (i) cumbersome
 5 and resource consuming daily calibration for the purpose measuring a referent density is not
   needed when scans are to be analysed using image processor 16, and (ii) image processor
   16 can operate and analyse image files from essentially any CT, not only quantitative
   computed tomography. This may obviate the need of having a QCT. Furthermore, with this
   approach, image processor 16 can provide existing CT (or MRI) with a bone structure
10 analysis function. (Existing CT machines, though widely available, lack a bone analysis
   function so cannot be used for the diagnosis of osteoporosis).
                        Many indices such as trabecular parameters or indices of strength or porosity
   require an a priori detection of the muscle density, so image processor 16 - in these
   instances - employs a larger arm width, AW 3 :
15                                   AW3 = r.     * tan(arccos (0. 965)),            (4)
                       where r, is the radius selected as the specific angles outside the bone, with
   these angles preset based on local anatomy. Soft tissue outside the bone at these specific
   angles is predominantly muscle. Image processor 16 employs, for example, 900 for the
   radius and -650 for the tibia. AW 3 is chosen to be wide enough to include sufficient muscle
20 tissue so that its density can be adequately determined, including for use as a calibration
   referent.
                       After determining the centres and the appropriate arm width, image processor 16
   determines the appropriate angle of rotation 0. Image processor 16 has a default angle of
   rotation 01 of 50, which is appropriate for most bones owing to the expected range of radii.
25 However, this angle may not be appropriate in some circumstances, so the appropriateness
   of the rotation angle is tested before proceeding to the analysis of other ROls (as described
   below). A 01 of 50 gives 72 ROls per slice analysed.
                        For indices using AW 2 as a rotatory arm width, image processor 16 has a preset
   angle of rotation            02 of 1.50. This is small enough for the bone edges (viz. periosteal surface)
30 to appear locally linear (or at least able to be approximated by an arc of a circle). This gives
   a total of 240 ROls. Image processor 16 is operable to employ a preset angle of rotation 0
   of 10 (or less) if desired by the user.
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                           - 22
                        In order to test the appropriateness of the angle of rotation 0, image processor
   16 verifies whether the following condition is satisfied:
                                           sin 0 * ri       < AW,               (5)
                       where r; is the smallest of the four radii defined above.
 5                      If this condition is not satisfied, for analysis using AW 1, the angle of rotation 01 is
   deemed unsuitable and image processor 16 selects the next smaller angle below 50 (such
   as 40, but in any event suitable for use as a rotation angle) according to equation 5. This
   condition ensures that no fragment of the cross section is left unanalysed. Image processor
   16 informs the user if an angle less than 50 has been used.
10                     The same procedure is performed if AW 2 and         02 (1.50) are used and angles
   smaller than 1.50 are selected above by image processor 16 as above using equation 5.
                        It should be noted that the angle of rotation (0) and the AW (as determined by A)
   are parameters set or selected by the user to control the analysis by image processor 16.
   Although they have preset values, they are not fix. The preset values are chosen for an
15 optimal analysis of bone structure in humans. The user can thus adjust 0 and A by
   controlling the settings controls of image processor 16 for an optimal analysis of bones, in
   particular non-humans bones.
                        For example, bone diameter can reach up to 10 cm in some animals, such as
   horses. To ensure that the length of periosteal rim remains within a millimetre in length (to
20 minimize the effect of any potentially curvature irregularity), A is set to 0.9999 and            02
   readjusted to 0.50; the larger cross section of such a bone is subdivided in 480 ROls of -700
   micron length each, allowing an accurate measurement of the perimeter and surface.
                        Image processor 16 then selects an initial region of interest (ROI) which, in this
   embodiment, is vertical. This initial ROI is a transection of the width of image processor 16
25 AW, (or AW 2 ) starting at C (or G) and of the length going from the centre and length L, being
   half of the maximal diagonal of the entire selection from the centre (C or G), that is,
   L    =      a2 + b2 (where a and b are defined below). It should be noted that, in this
   embodiment, the material (or, strictly speaking, the image of the material) may be regarded
   as within a parallelogram with sides of length a and b.
30                     When the ROI has been selected, image processor 16 properly positions the
   bone within the ROI before proceeding. The process of positioning involves rotating the
   bone sample anticlockwise or clockwise from respectively the first or the last column so that
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                        - 23
   the beginning of the cortex starts at the same line in the first and last columns. This ensures
   that the bone sample is horizontally positioned. (No rotation is performed by image
   processor 16 if the sample is already horizontal.) The suitable positioning of the bone
   sample is performed to avoid an angular position of the sample that would affects the
 5 density profile.
                        Before actually performing the rotation, image processor 16 identifies the
   apparent cortical mass of the bone sample. This is the cortical mass uncorrected for the
   angular (i.e. non-horizontal) position of the sample. Within that apparent cortical mass,
   image processor 16 determines the beginning of the bone at the first and at the last
10 columns. This allows the algorithm to recognize if the sample is perfectly horizontal. As
   mentioned above, if the sample is perfectly horizontal no rotation is performed; otherwise,
   the appropriate rotation is performed.
                        Referring to figure 7B (top register), if an anticlockwise rotation is to be
   performed, the beginning of the bone at the first column (i.e. x = 0) starts after the beginning
15 of the bone at the last column (Xa). Image processor 16 detects the beginning of the cortex
   at the first column (0, Ya) and the beginning of the cortex at the last column (Xa, Yb) and
   determines that Ya> Yb; image processor 16 then determines the angle 6, between the
   sample and the horizontal, as:
                                            5 = atan( (Ya - Yb) / Xa).
20                      It should be noted that X = AW.
                        Next, image processor 16 uses Sto calculate the number of pixels (n) by which
   each column xi between 0 and X needs to be rotated so that the specimen is horizontal as:
                                                  n = xi cos(9).
                       All columns are then moved anticlockwise by n pixels.
25                      It should be noted that, because image processor 16 deals with small values of
   AW (i.e. relative to the radius of the bone), viz. less than 3 mm, the angle 5 is so small that
   atan(O) ~ 5 and the number (n) of pixels by which each column x needs to be rotated
   clockwise and anticlockwise is approximated as:
                                             n  = xi    * (Ya -     Yb) / AW
30                     where xi is the ith column.
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                       - 24
                        Referring to figure 7B (bottom register), if a clockwise rotation is to be performed,
   the beginning of the cortex at the first column (i.e. x = 0) starts after the beginning of the
   cortex at the last column (Xa). Image processor 16 detects the beginning of the cortex at the
   first (0, Ya) and the beginning of the cortex at the last column (Xa, Yb) and determines that Ya
 5 <  Yb. Next, image processor 16 determines angle 6 between the sample and the horizontal
   as:
                                            S  =  atan( (Ya - Yb) / Xa).
                        Using 6, image processor 16 then calculates the number of pixels (n) by which
   each column xi between 0 and Xa needs to be rotated so that the specimen is horizontal as:
10                                                n = xi cos(1).
                       All columns are moved anticlockwise by n pixels
                        Image processor 16 then analyses the density profile strip by strip. A strip is a
   rectangular section of the length of the ROI (i.e. AW, such as AW, or AW 2) and of the width
   of one voxel (or pixel). (Image processor 16 is also controllable to modify the characteristics
15 of the strip). Figure 8A is an exemplary image derived from a DICOM file from CT scanner
   12 of a ROI, with the individual lines constituting the image labelled from 1 (in fact outside
   the bone sample) to 70 (within the bone). Figure 8B is the same imagine in negative, for
   clarity.
                       After performing the adequate rotation to adjust the position of the ROI, image
20 processor 16 then computes a density profile within the ROL. The type of density profile
   computed depends on the purpose of the analysis. Depending on the analysis, a profile of
   maximal, minimal or median values per strip may be computed. However, in most cases,
   image processor 16 computes a profile of mean values per strip. (For example, the profile of
   maximal values may be computed by image processor 16 when it is desired to separate two
25 or more bones within an image. Furthermore, in alternative embodiments it may be desired
   to control image processor 16 to calculate, for example, the average square of all values in
   defining a profile.) An example of density profile determination and analyses is described
   below for the case of mean values. (The same analysis would be performed if density
   profile of maximal values, for example, was computed).
30                      Image processor 16 determines the mean density DS; of each strip i of bone as
   follows:
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                          - 25
                                                     m
                                         DS 1   =       A       m               (6)
                                                   i=1
                       where A; is the attenuation value of each voxel of the m voxels within strip i. A
   curve of the density profile is created using the mean density profile for each strip. Image
   processor 16 also identifies the strip with the maximum density                (DSax)   within the entire
 5 curve. (At the voxel or pixel level, the words density and attenuation may be used
   interchangeably.) Figure 9 is a plot of bone strip density (in milligrams of hydroxyapatite per
   cubic centimetre or mgHA/cc) against strip or line number, for the image of figure 8A, with
   the location of maximum strip density            DSa     indicated.
                       Then, a first order (or quasi-) derivative of the density profile curve is calculated
10 by computing the differences in densities between consecutives strips as follows:
                                   ADSi,i+1    = (DSi -        DSi+ 1 ) / DSi.         (7)
                       (This definition of derivative, it will be noted, is the negative of the conventional
   definition.) From this first order derivative, image processor 16 analyses the bone sample by
   characterizing the sample as comprising a series on 'hills' and 'valleys'. Hills correspond to
15 the decreasing parts of the density profile curve (i.e. where the first order derivative, as
   defined in equation 7, is positive) and valleys correspond to the increasing parts of the
   density profile curve (where this first derivative is negative). The derivative has the value 0
   at the junctions of the hills and valleys.
                       The derivative of the density profile curve of figure 9, as determined by image
20 processor 16, is plotted in figure 10. Image processor 16 determines the 'heights' of the hills
   as the difference between the density of the top of the hill and the density at the bottom of
   the hill. Image processor 16 determines the 'heights' of the valleys as the difference
   between the density at the end of valley and the density at the beginning of the valley, the
   opposite of the calculation for hills. That is, hills are calculated as 1-0 (the density
25 corresponding to 1 before the series of 0 values minus the density corresponding to the last
   0 in the series), whereas the valleys are 0-1 (the density corresponding to 0 before the
   series of 1 values minus the density corresponding to the last 1 in the series). Using these
   hills and valleys, image processor 16 identifies key points in the attenuation profile using the
   following method, such as the highest peaks and troughs in the density profile curve within
30 the cortical mass.
                        Image processor 16 then identifies the periosteal boundary (i.e. where the bone
   begins). The density profile curve is retrieved from the matrix and provided with a new
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                           - 26
   referential of centre P (cf. figure 11). P has a horizontal coordinate equal to that of               DSmax
   (determined from the derivative of the density shown in figure 10) and a vertical coordinate
   equal to minimum density external to               DSmax.   In this reference frame, a function kj(Ni) - being
   the distance function from P, to the density profile curve - is determined as follows:
                                           21 (Ni(xi,yi)          =       2+   y
                       where Ni refers to strips between the first strip in the density profile and    DSmax
   (i.e. the strip with the maximum attenuation). The points corresponds to the minimum value
   of 21.
                        Figure 11 is a plot comparable to that of figure 9, but illustrating this step.
10                      Image processor 16 then identifies the beginning of the cortex by examining the
   valleys in the first derivative of density (see figure 10) between j and DSmax; the beginning of
   the cortex k is the minimal value of the first order derivative in the highest (or deepest) valley
   between J and              DSmax. This point is indicated at point k figure 10.
                        Next, image processor 16 identifies the beginning of the compact cortex (l),
15 determined as the minimum of the function 22:
                                           A2(Ni(xi, yi))         =          + y
                       This step is illustrated in figure 12. Identifying / this way allows the elimination of
   artefacts such as an eventual local non-linearity of the periosteum or partial volume effects.
   In the identification of /, the density profile curve is reanalysed from a new referential of
20 centre P2 , with Ni limited to the strips between k (the beginning of the cortex) and DSmax.
                        It will be noted that 22 is identical in form with ij. They differ (as do 23 and   24
   discussed below) by the referential point from which they operate and the portion of the
   density profile curve to which they are applied.
                       As illustrated in figure 13, image processor 16 identifies the end of the cortical
25 mass (o) (and hence the beginning of trabecular bone), defined as the minimal value of the
   function 23:
                                           A3(Ni(xi, yi)           =
                       To identify o, the density profile curve is reanalysed from a new referential of
   centre P3 , with Ni limited to the strips between DSmax and z (the end of the curve,
30 corresponding to the end of the ROI). It will be appreciated by the skilled person that the
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                          - 27
   order in which these points are determined is not according to their order in the density
   profile curve but rather according to the order in which they are needed for subsequent
   steps. This is why o, for example, is determined before points m and n (see below).
                       Next, image processor 16 identifies the end of the trabecularised cortex n, by
 5 identifying the maximal value of the first derivative in the highest hill between        DSmax  and o.
   This point is indicated at point n in figure 10.
                       To facilitate the identification of k and n, image processor 16 may 'binarizes' the
   first order derivative of the density (as shown, for example, in figure 10); the result of this
   binarization is plotted in figure 14. This facilitates the determination of the greatest of the
10 hills and valleys within the cortical mass (i.e. between points j and o), which are indicated at
    150 and 152 respectively. (The value of the density of each of the valleys and hills is shown
   in units of mgHA/cc.)
                        Image processor 16 identifies the end of the compact cortex (m), determined as
   the minimum of the function A4 (as illustrated in figure 15):
15                                         A 4 (Ni(xi, yi))      =       + y
                        In identifying m, the density profile curve is reanalysed from a new referential of
   centre P4 , with Ni limited to the strips between DSmax and n (the end the trabecularized
   cortex).
                        Figure 16 summarizes the results of these identification steps performed by
20 image processor 16. Referring to figure 16, image processor 16 has by this point identified
   in the density profile (reading from left to right in the figure):
                       j: beginning of the bone (i.e. the periosteal boundary);
                       k: the beginning of the cortex;
                       /: the beginning of the compact cortex;
25                     m: the end of the compact cortex;
                       n: the end of the trabecularised cortex; and
                       o: the end of the cortical mass (and hence the beginning of trabecular bone.
                       Once these points are defined, image processor 16 resolves the bone into four
   compartments:
30                      (i)       The compact (or 'hard') cortex: between / and m;
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                           - 28
                        (ii)      The trabecularized cortex: between m and n;
                        (iii)     The cortico-trabecular junction: between n and o; and
                        (iv)      Trabecular bone between o and the end of the sample (z).
                        Figures 17 and 18 present another example of an image and density curve
 5 determined by image processor 16. Figure 17 includes the image (upper register) and -for
   clarity - negative of the image (lower register). Figure 18 is a plot of the determined density
   curve, with the Current threshold of separation between cortical and trabecular bone
   indicated at 180. Compartment boundaries, as determined by image processor 16, are
   indicated for both the image and the density curve in these figures.
10                     The analytic segmentation (i.e. separation) of bone has the advantage of not
   relying on the use of thresholds. For example, in existing systems a threshold of 550 to 560
   mgHA/cc is used to separate cortical from trabecular mass (Sharmilla). The approximate
   position of this threshold is indicated in figure 16 at 160; hence, after the initial rise in
   density, existing techniques will deem all bone internal to the point where the density
15 subsequently drops below this threshold to constitute trabecular bone. In this example, the
   bone mass contained in box 162, though identified as cortical mass by image processor 16,
   would thus be identified incorrectly as trabecular mass by existing methods (even though in
   this example essentially no trabeculae are seen, as is apparent from the absence of data
   points in the trabecular compartment with density greater than that of muscle density). The
20 portion of cortex (indicated at 164) with density above 550 mgHA would be seen by existing
   approaches as floating bone in the marrow space (see 'floating cortical' bone 192 in bone
   image 190 in figure 19) after a threshold has been used to segment the bone into cortical
   and trabecular bone; this is an artefact of existing approaches created by threshold based
   segmentation of bone into cortical and trabecular compartments. Furthermore, existing
25 approaches would also fail to identify the large pore visible in the centre of the cortex of this
   example, hence producing an incorrectly low value for the sample's cortical porosity.
   Furthermore, existing approaches would underestimate the decay that has occurred in the
   trabecular compartment as they will incorrectly identify cortical bone as trabecular bone,
   when trabecular bone has indeed been lost, leading to an incorrect (and in fact an
30 excessively low) estimate of trabecular bone loss. Image processor 16 avoids these pitfalls.
                        Box 182 in figure 18 illustrates another case where most of the cortex and its
   porosity is missed and erroneously labelled as trabecular bone.
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                      - 29
                        Image processor 16 then rotates the image anti-clockwise and performs the
   same analysis in all the ROls within the cross section (or slice). The number n of ROls is a
   function of the rotation angle (0 in degrees) as:
                                            n = 360 / 0.                 (8)
 5                     The method for rotating from ROI, to ROI is performed by image processor 16
   as follows (and as shown schematically in figures 20A and 20B), for each slice
                       At this point, image processor 16 creates a virtual mirror matrix (see figure 20B,
   lower register), which has the (x,y) coordinates of each pixel relative to the centre (G or C)
   but no attenuation value. This virtual matrix is the rotation matrix. An initial region of interest
10 (ROI 1) is then selected from this rotation matrix. It should be noted that ROI, is selected so
   that its length is half that of the longest diagonal, so that no point with an attenuation value in
   the initial matrix is lost during the rotation process. Image processor 16 then retrieves the
   attenuation value of each point (or pixel) in the virtual matrix corresponding to ROI, from the
   initial matrix.
15                      Image processor 16 then rotates each point A(x,y) in ROI, of this virtual matrix to
   A'(x',y) according to:
                                       x'=   x cos O + y cos9 +K             and
                                                                         2)
                                         y' = x sin 0 + y sino         +        .
                       Once rotated, the attenuation value of pixel A' is retrieved from the initial matrix.
20  Image processor 16 rotates the whole initial ROI (ROI1) at the same time. Image processor
    16 rotates every points in the initial ROI, and repopulates a matrix similar in width and length
   to ROI, until a full 3600 has been performed. For example, for an angle 0 of 50, each cross
   section is analysed as 72 matrices or 72 ROls. For an angle 0 of 1.50, the entire cross
   section is analysed as 240 matrices (or ROls); for an angle 0 of 0.10, the entire cross section
25 is analysed as 3600 matrices (or ROls).
                        Image processor 16 then ignores any strips with points with no corresponding
   attenuation values in the initial matrix owing to a particularly long ROII.
                       After selecting the appropriate AW and angle (0), image processor 16 analyses
   the image by performing a variable number of rotations around the entire cross section. For
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                      - 30
   most indices (such as porosities, mineralization and trabecular parameters), a minimum of
   two rotations is employed in the analysis of the image.
                        Figure 20C is a schematic flow diagram 200 of the operation of image
   recognition and image analysis stations of image processor 16. At step 202, the image is
 5 inputted by image processor 16 into the image recognition station.
                       At step 204, it is determined whether a calibrant is required. For the
   measurement of parameters (e.g. cortical thickness, external dimensions and internal
   dimensions) that do not require a calibrant such as the dimensions of the material,
   recognition rotations are not performed. Thus, if a calibrant is not required, processing by
10 image processor 16 passes to step 208 (see below); otherwise, processing continues at step
   206.
                       At step 206, one or more 'recognition' rotations - as many as required - are
   performed, to identify characteristics or features within the image that will be used in
   subsequent rotations for a detailed quantitative analysis. These features include one or
15 more representative densities of surrounding soft tissue and one or more representative
   densities of the material of interest (in this example, bone) in the sample.
                       Thus, in the case of bone within an image, the objective of the recognition
   rotation(s) at step 206 is to (i) identify the surrounding background including the muscle
   tissue and retrieve a representative density of, say, the muscle tissue that will be used as
20 calibrant in subsequent analysis rotations, and (ii) identify a representative density of
   material to be analysed, which will also be used subsequently in the quantitative analysis of
   the sample. Processing then passes to step 208.
                       At step 208, image processor 16 inputs the image into the image analysis
   station, to analyse and characterize the material of interest. At step 210, image processor
25 16 employs the image analysis station to perform one or more analysis rotations (as many
   as required) to analyze the sample. During the analysis rotation(s) at step 210, image
   processor 16 uses the characteristics retrieved during the image recognition rotations (see
   step 206), in this example bone, to quantify the parameters as described above.
                       At step 212, image processor 16 exits the image analysis
30                     station and begins results synthesis.
                       The analysis performed by image processor 16 exploits differences in density
   from one strip to the next within a compartment, so any compartment (viz. compact cortex,
   trabecularized cortex, cortico-trabecular junction and trabecular bone) limited to one strip is
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                        - 31
   unsuitable for this analysis as, in this example, porosity, decay, etc., cannot be determined
   by image process 16. In addition, a compartment limited to one strip is unanalysable
   because the confounding effect of partial volume effects (PVE) on this strip cannot be
   assessed. Hence, image processor 16 does not analyse compartments limited to one strip.
 5                      Image processor 16 views a cortical mass of four strips (or indeed fewer) as
   unsuitable for analysis: the three intracortical compartments will have only one strip (which
   are hence each unanalysable) and the last or fourth strip may be tainted by PVE.
                       However, regardless of the number of strips within the cortical mass, image
   process 16 approximates the thickness of cortex (CThcm) as follows:
10                                      CTHcm    =  (n - 1) *re + (DS*re)
                                                                DSmax
                       where n is the number of strips within the cortical mass, re is the resolution, DS,
   and DSmax the densities of the last strip n and the density of the strip with the maximal
   density in the adjacent suitable ROI- 1 or ROi. 1. (If both ROls ROI- 1 and ROi, 1 are suitable,
   the DSmax is retrieved from the ROI with highest DSmax). It is assumed here, that last strip (n)
15 is tainted by PVE.
                        In addition, internal and external radii are perimeters can be calculated as the
   beginning of the bone can be identified and the thickness of the cortex can be approximated.
                        Using this approach, image processor 16 selects and analyses n ROls of the
   same width as ROI 1. Once all the ROls within the slice have been analysed, image
20 processor 16, then merges the n ROls to reconstruct the analysed slice that has the
   characteristics required for the recognition or the diagnosis.
                        It should be noted that, during the rotation step, ROls of interest overlap; that is,
   a pixel (i) may appear in more than one ROL. For example, at the distal tibia, for an angle 0
   of 0.1 , the cross section is reconstructed with 3600 ROls and the same point may appear in
25 as many as 90 ROls. When this is so, image processor 16 takes into consideration (such
   as by tracing back a point in the ROls to the same point in the original matrix) the
   contribution of overlapping points to each specific parameter, as it is important that the
   contribution of each pixel should counted only once. Image processor 16 counts and stores
   the number of times a point appears in a specific zone (viz. compact cortex, trabecularized
30 cortex or trabecular bone) in different ROls. During the merging process, image processor
   16 first determines the frequency distribution of the appearance of the point in different
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                         - 32
   zones, then attributes the point to the zone in which it appears most frequently (though other
   criteria may be used to determine the correct or most appropriate zone).
                       After reconstructing the first slice, image processor 16 advances to the next slice
   until all slices or all the preselected slices have been analysed. When all the slices have
 5 been analysed image processor 16 determines various parameters and outputs the relevant
   ones for the individual sample.
                        Image processor 16 allows a very broad investigation of bone and its
   surrounding tissues (typically comprising muscle and fat). The application of image
   processor 16 is not limited to indices relevant to the detection of osteoporosis. Indices
10 produced relevant to many other metabolic diseases and infiltrative bone diseases such
   bone metastasis. Image processor 16 is controllable by the user to choose the indices the
   user desires, and to perform the chosen analysis promptly.
                       Cortical areas and thicknesses are determined by image processor 16 from the
   geometric centre C, with the arm width AW, and the rotatory angle 01. These indices, when
                                                                                                 2
15 output, are displayed in units of millimetres or centimetres (for thicknesses) and mm           or cm2
   (for surfaces).
                       The average of the cortical thicknesses of the compact cortex (CThcc) is
   analogous to the mean CTh provided by existing QCT techniques, but is determined
   differently. According to this embodiment, image processor 16 determines a true average
20 according to:
                                             n
                                            Y CThi / n,                   (9)
                                           i=1
                       where n is the number of ROls analysed for the individual, that is, the mean of all
   CThs values (cf. current QCT techniques, which determines an estimate of the mean
   computed as Cortical area/Cross sectional perimeter).
25                     The value determined by image processor 16 is the average of the 72 regions
   (or more) analysed in n slices. Image processor 16 allows the user to output the standard
   deviation (SD) and standard error of the mean (SEM) and the range for this value. Hence,
   the outputs are the average CTh, SD, SEM.
                       The median value of cortical thicknesses of the compact cortex is not determined
30 in existing approaches, but the present inventors have ascertained that median CTh
   provides a better prediction of bone strength as estimated with finite element analysis than
   the average Cth, so image processor 16 determines and outputs median CTh. Image
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                       - 33
   processor 16 determines the median CTh as the median of all 72 (or more) ROls x n slices
   measured values of CTh. Image processor 16 can also determines the range (viz. minimal
   and maximal values) of such median values.
                       The minimum value of cortical thicknesses of the compact cortex is not provided
 5 by existing QCT techniques, but the present inventors have concluded that it is likely to be
   useful in clinical and research settings. There is evidence that the minimal value of CTh
   within the cross section shows the greatest decrease with age and therefore is likely to
   provide a better indication of the fracture risk that the mean CTh (which is understandable
   from a biomechanical perspective, just as a chain breaks at its weakness link). Image
10 processor 16 can also determine a mean, SD, SEM and range of values of the minimum
   value of cortical thicknesses of the compact cortex, and identify the anatomical location of
   the compact cortex (e.g. anterior, posterior, etc) (see the results summarized below).
                       The lower the area of the compact cortex (or 'cortical area'), the greater the risk
   of fracture. Cortical area (or CoA) is determined by image processor 16 as the number of
15 pixels within the compact cortex multiplied by the area of the pixels, hence:
                                        CoA = n - (re2),                (10)
                       where n is the number of pixels within the compact cortex and re is the resolution
   of CT scanner 12 (or other scanner used to image the bone, such as a MRI scanner). This
   can also be determined from:
                              i=360 /0                          2                          2
20           CoA        =              ((0/360)
                                            /        * ((Tc * rj)  - (,r * (r - CThi)2          (11)
                                   i=1
                       where i is the ROI, n is the number of ROls examined, CThi is the cortical
   thickness at ROli and rotation angle 0 and ri is the radius of the bone at the ROli (determined
   as described below). Image processor 16 effectively divides the cross section into small
   arcs of radii of curvature r, allowing it to accurately determine areas of irregular cross
25 section (such as bones). The mean, SD, SEM and range of CoA can then be determined
   for all the cross sections examined.
                        Image processor 16 is also configured to determine CThtc, the average of the
   cortical thicknesses (CTh) of the trabecularized cortex. (CThtc is not determined in existing
   techniques.) CThtc is indicative of bone loss and fracture risk independently of the average
30 thickness of the compact cortex. A thicker trabecularized cortex indicates that more decay
   has occurred and is more fragile (even if the residual compact cortex apparently remains as
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                     - 34
   thick as that of peers). This value is determined by image processor 16 using equation 10 or
    11, but applied within the compact cortex.
                        Image processor 16 is configured to determine the median value of the cortical
   thicknesses (CTh) of the trabecularized cortex, which provides additional information on the
 5 status of the cortex above and beyond the average value, and to determine the maximum of
   the cortical thicknesses (CTh) of the transitional (or equivalently the trabecularized) cortex,
   which shows where the cortex is weakest.
                        Image processor 16 is also configured to determine a novel parameter, the area
   of the trabecularized cortex, which is the area occupied by the pixels within the
10 trabecularized cortex. It should be interpreted differently from the area of the compact
   cortex (of which it is, in a sense, the complement): the greater the area of trabecularized
   cortex, the more the magnitude of cortical decay that has occurred and hence the greater
   the fragility. This value is determined by image processor 16 again using equation 10 or 11,
   but applied within the trabecularized cortex.
15                      Image processor 16 is also configured to determine the novel index CThcm: the
   average of the cortical thicknesses (CTh) of the cortical mass. Existing approaches identify
   the cortical mass but only in the compact cortex. The thicker the cortical mass, the better it
   is. This is determined using equation 9, but applied to the compact mass.
                        Image processor 16 is configured to determine two other novel indices: the
20 median value of cortical thicknesses of the cortical mass, and the minimal value of cortical
   thicknesses of the cortical mass and their respective anatomical locations (see the results
   summarized below). Existing approaches do not identify the cortical mass, being limited to
   the compact cortex. The greater the median value of the cortical mass, the stronger the
   bone, and the smaller the minimal value of the cortical mass, the weaker the bone.
25                      Image processor 16 is also configured to determine the area of the cortical
   mass, as the lower the cortical area, the greater the risk of fracture. Cortical area is
   determined by image processor 16 according using equation 10 or 11, but applied within the
   compact mass.
                        Image processor 16 is also configured to determine the average of the cortical
30 thicknesses (CTh) of the cortico-trabecular junction (represented as CThctj), the median
   value of cortical thicknesses of the cortico-trabecular junction, and the minimum value of
   cortical thicknesses of the cortico-trabecular junction. These indices are of value as, while in
   healthy bones there is a clear differentiation between the cortical and the trabecular
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                       - 35
   compartment so the cortico-trabecular junction is very small, with aging and decay the
   cortico-trabecular junction increases so is blurred.
                        Image processor 16 is similarly configured to determine the area of the cortico
   trabecular junction, using equation 10 or 11, but applied within the cortico-trabecular
 5 junction.
                        Image processor 16 can determine the respective radii ri for each of the 72 or
   more ROls defined as the length between the start of the cortex and (C), as follows:
                                        ri  = (z - 1).     re,             (12)
                       where r is the radius at ROli and re is the resolution of CT scanner 12.
10                      Image processor 16 can also determine porosity and other related indices, such
   as the percentage compact cortex (PCC), which is the proportion of the cortex that has a
   compact or solid appearance, determined from the ratio of the thicknesses of the compact
   cortex to that of the cortical mass calculated as follows:
                                    PCC = 100 - CThcc / CThcm-                  (13)
15                     A small value of PCC indicates that the cortex has diminished owing, for
   example, to ageing. (Certain disease processes such as hyperparathyroidism may also be
   indicated).
                       Similarly, image processor 16 is configured to determine percentage
   trabecularized cortex (PTC), the proportion of the cortex that has a trabecular-like
20 appearance and is calculated as follows:
                                    PTC = 100 - CThtc / CThcm.                  (14)
                       A high PTC means that the cortex has diminished during ageing or disease,
   such that a greater proportion of the cortex resembles trabecular bone.
                        Image processor 16 is configured to determine percentage cortico-trabecular
25 junction (PCTJ), the proportion of the cortex that is a transitional zone, as follows:
                                   PCTJ = 100 - CThctj          CThcm            (15)
                       Generally, the higher the porosity, the weaker the bone, so image processor 16
   is configured to determine several porosity indices.
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                          - 36
                        For example, image processor 16 is configured to determine the apparent
   porosity (which is sometimes referred to simply as the 'porosity', but which - as the skilled
   person will appreciate - should be distinguished from the absolute porosity) of the compact
   cortex (aPoCC). If there has been no increase in porosity, all the strips would have a similar
 5 density. Apparent porosity is therefore calculated as the ratio of (i) the area of a rectangle
   defined by DSmax and the thickness of the cortex and (ii) the area under the density curve
   within the specific compartment of the cortex (cf. figure 16 for the boundaries /, m, n and o of
   the respective compartments). The apparent porosity of the compact cortex is thus
   determined according to:
                                                 Y ( (DSi + DSi+ 1 ) / 2)      (n - 1)
10                      aPoCC(%)      = 100                      DSmax                   ,   (16)
                       where n is the number of strips within the cortex in the ROL. This is an
   approximation of the more general formulation:
                                                                n
                                                                f DS(x) .dx
                                            aPoCC(%)     =     x=
                                                            DSmax * (n -    1)
                       which reflects the fact that the analysis is based on the ratio of two areas and is
15 not necessarily a point by point analysis. The more general formulation may be more
   suitable in other embodiments.
                        Image processor 16 is also configured to determine the porosity (again, actually
   apparent porosity) of the trabecularized cortex (aPoTC) (according to equation 16 but limited
   to the trabecularized cortex), of the cortical mass (aPoCM) (according to equation 16 but for
20 the entire cortex), and of the trabecular compartment (aPoTB) (according to equation 16 but
   for the trabecular compartment).
                        Porosities (that is, 'absolute' rather than apparent porosities) are also determined
   by image processor 16. To quantify porosities, image processor 16 identifies the
   representative densities of the surrounding muscle tissue (Maxmd) and a representative
25 density A(x) of the material of the material of interest (i.e., bone in this instance)
                       To identify Maxmd, a minimum of rotation is needed. From the first rotation, using
   AW 3 , image processor 16 identifies the surrounding muscle tissue and retrieves the maximal
   density of the muscle tissue (Maxmd). To do so image processor 16 determines the
   frequency distribution of the attenuation values of all the voxels corresponding to the
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                     - 37
   surrounding muscle muscle tissue.           Maxmd  correspond to the attenuation corresponding to
   the 95th percentile in the frequent distribution curve. The maximal values may be tainted by
   noise from, for example, Compton scattering. The value at the 95th percentile is large
   enough to be representative of the         Maxmd  but essentially untainted by noise.
 5                     The same process is used by image processor 16 to identify (B)the value
   representative of pure bone. There is experimental evidence to suggest that the maximal
   density of each ROI fulfils these criteria. The inter-haversian distance exceeds 200 tm, so
                                                                              2
   four haversian canals define a square area exceeding 4,0000 ptm              where no pores are
   present. Hence, at a spatial resolution of 82 ptm, up to six pixels that are not tainted by
10 partial volume effects will be placed between haversian canals within the cortex. It can
   therefore be assumed that the pixel with the highest density within a given ROI in is indeed
   of these pixels and has the density of purely mineralised bone. Hence, for every imaging
   modality of 200 tm resolution or below, the attenuation of (B) is considered as made of
   purely mineralized bone, untainted by PVE. Image processor 16, then used the attenuation
15 of (B) is then used in conjunction with       Maxmd  to convert the attenuation values of all the
   voxels or pixels with an image into an scale ranging from -1 to +1. This transformation is a
   new concept that allows the attenuation of each voxel to convert into the estimated amount
   of bone within each voxel. The transformed unit of each voxel is referred to as bone volume
   equivalent (BVE). Figure 21 is a BVE scale used by image processor 16 to analyse and
20 characterize the bone during the analysis rotation. Fat has a BVE of -1, water
   (corresponding, in bone, to cells, blood vessels and interstitial tissue, hence similar to the
   surrounding muscle tissue or water) has a BVE of 0, and pure bone as a BVE greater than
   or equal to 0.9. Any voxel with a BVE lower than 0.9 is partly (if BVE > 0 but <0.9) or fully (if
   BVE < 0) made of void.
25                      Image processor 16 calculates the BVE of a voxel (X) of coordinates (i,j) within
   the ROI as:
                                       BVE(X)    = (A(X) - A(Maxmd) )
                                                    (A(B) - A(Maxmd) ),
                       where A(X), A(B) and A (Maxmd) are respectively, the attenuation values of the
   voxels X, B and               Maxmd
30                     The concept of BVE allows image processor 16 to provide a particularly detailed
   characterization of the bone, including estimating porosity within the image due to pores of
   size below the nominal in plane resolution of the imaging modality.
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                          - 38
                       When the image is captured by an imaging modality with an in-plane resolution
   of 200 tm or below, voxels with a BVE equal to or greater than 0.9 are voxels with purely
   mineralized bone (as differences in density or attenuation due differences in tissue
   mineralization do not exceed 10%). Hence, any voxel with a BVE between 0 and 0.9
 5 contains a proportion of void. If the voxel is located within the cortical mass, this voxel
   contains a pore of size smaller than the resolution of modality (cf. figure 21).
                       Voxels with a BVE of 0 are voids of size similar to or greater than the resolution
   of the imaging modality.
                        Image processor 16 calculates the pore volume equivalent (PoVE) of each voxel
10 from the BVEs as follows:
                        if BVE(X) < 0, then PoVE(X) = 1, and
                       if BVE(X) > 0, then PoVE(X) = 1 - BVE(X).
                       The void content of each voxel within the image is then estimated from the
   PoVE.
15                     (iii)      Image processor 16 then calculates the total PoVE (TPoVE) within the ROI
   as:
                                                               n
                                                  TPoVE   =   Y PoVE(x)
                                                             x=1
                        (iv)      Finally, image processor 16 calculates the porosity (Po) within the ROI as:
                                                   PO = 100 * TPoVE
                                                                     n
20                     where n is the number of voxels within the ROL.
                        By this procedure, the contribution of each voxel to porosity is accounted for by
   image processor 16 proportionally to estimated proportion of purely mineralised bone within
   the voxel using the voxel's density.
                        It should be noted the range of pores to be assessed can be selected by the
25 user with user interface 18 of image processor 16. For example, pores with PoVE = 0 (i.e.
   voxels that appear to be empty to within the resolution of system 10), or pores with PoVE
   0.5 (i.e. pores of half the size of the resolution of system 10).
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                       - 39
                       The user can choose the quantify the porosity due to pores of any size within
   any of the three compartments of bone (i.e. compact cortex, trabecularized cortex and
   trabecular bone).
                       A method of quantification of pores of the size of the resolution of machine is as
 5 follows. Image processor 16 converts each pixel (or voxel) in each compartment into a
   binary value: bone '1' and non-bone '0', with bone defined as pixel i, such that:
                                           Ai > Maxmd,                   (18)
                       and non-bone defined as pixel j, such that:
                                            AY    Maxmd-                (19)
10                     The result of this process is shown schematically in figures 22A, 22B and 22C.
   Figure 22A is an example of a ROI with a pore visible within the cortex. After identification of
   compartments, pores are defined as voxels with density inferior to Maxmd. An example of
   the identification of pores within the cortical mass in one column is shown in figure 22B.
   Figure 22C is a binarized plot of bone versus non-bone pixels along the line of analysis.
15 Binarization and identification of pores occurs after the cortical mass has been identified in
   the analysis of the entire ROL.
                        Existing techniques for determining porosity use a dichotomous approach to
   distinguish pore from bone tissue, based on a fixed arbitrary threshold. Porosity so
   determined is highly resolution dependent and influenced by partial volume effects (PVE), so
20 image processor 16 regards it merely as 'apparent porosity'. Voxels with variable proportion
   of bone and soft tissues at the edge of the pore-bone (i.e. tainted by PVE), such as point i
   (which is tainted by PVE) shown in figure 22B are erroneously excluded from the calculation
   of porosity. The same errors applies when current algorithms computes porosity after using
   a threshold to separate bone from soft tissues. This is why image processor 16
25 advantageously computes porosity as described (cf. equations 16 and 17) where the density
   of every voxel is accounted for.
                        It should be noted that the general principle embodied by image processor 16 is
   the determination of porosity by employing the surrounding environment and a
   representative density of material of interest in its pure form as referents. This enables
30 image processor 16 readily to provide a non-destructive measurement of porosity of any
   material, not only bone. The porosity of materials (for example, rocks, metals and plastics)
   may be determined using a vacancy or 'emptiness' as a referent. This is illustrated, by way
   of example, in figure 23. Figure 23 is a schematic view of a porosity measurement
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                          - 40
   apparatus 220 for the non-destructive in vitro measurement of the porosity of materials,
   according to an embodiment of the present invention, for use in conjunction with system 10
   of figure 1.
                       Apparatus 220 includes a sealable tube 222 with an internal station 224 (for
 5 supporting a material or sample to be analysed 226). Tube 222 has a valve 228, and
   apparatus 220 includes a vacuum pump 229 attached to valve 228. Vacuum pump 229 is
   provided for evacuating tube 222 once material or sample 226 is on station 224 and tube
   222 has be sealed.
                       Thus, after mounting material or sample 226 on station 224 and sealing tube
10 222, vacuum pump 229 is switched on and any floating material around material or sample
   226 is evacuated from tube 222 by vacuum pump 229. Thus, an at least partial vacuum is
   created around material or sample 226, which serves as the vacancy or 'emptiness' (of low
   or zero density) exploited according to the present embodiment. Tube 222 can then be
   detached from vacuum pump 229 and located within central scanning volume 24 of CT
15 scanner 12, scanned, and the resulting data forwarded to image processor 16 for processing
   as described above.
                        Establishing this 'emptiness' (essentially a region of low density) around material
   or sample 226 allows image processor 16 to use the surrounding environment (in this case
   the so-called 'emptiness') to determine porosity within material or sample 226. A material
20 floating or otherwise around material or sample 226 would otherwise be identified by image
   processor 16, which would use it as a referent, leading to inaccurate results. ('Emptiness' is
   used in quotes to acknowledge that a truly zero pressure cannot be achieved, and in any
   event is not necessary; the removal of this 'floating debris' is sufficient.)
                       After impurities (e.g. this floating material) have been removed, the material of
25 interest is imaged (CT) as described above. Images are automatically retrieved and
   analysed by image processor 16 to determine the absolute porosity using the surrounding
   environment (in this case 'emptiness') as referent as described above. The use of a referent
   (emptiness in the case of porosity) avoids the reliance on absolute CT-values.
                        In one embodiment, the invention provides an integrated porosity measurement
30 system comprising system 10, sealable tube 222 and vacuum pump 229.
                        It should be noted that in the case of porosity quantification in a living person,
   pores are non-bone spaces within the bone envelope, rather this so-called 'emptiness'.
   These non-bone spaces are occupied by tissues of density equal or inferior to that of the
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                       -   41
   muscle. This why assessment of porosity in bones, in living individuals (in in vivo settings),
   uses muscle as referent.
                        Non-destructive measurement of porosity has many potential applications
   including material characterization, detection of internal flaws and cracks within the material.
 5                      It should be noted that image processor 16 can output this porosity, such as for
   comparative purposes. In this case, the pore area (PoA) in each compartment is:
                                                    n
                                         PoA    =     PoVE.                 (20)
                                                  i=0
                        Image processor 16 then determines porosity in each compartment. For example
   the porosity of the compact cortex (PoCC) is:
                                                          PoACC
10                                    PoCC = 100 *                ,ACC          (21)
                                                         AreaCC
                       where PoCC is the porosity of the compact cortex, PoACC is the pore area of
   the compact cortex and AreaCC is the area of the compact cortex.
                        Image processor 16 is configured to determine the decay of the compact cortex
   (CDI). This index reflects a gradual increase in porosity from the inner to the outer cortex
15 as observed during ageing. Pores are uniformly distributed within the cortex of young
   healthy individuals, so - for them - that the line of best fit within the cortex is substantially
   horizontal. With ageing, porosity erodes the inner more than the outer aspect of the cortex,
   so the line of best fit lines makes an increasingly greater angle with the horizontal. A normal
   CD1 is less than 3.5%.
20                      Image processor 16 determines CD1 by determining the line of best fit within the
   compact cortex using conventional least mean squares formulae, then determining the angle
   (col, in radians) between the line of best fit and the horizontal line passing through         DSax,
   and then determining CD1 as:
                                       CD1(%) = 100(w, / 1.5707).             (22)
25                      Image processor 16 determines the decay of the trabecularized cortex (CD2),
   which is analogous to CD1.             CD2 is calculated by determining the line of best fit within the
   end of the compact cortex (m) and the beginning of the trabecular bone using conventional
   least mean squares formulae, then determining the angle             (02,   in radians) between the line of
   best fit and the vertical line passing through m. CD2 is then determined as:
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                       -   42
                                            CD2 (%) = 100 (w2 11.5707).
                        Image processor 16 can also determine cortical fragility (CF), which is indicative
   of - and hence allows the assessment of - the contribution of porosity due to high
   remodelling to cortical fragility. CF is determined as follows:
 5                      CF(%) = (AbsPocc * CD 1 + AbsPotc * CD2) / 10000.                    (23)
                        Image processor 16 can also determine relative density, that is, the attenuation
   of a respective compartment (compact cortex, trabecularized cortex, etc) relative to that of
   the surrounding muscle. Relative density thus reflects both the mineralization and the
   porosity and is expressed as a percentage. Relative densities are independent of                DSmax.
10                     The average density (or attenuation) DSm of muscle strips is:
                                                  k-1
                                       DSm    =  (ZDS/        n).           (24)
                                                  .i=1
                       The relative density of each compartment is then determined in a similar
   manner. For example, the relative density of the compact cortex is:
                                     RDCC = 100 - DSCC / DSm,                  (25)
15                     where DScc is the density of the compact cortex. A relative density thus indicates
   on average how dense the bone is compared to the surrounding tissues. The less
   mineralised is the bone, the less porous, and the lower is its relative density.
                       Likewise, the relative density of trabecularized cortex (RDtc), that is, the ratio of
   the density of strips of the trabecularized cortex (DStb) to DSm, is:
20                                          RDtc    = 100 - DStc / DSm.
                       The relative density of the cortical mass (RDm), that is, the ratio of the density of
   strips of the cortical mass (DScm) to DSm, is:
                                           RDcm     = 100 - DScm / DSm
                       The relative density of the trabecular mass (RDtb), that is, the ratio of the density
25 of strips of the cortical mass (DStb) to DSm, is:
                                            RDt     = 100 - DSt      / DSm.
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                        -  43
                       The cortico-trabecular differentiation index (CDTI) is the ratio of the area under
   the density profile curve in the trabecular bone compartments to the area under the density
   profile curve in the cortical mass compartments, as is determined by image processor 16
   from:
                                                  Z
                                                     ( (DSI + DSi+ 1 ) /2)
 5                                 CTDI = 100 i=o+1                          ,        (26)
                                                    ( (DSI + DSi+ 1 ) /2)
                                               i=k
                       where k, o and z are respectively the strips corresponding to the beginning of the
   compact cortex, the end of the cortical mass and the end of the entire sample. It should be
   noted that, in largely cortical sites (such the midshaft of the femur or the subtrochanteric
   region) in young adults, the cortex is clearly distinct from the trabecular bone. In these sites,
10 bone loss transforms the cortex into a inner trabecular-like structure and an therefore the
   differentiation between the cortex and the trabecular bone diminishes, thus decreases CTDI.
                        Image processor 16 is also configured to determine various fat indices. These
   indices reflect the extent of fat transformation of the bone marrow. The more the bone has
   been replaced by fat, the more bone has been lost and the greater the fragility of the bone.
15 The attenuation in a compartment within the bone that is lower than the surrounding muscle
   (of representative density Maxmd) reflects a loss of bone within that compartment and its
   replacement by fat. Fat voxels therefore constitute strips within the trabecular bone that
   have density less than the muscle density Maxmd
                        Image processor 16 is configured to determine fat proportion (FatP) (the number
20 of fat voxels divided by the total number of examined voxels) and the fat burden (FatB) (the
   average density of fat voxels (FS) compared to the representative density of muscle, Maxmd)
   The average density (DSf) of fat strips is:
                                                   n
                                          DSf =               n(D)/n,      (27)
                                                 i=1
                       where Di is the density of voxel i and Di      Maxmd.     The fat burden (FatB) is
25 therefore:
                                      FB(%) = 10 0(DSf / Maxmd)-                (28)
                        Image processor 16 is also configured to determine various mineralization
   indices. These indices reflect the degree of mineralization and the heterogeneity in the
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                        -  44
   distribution of the mineralization. It is assumed that the difference in the attenuation
   between the bone pixel with the maximal density and the muscle (Maxmd), which is the
   contrast between these two tissues, reflects the level of mineralization of the bone. This
   index is not calculated using strips but bands. Image processor 16 identifies pixels or voxels
 5 that are almost certainly entirely made of purely mineralised bone and hence, minimally
   tainted by partial volume effects and porosity. These are voxels with a BVE equal to or
   greater than 0.9, as discussed above. The mineralization (ML) level is determined after
   examining all the cross sections within the image, not at ROL.
                        Image processor 16 determines ML as:
                                                  in
                                                    -_ ( (A(i) - (A(Maxmd))
10                             ML(%)  = 100 * n                                   ,        (29)
                       where A(i) is the attenuation of the pixel or voxel (i) such that BVE(i) > 0.9.
                       When desired, image processor 16 can determine and output the absolute
   densities of the compact cortex, trabecularized cortex, cortico-trabecular junction and
   trabecular bone in mgHA/cc (HA= hydroxyapatite) or mg/cc of mineralised bone, as required
15 by the user.
                        Image processor 16 converts the attenuation of each voxel within a given
   compartment of the bone to mgHA/cc with the equation:
                                                                                    4 5 5
                   D(mgHA / cc) = (695.808 * (Ai / Maxmd) ))-                             .2 7
                                                                                               , (30)
                       where A; is the attenuation of voxel i. This equation was established
20 experimentally by scanning phantoms.
                        Image processor 16 converts the attenuation A of each voxel within a given
   compartment into its equivalent of mineralised bone in g/cc, firstly by identifying the voxels
   associated with muscle and then using the muscle density as a referent to determine the
   density of bone. The need for daily calibration is avoided owing to the use of the subject's
25 own muscle as a referent. The density (D) of other voxels in g/cc is then determined by
   image processor 16 from:
                                   D(g / cc) = 0. 495 * (A / Maxmd).                 (31)
                       Purely mineralised bone has a density of 2.14 g/cc.
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                           -   45
                        Image processor 16 outputs the absolute densities (in g/cc and mgHA/cc) of
   cortical and trabecular bone. This is for comparison only, as absolute densities are more
   commonly required.
 5                      Image processor 16 determines strength indices by using the centroid G, the
   rotatory arm width AW 2 and the rotation angle 02. Non-bone tissue within the subperiosteal
   envelope is removed using               Maxmd    +1 as discussed above. Image processor 16 then
   determines strength indices as follows.
                        Image processor 16 determines buckling ratios (BR) as follows for each ROI:
10                                        BR 1    = CThcci / ri,              (32)
                       where CThcci and r; are respectively the thickness of the compact cortex and the
   radius at the ROl.
                        Image processor 16 determines the second moment area (or moment of inertia /)
   for all angles 0 within the slice as follows:
                                                    n
15                                             =            * (re 2 ) ,      (33a)
                                                   i=1
                       where l, is the second moment of area about the axis x, re is the resolution of
   the pixel, and yi is the perpendicular distance from the axis x to the element pixel.
                        Image processor 16 calculates the second moment area in all directions around
   the cross section. However, before calculating the moment of inertia, image processor 16
20 excludes any non-bone pixels from the image. Again, no threshold is used to identify non
   bone pixels. Non-bone pixels are pixels of attenuation below that of the beginning of the
   bone (i.e. muscle or below). This exclusion of non-bone pixels (i.e. pores) allows image
   processor 16 to calculate / as free as possible from the effects of porosity.
                       The mass adjusted second moment area is calculated in a similar fashion to the
25 moment of inertia, but with the density or attenuation of each pixel taken into account. The
   mass adjusted second moment area is thus determined as follows for each ROI:
                                             n
                                   Ixma =       ((Ai) / Amax) * Yi2 * (re 2 ),      (33b)
                                           i=1
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                       -   46
                       where lxma is the mass adjusted second moment area about the axis x, Al is the
   density (or attenuation) of each bone pixel and            Amax  is the maximal attenuation of all pixels
   within the slice (i.e. the pixel almost certainly made of purely mineralised bone).
                        Image processor 16 determines the section modulus similarly to the
 5 determination of / in all directions, again excluding non-bone pixels, as follows:
                                                n              2
                                                 fY,
                                                      2  - re
                                        Z-     i=1                            (34)
                                                    jyn  )/n
                                                  i=1
                        Image processor 16 determines the mass adjusted section modulus similarly to
   the determination of / in all directions, again excluding non-bone pixels, as follows:
                                              n
                                                                                   2
                                                ((Ai) / Amax) *Yi2           * re
                                     Zma                    n
                                                              fYi     /n
                                                          i=1      )
10                      Image processor 16 determines the product moment of area, excluding non
   bone tissue and not taking the angle into account (which is irrelevant in this case), as
   follows:
                                               n
                                      Ixy =        xi * y   1  * re,            (35)
                                              i=1
                       where x and y are the coordinates in a frame of reference with centre G as
15 defined by bone pixels. The product moment of area is a determinant of bending stress in
   an asymmetric cross section. This is the case for most bone, which are asymmetric. Unlike
   the second moments of area, the product moment may give both negative and positive
   values. From this image processor 16 determines the maximum and minimum mass
   adjusted second moments area, as well as their orientation within the cross section.
20                      Image processor 16 determines the mass adjusted product moment area after
   separating bone from non-bone pixels, and without taking the angle into account as it is
   again not needed. Image processor 16 determines the mass adjusted product moment area
   as follows:
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                            -   47
                                              n
                                   S.   =f       (A)  / A,,) * Xi * yi * re,             (36)
                                            i=1
                       where Amax and A; are respectively the maximal attenuation and the attenuation
   of pixel i. x and y are the coordinates of each pixel i in a frame of reference with centre G.
   Image processor 16 then determines the maximum and minimum mass adjusted second
 5 moment area, as well as their orientation within the cross section.
                        Image processor 16 is configured to determine the polar moment of inertia J,
   which predicts the ability of the cross section to resist torsion, as follows:
                                                  i=n
                                          J   =       W(x + y2 ) * re 2
                                                                        .       (37)
                                                  i=1
                        Image processor 16 determines the polar moment of inertia for every angle, and
10 also determines its maximum and minimum values.
                        Image processor 16 is configured to determine the mass adjusted polar moment
   of inertia     Jmax,     as follows:
                                              n
                                Jmax    =        (Ai) / Amax * (x 2 + y 2 ) * re  2
                                                                                    .       (38)
                                            i=1
                        Image processor 16 is also configured to determine the total cross sectional area
15 (TCSA) and perimeter. For these indices, image processor 16 uses the centroid G, the
   rotatory arm width AW 2 and the rotation angle 02. Non-bone tissue within the subperiosteal
   envelope is removed using Maxmd as referent as described above.
                        For each R011 , image processor 16 computes the LROli (length of ROli) according
   to:
20                                    LROI.       = 02 * (2ri * 7r) / 360.            (39)
                       After rotation by 3600, image processor 16 determines the total perimeter P of
   the cross section from:
                                             360 /02
                                      P  =        E (0 * (2r. * ;T) /360).             (40)
                                                i=11
                        Image processor 16 then determines the total cross section area (or periosteal
25 area) TCSA as:
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                         -  48
                                              360//02
                                   TCSA   =      _60 (r2* r) 2  * 02/360.        (41)
                                                i=1
                        Image processor 16 then determines the endocortical perimeter ECP as:
                                     360 /02
                          ECP      =   _      (2   * (2 (r   - CThcc ) * ,r)/360),       (42)
                                       i=1
 5                     where CThcci is the thickness of the compact cortex in ROli
                        Image processor 16 then determines the endocortical area ECA as:
                                     360/   0
                         ECA=          _
                                      i=1      (,* ((r     - CThcc)      * 02
                                                                            u6            (43)
                        Image processor 16 then computes the ratio ECA/TCSA, which is an indicator of
10 fragility.
                        Image processor 16 treats each ROI as an infinitesimal portion of a circle of
   radius ri, allowing the determination of the areas and perimeter of structure of complex
   shape such as a bone cross section. This is why AW 2 is very small.
                       All non-bone tissue is removed from the trabecular compartment using Maxmd as
15 referent so that, for any ROI, from strip o to z, only trabeculae are included. As discussed
   above, image processor 16 employs a rotatory arm width AW, and a rotatory angle 01. (In
   fact the choice of AW here is of no great importance; any rotatory AW will suffice. As
   discussed above, image processor 16 has three AWs; AW, and AW 2 are rotatory in the
   sense that they can move from one ROI to another one, while AW 3 is static and only serves
20 to assess muscle density at specific locations.)
                       After removal of non-bone tissue as explained above, all non-bone tissue pixels
   are given the value 0 and bone tissue pixels the value of 1. The width (wi) for the n non
   bone voids for each column i is determined as:
                                              wi = n * re,             (44)
25                     where re is by the resolution of the scanner. Trabecular size (Tr.Si ) for column i
   is calculated as:
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                           -   49
                                      Tr.S.         (z - o) * re) - w,
                                            1rS =                                    (45)
                       where mi is the number of trabeculae. A trabecular bone is regarded as a series
   of consecutive pixels coded as 1. The presence of a '0' indicates the end of the trabecular.
                        Image processor 16 repeats this process for each line j, where the trabecular
 5 size for each line j is:
                                              Tr.S. =   AW -W,                 (46)
                       and where mj is the number of trabeculae in the j line. It should be noted that a
   column is a series of pixels in the direction of the density profile and a line is perpendicular
   to the column.
10                      Finally, image processor 16 determines the Tr.S for the ROI from:
                                              n             n
                                Tr.S =           Tr.S1  +      Tr.Sj     (mi + mj).       (47)
                                            i=1           j=1
                        Image processor 16 determines and outputs this trabecular size, as this reflects
   both the shortening and the thinning of trabeculae. Existing approaches employ a definition
   of trabecular thickness that does not account for trabecular decay due to shortening.
15                      Image processor 16 determines trabecular separation in each line (i) and each
   column (j) from:
                                       Tr.Sep = (wi/ni) + (wj/nj),                  (48)
                       where ni and nj are respectively the numbers of voids in i columns and lines.         A
   void is a series of uninterrupted Os. The presence of a 1 signals the end of the void.
20                      Image processor 16 can output various results graphically to display 20,
   including:
                       -          The cortical thickness distribution around the cross section; and
                       -          The cortical thickness along the bone at any given angle (e.g. anteriorly).
   Summary of Results
25                      Image processor 16 is operable in various modes:
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                          -  50
                        (i)       Default Mode: The results are summarized for each slice, then for all the
   slices as average, minimal, median, standard deviation for indices other partial perimeters
   and partial surfaces. Partial perimeters and surfaces are summed for to obtain the perimeter
   or the surface for each slice and average to obtain the average perimeter or surface for the
 5 sample. In this default mode, all the parameters are available.
                        (ii)      Flexible Analysis Mode: This mode of analysis allows the user to control
   image processor 16 to determine some parameters at specific anatomical locations
   (anterior, antero-lateral, medial, etc). Image processor 16 provides this flexibility in the
   analysis because a given parameter may affect bone strength and fracture risk differently
10 depending on the anatomical region. For example at the femoral neck, an increase in
   porosity on the superior aspect may be related to fracture more than a similar increase in
   porosity on the inferior aspect.
                        Image processor 16 numbers or indexes regions of interest within a slice, so
   each ROI corresponds to a specific anatomical location. For example, at the distal radius,
15 ROI 1 correspond to the lateral aspect of the radius as image processor 16 rotates
   anticlockwise, for angle of 5 degrees for example, RO136 corresponds to the anterior aspect,
   and ROl           to the medial aspect.
                       ROls at specific anatomical locations can then be combined to provide specific
   indices at that location within the slice or (cross section). The number of ROls (N) to be
20 combined in each anatomical region is estimated to be:
                                                   N = (360 / (m * 0))
                       where 0 is the rotation angle, and m is the number of anatomical regions the
   slice is to be divided into. For example, the user can control image processor 16 to divide
   the slice into 2 halves (e.g. medial and lateral) by selecting a value for m of 2 starting at
25 R011 , or m = 2 starting at ROli such as i = 360/(4*0). It should be noted that the minimal
   value for m is 2 (as a value for m of 1 would mean that the entire cross section is analysed,
   which switches image processor 16 to Default Mode), whereas the maximal value of m is
   360/0.
                        It should that, in Default Mode, only parameters for which local or regional values
30 are meaningful are output. These parameters includes thicknesses, porosities,
   mineralization, trabecular indices are indices of strength moment of inertias. Parameters
   that are meaningful for the entire cross section, such perimeters and areas, are not output in
   Flexible Mode.
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                      -  51
                        In Default Mode, the average value for the parameter at a specified anatomical
   location is determined for all the slices within the file.
   Interpretation of Results
                       System 10 is able to assess the structure of bone and its changes during various
 5 interventions (such as exercise, nutrition variation or treatment) on bone. This has many
   applications. For example, it is suggested that treatment by drugs such as strontium
   ranelate, parathyroid hormone (PTH) treatment or odanacatib (in clinical trial phase 3)
   increase the diameter of the bone and, therefore, its bending strength. This can be
   examined by accurately quantifying bone dimensions without using threshold as done using
10 system 10. A threshold based assessment of bone structure performed according to
   existing methods may not be optimal for this purpose as, for example, identification of bone
   using thresholds may result in erroneous removal new and poorly mineralised on the
   periosteal surface leading to the erroneous conclusion the bone has not been formed, hence
   periosteal apposition has not occurred when indeed it has occurred. This is likely to occur
15 when the effect of PTH treatment on bone are being assessed. PTH is anabolic and
   stimulates the formation new and poorly mineralised bone. This can also occur when
   assessing the effects of exercise on bone as exercise especially during growth stimulates
   the formation of new and poorly mineralised bone.
                        Furthermore, strontium ranelate is absorbed by the bone tissue and has a higher
20 atomic number that calcium. Hence, strontium treatment increases the density or
   attenuation of bone voxels. An increase in the density of voxels adjacent to edge of the
   bone (periosteum or marrow space) may affect edge detection, giving the erroneous
   impression that this drug has changed the dimensions of the bone. This occurs when a
   density based fixed threshold used (according to existing approaches) to examine bone
25 structure before and after treatment with this agent gives an ambiguous result regarding its
   effects on bone structure. The conversion of all attenuations into a single BVE scale ranging
   from -1 to 1 and independent of the absolute attenuation of values of the bone, and the fact
   that thresholds are not used by image processor 16, minimizes the risk that the different
   effects of the drugs on attenuation or density of voxels will be confused with differential
30 effects on bone structure (i.e. dimensions such as cortical thickness) and porosity. (With
   existing processing methods, conclusions about differing effects of two treatments on bone
   structure and porosity may be made merely because one treatment has changed the
   material attenuation more than another (Rizzoli R, Laroche M, Krieg MA, Frieling I, Thomas
   T, Delmas P, Felsenberg D., Strontium ranelate and alendronate have differing effects on
35 distal tibia bone microstructure in women with osteoporosis, Rheumatol. Int. 30(10) (2010)
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                        -  52
   pp.1341-8).)             Furthermore, this avoids the changes in the density of attenuation values of
   voxels resulting in erroneous assessment of bone architectural parameters such as porosity.
    For example, pores are defined as voxels with attenuation below a given value; a drug like
   strontium ranelate significantly increase the attenuation value of bone tissue, so a change in
 5 bone tissue attenuation may be confused with a decrease in porosity. Such erroneous
   assessment is minimized or eliminated in image processing performed by image processor
    16.
                       System 10 is also able to determine the level of decay of bone and to detect
   fracture-vulnerable bone with a fair degree of confidence, based on the following
10 considerations.
                        (i)      A normal cortex
                       The absolute values of CTh and cortical area within entire cortical mass in any of
   its sub-compartments are not sufficient for determining whether the cortex is normal. That
   is, values higher than average (for the relevant subject group) does not mean that decay has
15 not occurred. Similarly, the absolutely values of porosity and cortical area are not sufficient
   to determine whether a cortex is normal, as a cortex may be small owning to low growth and
   not owing to bone loss. Similarly a high-porosity is not necessarily the result of increased
   intracortical remodelling; it may also be growth-related. Hence, absolute values are merely
   indicative. This is a fundamental shift from current approaches which view a smaller cortex
20 or area compared to peers as abnormal.
                        Instead, image processor 16 determines the architecture of the cortex and uses
   the result to determine whether the cortex is normal or not. A normal cortex has:
                       -    a low PTC (< 20% based on current evidence), suggesting little or no
   trabecularization, and
25                     -    a high PCC (> 60% based on current evidence).
                       The normality of the cortex is further supported by one or more of the indices
   output by image processor 16 that is:
                       -    Little if any decay (CD1 normal)
                       -    Normal RDcc
30                     -    Normal RDcm
                       - A normal cortical thickness or cortical area
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                         - 53
                       - PoCC and PoCM are low
                       - A low index of fragility
                        (ii)     A decayed cortex
                       A cortex that is of similar or greater thickness than that of its peers may still be
 5 decayed (notwithstanding the classification used in existing approaches, which regard cortex
   of similar or greater thickness than that of its peers as normal). Some individuals are born
   with thicker than average cortices so, even after loosing bone, they may still have a cortex of
   normal thickness. Such individuals are thus misdiagnosed by existing approaches as having
   normal bones. However, image processor 16 does not necessarily characterize a thick
10 cortex as normal. Rather, image processor 16 characterizes cortex (as normal or abnormal)
   according to its architecture. An abnormal cortex has a high PTC. In addition this cortex
   can be thin with a low PCC with a high porosity and low relative density, and hence high
   values of CD1 and/or CD2 and a high fragility.
                        (iii)    A normal trabecular bone has a normal relative density, low porosity, a low
15 fat proportion and fat burden.
                        (iv)     An abnormal trabecular bone will have a low relative density, high porosity
   and high fat proportion and fat burden all these suggesting that trabecular bone has been
   lost and replaced by fat.
                        (v)      An abnormal bone will have an abnormal cortex, an abnormal trabecular
20 compartment, or both an abnormal cortex and an abnormal trabecular compartment.
                        Image processor 16 also employs porosity indices of each sub-compartment to
   make such determinations.
                        (i)       Image processor 16 determines porosity from the area under the density
   profile curve, permitting such determinations in vivo and ensuring that the contribution of
25 each pixel in each sub-compartment is accounted for. This may be compared to existing
   approaches in which porosity is determined from the number of pores within a specific bone
   area, which is limited by the resolution of the image (bearing in mind that most pores are not
   visible in such images) and by the threshold approach (also bearing in mind that most pixels
   classified as bone and rejected in the assessment of porosity may be tainted by PVE, that is,
30 partially on the bone and partially on a pore). The difference between the area under the
   curve and the area defined by DSax is strongly correlated with the porosity measured by
   direct histomorphometry. It has been found that the increase in porosity with ageing does
   not occur uniformly within a specimen, so - according to this embodiment - the strip with the
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                         -   54
   lowest porosity is used by image processor 16 as a marker for use in assessing the increase
   in porosity.
                        (ii)      Image processor 16 can determine porosity in the trabecularized cortex
   and the cortico-trabecular junction. Existing approaches measure porosity only in the
 5 compact cortex, but cannot accurately assess porosity in the trabecularized cortex and the
   junctional zone.
                        Image processor 16 can determine an index of the degree of cortical porosity
   attributable to age-related bone (cortical decay) within the compact cortex and compact +
   trabecularized cortex. When the trabecularized cortex is made of cortical ruins, decay is
10 present. Young healthy bones have cortices of varying degree of porosity but no decay.
   Old bones with evidence of bone loss also have bones with varying degree of porosity but
   high amount of decay.
                       Cortical fragility is the product of cortical porosity and cortical decay. It is
   expected that greater porosity and greater decay will result in greater fragility.
15                     The proportion of the cortex that is compact (PCC), that is, the ratio of the
   thicknesses of the compact/(cortical mass) expressed as a percentage.
                       Thicknesses and areas of each sub-compartment:
                       The cortical-trabecular differentiation index (CTDI) permits differentiation
   between the cortex and the trabecularization. With ageing and bone loss, the de
20 differentiation of between the trabecular compartment and the cortical complex (i.e. cortex
   plus transition zone) occurs. This is a marker of decay and fragility.
                        It should also be noted that image processor 16 outputs most indices in the form
   of percentages, which are readily interpreted by the user. For example, it should be
   immediately apparent that a high percentage porosity or a low percentage density is
25 deleterious. (Existing methods output absolute numbers, which are generally interpretable
   only by expert users; for example, densities are expressed in mgHA/cc so the user must
   know what constitutes a low, acceptable and high range in order to interpret such results.)
                        In the above, it was assumed that point B is generally in the centre of the
   material under analysis. If not, image processor 16 can be controlled to identify a more
30 central point F (see figure 24) within the material, such that:
                                           BF = BI1 1 + BI1 2 + BI1 3 + B1
                                                                                4
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                         -   55
                       where l1, /2, /3 and /4 are points further away from B in the top left, top right, lower
   left and lower right quadrants with respect to B, at the edges or beginnings of the bone
   (determined as described above). Image processor 16 then determines C, the centre of
   mass of the sample, from F in the same way that it determines C from point B described
 5 above.
   EXAMPLES
                        Figure 25 illustrates the use of system 10 to identify an object of known
   dimensions within an image, isolate and determine its dimensions with high precision and
   accuracy. This experiment was used to test the accuracy and the precision of image
10 processor 16 in identifying and determining the dimensions of a structure within an image.
                        Figure 26 is a view of a control screen of image processor 16. Various settings
   can be selected, as can the region (e.g. bone) to be analyzed (see the second row).
                        Referring to figure 25, a plastic tube 230 of known uniform dimensions was
   scanned 232 with scanner 12 of system 10. The DICOM file was retrieved from scanner 12;
15 the resulting image file 234 (indicative of an image 236 of the tube) was generated and
   transmitted to image processor 16 for analysis.
                       The image 236 was analyzed by image processor 16 using 02, generating 240
   ROls, and AW 2. Image processor 16 identified G and generated the thickness, radius,
   external perimeter, cross section (i.e. total area), internal perimeter, and internal surface
20 area as a function of the ROls (from ROI, to R01 24 0 ), which are presented in figures 27A,
   27B, 27C, 27D, 27E and 27F respectively.
                       This test serves several purposes. Firstly, the precision of the analysis by image
   processor 16 can be tested. As the object 230 was known to have a uniform structure, any
   difference in structural parameters from ROI to ROI is largely attributable to noise in image
25 processing. It can be seen that the dimensions (thickness, radius, etc) of the object were
   constant (hence almost perfectly flat lines as plotted) from ROI to ROI. This confirms that
   the analytical procedures used by image processor 16 to rotate and retrieve elements of a
   structure from ROI to ROI are sound, with little noise. (If elements of the structure differed
   from ROI to ROI, this would indicate that the analysis of a structure from ROI to ROI by
30 image processor 16 were noisy and poorly reproducible). The precision of the analysis by
   image processor 16 was then calculated as expressed as coefficient (CV) of variation, that
   is, the mean of the 240 ROls divided by the standard deviation of the 240 values. The CV
   for thickness, radius, external perimeter, internal perimeter, external surface and internal
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                       -  56
   surface measurements were respectively 3%, 1.7%, 1.7%, 2.1%, 3.4% and 4.2%, confirming
   the high reproducibility of the analysis.
                       Secondly, as the dimensions the plastic tube were well known, the accuracy of
   image processor 16 in determining the dimensions of a structure could be evaluated. The
 5 size of the plastic tube was measured directly, and the corresponding parameters were
   determined with system 10. The results are tabulated and compared below:
                   Parameter              Measured directly     Determined by          Agreement
                                                                   system 10
           thickness of plastic                  3 cm                2.9 cm               96.7%
           radius                              19.75 cm             19.99 cm              98.7%
           external perimeter                 124.09 cm             125.6 cm              98.8%
           internal perimeter                  105.2 cm             106.8 cm              98.5%
           external surface                   881.4 cmz            908.6 cm 2              97%
          area
           internal surface area              1225.4 cmz          1256.1 cm 2             97.5%
                       Altogether, this shows that image processor 16 can automatically detect an
   object within an image and determine its dimensions with good precision and accuracy.
10                      In addition, image processor 16 was able to automatically identify the plastic
   tube and robustly determine its dimensions without using thresholds (as employed in
   existing techniques). Unlikely image processor 16, existing techniques require an external
   input to perform such analysis; that is, an operator must reset the density threshold for
   detection so that the object can be identified within the image. This requires knowing a priori
15 the density of the object and/or manually adjusting the image until the image of the object
   appears separated from the surrounding environment. Image processor 16 is adapted to
   identify a structure within an image and separate it essentially regardless of its density.
                        In another example, a variety of numbers of holes were drilled in a series of
   plastic tubes (such as that shown in cross section in grayscale image 280 of figure 28) to
20 produce different levels of porosity. These tubes were then imaged using system 10,
   images were collected and porosity was quantified using image processor 16. Figure 29 is a
   plot of the porosities determined by system 10 against the true porosities (i.e. those
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                        -   57
   determined experimentally from the known characteristics and numbers of holes in each
   tube). A high correlation was found, with an r2 value of 0.98.
                        In a further example, four cylindrical phantoms of different but known
   concentrations of hydroxapatite were imaged using CT scanner. The images were collected
 5 with system 10 and analyzed using image processor 16 to determine the level of
   mineralization. Figure 30 is a plot of the mineralization level (%) from image processor 16
   against the known hydroxyapatite concentration (mg.cm- 1): high correlation between the two
   is again evident.
                       Twenty-four bone specimens from cadavers were studied using scanning
10 electron microscopy (SEM) and QCT, and their bone density was measured in in vivo like
   conditions (after submersion in saline and an adequate internal rotation of 150). Porosity
   and other indices were determined directly from micrographs and estimates after DICOM file
   from CT scanner 12 using image processor 16. Porosity profile curves (analogous of density
   profile) were generated after porosity was measured directly from SEM images. Points
15 identified by image processor 16 from the density profile curves were compared with the
   image scans and SEM micrographs.
                        Examples of these results are shown in figures 31A, 31 B, 32A, 32B, 33, 34A,
   34B, 35 and 36.
                        Micrographs from the subtrochanteric region, bone mineral density (BMD) in
20 these specimens were measured at the trochanteric region and converted into T-scores
   using the Geelong reference range which is the reference recommended by the Australian
   and New Zealand Bone and Mineral Society.
                        Figure 31A is a micrograph from image processor 16 of bone from a 72 year old
   woman with a modestly elevated intracortical porosity as can be seeing on the micrograph.
25 The small increase in porosity is recognized by image processor 16, which quantifies the
   porosity as 4.4%. Figure 31B is a micrograph from image processor 16 of bone from a 90
   year old woman with a markedly elevated intracortical porosity. This markedly increased in
   intracortical porosity is also captured by image processor 16 which quantifies the porosity as
   35.1%. The difference in decay between the two samples is clearly visible, figure 31A
30 showing more decay that figure 31 B. This was confirmed by porosity results determined
   with image processor 16 (whereas according to a conventional bone density tests, these two
   bones have similar decay, as bone density tests do not discern the difference in fragility
   between these two bones).
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                        - 58
                        Figure 32A is a micrograph from image processor 16 of bone from a 29 years old
   woman with minimal porosity; image processor 16 quantified the porosity of this sample as
   0.9%. Figure 32B is a micrograph from image processor 16 of bone from a 72 year old
   woman with normal cortex and low porosity; this low porosity is well captured by image
 5 processor 16, which quantified the porosity of the sample of figure 32B as 0.1%. However,
   according to the BMD test (the currently used method of diagnosis), the 29 year old woman
   is normal (with a T-score of 1.92) whereas the 72 year old woman is osteopenic (with a T
   score of -1.14), suggesting bone fragility in the older woman when there is none. Image
   processor 16 thus has the potential to avoid such cases of misdiagnosis by adequately
10 detecting decay when it is present.
                        Figure 33 is a micrograph from image processor 16 of bone from a 67 year old
   women with a significantly decayed cortex (as can be seen in the micrograph). Image
   processor 16 captured this decay and quantified porosity as 14.7%. However, the woman
   was classified according to the BMD test as normal (with a T-score of -0.2). Many people
15 with a normal bone density test sustain a fracture at some point; it is likely that this woman
   would be one of them. It is expected that image processor 16 analysis would identify these
   people who fracture despite having a normal BMD test.
                        Figure 34A is a plot of BMD T-scores against porosity (expressed as percentage
   of bone area), and illustrates the poor correlation between the levels of porosity measured
20 directly from SEM images and BMD diagnosis thresholds in the 24 specimens analyzed.
   This shows that BMD test poorly captured cortical decay. About 50% (7/13) of the
   specimens with high porosity (>20% of bone area) consistent with having lost bone, had
   normal BMD (T-score > -1). Only 50% (2/4) of specimens with low aBMD (T-score < -2.5
   SD) have high porosity (> 20%); the remaining had low aBMD despite having normal
25 porosity. Of the 10 specimens with T-scores less than -1 (i.e. osteopenic or osteoporotic),
   only 5/10 (50%) had low porosity and the remaining 50% had high porosity.
                        Figure 34B is a plot of percentage porosity determined by system 10 against
   percentage porosity measured directly from SEM images. As is apparent from this plot,
   porosity as quantified by image processor 16 correlated well with directly measured porosity.
30                      Figures 35 and 36 illustrate the positions of points m, n and o within a density
   profile curve when compared with direct observation of SEM images for two respective
   samples. The ability of image processor 16 to identified points within the density profile
   curve as compared to images generated in vivo from DICOM files and analysed by image
   processor 16 was presented above (detailed description of the invention).
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                         -   59
                        In these two in vitro samples, it can be seen that the points and hence the
   dimensions (in particular thicknesses) within the samples are clearly identified.                The decay
   of the compact cortex (CD1) and trabecularised cortex (CD2) are also indicated. Referring
   to figure 35, sample 1 is from a 29 year old woman with a histologically normal cortex. This
 5 was confirmed by image processor 16, which found a CD1 of 1.4% and a CD2 of 4.2%; this
   corresponds to a homogeneous cortex followed by a clear transition from the cortex to
   marrow space. The cortex is almost entirely compact (PPCC = 87.5%), the PTC and PCTJ
   are limited to one strip each, and therefore inexistent as discussed in the section on
   unsuitability of the analysis. The normality of the sample is further confirmed that by a
10 cortical fragility index of 1.26%.
                        Referring to figure 36, sample 2 is from a 65 year old woman. The decay of the
   cortex is visible on the micrograph (top register) and confirmed by image processor 16,
   which quantified CD1 and CD2 as 12% and 20%
                        respectively. The more decayed state of the sample is further confirmed by the
15 percentage of compact cortex (determined by image processor 16 to be 57.1%), the
   percentage of trabecularized cortex (PTC) (determined by image processor 16 to be 37.1%),
   and the index of cortical fragility (determined by image processor 16 to be 6.8%).
                        In addition, DICOM files with scan data obtained from living individuals (five from
   fracture cases and three from non-fracture individuals) were obtained, to test system 10 with
20 QCT data files relating to living individuals. The relevant points in the density profiles were
   identified and the relevant indices determined with image processor 16. It was found that:
                        1)        Image processor 16 was able to identify relevant points (i.e. j, k, /, m, n, o)
   and to compare image and direct SEM measurements as discussed above.
                       Correlation between porosity measured directly and porosity estimated by image
25 processor 16 was excellent.
                       2)         The porosity (assessed by image processor 16) correlates poorly with
   bone density, the currently used method to identify individuals at risk for fracture. This
   suggests that the two techniques overlap but do not capture the same things.
                        In the appendix (end of the text), are presented examples of specimens studied.
30 Micrographs and porosity scores as determined by image processor 16 are shown as well
   as the BMD T-scores values in these individuals. A BMD T-score of less than -1 is
   considered osteopenic while T-score of -2.5 or less is osteoporosis.
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                       -  60
                       Comparative values of porosity in individuals with fracture of distal radius and
   those without fracture are shown in the appendix also. The indices and parameters
   determined by image processor 16 allow discrimination between individuals with and without
   fracture-vulnerable bones.
 5                      In a further example, it was shown that the age-related increase in porosity as
   measured using image processor 16 is similar to that of activation frequency measured
   directly using histomorphometry. Figure 37A is a plot of age-related increase in activation
   frequency (Ac.F) per year measured directly by histomorphometry as a function of age
   (Compston, Porosity increase from the rise in Ac.F within intracortical pores (haversian and
10  Volkmann canals, private communication). Figure 37B is a plot of age-related increase in
   porosity measured using image processor 16, in 73 women. The data in these two figures
   demonstrates similar trends.
                        Figures 38A, 38B and 38C are cross sectional views of a radius. Figure 38A is a
   greyscale image of the distal radius reconstructed from high-resolution peripheral
15 quantitative computed tomography (HRpQCT) data. Figure 38B is an image of the same
   sample, reconstructed by image processor 16 after extraction of the periosteal surface,
   demonstrating the ability of image processor 16 to segment an image from the background.
   The image was reconstructed from BVE values; black (generally inner region) to red
   (generally outer region) represent increasing BVE values. It will be noted that, because a
20 threshold is not used by image processor 16, image processor 16 extracts the external
   contour of a material (periosteal surface of the bone in this case) while preserving the
   original attenuation of all the voxels within the material. This allows image processor 16 to
   fully characterize the material after it has been segmented from the background, including
   assessing porosity and tissue mineralization level.
25                      Figure 38C is another view of the sample, showing the segmentation of the
   same image into the four compartments of bone described above. Red is the compact
   cortex 382, light green is the outer transition zone 384, cyan is the inner transition zone 386,
   and blue is the marrow space occupied by trabecular bone 388. (Inner transition zone 386,
   where visible, lies between outer transition zone 384 and trabecular bone 388. Figures 38D
30 and 38E, respectively, plot outer transition zone 384 and inner transition zone 386 only in
   greyscale.) White is the background or surrounding muscle tissue 390. Figures 38F and
   38G are greyscale versions of, respectively, figures 38B and 38C.
                        In addition, an example of automated identification and analysis of a foreign
   body within the bone is shown in figures 39A, 39B and 40. A discussed above, image
35 processor 16 can automatically identify and analyze a structure within an image. While the
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                       -  61
   main application of system 10 is the identification and analysis of bone, the use of image
   processor 16 is by no means limited to this application.
                        Figure 39A is an image as displayed by display 22 of image processor 16. A
   bright object is evident within the image and, although the bright object resembles a cross
 5 section of a bone, it is actually the head of a metallic safety pin. This experiment was
   designed to simulate the presence of a metallic foreign body within a subject or other object,
   such as a bullet or a coin (perhaps inadvertently swallowed).
                       The head of the safety pin was buried insight muscle tissue and imaged with
   system 10; the bright object in the image of figure 39A is thus the cross section of the head
10 of the safety pin. Image processor 16 readily identified this structure, separated it from the
   surrounding muscle tissue, and analyzed its structure, permitting a diagnosis of a metallic
   body within the muscle tissue.
                        ROI, - which is marked in figure 39A - is shown enlarged in figure 39B. Figure
   40 (upper register) is the density profile curve associated with R01 1. Figure 40 (lower
15 register) is the function k, associated with the density profile curve shown in the upper
   register of figure 40. As described above, k, is the function that enables the bone to be
   distinguished from the surrounding soft tissue. In this case k, enables the separation of the
   object that was analyzed (viz. the head of the safety pin) and the surrounding muscle tissue.
   The function k, determines that a clear separation between the object and the surrounding
20 muscle is at point 99 (see the lower register of figure 40). Point 99 is indicated in the density
   profile curve (see the upper register of figure 40), and in the image of ROI, (see figure 39B).
   It should be noted that], in this case point 99, is selected by k, in such as way that most of
   the haziness (white blurry area adjacent to the object, open square) adjacent to the structure
   is not included in the surrounding soft tissue. This hazy area is due to partial volume effects,
25 and image processor 16 - using k, - can separate the object from the surrounding muscle
   tissue with minimal artifacts due to partial volume effect on muscle tissue. Furthermore,
   partial volume effects do not affect the ability of image processor 16 to identify the beginning
   of the object (point m, in this case at point 110) free of artifacts. Image processor 16 readily
   identifies point n (at point 115), enabling it to isolate the mass of the object free of artifacts
30 (PVE) and free decay (referred to as trabecularization in the case of a bone).
                        Image processor 16 therefore identifies, and isolates the object, and the
   surrounding muscle while minimizing the interference from artifacts. The nature of the object
   can thus be identified by comparing its density to that of the surrounding muscle, whether by
   calculating its relative density or its absolute density (such as in mgHA/cc or g/cc).
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                     -  62
                        Image processor 16 determined the relative density of the object viewed in figure
   39A to be 93.5%. Hence, the object (in fact the head of a safety pin) is much denser than
   muscle and is therefore not bone (the relative density of which is typically -66% and no
   greater than 75%, and -3 times greater than muscle). In absolute terms, image processor
 5 determined the density of the object to be 6036 mgHA/cc or 4.6g/cc equivalents, confirming
   that the object is of a density corresponding to a metal. (In absolute terms, the density of
   purely mineralized bone does not exceed -1200 mgHA/cc equivalent or -2g/cc.) The
   presence of an object of a much greater density than the bone within a muscle tissue
   indicates the presence of a foreign body.
10                     The examples presented are not a complete list of the potential used of image
   processor 16. It is envisaged that its potential ability to automatically identify, separate and
   analyze objects (or elements) of an unspecified image (i.e. where the constituents are
   unknown), often without human intervention, will have applications in other areas of
   medicine (such as in the diagnosis of vessel calcifications, acute myocardial infraction,
15 fracture and stroke) but also outside the field of medicine. For example, one such
   application is for the automated image analysis of image processor 16 for the creation of
   artificial vision. In these circumstances, image processor 16 would be integrated in a
   camera to perform a contemporaneous analysis of images. After analyzing the image,
   image processor 16 instantly transfers the results to a "command centre" for decisions
20 making. Such a "command centre" could be a person or a software with specific
   instructions. Artificial vision would have many applications within and outside of medicine.
   Outside medicine, image processor 16 could be used, for example, for controlling a robot.
                       The examples presented above suggest that image processor 16 is a useful tool
   for an automated identification, separation and analyses of the structure of an object within
25 an image, and in particular the automated segmentation and analysis of bone. The indices
   determined by image processor 16 allow the assessment of cortical bone structure that is
   not the mere measurement of cortical thickness, cortical area and cortical density.
                        Image processor 16 can retrieve an image from surrounding background, while
   minimizing the confounding effects of PVE. For example, the upper register of figure 41A is
30 a cross sectional view of a distal radius; the upper register of figure 41 B is the same cross
   section reconstructed by image processor 16 after separating the bone (radius in this case)
   from the surrounding background. The lower register of figure 41A is an enlarged view of an
   interface (or junction) between the background and the bone, which is blurry owing to partial
   volume effects (i.e., voxels that are partly bone, partly background). The lower register of
35 figure 41 B, however, is the same junction after processing of the image by image processor
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                        -   63
   16. The delineation is much sharper: blurry voxels (i.e. those tainted by partial volume
   effects) have been separated and left in the background, and hence the margin of bone is
   more clearly apparent.
                       This process of separation of a material within an image from the background
 5 while minimizing the blurring due to partial volume effects has many applications in medicine
   and outside the medical field.
                        Image processor 16 can separate bone from background better than existing
   software that is based on a threshold approach. Figure 42A, upper register, is a cross
   sectional view of a tibia. The external boundary is drawn with conventional threshold-based
10 software. It can be seen that a significant amount of bone has been left out of this boundary
   and erroneously included in the background. Figure 42A, lower register, is a magnified view
   showing a particular portion of bone outside the boundary and hence erroneously included in
   the background.
                        Figure 42B, upper register, is the same cross section of the same bone
15 separated from the background by image processor 16. It can be seen that image
   processor 16 has clearly separated bone from the surrounding soft tissue. The region
   erroneously segmented by conventional threshold-based software is shown in the lower
   register of this figure, in which it is apparent that image processor 16 has correctly separated
   this region from the background.
20                      Modifications within the scope of the invention may be readily effected by those
   skilled in the art. It is to be understood, therefore, that this invention is not limited to the
   particular embodiments described by way of example hereinabove.
                        In the claims that follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except
   where the context requires otherwise owing to express language or necessary implication,
25 the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive
   sense, that is, to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the
   presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
                        Further, any reference herein to prior art is not intended to imply that such prior
   art forms or formed a part of the common general knowledge in Australia or any other
30 country.
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                         - 64
   CLAIMS:
   1.                  A method for analysing a sample comprising a first material and a second
   material of generally different densities and having a junction therebetween, the method
   comprising:
 5                     defining a region of interest in a cross sectional image of at least a portion of the
   sample that includes said junction;
                       determining a density profile of the sample within the region of interest and
   crossing the junction;
                       determining a representative density of said second material; and
10                     analysing said sample using said junction used to distinguish said first and
   second materials.
   2.                   A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein determining the representative density
   of said second material from the density profile.
   3.                  A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising locating the junction in said
15 density profile between said first material and said second material.
   4.                  A method as claimed in claim 3, further comprising locating the junction in said
   density profile between said first material and said second material using a distance function
   relative to a suitably selected point.
   5.                  A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein locating the junction in the density
20 profile comprises locating a point in the density profile that is closest to a reference point
   having the same position as the representative density of the first material and a density
   similar or lower than that of second material.
   6.                  A method as claimed in claim 5, wherein locating the junction comprises finding
   a minimum in the expression               x     + y? in a reference frame within the density profile
25 centred on (xi,               yi) = (0,0), or finding a maximum in the expression     x1   +  y1    in a
   reference frame within the density profile centred on (xi,            yi)  =  (0,0).
   7.                  A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein locating the junction comprises locating
   a point of greatest rate of change in the density profile in a portion of said region of interest
   that is bounded by said point of maximum density difference and that includes said second
30 material, or locating a point of smallest rate of change in the density profile in a portion of
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                         -  65
   said region of interest that is bounded by said point of maximum density difference and that
   includes said second material.
   8.                  A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein locating the junction includes locating a
   point of inflexion in the density profile, or forming a second order derivative of one or more
 5 portions of the density profile.
   9.                  A method as claimed in claim 1, further method further comprises determining an
   architecture of the first material.
   10.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the sample comprises bone.
   11.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising detecting decay or abnormality in
10 the first material.
   12.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising identifying fracture-vulnerable bone.
   13.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the region of interest includes at least
   one further junction that is between said first material and a further portion of said sample
   that comprises either said second material, a third material or a vacancy, and the method
15 further comprises:
                       determining a representative density of said further portion; and
                        locating a further junction in said density profile in a portion of said region of
   interest that is bounded by said point of maximum density and that includes said further
   portion.
20 14.                 A method as claimed in claim 13, comprising further analysing the first material
   by using only portions of said sample between the junction in said density profile and the
   further junction in said density profile.
   15.                 A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein locating the further junction in the
   density profile comprises locating a point in the density profile that is closest to a further
25 reference point having the same position as point of maximum density difference and the
   same density as the representative density of the further portion.
   16.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising optimizing the position of the
   selected region of interest for use by the density profile analyzer in determining the density
   profile by adjusting the position of the region of interest.
30 17.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising merging a plurality of regions of
   interest.
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                       - 66
   18.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising identifying one or more points of
   inflexion in the density profile, or defining a plurality of compartments within the sample by
   identifying one or more points of inflexion in the density profile.
   19.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first material is bone, and the
 5 method comprises defining a plurality of compartments within the sample, the compartments
   comprising any one or more of:
                       a compartment bounded by a periosteal boundary and a beginning of the cortex;
                       a compartment bounded by a beginning of the cortex and a beginning of the
   compact cortex;
10                     a compact (or hard) cortex compartment;
                       a trabecularized cortex compartment;
                       a cortico-trabecular junction compartment; and
                       a trabecular compartment.
   20.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first material is bone, and the
15 method comprises defining a plurality of compartments within the sample, the compartments
   comprising any one or more of:
             a compartment bounded by a periosteal boundary and a beginning of the compact
   cortex;
             a compartment bounded by a beginning of the compact cortex and the beginning of the
20 an outer transition zone;
             an outer transition zone;
             an inner transition zone and;
             a trabecular compartment.
   21.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising either minimizing partial volume
25 effects when analysing bone structure, or determining the dimensions of a structure within
   an image while minimizing partial volume effects.
   22.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising determining a proportion of the
   cortex that has a trabecular-like appearance.
   23.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising determining an average of the
30 cortical thicknesses of the compact cortex, of the cortical mass, or of the trabecularized
   cortex.
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                        -  67
   24.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the sample comprises a bone sample,
   and the portion includes a trabecular portion of said sample and a cortical portion of said
   sample.
   25.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising imaging an internal region of the
 5 sample.
   26.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the imaging comprises computed
   tomography imaging.
   27.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the portion of the sample comprises a
   radial strip.
10 28.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising imaging a plurality of portions of the
   sample and determining respective density profiles of each of said portions.
   29.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising automatically identifying bone within
   a sample.
   30.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising determining any one or more indices
15 from the group consisting of:
                       the thickness of the cortex, of the trabecularized cortex or of the transition zone;
                       the cortical area or of the trabecularized cortex;
                       the porosity of cortex, of the trabecularized cortex, or of the transition zone;
                       whether the cortex or the trabecularized cortex is normal regardless of its
20 absolute thickness or area;
                       whether the cortex or the trabecularized cortex has been subject to resorption;
   and
                       trabecular architecture and porosity from the analysis of the profile;
   31.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising determining a loss of differentiation
25 between the cortical and the trabecular compartments.
   32.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising identifying non-bone tissue within a
   periosteal envelope of the sample.
   33.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising determining a radius, perimeter
   length or cross sectional area of the first material, or determining the second moment area
30 or moment of inertia of the first material.
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                    -   68
   34.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising determining a mass adjusted second
   moment area of a cross section of bone point-by-point around a perimeter of said bone, or
   section moduli or mass adjusted section moduli of a cross section of bone.
   35.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising determining a buckling ratio or a
 5 mass adjusted buckling ratio of a cross section of bone.
   36.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising determining an area or a perimeter
   of a cross section of bone.
   37.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising determining polar moment of inertia
   moduli or mass adjusted polar moment of inertia of a cross section of bone, or determining
10 the radii of a cross section of bone point-by-point around a perimeter of the bone.
   38.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising identifying trabecular bone within the
   sample and determining one or more trabecular indices.
   39.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising determining the degree of
   mineralization of bone using the surrounding muscular tissue as referent.
15 40.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising determining an absolute or relative
   density of a constituent or element within the region of interest using an attenuation of the
   second material as referent.
   41.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising determining the relative density of
   an object or structure within the region of interest using the attenuation of the second
20 material as referent.
   42.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the sample is a bone sample and the
   method comprises determining one or more indices indicative of at least a portion of the
   sample and identifying abnormality within the sample from said one or more indices.
   42.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the sample is a bone sample and the
25 method comprises determining whether the sample is abnormal based on having an
   abnormal cortex, an abnormal trabecular compartment, or both an abnormal cortex and an
   abnormal trabecular compartment.
   43.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, comprising identifying and analyzing a necrotic
   mass from surrounding healthy soft tissue from the difference in attenuation between the
30 necrotic mass and the surrounding healthy tissue, identifying and analyzing kidney stones,
   identifying and analyzing a calcified or other tumour, or identifying and analyzing an object
   within an image in a non-medical discipline.
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                        -  69
   44.                 A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein analyzing the sample comprises
   analyzing the image using a rotatory arm width, or using translation of the image, or using
   both rotation and translation of the image.
   45.                 A method for analysing a sample comprising a first material and a second
 5 material of generally different densities and having a junction therebetween, the method
   comprising:
                       defining a region of interest in a cross sectional image of at least a portion of the
   sample that includes said junction;
                       determining an arm width over which said portion of said sample is locally linear;
10 and
                       analyzing said image including rotating said arm width, translating said arm
   width, or both by rotating and translating said arm width.
   46.                 A system for analysing a sample comprising a first material and a second
   material of generally different densities and having a junction therebetween, the system
15 comprising:
                       a region of interest selector for selecting a region of interest in a cross sectional
   image of at least a portion of the sample that includes said junction;
                       a density profile analyzer for determining a density profile of the sample within
   the region of interest and crossing the junction, for determining a representative density of
20 said second material, and for performing an analysis of said sample using said junction to
   distinguish said first and second materials; and
                       an output for outputting a result of said analysis.
   47.                 A system as claimed in claim 46, comprising a region of interest position
   adjuster, adapted to optimize the position of the selected region of interest for use by the
25 density profile analyzer in determining the density profile.
   48.                 A system as claimed in claim 46, comprising a region of interest merger, adapted
   to merge a plurality of regions of interest.
   49.                 A system as claimed in claim 46, wherein the density profile analyzer is adapted
   for locating the junction in the density profile between the first material and the second
30 material.
   50.                 A system as claimed in claim 46, comprising an evacuatable sample chamber.
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                       -  70
   51.                 A system as claimed in claim 46, wherein the sample comprise a second
   material of known characteristics located or locatable around the first material to serve as a
   referent for the analysis of the first material.
   52.                 A system for analysing a sample comprising a first material and a second
 5 material of generally different densities and having a junction therebetween, the system
   adapted to perform the method of any one of claims 1 to 45.
   53.                  Executable instructions or software that, when executed by a computer or
   processor of a computer, cause the computer or processor of the computer to perform the
   method of any one of claims 1 to 45.
10 54.                 A computing device provided with executable instructions or software that, when
   executed by the computing device or by a processor of the computing device, cause the
   computing device or processor of the computing device to perform the method of any one of
   claims 1 to 45.
   9910338_1(GHMaters) P82011.AU.3

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
              <U+261B><U+261E>
                                                                   <U+272D><U+2725>
                    <U+261B><U+2725>   <U+272A><U+272B> <U+271B><U+2722><U+2717><U+2718><U+2715><U+2722><U+2724> <U+2713><U+272C><U+2713><U+2718><U+2714><U+2605>
                                                                        <U+261B><U+272D>
<removed-apn>
                           <U+272D><U+272F>
                   <U+261B><U+2726>    <U+271C><U+2715><U+2722><U+271B><U+2714><U+2713><U+2713><U+2716><U+2717><U+2723>
                         <U+271B><U+2722><U+2717><U+2718><U+2715><U+2722><U+2724><U+2724><U+2714><U+2715>                 <U+272D><U+272F>
                   <U+272D><U+272D>
                   <U+272D><U+261E>
                          <U+2727><U+2605><U+271A><U+2723><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2715><U+2722><U+271B><U+2714><U+2713><U+2713><U+2722><U+2715>
                                              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+272E>
                    <U+261B><U+2726>
                                <U+271C><U+2715><U+2722><U+271B><U+2714><U+2713><U+2713><U+2716><U+2717><U+2723> <U+271B><U+2722><U+2717><U+2718><U+2715><U+2722><U+2724><U+2724><U+2714><U+2715>
                                                <U+270C><U+270D>            <U+270C><U+270E>   <U+270F><U+2711>
                                <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+2714>
                                                                   <U+270C><U+270F>
                                         <U+270F><U+270D>              <U+270F><U+270F>
                                              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721>

<removed-date>
                                                       <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
                                                    <U+260E><U+2714><U+2605><U+2722><U+2715><U+272C>
                                    <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>             <U+271F><U+271C><U+2702><U+2720><U+260E>         <U+260E><U+271A><U+2713><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2722><U+2715><U+271A><U+2723><U+2714>
                                                                    <U+271D><U+2714><U+271E><U+2716><U+271B><U+2714>          <U+270C><U+270E>
                                     <U+270C><U+2706>
<removed-apn>
                                                       <U+270C><U+2711>                <U+270E><U+270D>
                                                     <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>      <U+2701>
                               <U+270F><U+2711>   <U+271C><U+2715><U+2722><U+271B><U+2714><U+2713><U+2713><U+2716><U+2717><U+2723> <U+271B><U+2722><U+2717><U+2718><U+2715><U+2722><U+2724><U+2724><U+2714><U+2715>
                                                              <U+260E><U+2714><U+2605><U+2722><U+2715><U+272C>           <U+270C><U+270E>
                                    <U+271C><U+2715><U+2722><U+271B><U+2714><U+2713><U+2713><U+2722><U+2715>         <U+270F><U+270F>
                                                              <U+2702><U+2720><U+2727> <U+2715><U+2714><U+2713><U+261B><U+2724><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2722><U+2715><U+271A><U+2723><U+2714>    <U+261E><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+270F>                         <U+2721><U+2716><U+2713><U+2729><U+2724><U+271A><U+272C> <U+270E><U+270F>           <U+270C><U+2716><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2714><U+2713><U+261B><U+2724><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2722><U+2715><U+271A><U+2723><U+2714>   <U+261E><U+270F>
                                        <U+271B><U+2722><U+2717><U+2718><U+2715><U+2722><U+2724><U+2724><U+2714><U+2715>
                     <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715>                <U+2721><U+2727><U+272A><U+2720><U+260E> <U+270E><U+270E>
                   <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+2714>            <U+2719><U+2716><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2722><U+2724><U+2724><U+2714><U+2715>
                                       <U+2721><U+2727><U+272A><U+2720><U+260E> <U+2719><U+2716><U+2724><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2706>            <U+2721><U+2714><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+2718><U+272C>        <U+270E><U+2711>
                                       <U+271B><U+2722><U+2717><U+271E><U+2714><U+2715><U+2718><U+2714><U+2715>
                                                                <U+271A><U+2717><U+271A><U+2724><U+272C><U+270D><U+2714><U+2715>
                                                                 <U+2729><U+2715><U+2722><U+2719><U+2716><U+2724><U+2714>
                                            <U+270C><U+2716><U+2724><U+2714>
                                         <U+2713><U+2714><U+2724><U+2714><U+271B><U+2718><U+2722><U+2715>
                                                    <U+270E><U+2711>
                                                                   <U+2702><U+2720><U+2727>         <U+2706><U+270D>
                                                                <U+2715><U+2714><U+2712><U+2714><U+271B><U+2718><U+2714><U+2715>
                                            <U+270C><U+2716><U+2724><U+2714>
                                         <U+271D><U+2716><U+2723><U+2716><U+2718><U+2716><U+270D><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270E><U+270D>         <U+2727><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2716><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2714><U+2713><U+261B><U+2724><U+2718>   <U+2706><U+270F>
                                            <U+2702><U+2720><U+2727>     <U+270E><U+270F>
                                                               <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2714><U+2723><U+2715><U+271A><U+2718><U+2722><U+2715>
                                         <U+2713><U+2714><U+2724><U+2714><U+271B><U+2718><U+2722><U+2715>             <U+270C><U+2716><U+2717><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2714><U+2713><U+261B><U+2724><U+2718>     <U+2706><U+270E>
                                           <U+270F><U+2722><U+2717><U+2714>     <U+270E><U+270E>
                                                               <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2714><U+2723><U+2715><U+271A><U+2718><U+2722><U+2715>
                                        <U+2716><U+271D><U+2714><U+2717><U+2718><U+2716><U+2719><U+2716><U+2714><U+2715>                <U+2727><U+2717><U+271D><U+2714><U+2713>
                                                              <U+271D><U+2714><U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2605><U+2716><U+2717><U+2714><U+2715>       <U+2706><U+2706>
                                       <U+2711><U+2729><U+2714><U+271B><U+2716><U+2605><U+2714><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2706>
                                                                 <U+2702><U+2714><U+2713><U+261B><U+2724><U+2718>        <U+2706><U+2711>
                                         <U+271A><U+271D><U+2712><U+261B><U+2713><U+2718><U+2714><U+2715>
                                         <U+2729><U+2722><U+2713><U+2716><U+2718><U+2716><U+2722><U+2717>
                                                                 <U+2722><U+261B><U+2718><U+2729><U+261B><U+2718>
                                                     <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>

<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
                                                                   <U+261E><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2715><U+2712>                                                                                                                                                       <U+270E><U+261E><U+2713><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2726><U+2713>
                  <U+2720><U+272F><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2605><U+2713><U+2711>     <U+261E><U+2711><U+2715><U+2712>                                <U+261E><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2711>                                                                                                                      <U+261E><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2715> <U+2727><U+2720>                          <U+270D><U+2720> <U+261E><U+2722><U+272C>
                   <U+2720><U+261B> <U+2720><U+261B><U+2711>                                             <U+2716> <U+271F>                                                              <U+261E><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2711><U+2715>                                                  <U+261E><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2711> <U+2711><U+2712>                          <U+2723><U+2720> <U+272B>          <U+2727><U+2720>
                     <U+2720><U+271F> <U+2722><U+2727>     <U+2720><U+2711>
                               <U+271F>                                              <U+261E><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2715><U+2712>                                                   <U+261E><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2711>                                                    <U+2716> <U+2727> <U+2722><U+261E>                             <U+2726><U+2722><U+2727><U+2713><U+2715> <U+261B><U+2711><U+2713>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+2605>
                           <U+271C>               <U+2720><U+2727><U+2722>            <U+2711><U+2713><U+2711> <U+261E><U+2712>
                                                             <U+261E><U+2715><U+2712>              <U+261E><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2711>                                                         <U+2716> <U+271F>                                                                                       <U+271C><U+261E> <U+270C><U+272A><U+271A>    <U+270C><U+2725>
                                               <U+261E><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271F><U+2711> <U+270E><U+270C><U+270D><U+2715> <U+261E><U+271A><U+2712><U+2716>                  <U+2716> <U+271F>                                                                                                                          <U+2746><U+270E><U+2727>                        <U+270D><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2727>
                                                             <U+272D>                                        <U+270E><U+2715> <U+2720><U+261E><U+270C><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2711><U+2715><U+2712>                                                                                            <U+261E><U+2722><U+261B>               <U+271C> <U+2729>
                                         <U+2720><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2715><U+2712>                                                    <U+270C><U+270D><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2605> <U+2720><U+2711>                                                                                               <U+270C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2711>
<removed-apn>
                                           <U+2720><U+2727><U+261E><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270D> <U+2727><U+2722> <U+2720><U+2711>                                                 <U+2743> <U+261E><U+270D><U+2717> <U+271F>                                                                           <U+2742>                                     <U+272C>
                                             <U+2720><U+271F> <U+270C> <U+261E><U+2719> <U+271F>                          <U+2720><U+2727><U+2722><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2715><U+2712><U+2711>                                                                                                                     <U+261E><U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2719>
                                                                                  <U+261E><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271F>                                                <U+2720><U+261E><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+2715>
                                        <U+2736><U+273A><U+2739><U+2737><U+2734><U+2733><U+2741>                                                                                           <U+2727><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2711>
                                      <U+2733><U+2740><U+2731><U+2732><U+2736><U+273E> <U+2736><U+2740><U+2748><U+2747>                           <U+261E><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2715><U+2712>                                                        <U+2720><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2720><U+271F>                                                      <U+2720><U+272F><U+2713> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2711> <U+261E><U+2712>
                                                                            <U+261E><U+271A><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2711>                                                            <U+2717>                                                        <U+2720><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270C><U+2715> <U+261E><U+271A><U+2712>
                                                  <U+261E><U+2715><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2711><U+2713><U+2711> <U+261E><U+2712>                  <U+2716> <U+271F>                                            <U+270E><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2715><U+2714>                                                                     <U+2720><U+271F> <U+270D><U+272D> <U+2716>
                                                 <U+2727><U+2720><U+2722><U+261E><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2715> <U+261E><U+271A><U+2712>                                                                   <U+270C><U+261E> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2716>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                               <U+2719> <U+271F> <U+270D><U+272D> <U+2716>                                                                           <U+261B><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2712><U+2711> <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                     <U+2720><U+271F> <U+270D><U+270F>                                                                 <U+2720><U+261B><U+2727><U+2718> <U+270E><U+2711><U+2713><U+2711><U+2715>
                                         <U+2720><U+272F> <U+270E> <U+2720><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2715><U+2712>                                                                                                                                                         <U+2722><U+2743> <U+270C><U+270D><U+272D>
                                           <U+2720><U+2727><U+261E><U+2713> <U+270D> <U+2727><U+2722> <U+2720><U+2711>                                                         <U+2720><U+270E><U+2744> <U+270E><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2713><U+2715>                                <U+2720><U+2715><U+2713>
                                             <U+2720><U+271F> <U+270C> <U+261E><U+2719> <U+271F>                        <U+2720><U+2727><U+2722><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2715><U+2712><U+2711>                          <U+270C><U+270D><U+2715> <U+270D><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2726><U+2722><U+2727><U+271C>                              <U+270D><U+2743><U+2713><U+272A>
                                        <U+2736><U+273A><U+2739><U+2737><U+2734><U+2733><U+2741>                                 <U+261E><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271F>                               <U+272D> <U+2723>                                    <U+261E><U+2713><U+2745>
                                      <U+2733><U+2740><U+2731><U+2732><U+2736><U+273E> <U+2738><U+273F><U+273E>                                                                     <U+261E><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2720> <U+270D>                                    <U+2717><U+2711><U+2716>
                                                                                                                     <U+2721><U+2712><U+2718> <U+261B><U+271B><U+2713> <U+2722><U+261E><U+2713><U+2713><U+2711>                         <U+271F><U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>                                            <U+271E>
                                                                                                                     <U+270C><U+2720> <U+2720><U+271A> <U+2722>                                                                                                      <U+2742>                    <U+271D><U+2706>
                                                                                                                       <U+271F> <U+2719> <U+271C>                               <U+270C><U+2720>                                                           <U+270E><U+261E><U+2715><U+2713><U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2718>                             <U+2720><U+2715><U+2712> <U+270C><U+2714> <U+2746><U+2717>                                            <U+260E>
                                                                                                          <U+270E><U+2726><U+261E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2715><U+271A>
                                                                                                            <U+270D><U+2720> <U+2720><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270C><U+271B>                                      <U+261B><U+270D><U+2712><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2711><U+2715>                              <U+2727><U+2720> <U+261E><U+2713><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2716>                                            <U+2704><U+2702>
                                                                                                              <U+2718><U+2717> <U+2714> <U+2711>                                        <U+2722><U+261E> <U+2726><U+2713><U+2718>                                  <U+272F><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2719> <U+2726><U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2720><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2720><U+261E><U+261B>                                                <U+261E><U+272A>                                <U+2701>
                                                                                                                        <U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2717>                                 <U+261E><U+2722> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2715>
                                                                                                                          <U+2720><U+2720><U+2715> <U+261E><U+270D><U+2713> <U+271F><U+2716>                               <U+271F> <U+2711><U+2715>
                                                                                                                             <U+2719> <U+2717>                                      <U+270C><U+2727>                                <U+270E><U+2726><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2727><U+2720><U+2722><U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2720><U+2713><U+2744><U+2715>                     <U+2726><U+2722><U+261E>                              <U+2722><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2711><U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                             <U+270C><U+2720>                                         <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                <U+270C><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2726><U+2713><U+2715>                        <U+2720><U+271F><U+271A>                   <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                 <U+2723><U+2605><U+2713>                                                        <U+2746><U+2720><U+261E>
                                                                                              <U+261E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2722> <U+2720><U+2711><U+2711>                                                                                                         <U+270C><U+2712>
                                                                                                <U+2720><U+2720><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2711><U+2715> <U+261B><U+2722>                                                                                <U+2742> <U+2720><U+272E><U+2718>
                                                                                                    <U+2719> <U+2726><U+2713> <U+2727><U+271A>                                                                                                        <U+272D>
                <U+2725><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2605> <U+2727><U+2722>                                <U+2725><U+2716>
                <U+2724><U+2723><U+2717> <U+270C><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2711><U+2711>                             <U+2724><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2715><U+2713><U+2743>                                  <U+2725><U+2716> <U+271B> <U+270C><U+2720><U+2727>                                                                <U+261E><U+2727><U+2720> <U+2720><U+270C><U+2605>              <U+2711><U+2711> <U+270E><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2715><U+271A>
                             <U+261B>                                                                    <U+2724><U+2723><U+2717> <U+2722><U+2727><U+2726> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2605>                                                                <U+272F><U+270D> <U+271B><U+2713>          <U+2720><U+2711><U+2711> <U+2712><U+272E> <U+270C><U+271B>
                 <U+270D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2722><U+2720><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2722><U+2727><U+271A>                                                                    <U+2722><U+271C><U+2715> <U+2726><U+2713><U+2715> <U+270C><U+261E><U+2605><U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                     <U+2720> <U+2713>                       <U+2722><U+2724> <U+2722><U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+270D><U+2713>          <U+272D> <U+2720><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2726><U+2722><U+2711>
                    <U+2719>
              <U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2734><U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730>                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2737><U+2736><U+2732><U+273D>
                                                                                            <U+2737><U+2734><U+2732><U+2732><U+2736><U+273C><U+2734><U+2737><U+273B> <U+2736><U+273A><U+2739><U+2735><U+2738>

<removed-date>
                                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+272F><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
                   <U+272F><U+272D>
                                                          <U+260E><U+2706>
                                      <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>          <U+2704>
                   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
                                       y
                                           Aiyi
                                                  <U+261E>
                                ri
                                      <U+271E>
                                           <U+271D>
                         Aixi
                                                          x
                                                  <U+271F>
                                     <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>       <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-date>
                                                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
                    <U+271E><U+261E><U+2720>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+270E>
                    <U+261E><U+271B>
                    <U+261B><U+2712>
                    <U+271E><U+2720><U+271A>
<removed-apn>
                                                           <U+270F><U+2720><U+270E>
                                                  <U+2729> <U+2605> <U+270D><U+270C>
                                                   <U+2727><U+2726> <U+2725> <U+2721><U+261E><U+261B> <U+271E><U+261E>
                                                     <U+2724><U+2723> <U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F>                     <U+2729><U+2605>
                                <U+272A><U+2725>                          <U+271D> <U+261E><U+2711>                      <U+2727><U+2726>
                          <U+2727><U+2726> <U+2725>
                          <U+2724><U+2723>                                                          <U+2724><U+2723> <U+2725>                                       <U+2702>
              <U+271F><U+271E>                                                                                                                 <U+2701>
              <U+270F><U+2719>                     <U+260E><U+2706>       <U+260E>
              <U+271F><U+270E>                                                                                                             <U+271D>
              <U+2718><U+2717><U+2716>
                                                                                                                             <U+2706>
              <U+2712><U+270F><U+2711>
                                                                          x                   <U+2704>                              <U+260E>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                           <U+260E><U+2729><U+2706> <U+260E>
                                                                                                                             <U+2704>
                                                                                                                             <U+2702>
                               <U+2729><U+2725>
                               <U+2727><U+2726>                                                          <U+2727><U+2726> <U+2605>
                                                                                                                             <U+2701>
                                  <U+2723><U+272B>                                                         <U+2723><U+272B>
                                                                          <U+2721><U+2722><U+271C>                                  <U+2729><U+2725>
                                                                                                               <U+2727><U+2726>      <U+2721><U+2722><U+271C>
                                                                                                   <U+270F><U+2720><U+270E>            <U+2723><U+272B>
                                                                      y
                                                                                                   <U+270D><U+270C>    <U+271E><U+261E><U+2720>
                                                                                                   <U+2721><U+261E><U+261B>   <U+271F><U+2712><U+271F>
                                                                                                   <U+2713> <U+261E><U+2711>
                                                                 <U+2715><U+2714>

<removed-date>
                                                                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
                                                                                         <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>       <U+2731><U+2702>
                                     <U+2701> <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+2704> <U+271F><U+2706>
                                              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2721><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721> <U+2719><U+270E><U+261B><U+270C> <U+270F><U+261E><U+270D><U+2716>
<removed-apn>
                                     <U+2714><U+2715><U+270C><U+2716><U+2717><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                                     <U+270C><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2721><U+270D><U+2716>
                                                                                         <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>       <U+2731><U+273C>
                                     <U+2701>   <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+2704> <U+271F><U+2706>
                                                <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2721><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721>
                    <U+2702><U+271D><U+271F>                                             DS<U+272E><U+272F><U+2730>
              <U+272A><U+272A><U+2729>
              <U+2729>
                    <U+2706><U+271D><U+272C>
              <U+2605><U+2727>
              <U+2714>
              <U+2726>
              <U+2725><U+2724><U+2723> <U+2701><U+271E><U+2701>
              <U+2723>
                 <U+2722><U+271C> <U+272D>
                   <U+271B><U+271A>
                      <U+272B><U+260E><U+2706><U+271F>
                             <U+2701> <U+2706> <U+2702> <U+2701><U+271D> <U+2701><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2701> <U+260E><U+2706> <U+260E><U+2702> <U+271D><U+271D> <U+271D><U+2704> <U+271E><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2706> <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271D> <U+2706><U+2704> <U+271F><U+2701> <U+271F><U+2706> <U+271F><U+2702>
                                              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2721><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721>
                                                <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2732>
              <U+2725><U+2723><U+2724> <U+260E><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D>
                 <U+2722><U+271C>                                         <U+2736><U+261E><U+270F><U+270F><U+261B>
                    <U+271B><U+271A> <U+2701><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D>                                                  n
                          <U+273B><U+273A>
                      <U+271B><U+2723><U+2738> <U+272D> <U+2701>            <U+2704>       <U+2701><U+271D>    <U+2701><U+2702>       <U+260E><U+2706>     <U+271D><U+2701>      <U+271D><U+2704> <U+271E><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2702>          <U+2706><U+2706>   <U+271F><U+2701>   <U+271F><U+2704>
                       <U+2724><U+2739>
                       <U+2723><U+2738><U+2737> <U+272B><U+2701><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D>                                            <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2721><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721>
                       <U+271B><U+271A>                    k
                                                      <U+2734><U+270E><U+270F><U+270F><U+2716><U+2735><U+261B>
                             <U+272B><U+260E><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D>
                                                                     <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+272E>       <U+2733>

<removed-date>
                                                                                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
                              <U+2702><U+271D><U+271F>
                                                                                                 DSmax
                   <U+272A>
                   <U+2729>
                   <U+272A><U+2729>
                              <U+2706><U+271D><U+272C>
                   <U+2605>
                                                                           <U+2702> <U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702>
                   <U+2714>
                   <U+2727>                                                      N <U+2720><U+2715> <U+2735> <U+261B>
                   <U+2726>
                                                              j
                   <U+2725><U+2724> <U+2701><U+271E><U+2701>
                   <U+2723>
<removed-apn>
                   <U+2723>                                                                     y
                   <U+2722>
                   <U+271C>    <U+272D>
                                        <U+271D><U+2701> <U+271E>                                                 <U+2706>
                   <U+271B>                                                                x     P
                   <U+271A> <U+272B><U+260E><U+2706><U+271F>                                                 <U+260E><U+2706>
                                          <U+2701>       <U+2706>       <U+2702> <U+2701><U+271D> <U+2701><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2701> <U+260E><U+2706> <U+260E><U+2702> <U+271D><U+271D> <U+271D><U+2704> <U+271E><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2706> <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271D> <U+2706><U+2704> <U+271F><U+2701> <U+271F><U+2706> <U+271F><U+2702>
                                                                                             <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2721><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721>
                                                                                          <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+272E><U+272E>
                        <U+2702><U+271D><U+271F>                               <U+270D>
                                                          P                x
              <U+272A>
              <U+2729>
                                                  <U+260E><U+270D>                  l
                                                                                         DSmax
              <U+272A><U+2729>                                          y
              <U+2605>
              <U+2714>
              <U+2727>
                        <U+2706><U+271D><U+272C>
                                                                  <U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E><U+271F><U+270C>
                                                                  N
                                                                  k
              <U+2726>
              <U+2725><U+2724>                                      j
              <U+2723>
              <U+2723>         <U+2701><U+271E><U+2701>
              <U+2722>
              <U+271C>
              <U+271B>
              <U+271A>                <U+272D>
                        <U+272B><U+260E><U+2706><U+271F>
                                    <U+2701>     <U+2706>       <U+2702>       <U+2701><U+271D> <U+2701><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2701> <U+260E><U+2706> <U+260E><U+2702> <U+271D><U+271D> <U+271D><U+2704> <U+271E><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2706> <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271D> <U+2706><U+2704> <U+271F><U+2701> <U+271F><U+2706> <U+271F><U+2702>
                                                                       <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2721><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721>
                                                                                         <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+272E><U+2721>
                                    <U+2702><U+271D><U+271F>
                                                                                          <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>
                         <U+272A>
                         <U+2729>
                         <U+272A><U+2729>
                                    <U+2706><U+271D><U+272C>
                         <U+2605>                                                                        <U+2702> <U+2702><U+2704> <U+2702>
                                                                                                 N <U+2720><U+2715> <U+2735> <U+261B>
                         <U+2714>
                         <U+2727>
                         <U+2726>
                         <U+2725><U+2724>
                         <U+2723>
                                    <U+2701><U+271E><U+2701>                                                          <U+2721>
                         <U+2723>
                         <U+2722>       <U+272D>                                             y
                         <U+271C>
                         <U+271B>
                           <U+271A> <U+272B><U+260E><U+2706><U+271F>                                                    P  <U+270E> <U+260E><U+270E>               x
                                                                                                                        <U+2715>    <U+2706><U+2716>
                                              <U+2701>   <U+2706>               <U+2701><U+271D>           <U+260E><U+2701>          <U+260E><U+2702>        <U+271D><U+2704>     <U+271E><U+2706>     <U+2706><U+271D>   <U+271F><U+2701>   <U+271F><U+2702>
                                                                                         <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2721><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721>
                                                                                          <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+272E>             <U+2701>

<removed-date>
                                                                                                          <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
                                                                                                           <U+261E>
                                                                                                          <U+261B> <U+261E>
                                                       DS   <U+261B> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2702>           DS    <U+261B> <U+2704><U+2706><U+272C>
                         <U+2701>
              <U+272D><U+2706>   <U+2701>                           j
                         <U+272D>
                   <U+2702> <U+2704>  <U+260E>  <U+2702><U+2706>   <U+2702><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2702>  <U+271E><U+2704> <U+271E><U+260E>
                                           o
                                             <U+2706><U+2706> <U+2706><U+271D> <U+271F><U+2702> <U+271F><U+2704> <U+271F><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2706> <U+2704><U+271D> <U+2720><U+2702> <U+2720><U+2704> <U+2720><U+2721>
<removed-apn>
              <U+272B><U+272D><U+2701><U+2706>      DS <U+261B> <U+271F><U+271D><U+260E> DS <U+261B> <U+260E><U+271D><U+272C>
                                                      <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2721><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721>
                     <U+261B><U+261E>
                <U+272B><U+2701>
                                   <U+272D>                                                      <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+272E>
                         <U+2702><U+271D><U+271F>                           x               DSmax              P   <U+270C>
              <U+272A>
              <U+2729>
              <U+272A><U+2729>
                                                               l             m                    <U+260E>
                                                                                                      <U+270C>
              <U+2605> <U+2706><U+271D><U+272C>
                                                                            <U+2720> <U+261B>
              <U+2714>
              <U+2727>                                                        N <U+2715> <U+2735>              n
              <U+2726>
                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                        <U+2702>    <U+2702>    <U+2702>
                                                           k
              <U+2725><U+2724> <U+2701><U+271E><U+2701>
              <U+2723>
                                               j
                <U+2723>                                                                     y
              <U+2722>
              <U+271C>    <U+272D>
              <U+271B>
              <U+271A> <U+272B><U+260E><U+2706><U+271F>
                               <U+2701>       <U+2706>   <U+2702>           <U+2701><U+271D> <U+2701><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2701> <U+260E><U+2706> <U+260E><U+2702> <U+271D><U+271D> <U+271D><U+2704> <U+271E><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2706> <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271D> <U+2706><U+2704> <U+271F><U+2701> <U+271F><U+2706> <U+271F><U+2702>
                                                                   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2721><U+270D><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2736><U+2716> <U+2712><U+2713>                            <U+2721>
                                                                                          <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+272E>              <U+270D>
                             <U+2702><U+271D><U+271F>                                             DSmax
                                                                                                          <U+261B><U+2726><U+2725>
                   <U+272A>                                                                      m               <U+261B><U+2726><U+272D>
                   <U+2729>
                   <U+272A><U+2729>                                              l                                                <U+261B><U+2726><U+261E>
                   <U+2605> <U+2706><U+271D><U+272C>
                   <U+2714>
                   <U+2727>
                   <U+2726>                                           k
                   <U+270E><U+2723><U+2737>
                   <U+2723>
                                                                                      n
                   <U+2724> <U+2701><U+271E><U+2701>
                    <U+2722>
                                                   j                                                            <U+270F><U+2711><U+261B><U+2712><U+270F><U+2716> <U+2713><U+270E><U+2715><U+261E><U+2713><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2714><U+2716><U+270D><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+2735>
                   <U+2725><U+2724>
                   <U+2723>                                                                      o
                   <U+2722>          <U+272D>
                   <U+271C>
                   <U+271B>
                   <U+271A> <U+272B><U+260E><U+2706><U+271F>
                                   <U+2701>   <U+2706>   <U+2702>           <U+2701><U+271D> <U+2701><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2701> <U+260E><U+2706> <U+260E><U+2702> <U+271D><U+271D> <U+271D><U+2704> <U+271E><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2706> <U+271E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271D> <U+2706><U+2704> <U+271F><U+2701> <U+271F><U+2706> <U+271F><U+2702>
                                                                    <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2721><U+270D><U+2711> <U+270C><U+2736><U+2716> <U+2712><U+2713>                               <U+2721>
                                                                                          <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+272E>              <U+2704>

<removed-date>
                                                              <U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
                                      <U+270F><U+2714><U+2723><U+2716><U+2717><U+2717><U+2716><U+2717><U+2723>                                <U+271F><U+2717><U+271D> <U+2702><U+2722><U+2719> <U+2713><U+271A><U+2605><U+2729><U+2724><U+2714><U+2704>
                         <U+2711><U+261B><U+2715><U+2715><U+2722><U+261B><U+2717><U+271D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2723>
                         <U+2711><U+2722><U+2719><U+2718> <U+2718><U+2716><U+2713><U+2713><U+261B><U+2714>                             <U+260E><U+271A><U+2715><U+2715><U+2722><U+2701> <U+2713><U+2729><U+271A><U+271B><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
                                                                  <U+260E><U+271A><U+2715><U+2715><U+2722><U+2701> <U+2713><U+2729><U+271A><U+271B><U+2714>
                                        j klm         n o                           z
                                                              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+272E>     <U+2701>
                   <U+2702><U+271D><U+271F>
                   <U+2704><U+271D><U+271F>            l     m
              <U+272A>
              <U+2729>
                                                                                  <U+2701><U+272C><U+272D>
              <U+272A><U+2729> <U+2706><U+2706><U+272D>
              <U+2605>
              <U+2714>
              <U+2727> <U+271D><U+271D><U+2702>           <U+260E>                         <U+2701><U+272C><U+260E>
               <U+2726>                              n
              <U+2725><U+2724>
              <U+2723>
              <U+2723>
              <U+2722>
              <U+271C>
              <U+271B>
                          <U+2706>                       o
              <U+271A>      <U+272D>
                    <U+270F><U+2714><U+2723><U+2716><U+2717><U+2717><U+2716><U+2717><U+2723>               <U+271F><U+2717><U+271D> <U+271B><U+2722><U+2715><U+2718><U+2716><U+271B><U+271A><U+2724> <U+2605><U+271A><U+2713><U+2713>                                    <U+271F><U+2717> <U+271D>
                                                            <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+272E><U+2731>
                                  <U+261B> <U+261E>
                                                                     <U+261B> <U+272D>   <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+272E><U+2732>

                                                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
                        <U+2720><U+272D> <U+272D><U+261B>
                          <U+2704>             <U+2715>i
                                Ni
                 <U+2735>i
<removed-apn>
                                                      Ni          <U+2718>
                          <U+2712><U+2716><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270C><U+2717><U+261E><U+2715>                 <U+270E>      <U+272D>
                                                                                <U+2701><U+2716><U+2702> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270C><U+2717><U+261E><U+2715>
                                                                                <U+2720><U+270C><U+2736><U+2716><U+261E><U+2714><U+2716><U+270D><U+270C><U+261E><U+2712><U+2716><U+270D><U+270C><U+2717><U+2716>
                                                                                            <U+2704><U+261E><U+2712><U+270E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2721><U+2704>
                                                                                                  <U+2721><U+2704>
                                                                                 <U+270C><U+2736><U+2716> <U+261B><U+270E><U+2713><U+260E><U+270F><U+2716><U+261B>
                                                      <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2733><U+2702>
              <U+2701><U+2716><U+2702> <U+261B><U+2716><U+2712><U+2721><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2734><U+261E><U+2717><U+270C><U+2711><U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+2713><U+270E><U+270C><U+2717><U+261E><U+2715> <U+2720><U+261E><U+2714><U+2716><U+270D><U+270C><U+261E><U+2704><U+261E><U+2712><U+270E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D>
              <U+2721><U+2704> <U+2712><U+2716><U+270D><U+270C><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2721><U+2704> <U+2718><U+2721><U+270D><U+2716><U+261B>
                                             Ni
                                                  <U+271D>              <U+2706><U+261E><U+2717><U+270C><U+2711><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270C><U+2717><U+261E><U+2715> <U+2704><U+2721><U+2717> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270C><U+270E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D>
                                                  <U+272D>
                                                                 Ni
                                                                       <U+271E>
                                                                            <U+271D>
                                                      <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2733><U+273C>

                        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
              <U+272D><U+261E><U+261E>       <U+2721><U+270D><U+260E><U+2711><U+270C> <U+270C><U+2736><U+2716> <U+261E><U+2713><U+270E><U+2711><U+2716> <U+261E><U+270D><U+270C><U+2721>         <U+272D><U+261E><U+272D>
                    <U+261E><U+2713><U+270E><U+2711><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2716><U+2712><U+2721><U+2711><U+270D><U+261E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D>
                    <U+2704>        <U+271D><U+270E><U+270F><U+261E><U+2718><U+2717><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>         <U+272D><U+261E><U+2725>
                             <U+2717><U+2716> <U+2711><U+261E><U+2717><U+2716><U+2714><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                              <U+2702>
                                                       <U+272D><U+261E><U+2726>
                      <U+2721><U+270D><U+260E><U+2711><U+270C> <U+270C><U+2736><U+2716> <U+261E><U+2713><U+270E><U+2711><U+2716> <U+261E><U+270D><U+270C><U+2721>           <U+272D><U+261E><U+272F>
                     <U+261E><U+2713><U+270E><U+2711><U+2716> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2735><U+261B><U+261E><U+261B> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D>
                                                           <U+272D><U+261B><U+261E>
                    <U+2714><U+2715><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270C><U+2736><U+2716> <U+261E><U+2713><U+270E><U+2711><U+2716> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2735><U+261B><U+261E><U+261B>
                      <U+261B><U+270C><U+270E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2714> <U+2718><U+2716><U+2711><U+261E><U+270D>              <U+272D><U+261B><U+272D>
                       <U+2717><U+2716><U+261B><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2735><U+270D><U+270C><U+2736><U+2716><U+261B><U+261E><U+261B>
                    <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2733><U+260E>

                                                                   <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
                     <U+272B>1                  <U+272B>0.5                     0%                      0.5       0.9   1
                   Pure fat          Mixture of fat        Muscle/water           Mixture of void     Pure
<removed-apn>
                                      and water                                     and bone          Bone
                                                            <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+272E>
                                                    cortical mass
                              <U+270E><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2735><U+261B><U+261E><U+261B>
                                            pore
                                                           <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2721><U+2702>
                  <U+2701><U+2701><U+271D><U+2706>
                                                l             m
              <U+272A>                             k                  n          voxel
              <U+272A>
                   <U+271D><U+271E><U+272D>                                             i
              <U+2605>                                                           maximum muscle density
              <U+2714>
              <U+2727> <U+2701><U+271E><U+272D>
              <U+2726>
                                         j pore            o
                                             cortical mass
                  <U+272B><U+2706><U+272D><U+272D>
                         <U+272D>                             <U+260E>                             <U+271E>                        <U+271F>
                                                                       (mm)
                                                            <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2721><U+273C>
                     <U+2701>
                                                pore
                     <U+272D>
                          <U+272D>                            <U+260E>                              <U+271E>                       <U+271F>
                                                                       (mm)
                                                            <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2721><U+260E>

                                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
              <U+272D><U+272D><U+261E>
                    <U+272D><U+272D><U+272D>                                              <U+272D><U+272D>
                    <U+272D><U+272D><U+2726>
<removed-apn>
                                                           <U+272D><U+272D><U+272F>
                              <U+272D><U+272D><U+2725>
                                             <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2701>
                                                            I
                         I<U+271D>    <U+271E>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702>I<U+2704><U+2704><U+260E>
                                                       <U+261E><U+271D>
                                                 <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>
                                             <U+270C>                   <U+261E>
                                        <U+261E><U+2706>             <U+261B>
                    I<U+2706>                                 <U+261E><U+2704>
                                             <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
              <U+272D><U+2704><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
                                                    <U+271D><U+2702> <U+2711><U+2712><U+270E><U+270D>    <U+272D><U+2704><U+272D>
                                                                                   <U+272D><U+2704><U+2726>
                                                 <U+2721><U+2713><U+270E><U+2711><U+2716> <U+261E><U+270F><U+2716><U+2704>
                                     <U+272D><U+2704><U+2725>
                         <U+261B><U+2726>
                    <U+272D><U+272D>                         <U+2712><U+2713><U+2721>
                                <U+2721>
                              <U+2712><U+2713> <U+2701>                                   <U+270F><U+261E><U+2711><U+261E><U+270C><U+261E>   <U+2716><U+2717>
                                                                                   <U+261E><U+261E>
                                      <U+271F>
                                                                     <U+271D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2735>    <U+2716><U+2717>   <U+261E><U+272F>
                                     <U+2714><U+261E><U+261B>   <U+270F><U+270E><U+2735>
                                           <U+260E>
                                                     <U+2712><U+2716><U+261B><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+261B>   <U+2726><U+272F>
                                      <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+270D>

                            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>   <U+260E>   <U+2706>   <U+271D>   <U+2701>

                                                                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>                            <U+2726><U+272A>
                                       <U+2729>
                                            <U+271D>
                                       <U+2722><U+2722> <U+260E>
                                       <U+2723>
                                       <U+271B><U+271C>
                                       <U+2702><U+272A> <U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                                       <U+2701> <U+2723>
                                            <U+272D>
                                                               <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2701><U+2702>
                                            <U+260E><U+2706>
                             <U+2726><U+272A>
                             <U+2729>
                                            <U+260E><U+272D>
                             <U+2722><U+2723><U+2706>
                             <U+2723>
                                            <U+2701><U+2706>
                                  <U+260E><U+2739>        <U+2701><U+272D>
                                  <U+2704>          <U+2706>
                                             <U+272D>
                                                               <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2701><U+273C>
              <U+271B><U+272A>                            <U+271F>
                   <U+2739><U+273B><U+2737>                      <U+2706>
              <U+2722><U+2706><U+271E> <U+271F> <U+2726><U+272A>                      <U+271E>
                         <U+2729>
              <U+2724><U+2739><U+273A> <U+2739>                         <U+271D>
              <U+2724><U+271E> <U+271B><U+2737>
                         <U+2723>
              <U+2723><U+2724><U+2739><U+2737> <U+2739>                        <U+260E>
                  <U+2739><U+271D>                        <U+2701>
                                            <U+272D>
                                                 <U+2701>   <U+271D><U+2706>   <U+271F><U+2702>    <U+2701><U+272D><U+271D>      <U+2701><U+271D><U+2704>        <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701>   <U+260E><U+272D><U+2706>   <U+260E><U+271D><U+2702>
                                                               <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270C><U+270E> <U+261E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2721><U+261E><U+2721><U+2711><U+270F>
                                                               <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2701><U+260E>

                                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
                                     <U+272D><U+2701><U+271F>
                   <U+271E><U+2739>                <U+272D><U+2701><U+2706>
                            <U+2726>
                            <U+2729>
              <U+271C><U+2737>            <U+272A>
              <U+271B><U+2724>                     <U+272D><U+2701><U+271E>
                                 <U+2737>
                            <U+2723>
              <U+271B>             <U+271B><U+2724>       <U+272D><U+2701><U+271D>
                   <U+271E>
              <U+260E>
                            <U+271B>
              <U+2723><U+2739><U+2737>           <U+2726><U+2723>       <U+272D><U+2701><U+260E>
              <U+2724>                  <U+2737>
                   <U+2739>        <U+271B>
                   <U+271D>                 <U+272D><U+2701><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                            <U+270E>
                                       <U+272D>
                                                         <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2701><U+2701>
                                     <U+272D><U+2701><U+2706>
                   <U+271E><U+2739>                <U+272D><U+2701><U+271E>
                            <U+2726>
                            <U+2729>
              <U+271C><U+2737>            <U+272A>
              <U+271B><U+2724>                 <U+2737> <U+272D><U+2701><U+271D>
                            <U+2723>
              <U+271C><U+2723>            <U+271B><U+2724>
                   <U+271E>        <U+271B> <U+272D><U+2701><U+260E>
              <U+2723><U+2739><U+2737>            <U+2726><U+2723>
              <U+2724>                    <U+2737>
                   <U+2739>            <U+271B>
                   <U+271D>              <U+270E> <U+272D><U+2701><U+2701>
                                      <U+272D>
                                                         <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2701>
                                     <U+271E><U+2701><U+2706>
                   <U+271E><U+2739>                <U+271D><U+2701><U+2706>
              <U+271C><U+2737>        <U+271F>
                            <U+2726> <U+260E><U+2701> <U+2706>
                            <U+2729>
              <U+271B><U+2724>
              <U+271C><U+2723>            <U+272A>
                   <U+271E><U+2739>       <U+2723>
                                 <U+2739> <U+2701><U+2701> <U+2706>
              <U+2723><U+2737>            <U+271B><U+2737>
              <U+2724>                  <U+2739>
                   <U+2739>
                   <U+271D>                 <U+272D><U+2701><U+2706>
                                       <U+272D>
                                           <U+2701>   <U+271D><U+2706>   <U+271F><U+2702>    <U+2701><U+272D><U+271D>      <U+2701><U+271D><U+2704>        <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701>   <U+260E><U+272D><U+2706>   <U+260E><U+271D><U+2702>
                                                         <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270C><U+270E> <U+261E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2721><U+261E><U+2721><U+2711><U+270F>
                                                         <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2701><U+260E>

                                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
                           <U+272D><U+272F><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
                                       <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2731>
                     2.5
              <U+271E>
              <U+2729>
              <U+2726><U+271B><U+2724>
              <U+2723>
              <U+2722><U+2725>      2
              <U+271D>
              <U+2725><U+2706> 1.5
              <U+271B><U+271C><U+2723><U+260E>
              <U+2726><U+271B><U+2737>                                      <U+271F> <U+270D><U+2720><U+2721><U+2711>
              <U+2724><U+271B>
                      1
                                                  <U+261E><U+2706>
              <U+271A><U+2725>
              <U+2724><U+2723><U+2722> 0.5
                 <U+273A><U+2737><U+273A>
                     <U+271D>
                      0
                           0     0.5       1             1.5    2
                                       <U+2701><U+2721> <U+2702><U+270C><U+261E><U+270C><U+2711><U+261E><U+270F><U+2704> <U+2701><U+260E><U+260E>
                                       <U+261E>
                                       <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2732>

                                            <U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
                     <U+271E><U+2702>
                     <U+271D><U+2702>
              <U+271E>
              <U+2729>
              <U+271B><U+271E><U+2738>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2723>
              <U+271B><U+271E>     <U+2706><U+2702>
              <U+271C><U+2723><U+273A>                                          <U+261E><U+2706> <U+271F>   <U+270D><U+2720><U+2721><U+2721>
              <U+2724><U+2739>
              <U+2701><U+2723><U+271E> <U+260E><U+2702>
                 <U+2739>
              <U+271B><U+271C><U+2723><U+2737>
                     <U+2704><U+2702>
                      <U+2702>
                          <U+2702>   <U+260E><U+2702><U+2702>           <U+271D><U+2702><U+2702>           <U+271F><U+2702><U+2702>            <U+2720><U+2702><U+2702>
                              <U+2721><U+2704><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2704><U+270C><U+270D><U+270C><U+270F><U+261E><U+270F><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+2721><U+270D><U+270F><U+261E><U+270C><U+270F><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2701><U+270F><U+261B><U+2720><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+271D><U+260E>
                                         <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2701><U+2733>
                                       <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2701><U+272E><U+2702>

<removed-date>
               <U+2702>   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>     <U+2701><U+272E><U+273C>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>     <U+2701><U+2721><U+2702>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>     <U+2701><U+2721><U+273C>

                                                               <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                             <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2701><U+2701>
                                      <U+271E>   <U+2719><U+2721><U+2702> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2717><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+2735>   <U+2720>   <U+261B> <U+2701><U+261E><U+2711><U+2736> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2717><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+2735> <U+2720>    <U+261B>
                                      <U+271D>
                            <U+270E>
                                      <U+260E>
                                      <U+2701>
                            <U+270F>
                            <U+2711>
                                <U+271D><U+2706>
                            <U+261E>
                                      <U+272D>
                            <U+2721>
                            <U+270E>
                                <U+260E><U+2704>   <U+272B><U+2701>
                                <U+2702>    <U+272B><U+260E>                                                <U+2713><U+261B><U+270C><U+2716><U+2721><U+260E><U+2716><U+270D><U+261E><U+270E>
                                     <U+272B><U+271D>
                                                                                      <U+2713><U+261B><U+270C><U+2716><U+2721><U+260E><U+2721><U+2717><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+261B>
                                     <U+272B><U+271E>
                                                                <U+2702><U+270C><U+261E><U+270C><U+2711><U+261E><U+270F><U+2704> <U+2701><U+260E><U+260E>
                       <U+271E><U+272D>
                                                             <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2701>            <U+2702>
                  <U+2721>
                  <U+2722>
                  <U+271C>
              <U+2719>
                       <U+271D><U+272D>
                  <U+271F>
              <U+270F>
              <U+271F>
              <U+270E>
                       <U+260E><U+272D>
              <U+270E>
                  <U+2720><U+271F>
              <U+2719>
              <U+261E>
                                                                                                 <U+2720><U+261B>
              <U+2711>
                       <U+2701><U+272D>                                           <U+2720><U+2721><U+2717><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+2735> <U+2713><U+2716><U+270E><U+261B><U+2711><U+2717><U+2716><U+2714> <U+2714><U+261E><U+2717><U+2716><U+2712><U+270C><U+270F><U+2735>
              <U+271F>
              <U+2720>
              <U+270E>
                  <U+271E>
              <U+261E>
              <U+2711>
              <U+261E>
                        <U+272D>
                            <U+272D>                <U+2701><U+272D>                <U+260E><U+272D>           <U+271D><U+272D>
                                                             <U+2720><U+2721><U+2717><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+2735> <U+2704><U+2717><U+2721><U+2713> <U+2711><U+2714><U+270F>   <U+2720><U+261B>      <U+271E><U+272D>           <U+2706><U+272D>
                                                             <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2701>            <U+273C>

<removed-date>
                                                <U+2702><U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
                                 <U+2701><U+272D><U+272D>
                                           k                       m       P<U+270E>
                       <U+2724><U+2725><U+2723>        <U+272C><U+272D>
                       <U+2722>
                       <U+271C>                                               n
                       <U+271B>          <U+271F><U+272D>
                       <U+271A>
                       <U+271B>
                       <U+2723><U+2724><U+2738>        <U+271E><U+272D>
                             <U+2739>
                       <U+271B>
                             <U+271E>
                             <U+2704>
                                  <U+260E><U+272D>
                                                                                    o
                                                                                        P<U+270C>
                                   <U+272D>
                                       <U+272D>            <U+260E><U+2701> <U+2706>                                <U+2706>
                                                 <U+261E> <U+2701><U+270F><U+270F><U+260E>
                                 <U+2701><U+272D><U+272D>
                                           k   <U+2701><U+271D> <U+271F> <U+2702><U+2720><U+270E><U+260E>           m
                                  <U+272C><U+272D>
              <U+2725><U+2724>
              <U+2723>
              <U+2722>                                                                 n
              <U+271C>                   <U+271F><U+272D>
              <U+271B>
              <U+271A>
              <U+271B>
                                                           <U+2701><U+2706> <U+271F> <U+270E><U+2720><U+270F><U+260E>
              <U+2723><U+2724><U+2738>                 <U+271E><U+272D>
                   <U+2739>
              <U+271B>                   <U+260E><U+272D>
                   <U+271E>
                   <U+2704>
                                   <U+272D>                                       o
                                       <U+272D>            <U+260E><U+2701> <U+2706>                                <U+2706>
                                                 <U+261E> <U+2701><U+270F><U+270F><U+260E>
                                               <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>       <U+2701> <U+270D>

<removed-date>
                                             <U+2702>   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
                          <U+2701><U+272D><U+272D>
              <U+2725><U+2724> <U+272C><U+272D>
              <U+2723>                     m
              <U+2722>
              <U+271C>
              <U+271B> <U+271F><U+272D>
              <U+271A>
              <U+271B>
                <U+2738>
              <U+2724><U+2723> <U+271E><U+272D>                              n
                  <U+2739>
              <U+271B>
                  <U+271E>
                           <U+260E><U+272D>
                  <U+2704>
                                                         o
                            <U+272D>
                                <U+272D>               <U+271D><U+2701><U+2706>               <U+2704>
                          <U+2701><U+272D><U+272D>                  <U+261E> <U+2701><U+270F><U+270F><U+260E>
                                            <U+2701><U+271D> <U+271F> <U+2702><U+270F><U+260E>
                  <U+2725><U+2724> <U+272C><U+272D>                 m
                  <U+2723>
                  <U+2722>
                  <U+271C>
                  <U+271B> <U+271F><U+272D>
                  <U+271A>
                  <U+271B>
                  <U+2723><U+2724><U+2738> <U+271E><U+272D>                                 n
                  <U+271B>
                     <U+2739><U+271E>
                                        <U+2701><U+2706> <U+271F> <U+270F><U+270D><U+260E>
                      <U+2704>
                           <U+260E><U+272D>
                                                     o
                            <U+272D>
                                <U+272D>              <U+271D><U+2701><U+2706>                <U+2704>
                                              <U+261E> <U+2701><U+270F><U+270F><U+260E>
                                             <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>          <U+2701><U+2704>

<removed-date>
                                                            <U+2702>     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
                                            <U+271E>
                                            <U+271D>
                              <U+2725><U+2729>
                                   <U+2702><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                              <U+272A>             <U+260E>
                              <U+2714>
                                            <U+2701>
                                            <U+272D>
                                                <U+260E><U+272D>          <U+271E><U+272D>           <U+271F><U+272D>     <U+272C><U+272D>
                                                             <U+261B><U+2721> <U+2701><U+2704><U+261E><U+2711><U+260E>
                                                          <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>         <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702>
                        <U+271D><U+2706>
                        <U+271D><U+272D>
                                                 <U+2720> <U+271F> <U+270D><U+2720><U+261E><U+270E>
                        <U+260E><U+2706>
              <U+271E>
              <U+2729>
              <U+2725><U+2724>
              <U+2723>
              <U+2723>         <U+260E><U+272D>
              <U+2722>
                   <U+273A><U+2737>
                   <U+273A>    <U+2701><U+2706>
                   <U+271D>
                        <U+2701><U+272D>
                        <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706>
                         <U+272D>
                                        <U+272D>            <U+260E><U+2706>             <U+2706><U+272D>         <U+2704><U+2706>    <U+2701><U+272D><U+272D>
                                                                 <U+261B><U+2721> <U+2701><U+2704><U+261E><U+2711><U+260E>
                                                          <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>         <U+2701><U+2701><U+273C>

<removed-date>
                              <U+2702>   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
                             <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>     <U+2701><U+2731><U+2702>
                                                           <U+2704><U+272F><U+2726>
                                                  <U+2704><U+272F><U+272F>
                                    <U+2704><U+272F><U+272D>
                                            <U+2704><U+272F><U+2725>
                                    <U+2704>   <U+261E>               <U+2704><U+272F><U+2726>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>   <U+2701><U+2731><U+273C>                  <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>   <U+2701><U+2731><U+260E>

<removed-date>
                             <U+2702>   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>   <U+2701><U+2731><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>   <U+2701><U+2731>
                                                           <U+2704><U+272F><U+2726>
                                                 <U+2704><U+272F><U+272F>
                                   <U+2704><U+272F><U+272D>
                                           <U+2704><U+272F><U+2725>
                                   <U+2704>   <U+261E>                 <U+2704><U+272F><U+2726>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>   <U+2701><U+2731><U+260E>                 <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>   <U+2701><U+2731>

<removed-date>
                                                               <U+2702>    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                              <U+2701><U+2702>
                                                                                                              <U+271D><U+2704>
                                                                                                              <U+2706><U+2706>
<removed-apn>
                                                                             <U+2720><U+270E><U+2717><U+270C><U+261E><U+270E><U+270F>
                                                                             <U+2734><U+2721><U+270F><U+2711><U+2713><U+2716>                           <U+2704><U+271D>
                                                                             <U+2716><U+2704><U+2704><U+2716><U+2712><U+270C><U+261B>
                                                                        <U+2720><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261E><U+270D><U+270C><U+2721><U+261E><U+270D><U+270C><U+2701><U+2701><U+272D><U+2702><U+2702><U+261B><U+261B>
                                                                                                              <U+2702><U+2701>
                                                                        j    <U+260E>
                                                                    m
                                                                    n   <U+2720> <U+2721><U+261E><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2701><U+2701><U+2706><U+261B>
                                                                            <U+260E>
                                                                            <U+260E>
                                                                                                              <U+2701><U+272D><U+2702>
                                                                                                              <U+2701><U+260E><U+2704>
                                                                                                          <U+2701><U+2732><U+273C>
                                             <U+2701><U+2732><U+2702>
                                                                                      <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>
                                   <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>
                        <U+271F><U+2701><U+2706>
                                                                                                          m             n
                        <U+2706><U+2701><U+2706>
              <U+272A>
              <U+2729>
              <U+272A><U+2729>        <U+271E><U+2701><U+2706>                                                                               k
              <U+2605>         <U+271D><U+2701><U+2706>
              <U+2714>
              <U+2727>                                                             <U+2720><U+270E><U+2717><U+270C><U+261E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2734><U+2721><U+270F><U+2711><U+2713><U+2716>
              <U+2725><U+2724>        <U+260E><U+2701> <U+2706>                                                <U+2716><U+2704><U+2704><U+2716><U+2712><U+270C><U+261B>
              <U+2723>
              <U+2723>
              <U+2722>
              <U+271C>         <U+2701><U+2701> <U+2706>
              <U+271B>
              <U+271A>         <U+272D><U+2701><U+2706>                                                       <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2702><U+2702> = j                     <U+260E><U+2706>
                                                                                                                   P<U+2706>
                       <U+272B><U+272D><U+2701><U+2706>
                               <U+2701>     <U+2701><U+2706>     <U+260E><U+2702>       <U+271E><U+271D>        <U+2706><U+2704>           <U+2704><U+2701>         <U+272C><U+2706>            <U+2702><U+2702>           <U+2701><U+2701><U+271D>       <U+2701><U+260E><U+2704>
                                                 <U+2721><U+2716><U+2713><U+2718><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2714> <U+271A><U+2724><U+2722><U+2717><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2714><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+2718><U+272C> <U+2729><U+2715><U+2722><U+2719><U+2716><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2713>              <U+2702> <U+2704>
                        <U+2701><U+2701><U+260E>
                          <U+2701>
                        <U+272D><U+2701><U+272C>
              <U+2729>
              <U+260E>
              <U+2723>
                        <U+272D><U+2701><U+271F>
                   <U+2701>
                        <U+272D><U+2701><U+271E>
                        <U+272D><U+2701><U+260E>                                                                      j
                          <U+272D>
                               <U+2701>     <U+2701><U+271D>   <U+260E><U+2706>       <U+271D><U+2704>     <U+271E><U+2702>       <U+271F><U+2701>            <U+2704><U+271D>    <U+272C><U+2706>        <U+2702><U+2704>           <U+2701><U+272D><U+2702>
                                            <U+2721><U+2716><U+2713><U+2718><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2714> <U+271A><U+2724><U+2722><U+2717><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2714><U+2717><U+2713><U+2716><U+2718><U+272C> <U+2729><U+2715><U+2722><U+2719><U+2716><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2713>             <U+2702> <U+2704>
                                                           <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>                     <U+2733>

                                                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>   <U+260E>   <U+2706>   <U+271D>
                        <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>   <U+260E>   <U+2706>   <U+271D>
                                                        <U+2701>   <U+2702>

                                                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                                      <U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>   <U+260E>   <U+2706>   <U+271D>
                        <U+2702>
                            <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>   <U+260E>   <U+2706>   <U+271D>
                                                     <U+2702>

