                                                  1
ABSTRACT
The Flooded Road Smart Warning System was invented after a review of available systems and
request for comments from public works engineers, to reduce the risk of drivers inadvertently
driving into flooded roads. The system provides advance warning flashing lights or
flashing/scrolling text (ROAD FLOODED), on flooded roads. The system uses single or
separate circuits for each site approach. These circuits are power by 12V recycled Li-Ion
batteries. The batteries are trickle charged from a solar panel. The system combines available
products in a new way to ensure reliability and low cost. Dedicated microcontrollers manage the
lighting, communications and radio transceivers. The Flooded Road Smart Warning System
includes a dedicated mobile phone, acting as a base station. The base station forwards an SMS
to Council's On-Call officer, an email to Council, records events on a spreadsheet in the cloud
and site status mapping.
DM# 10833399

     Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There are six pages of description only

                              1
                  Patent Application
                Logan City Council
          Flooded Road Smart Warning System
              Innovative Patent Application
FLOODED ROAD SMART WARNING SYSTEM
DM#11848163

BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0001] Logan City Council (Council) is custodian for a road network of nearly 2000 km which
includes hundreds of sites subject to flooding. In recent years swift waters rescues were carried out
in 19 different locations in Logan, and more than 35 people were rescued. While there has been one
recent fatality, the lives of many emergency services personnel have been put at risk and dozens of
people, including children and the elderly, have been traumatised.
[0002] Over time, roads have been designed with different levels of flood immunity. This can be
due to budgetary constraints at the time, local topography, and the level of service required. To
increase the flood immunity is usually a very expensive exercise.
[0003] This invention relates to road safety with the intention of reducing the risk of people
inadvertently driving into flooded roads. This invention reduces this risk by providing warning to
approaching vehicles that the road ahead is flooded and general warning via Logan City Council's
website. It has been developed balancing low cost and high reliability, to save lives.
[0004] A review of available systems was undertaken, but none were found to meet Council's
requirements. Responses from the Institute of Public Works Engineering Australia's forum "Ask
Your Mates" provided interest in the development of the Flooded Road Smart Warning System, but
no known alternatives suggested.
[0005] The Flooded Road Smart Warning System was trialled at Council's Marsden Depot and
approved as the option to recommend to Council. The capabilities demonstrated by the Flooded
Road Smart Warning System (Version 1.0) was flashing lights as advanced warning, 2G SMS to
Council's On-Call Officer and 2G email to Council.
[0006] Council subsequently approved funding ($250,000 2016/17) for the Flooded Road Smart
Warning System. A decision was made to enhance the system to provide flashing LED-backed text
option and upgrade to the 3G communications standard.
[0007] The benefits of this innovative project were recognised by the State Government's "Building
Our Regional Infrastructure" program, through which Council received a $375,000 grant (2017) to
extend the Flooded Road Smart Warning System.
DM#11848163

[0008] The Flooded Road Smart Warning System is being installed at priority sites across the city.
[0009] A further enhanced Flooded Road Smart Warning System is, a methodology top prioritise
installation sites across the city.
[0010] ] A further enhanced Flooded Road Smart Warning System is, the live mapping of the flood
status of each site, on Council's website (Disaster Dashboard).
SUMMARY OF THE FLOODED ROAD SMART WARNING SYSTEM
         TECHNICAL PROBLEM
         [0010] Permanent signs warning of the risk the road may be subject to flooding appear to
         have limited effect, demonstrated by people continuing to inadvertently driving into flood
         waters. The message on a permanent sign is not relevant the vast majority of the time. The
         technical problem is how to attract a driver's attention to the danger, only, when the road is
         actually flooded, including on a dark wet night.
         [0011] Flooding can happen at any time with little warning. Every rain event is different.
         Every catchment is different. The flood immunity can vary from site to site, including sites
         where mains power is not available. A system to warn drivers must activate automatically
         without delay, must be effective when visibility is low, and must clearly describe the danger.
         [0012] A technical problem is, how to prioritise the many known flood prone sites to
         determine where the greatest benefit can be achieved, with limited funding. Component
         considerations of this technical problem included, what factors determine which sites are
         more likely to have a driver inadvertently drive into floodwaters and what factors put the
         occupant's lives at greater risk?
         [0013] The system needs to be reliable.
         [0014] A technical problem is to have the system provide information, such as via the
         internet or through vehicle navigation systems, to assist the public to avoid travelling on a
         route where a road is flooded.
DM#11848163

DM#11848163
      SOLUTION TO PROBLEM
      [0015] The solution to the requirement for the system to attract attention, including when
      visibility is low, for example on a dark wet night, is to use bright flashing amber lanterns or
      a matrix Light Emitting Diodes lighting the text ROAD FLOODED. The solution to clearly
      describing the specific danger is to use flashing text: ROAD FLOODED. See Figure 1.
      [0016] The solution to the requirement for the system to activate automatically, without
      delay, only when the road is flooded is to use a (float or sonar) switch mounted near the road
      on the upstream side. The switch activates a microcontroller when the water level reaches
      (current set is100 mm above the edge of any through lane) the road. This activation
      automatically triggers (After testing for turbulence) the bright flashing amber lighting on
      both approaches to the flooded section of the road. Figure 2 item 2.
      [0017] The solution to the prioritisation problem was to assemble an expert panel. The
      expert panel considered a range of risk factors which contribute to a driver inadvertently
      driving into flood waters and the risk that the vehicle will be swept off the road and the
      occupant's lives be put at risk. Council's potential road flooding data sources were
      compiled and mapped. A field survey was completed to remove duplications and rate each
      risk factor at each site. The site risk factor ratings were then weighted to provide a
      prioritised list of sites for installation of the Flooded Road Smart Warning System. The risk
      factors and weightings are presented in Table 1.
      [0018] To increase reliability quality components have been used, and redundancy is built
      into the design and operation, of the Flooded Road Smart Warning System. Figure 2 item 4
      Recycled laptop battery's, individually tested and including a battery management system.
      Figure 4.
      [0019] The solution to communicating when the road is flooded is to have the system send
      text and email messages when activated and de-activated. The system automatically sends
      an SMS to staff (E.G. Council On-call staff) and email to Council. Separate information is
      sent to update Council's Disaster Dashboard mapping. This map information is available
      for disaster management and route planning. Figure 5
DM#11848163

      [0020] The solution to the technical problems were to provide advance warning to the
      travelling public of sections of road that are flooded, to minimise the risk of inadvertently
      driving into flooded roads. The overview of the Flooded Road Smart Warning System; float
      sensor, cabling, electronics housing, solar panel and signs are presented in Figure 6.
      [0021] The advance warning is in the form of flashing lights. The flashing lights are
      powered by a 12v DC circuit with solar panel trickle charging. The options include a set of
      two alternating flashing amber lanterns or a flashing ROAD FLOODED textual sign
      emitting amber light. The flashing text can be changed to other text or to scrolling text, if
      preferred. The option to use of radio signals from the float switch to the flashing signs,
      rather than using cables, is available. Figure 1.
      [0022] The solution to a potential failure on one of the two approaches to a flooded road site
      is that the SMS sent to Council's On-Call Officer includes a road location code 'A' or 'B'.
      The 'A' indicates the lower road chainage approach to the site and the 'B' the higher road
      chainage approach to the site. This information enables the On-Call Officer to plan their
      route to the correct side of the flooded road (no SMS received) to either use the Flooded
      Road Smart Warning System override switch or erect road closed signage. Software to
      communicate between signs is a secondary option to resolve this occurrence.
      [0023] The wider solution to provide advance warning to the travelling community is to
      provide mapping Figure 7, of flooded sites and their real time (or close to) flooded status.
      The wider solution provides advance warning before the journey starts and encourage re
      routing of the journey. Through this re-routing, the Flooded Road Smart Warning System
      will reduce the number of vehicles travelling via flooded roads.
DM#11848163

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

      CLAIMS OF INVENTION
      [0024] The Flooded Road Smart Warning System helps save lives by reducing the risk of
      drivers inadvertently driving into flood waters and the vehicles being washed off the road.
      [0025] Associated benefits include reducing risks to emergency services personnel by
      reducing the need for swift water rescues, and reducing risks for Council staff expected to
      erect temporary warning signage, often during hazardous weather events in the middle of the
      night.
      [0026] This invention provides a low cost solution which is installed at multiple high risk
      locations.
      [0027] The Flooded Road Smart Warning System can be manufactured and installed with a
      very short lead time, using some low skill labour.
      [0028] The time and duration of road flooding, is of benefit to flood management research,
      provided at no cost by Flooded Road Smart Warning System from each site, that it is
      installed at
DM#11848163

              Table 1. FLOODED ROADS SMART WARNING SYSTEM PRIORITISATION
<removed-date>
              METHODOLOGY
                                                                                                               Priority
                             Attribute                       Score Range           Weighting             (Score * Weighting)
              Road hierarchy                                     1, 3 or 5              2.92
              Downstream topography                                1-5                  2.46
              Barriers to reduce risk of cars being                1-5
                                                                                        3.86
              washed off
              Delineation                                        1, 3 or 5              4.12
<removed-apn>
              Frequency                                          1, 3 or 5              6.33
              Sight distance divided by Safe                       1-5
                                                                                        5.53
              Stopping Distance
              Road grade at water entry                            1-3                  6.73
              Hazard Velocity                                    1, 3 or 5              5.12
              Council call outs                                    1-5                  8.62
              Historical safety                                    1-5                  9.33
              Note: Sites excluded following analytical assessment include sites with: flashing signs already installed; very low frequency (less
              often than Q10); very low traffic (e.g. cul-de-sacs with < 5 dwellings); programmed to be upgraded in less than three years where the
              upgrade reduces risk sufficiently.
              DM#11848163

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
              Figure 3. Flooded Roads Smart Warning System Layout. FLOAT
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Figure 4. Flooded Roads Smart Warning System Layout. Batteries and management system.
              DM#11848163

<removed-date>
              Figure 5. Flooded Roads Smart Warning System Communication Overview
<removed-apn>
              Figure 6. Flooded Roads Smart Warning System Placement Overview
              DM#11848163

              Figure 7 Disaster Dashboard mapping
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              DM#11848163

