                                           ABSTRACT
The present invention provides a liquid pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutic
agent and an alkoxy-polyethylene glycol, for example, methoxy-polyethylene glycol, for
administration of the therapeutic agent to the mammal. The compositions can be applied to a
membrane, for example, a nasal membrane during intranasal administration. The invention also
provides methods of administering such compositions to a mammal.

                                                 -1
                        METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR THE
                          DELIVERY OF A THERAPEUTIC AGENT
The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No. <removed-apn>,
which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
                                  RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]           This application claims the benefit of and priority to Icelandic Patent
Application Serial No. 8593/2007, filed January 19, 2007, the entire disclosure of which is
incorporated by reference herein for all purposes.
                                  FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]           This invention relates generally to compositions for the delivery of a therapeutic
agent and to related methods, and more particularly relates to compositions containing one or
more alkoxy-polyethylene glycols for the delivery of a therapeutic agent and to related
methods.
                                          BACKGROUND
[0003]           The administration of a therapeutic agent by injection (e.g., intravenous,
intramuscular or subcutaneous injection) typically is regarded as the most convenient way of
administration when the purpose is to achieve a rapid and strong systemic effect, for example,
within 3-10 minutes, when the agent is not absorbed by the gastrointestinal tract, or when the
agent is inactivated in the gastrointestinal tract or by first-pass hepatic metabolism. However,
administration by injection presents a range of disadvantages. For example, sterile syringes
must be used and injections cannot be administered by untrained personnel. Furthermore, this
mode of administration may cause pain and/or irritation, especially in the case of repeated
injections at the same site.
[0004]           Mucosal administration, such as, intranasal, buccal, sublingual, rectal and
pulmonal administration, is receiving particular interest as it avoids many of the disadvantages
of injecting a therapeutic agent while, at the same time, still providing a strong and rapid
systemic effect. In order to be an attractive alternative to injection, mucosal administration, for
example, intranasal administration, should neither cause significant pain, discomfort or
irritation nor cause any irreversible damage to the mucosal surface. However, in the case of
acute health threatening indications, a relatively high local irritation to the mucosa may be
acceptable.

                                                      -2
   [0005]        In mucosal administration, such as during nasal, buccal or rectal administration, the
   therapeutic agent should be applied to the mucosa in a vehicle that permits it to penetrate, or be
   absorbed through, the mucosa. In order to penetrate the mucus, the vehicle should be
   biocompatible with mucus and hence have a certain degree of hydrophilicity. However, the
 5 vehicle should preferably also possess lipophilic properties to dissolve a clinically relevant
   amount of the therapeutic agent of interest.
   [0006]        The extensive network of blood capillaries under the mucosal surface, especially in
   the nasal mucosa, is well suited to provide a rapid and effective systemic absorption of drugs,
   vaccines and biologicals. Moreover, the nasal epithelial membrane in effect contains a single
10 layer of epithelial cells (pseudostratified epithelium) and, therefore, is more suited for drug
   administration than other mucosal surfaces having squamous epithelial layers, such as, the
   mouth and vagina.
   [0007]        It has been hypothesized that the usefulness of nasal administration can be limited if
   the therapeutic agent has limited solubility in water (Proctor, D. F. (1985) Nasal Physiology in
15 IntranasalDrugAdministrations, in Chien, Y. W. (Ed.) TRANSNASAL SYSTEMIC MEDICATIONS,
   FUNDAMENTALS, DEVELOPMENTAL CONCEPTS AND BIOMEDICAL                    ASSESSMENTs, ELSEVIER
   Science Publishers, Amsterdam, pp. 101-105). As a result, this hypothesis, if correct, may limit
   the delivery of certain therapeutic agents that am sparingly soluble in water.
   [0008]        To facilitate delivery to the nasal cavity, an effective amount of the therapeutic
20 agent should be dissolved in a small volume, for example, less than about 1000 gL, preferably
   less than 300 ItL, and more preferably less than 150 lL. Larger volumes drain out anteriorly
   through the nostrils or posteriorly toward the pharynx where excess liquid is swallowed. As a
   result, if large volumes are administered, a portion of the therapeutic agent can be lost from the
   absorption site, and it can be difficult if not impossible to reproducibly administer the correct
25 dose of the therapeutic agent.
   [0009]        A variety of delivery systems have been developed for the nasal administration of
   therapeutic agents. Lau and Slattery studied the absorption characteristics of diazepam and
   lorazepam following their intranasal administration for the treatment of epilepticus (Lau, S. W.
    . & Slattery, J. T. (1989), Absorption of Diazepam and Lorazepam FollowingIntranasal
30 Administration, INT. J. PHARM., 54, 171-174). In order to solubilize the therapeutic agent, a
   non-ionic surfactant - polyoxyethylated castor oil - was selected as the least irritating solvent of

                                                   -3
   several solvents studied, including polyethylene glycol 400 (PEG 400). Diazepam absorption
   was 84 % and 72 %, respectively, in two adults measured over a period of 60 hours. However,
   the peak concentration was not observed until 1.4 hours after the nasal administration and was
   only about 27 % with reference to intravenous administration, suggesting that most of the
 5 absorption had taken place after the test substance passed down to pharynx and swallowed.
   Similar results were obtained for lorazepam but with an even longer time to peak (2.3 hours).
   The authors concluded that the intranasal route of administration had limited potential for the
   acute treatment of epileptic seizures.
   [0010]      Wilton et al. attempted to administer midazolam to 45 children to achieve pre
10 anesthetic sedation (Wilton et al.(1988) PreanaestheticSedation of PreschoolChildren Using
   IntranasalMidazolam, ANEsTHESIOLOGY, 69, 972-975). However, the volumes used were
   impractical and exceeded the maximal volume required for efficient administration. This
   resulted in coughing and sneezing with expulsion of at least part of the dose.
   [0011]      Morimoto et al. studied a gel preparation for nasal application in rats of nifedipine
15 containing the gelling agent carbopol (polyacrylic acid) in PEG 400, for achieving prolonged
   action and high bioavailability of the therapeutic agent (Morimoto et al. (1987) Nasal
   Absorption ofNifedipinefrom Gel Preparationsin Rats, CIEMIcAL AND PHARMACEUTICAL
   BULLETINs, 35, No. 7, 3041-3044). A mixture of equal amounts of carbopol and PEG 400 was
   preferred. It was shown that nasal application provided higher bioavailability of nifedipine
20 than after peroral administration, but the peak plasma concentration was not observed until 30
   minutes after administration.
   [0012]      Danish Patent Application No. 2586/87 discloses a pharmaceutical composition
   comprising an anti-inflammatory steroid, water, 2 to 10 % (v/v) propylene glycol, 10 to 25 %
   (v/v) PEG 400, and I to 4 % (v/v) Tween 20.
25 [0013]      U.S. Patent No. 4,153,689 discloses a stable aqueous solution of insulin intended for
   intranasal administration. The solutions had a pH not more than 4.7, and contained from 0.1 to
   20 % by weight of a stabilizing agent including (a) one or more non-ionic surface active agents
   whose hydrophile-lipophile balance value was in the range of 9 to 22, and/or (b) polyethylene
   glycol whose molecular weight was in the range of from 200 to 7500. Exemplary non-ionic
30 surface active agents included polyoxyethylene fatty acid ester, a polyoxyethylene higher

                                                     -4
   alcohol ether, a polyoxyethylene alkylphenyl ether, or a polyoxyethylene alkylphenyl ether, or
   a polyoxyethylene hydrogenated castor oil.
   [0014]       International Patent Publication No. DK-2075/90 discloses the nasal administration
   of therapeutic agents, for example, benzodiazepines, in compositions containing n-glycofurol, a
 5 derivative of polyethyleneglycol, for mucosal administration. The application discloses the
   nasal administration of therapeutic agents, for example, benzodiazepines, in formulations
   containing at least 30% n-ethyleneglycols ranging from 1-8 ethylene glycol, for example,
   polyethylene glycol 200 (PEG 200).
   [0015]       U.S. Patent No. 5,693,608 discloses a method of administering a therapeutic agent
10 via the nasal mucosa of a mammal, where the agent is dissolved or suspended in an n
   ethyleneglycol containing vehicle where the n-ethyleneglycol is represented by the formula,
   H(OCH 2CH2),OH, wherein p is a number from I to 8,
   [0016]       Notwithstanding, there is still a need for compositions deliverable through mucosal
   membranes that produce therapeutic plasma concentrations of the therapeutic agent as fast as or
15 nearly as fast as by intravenous administration but without causing irritation and/or
   unacceptable damage to the mucosal membrane.
                                  SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   [0017]       The invention is based, in part, upon the discovery that the inclusion of one or more
   alkoxy-polyethylene glycols in a formulation provides certain advantages when the resulting
20 composition is to be applied, for example, to a mucosal surface. For example, it has been
   discovered that when alkoxy-polyethylene glycol is used in such formulations, the therapeutic
   agent can be still be solubilized (which is especially useful for poorly soluble therapeutic
   agents) but the resulting formulations are less viscous and cause less irritation to mucosal
   membranes because the amount of other potentially viscous and irritable excipients, for
25 example, polyethylene glycol or propylene glucol, can be reduced or eliminated altogether. As
   a result, the lower viscosity formulations, when converted into droplets, for example, by a nasal
   sprayer during intranasal delivery, can produce a spray pattern optimized for delivering the
   therapeutic agent to the mucosal membrane. In addition, formulations containing alkoxy
   polyethylene glycols create less irritation (burning sensation) when applied to a mucosal
30 surface, for example, a nasal membrane following nasal administration. In addition, when

                                                    -5
   administered intranasally, the compositions of the invention minimize undesirable after taste
   (for example, a petroleum-like after taste) that can be associated with certain other excipients.
   [0018]       In one aspect, the invention provides a liquid pharmaceutical composition
   comprising a therapeutic agent and an alkoxy-polyethylene glycol represented by Formula I:
 5                                       R-O-(CH 2CH 20).-H      (I)
           wherein,
           R is methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopopyl, or cyclopropyl; and
           n, which is the average number of oxyethylene repeating units, is a number in the range
   of from about 1 to about 25,
10 [0019]       In another aspect, the invention provides a liquid formulation for solubilizing a
   poorly soluble therapeutic agent, for example, a poorly soluble organic therapeutic agent. The
   composition comprises a poorly soluble therapeutic agent and an alkoxy-polyethylene glycol
   represented by Formula I:
                                        R-O-(CH 2CH 2 O)-H        (I)
15         wherein,
           R is (Ci-C6 )alkyl; and
           n, which is the average number of oxyethylene repeating units, is a number in the range
   of from about 1 to about 25.
   [0020]       In another aspect, the invention provides methods of delivering a therapeutic agent
20 of interest to a mammal, for example, a human, using an alkoxy-polyethylene glycol containing
   composition described herein. The composition is particularly useful when the composition is
   applied to a mucosal membrane, for example, a nasal membrane during intranasal drug
   delivery.
   [0021]       These and other aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent upon
25 consideration of the following detailed description and claims.

                                                   -6
                         DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   [0022]      The invention is based, in part, upon the discovery that the inclusion of one or more
   alkoxy-polyethylene glycols into formulations provides certain advantages over other
   excipients when the formulations are applied, for example, to a mucosal surface. For example,
 5 it has been discovered that when an alkoxy-polyethylene glycol is used in such a formulation,
   the therapeutic agent (for example, a poorly soluble therapeutic agent) can be solubilized more
   easily and in larger amounts than when other excipients, for example, polyethylene glycol
   (more particularly PEG 400), are used. However, the resulting formulations are less viscous
   and cause less irritation to mucosal membranes as the amount of other viscous and irritable
10 excipients can be reduced or eliminated altogether. As a result, the lower viscosity
   formulations, when converted into droplets, for example, by a nasal sprayer during intranasal
   delivery, produce a spray pattern optimized for delivering the therapeutic agent to the mucosal
   membrane. In addition, formulations containing one or more alkoxy-polyethylene glycols
   cause less irritation (for example, a burning sensation) when applied to a mucosal surface, for
15 example, a nasal membrane during intranasal administration. In addition, when administered
   intranasally, the compositions of the invention have less undesirable after taste (for example, a
   petroleum-like after taste) than when other excipients, for example, propylene glycol, are used.
   [0023]      Under certain circumstances, the alkoxy-group also increases the bioadhesion of the
   composition to the site of administration on the mucosal surface thereby prolonging the
20 duration of the composition at the site of administration. This can increase the amount of
   therapeutic agent that is ultimately absorbed.
   I - Formulations
           In one aspect, the invention provides a liquid pharmaceutical composition comprising a
   therapeutic agent and an alkoxy-polyethylene glycol represented by Formula I:
25                                      R-0-(CH 2CH20),H       (1)
           wherein,
           R is methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, or cyclopropyl; and
           n is the average number of oxyethylene repeating units and is a number in the range of
   from about I to about 25.

                                                     -7
   [0024]       In another aspect, the invention provides a liquid formulation for solubilizing a
   poorly soluble therapeutic agent. The liquid pharmaceutical composition comprises a poorly
   soluble therapeutic agent, for example, a poorly soluble organic therapeutic agent, and an
   alkoxy-polyethylene glycol represented by Formula I:
 5                                       R-O-(CH 2CH 20)tH        (I)
            wherein,
            R is (CI-C 6 )alkyl; and
            n is the average number of oxyethylene repeating units and is a number in the range of
   from about I to about 25. The formulations typically are in liquid form at 20 0 C, 250 C, 30 0 C,
10 35"C, or 40"C. Certain formulations preferably are liquid formulations at 37C.
   [0025]       The term "poorly soluble therapeutic agent" refers to a compound having biological
   activity and a solubility in water of less than about I mg/mL at pH 7 and 20"C. In certain
   embodiments, the poorly soluble therapeutic agent is an organic compound that has a molecular
   weight of less than 1500 g/mol, and preferably less than 500 g/mol. In certain embodiments,
15 the poorly soluble therapeutic agent is a compound, for example, an organic compound, having
   an aqueous solubility of less than about 0.5 mg/mL, less than about 0.3 mg/mL, or less than
   about 0.1 mg/mL, at pH 7 and 20"C.
   [0026]       In addition, the term alkyll" is art-recognized, and includes saturated aliphatic
   groups, including straight-chain alkyl groups, branched-chain alkyl groups, cycloalkyl
20 (alicyclic) groups, alkyl substituted cycloalkyl groups, and cycloalkyl substituted alkyl groups.
   The term "(CIC-)alkyl" refers to an alkyl group having between I and 6 carbon atoms.
   Representative alkyl groups include methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, sec-butyl,
   isobutyl, tert-butyl, pentyl, hexyl, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopropylmethylene, cyclopentyl,
   cyclobutylmethylene, cyclobutylethylene, cyclohexyl, cyclopropylpropylene,
25 cyclobutylethylene, and cyclopentylmethylene. The term cyclopropylmethylene, for example,
   is art-recognized and refers to a radical having the following formula:

                                                   -8
   [0027]      In certain embodiments, the alkoxy-polyethylene glycol can comprise from about
   0.1% (v/v) to about 80% (v/v), or from about 0.5 % (v/v) to about 70 % (v/v), of the
   composition. In certain other embodiments, the alkoxy-polyethylene glycol can comprise from
   about 5% (v/v) to about 80% (v/v), or from about 30 % (v/v) to about 75 % (v/v) or from about
 5 40% (v/v) to about 70% (v/v), of the composition. For certain hydrophilic drugs, the alkoxy
   polyethylene glycol can comprise from about 0.1 % (v/v) to about 80% (v/v), or from about 0.5
   % (v/v) to about 70 % (v/v), or from about I % (v/v) to about 60% of the composition. For
   certain lipophilic drugs, the alkoxy-polyethylene glycol can comprise from about I % (v/v) to
   about 80% (v/v), or from about 2 % (v/v) to about 65 % (v/v), or from about 5 % (v/v) to about
10 50% of the composition. Furthermore, the therapeutic agent can comprise from about 0.001 %
   (w/v) to about 20 % (w/v) of the composition, or from about 0.1 % (w/v) to about 10 % (w/v)
   of the composition.
   [0028]      The pharmaceutical composition can have a pH in the range of from about 4.5 to
   about 8.5, or from about 4.5 to about 7.5, or from about 4.5 to about 6.5, or from about 5.5 to
15 about 8.5, or from about 6.5 to about 8.5, or from about 5.5 to about 7.5.
   [0029]      As discussed, one of the advantages of using an alkoxy-polyethylene glycol is that it
   can be used in place of or can be used to reduce the amount of other excipients, for example,
   certain polyethylene glycols and propylrnr glycol, so as to reduce the viscosity of the resulting
   formulation, By reducing the viscosity of the resulting formation it is possible to create sprays
20 that have more uniform spray characteristics (for example, more uniform droplet sizes and/or
   plume geometries) for the intranasal administration of therapeutic agent. The resulting
   pharmaceutical composition at a temperature of 20"C has a viscosity in the range of about 1.5
   cP to about 60 cP, or from about 2 cP? to about 50 cP, or from about 3 cP to about 40 cP, or
   from about 4 cP to about 30 cP, or from about 5 cP to about 25 cP.
25 [0030]      Exemplary alkoxy-polyethylene glycols, therapeutic agents, and other excipients
   useful in creating compositions of the invention are described in the following sections.

                                                    -9
            A. Alkoxy-polyethylene Glycol
   [0031]      Useful alkoxy-polyethylene glycol excipients useful in the practice of the invention
   are represented by Formula (I):
                                            R-O-(CH 2CH 2O).-H        (I)
 5          wherein, n, as the average number of oxyethylene repeating units, is a number in the
   range of from about I to about 25. Accordingly, n can be a number about 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
   9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, or 25. In certain embodiments, n is
   an number in the range of from about 2 to about 15, or from about 2 to about 14, or from about
   2 to about 13, or from about 2 to about 12, or from about 2 to about 11, or from about 2 to
10 about 10, or from about 3 to about 15, or from about 3 to about 14, or from about 3 to about 13,
   or from about 3 to about 12, or from about 3 to about 11, or from about 3 to about 10.
           In certain embodiments, R is (Ci-C 6 )alkyl. For example, as discussed above, R can be
   methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, sec-butyl, isobutyl, tert-butyl, pentyl, hexyl,
   cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopropylmethylene, cyclopentyl, cyclobutylmethylene,
15 cyclobutylethylene, cyclohexyl, cyclopropylpropylene, cyclobutylethylene, or
   cyclopentylmethylene. In certain embodiments, R is selected from the group consisting of
   methyl, ethyl, n-popyl, isopropyl, and cyclopropyl.
   [0032]      In a preferred embodiment, the alkoxy-polyethylene glycol is methoxy-polyethylene
   glycol where R is methyl and n is an number from about I to about 25, or from about 2 to about
20 12, or from about 3 to about 10.
   [0033]      Useful methoxy-polyethylene glycols include, for example, methoxy
   diethyleneglyol (m2EG), methoxy-triethylene glycol (m3EG), methoxy-tetraethylene glycol
   (m4EG), methoxy-pentaethylene glycol (m5EG), methoxy-hexaethylene glycol (m6EG),
   methoxy-heptaethylene glycol (m7EG), methoxy-octaethylene glycol (m8EG), methoxy
25 nonaethylene glycol (m9EG), methoxy-decaethylene glycol (mIOEG), methoxy
   undecaethylene glycol (ml lEG), methoxy-dodecaethylene glycol (ml2EG), methoxy
   tridecaethylene glycol (m13EG) and methoxy-tetradecaethylene glycol (ml4EG). The ethylene
   glycols may be used in the form of the single compounds or as a mixture of two or more
   methoxy-n-ethylene glycols.

                                                   -10
   [0034]      In certain embodiments, the alkoxy-polyethylene glycol is methoxy-polyethylene
   glycol 350 (mPEG 350) or is methoxy-polyethylene glycol 550 (mPEG 550) or is methoxy
   polyethylene glycol 750 (mPEG 750). The term "mPEG 350" is understood to mean methoxy
   polyethylene glycol having an average molecular weight of about 350, and in certain
 5 embodiments "n," as denoted in Formula I, is 7.2. The term "mPEG550" is understood to
   mean methoxy polyethylene glycol having an average molecular weight of about 550, and in
   certain embodiments "n," as denoted in Formula I, is 11.8. The term "mPEG750" is
   understood to mean methoxy polyethylene glycol having an average molecular weight of about
   750, and in certain embodiments "n," as denoted in Formula 1, is 16.3.
10 [0035]      Certain, preferred alkoxy-polyethylene glycols include CarbowaxTh mPEG 350,
   CarbowaxM mPEG 550 or Carbowax'            mPEG 750, which are available commercially from
   Dow Chemical Company. Both mPEG350 and mPEG550 are colorless liquids that are
   miscible with water, alcohols, such as methanol, ethanol, n-propanol, glycerol and various oils
   in all proportions, and have a boiling point about 155 0 C. It is understood that alkoxy
15 polyethylene glycols are known by other names, where, for example, methoxy-polyethylene
   glycol is also known as mono-methyl polyethylene glycol and poly(ethylene glycol) methyl
   ether.
   [00361      By using one or more of the alkoxy-polyethylene glycols described herein, the
   resulting pharmaceutical compositions can be optimized, for example, with respect to
20 bioadhesion, viscosity and sprayability. For example, mPEG 350, at an equivalent
   concentration as PEG 200, can still solubilize a therapeutic agent but the resulting composition
   has a lower viscosity. As a result, this substitution has a surprisingly positive effect on the
   sprayability compared with lower molecular weight PEG 200, which is important where the
   formulation is to be sprayed.
25          B. Therapeutic Agent
   [0037]      The pharmaceutical composition of the invention may comprise one or more
   therapeutic agents (also referred to as biologically active substances) selected from the group
   consisting of hydrophobic therapeutic agents, hydrophilic therapeutic agents, and combinations
   thereof.

                                                   -11
   [0038]      The alkoxy-polyethylene glycol excipients are surprisingly capable of solubilizing
   and delivering a wide variety of hydrophilic and hydrophobic therapeutic agents. The
   hydrophobic drugs have little or no water solubility. It is understood that the excipients
   described herein can be used to solubilize therapeutic agents that have a solubility in water of
 5 less than about 1.0 mg/mL, less than about 0.5 mg/mL, less than about 0.3 mg/mL, or less than
   about 0.1 mg/mL, or less than about 0.01 mg/mL, at pH 7 and 20*C. Such therapeutic agents
   can be any agents having therapeutic or other value when administered to a mammal, for
   example, a human, and can include organic molecules (for example, small molecule drugs
   having a molecular weight of less than 1,500 g/mol., or less than 500 g/mol.), proteins,
10 peptides, immungens (e.g. vaccines, cytokines, etc.), nutrients, and cosmetics (cosmeceuticals).
   [0039]      In certain embodiments, the therapeutic agent is an analgesic agent, an anti
   inflammatory agent, an anti-arrhythmic agent, an anti-asthma agent, an anti-bacterial agent, an
   anti-viral agent, an anti-coagulant, an anti-depressant, an anti-diabetic, an anti-epileptic, an
   anti-fungal agent, an anti-hypertensive agent, an anti-malarial, an anti-migraine agent, an anti
15 muscarinic agent, an anti-neoplastic agent, an immunosuppressant, an anti-protozoal agent, an
   anti-thyroid agent, an anxiolytic agent, a sedative, a hypnotic agent, a neuroleptic agent, a beta
   Blocker, a cardiac inotropic agent, a corticosteroid, a diuretic agent, an anti-Parkinsonian agent,
   a gastrointestinal agent, an anti-histamine, a histamine-receptor antagonist, a lipid regulating
   agent, a muscle relaxant, nitrate and other anti-anginal agent, a nutritional agent, an opioid
20 analgesic, sex hormone, stimulant, cytokine, peptidomimetic, peptide, protein, toxoid, sera,
   antibody, vaccine, nucleoside, nucleotide, nucleic acid and peptidyl-nucleic acid.
   [0040]      Specific non-limiting examples of hydrophobic therapeutic agents that can be used
   in the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention include the following
   representative compounds, as well as their pharmaceutically acceptable salts, isomers, esters,
25 ethers and other derivatives including, for example: (1) analgesics and anti-inflammatory
   agents, such as, aloxiprin, auranofin, azapropazone, benorylate, capsaicin, celecoxib,
   diclofenac, diflunisal, etodolac, fenbufen, fenoprofen calcium, flurbiprofen, ibuprofen,
   indomethacin, ketopofen, ketorolac, leflunomide, meclofenamic acid, mefenamic acid,
   nabumetone, naproxen, oxaprozin, oxyphenbutazone, phenylbutazone, piroxicam, refocoxib,
30 sulindac, tetrahydrocannabinol, tramadol and tromethamine; (2) anti-arrhythmic agents, such
   as, amiodarone HCl, disopyramide, flecainide acetate and quinidine sulfate; (3) anti-asthma

                                                    - 12
   agents, such as, zileuton, zafirlukast, montelukast, and albuterol; (4) anti-bacterial agents, such
   as, baclofen, benzathine penicillin, cinoxacin, clarithromycin, clofazimine, cloxacillin,
   demeclocycline, dirithromycin, doxycycline, erythromycin, ethionamide, furazolidone,
   grepafloxacin, imipenem, levofloxacin, lorefloxacin, moxifloxacin HCl, nalidixic acid,
 5 nitrofurantoin, norfloxacin, ofloxacin, rifampicin, rifabutine, rifapentine, sparfloxacin,
   spiramycin, sulphabenzamide, sulphadoxine, sulphamerazine, sulphacetamide, sulphadiazine,
   sulphafurazole, sulphamethoxazole, sulphapyridine, tetracycline, trimethoprim and
   trovafloxacin; (5) anti-viral agents, such as, abacavir, amprenavir, delavirdine, efavirenz,
   indinavir, lamivudine, nelfinavir, nevirapine, ritonavir, saquinavir, and stavudine; (6) anti
10 coagulants, such as, cilostazol, clopidogrel, dicumarol, dipyridamole, nicoumalone, oprelvekin,
   phenindione, ticlopidine, and tirofiban; (7) anti-depressants, such as amoxapine, bupropion,
   citalopram, clompramine, maprotiline HCI, mianserin HCl, nortriptyline HCl, paroxetine HO,
   sertraline HCl, trazodone HCl, trinipramine maleate, and venlafaxine HCI; (8) anti-diabetics,
   such as, acetohexamide, chlorpopamide, glibenclamide, gliclazide, glipizide, glimepiride,
15 miglitol, pioglitazone, repaglinide, rosiglitazone, tolazamide, tolbutamide and troglitazone; (9)
   anti-epileptics, such as, beclamide, carbamazepine, clonazepam, ethotoin, felbamate,
   fosphenytoin sodium, lamotrigine, methoin, methsuximide, methylphenobarbitone,
   oxcarbazepine, paramethadione, phenacemide, phenobarbitone, phenytoin, phensuximide,
   primidone, sulthiame, tiagabine HCI, topiramate, valproic acid, and vigabatrin; (10) anti-fungal
20 agents, such as, amphotericin, butenafine HCI, butoconazole nitrate, clotrimazole, econazole
   nitrate, fluconazole, flucytosine, griseofulvin, itraconazole, ketoconazole, miconazole,
   natamycin, nystatin, sulconazole nitrate, oxiconazole, terbinafine HC, terconazole, tioconazole
   and undecenoic acid; (11) anti-hypertensive agents, such as, amlodipine, benidipine,
   benezepril, candesartan, captopril, darodipine, dilitazem HCl, diazoxide, doxazosin HC,
25 elanapril, eposartan, losartan mesylate, felodipine, fenoldopam, fosenopril, guanabenz acetate,
   irbesartan, isradipine, lisinopril, minoxidil, nicardipine HC, nifedipine, nimodipine,
   nisoldipine, phenoxybenzamine HC, prazosin HC, quinapril, reserpine, terazosin HCl,
   telmisartan, and valsartan; (12) anti-malarials, such as, amodiaquine, chloroquine,
   chlorproguanil HC, halofantrine HCl, mefloquine HCl, proguanil HCl, pyrimethamine and
30 quinine sulfate; (13) anti-migraine agents, such as, dihydroergotamine mesylate, ergotamine
   tartrate, frovatriptan, methysergide maleate, naratriptan HCl, pizotyline malate, rizatriptan
   benzoate, sumatriptan succinate, and zolmitriptan; (14) anti-muscarinic agents, such as,

                                                  -13
   atropine, benzhexol HCI, biperiden, ethopropazine HCI, hyoscyamine, oxyphencyclimine HCI
   and tropicamide; (15) anti-neoplastic agents and immunosuppressants, such as,
   aminoglutethimide, amsacrine, azathioprine, bicalutamide, bisantrene, busulfan, camptothecin,
   chlorambucil, cyclosporin, dacarbazine, ellipticine, estramustine, etoposide, irinotecan,
 5 lomustine, melphalan, mercaptopurine, mitomycin, mitotane, mitoxantrone, mofetil
   mycophenolate, nilutamide, paclitaxel, procarbazine HCI, sirolimus, tacrolimus, tamoxifen
   citrate, teniposide, testolactone, topotecan HCI, and tornifene citrate; (16) anti-protozoal
   agents, such as, atovaquone, benznidazole, clioquinol, decoquinate, diiodohydroxyquinoline,
   diloxanide furoate, dinitolmide, furazolidone, metronidazole, nimorazole, nitofurazone,
10 ornidazole and tinidazole; (17) anti-thyroid agents, such as, carbimazole, paracalcitol, and
   propylthiouracil; anti-tussives, such as, benzonatate; (18) anxiolytics, sedatives, hypnotics and
   neuroleptics, such as, alprazolam, amylobarbitone, barbitone, bentazepam, bromazepam,
   bromperidol, brotizolam, butobarbitone, carbromal, chlordiazepoxide, chlormethiazole,
   chlorpromazine, chlorprothixene, clonazepam, clobazam, clotiazepam, clozapine, diazepam,
15 droperidol, ethinamate, flunanisone, flunitrazepam, triflupromazine, fluphenthixol decanoate,
   fluphenazine decanoate, flurazepam, gabapentin, haloperidol, lorazepam, lorrnetazepam,
   medazepam, meprobamate, mesoridazine, methaqualone, methylphenidate, midazolam,
   molindone, nitrazepam, olanzapine, oxazepam, pentobarbitone, perphenazine pimozide,
   prochlorperazine, pseudoephedrine, quetiapine, rispiridone, sertindole, sulpiride, temazepam,
20 thioridazine, triazolam, zolpidem, and zopiclone; (19) beta-Blockers, such as, acebutolol,
   alprenolol, labetalol, metoprolol, nadolol, oxprenolol, pindolol and propranolol; (20) cardiac
   inotropic agents, such as, amrinone, digitoxin, digoxin, enoximone, lanatoside C and
   medigoxin; (21) a corticosteroid, such as, beclomethasone, betamethasone, budesonide,
   cortisone acetate, desoxymethasone, dexamethasone, fludrocortisone acetate, flunisolide,
25 fluocortolone, fluticasone propionate, hydrocortisone, methylprednisolone, prednisolone,
   prednisone and triamcinolone; (22) diuretics, such as, acetazolamide, amiloride,
   bendroflumethiazide, bumetanide, chlomthiazide, chlorthalidone, ethacrynic acid, frusemide,
   metolazone, spionolactone and triamterene; (23) anti-Parkinsonian agents, such as,
   bromocriptine mesylate, lysuride maleate, pramipexole, ropinirole HCI, and tolcapone; (24)
30 gastrointestinal agents, such as bisacodyl, cimetidine, cisapride, diphenoxylate HCI,
   domperidone, famotidine, lansoprazole, loperamide, mesalazine, nizatidine, omeprazole,
   ondansetron HCl, rabeprazole sodium, ranitidine HCl and sulphasalazine; (25) anti-histamines

                                                    - 14
   and histamine-receptor antagonists, such as, acrivastine, astemizole, chlorpheniramine,
   cinnarizine, cetrizine, clemastine fumarate, cyclizine, cyproheptadine HCI,
   dexchlorpheniramine, dimenhydrinate, fexofenadine, flunarizine HCI, loratadine, meclizine
   HCI, oxatomide, and terfenadine; (26) lipid regulating agents, such as, atorvastatin, bezafibrate,
 5 cerivastatin, ciprofibrate, clofibrate, fenofibrate, fluvastatin, gemfibrozil, pravastatin, probucol,
   and simvastatin; (27) muscle relaxants, such as, dantrolene sodium and tizanidine HCI; (28)
   nitrates and other anti-anginal agents, such as, amyl nitrate, glyceryl trinitrate, isosorbide
   dinitrate, isosorbide mononitrate and pentaerythritol tetranitrate; (29) nutritional agents, such
   as, calcitriol, carotenes, dihydrotachysterol, essential fatty acids, non-essential fatty acids,
10 phytonadiol, vitamin A, vitamin B2 , vitamin D, vitamin E and vitamin K; (30) opioid
   analgesics, such as, codeine, dextropropoxyphene, diamorphine, dihydrocodeine, fentanyl,
   meptazinol, methadone, morphine, hydromorphone, nalbuphine and pentazocine; (31) sex
   hormones, such as, clomphene citrate, cortisone acetate, danazol, dehydroepiandrosterone,
   ethynyl estradiol, finasteride, fludrocortisone, fluoxymesteone, medroxyprogesterone acetate,
15 megestrol acetate, mestranol, methyltestosterone, norethisterone, norgestrel, oestradiol,
   conjugated estrogens, progesterone, rimexolone, stanozolol, stilbestrol, testosterone and
   tibolone; and (32) stimulants, such as, amphetamine, dexamphetamine, dexfenfluramine,
   fenfluramine and mazindol; and others, such as, becaplermin, donepezil HCl, L-thryroxine,
   methoxsalen, verteporfrin, physostigmine, pyridostigmine, raloxifene HCI, sibutramine HCI,
20 sildenafil citrate, tacrine, tarnsulosin HCI, and tolterodine.
   [0041]       Certain exemplary hydrophobic therapeutic agents include sildenafil citrate,
   amlodipine, tramadol, celecoxib, rofecoxib, oxaprozin, nabumetone, ibuprofen, terbenafine,
   itraconazole, zileuton, zafirlukast, cisapride, fenofibrate, tizanidine, nizatidine, fexofenadine,
   lomtadine, famotidine, paricalcitol, atovaquone, nabumetone, alprazolam, bromazepam,
25 chlorpromazine, clonazepam, diazepam, flunitrazepam, flurazepam, haloperidol, lorazepam,
   lormetazepam, midazolam, nitrazepam, oxazepam, pseudoephedrine, temazepam, triazolam,
   zolpidem, zopiclone, tetrahydrocannabinol, testosterone, megestrol acetate, repaglinide,
   progesterone, rimexolone, cyclosporin, tacrolimus, sirolimus, teniposide, paclitaxel,
   pseudoephedrine, troglitazone, rosiglitazone, finasteride, vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin E, and
30 pharmaceutically acceptable salts, isomers and derivatives thereof. It should be appreciated
   that the listing of hydrophobic therapeutic agents and their therapeutic classes is merely

                                                   - 15
   illustrative. It is understood, that mixtures of hydrophobic therapeutic agents may also be used
   where desired.
   [0042]       An advantage of using alkoxy-polyethylene glycol as an excipient in the
   pharmaceutical composition is that, for example, highly lipophilic substances, such as,
 5 lorazepam, midazolam, clonazepam, alprazolam and other compounds belonging to the
   benzodiazepines, as well as water soluble substances, for example, peptides and proteins, such
   as, the pancreatic hormones can be solubilized in a clinically relevant volume (for example, 25
   - 300 p L) for delivery to a human subject. By way of comparison, clinically relevant doses of
   midazolam, lorazepam, alprazolam, diazepam and clonazepam would have to be dissolved in at
10 least 5 mL of water.
   [0043]       Although the alkoxy-polyethylene glycol excipients are particularly useful for the
   delivery of hydrophobic agents, alkoxy-polyethylene glycol can also be used to deliver a
   variety of hydrophilic therapeutic agents. Alkoxy-polyethylene glycols, under certain
   circumstances, may prolong the duration of the therapeutic agent at the absorption site thereby
15 increasing the amount of agent ultimately delivered. Exemplary hydrophilic therapeutic agents
   include hydrophilic drugs (i.e., conventional non-peptidic drugs), hydrophilic macromolecules,
   such as, cytokines, peptides, proteins, peptidomimetics, toxoids, sera, antibodies, vaccines,
   nucleosides, nucleotides, nucleic acids, and genetic material. The hydrophilic therapeutic agent
   can be administered alone or in combination with other agents, for example, a hydrophobic
20 therapeutic agent discussed hereinabove or a second, different hydrophilic therapeutic agent.
   [0044]       Without limitation, exemplary hydrophilic therapeutic agents that can be delivered
   using the compositions and methods of the present invention, include the following compounds
   as well as their pharmaceutically acceptable salts, isomers, esters, ethers and other derivatives,
   for example: acarbose; acyclovir; acetyl cysteine; acetylcholine chloride; alatrofloxacin;
25 alendronate; alglucerase; amantadine hydrochloride; ambenomium; amifostine; aminocaproic
   acid; antihemophilic factor (human); antihemophilic factor (porcine); antihemophilic factor
   (recombinant); aprotinin; asparaginase; atenolol; atracurium besylate; azithromycin; aztreonam;
   BCG vaccine; bacitracin; becalermin; belladona; bepridil hydrochloride; bleomycin sulfate;
   calcitonin human; calcitonin salmon; carboplatin; capecitabine; capreomycin sulfate;
30 cefamandole nafate; cefazolin sodium; cefepime hydrochloride; cefixime; cefonicid sodium;
   cefoperazone; cefotetan disodium; cefotoxime; cefoxitin sodium; ceftizoxime; ceftriaxone;

                                                     - 16
   cefuroxime axetil; cephalexin; cephapirin sodium; cholera vaccine; chorionic gonadotropin;
   cidofovir; cisplatin; cladribine; clidinium bromide; clindamycin and clindamycin derivatives;
   ciprofloxacin; clondonate; colistimethate sodium; colistin sulfate; cortocotropin; cosyntropin;
   cromalyn sodium; cytarabine; daltaperin sodium; danaproid; deforoxamine; denileukin diftitox;
 5 desmopressin; diatrizoate megluamine and diatrizoate sodium; dicyclomine; didanosine;
   dopamine hydrochloride; dornase alpha; doxacurium chloride; doxorubicin; editronate
   disodium; elanaprilat; enkephalin; enoxacin; enoxaprin sodium; ephedrine; epinephrine;
   epoetin alpha; esmol hydrochloride; Factor IX; famiciclovir; fludarabine; fluoxetine; foscamet
   sodium; ganciclovir; granulocyte colony stimulating factor; granulocyte-macrophage
10 stimulating factor; growth hormones (human or bovine); gentamycin; glucagon; glycopyrolate;
   gonadotropin releasing hormone and synthetic analogs thereof; GnRH; gonadorelin;
   grepafloxacin; hemophilus B conjugate vaccine; Hepatitis A virus vaccine inactivated;
   Hepatitis B virus vaccine inactivated; heparin sodium; indinavir sulfate; influenza virus
   vaccine; interleukin-2; interleukin-3; insulin-human; insulin-porcine; insulin NPH; insulin
15 aspart; insulin glargine; insulin detemir; interferon-a; interfemn-$; ipratropium bromide;
   isofosfamide; japanese encephalitis virus vaccine; leucovorin calcium; leuprolide acetate;
   levofloxacin; lincomycin and lincomycin derivatives; lobucavir; lomefloxacin; loracarbef;
   mannitol; measles virus vaccine; meningococcal vaccine; menotropins; mephenzolate bromide;
   mesalmine; methanamine; methotrexate; methscopolamine; metformin hydrochloride;
20 metroprolol; mezocillin sodium; mivacurium chloride; mumps viral vaccine; nedocromil
   sodium; neostigmine bromide; neostigmine methyl sulfate; neutontin; norfloxacin; octreotide
   acetate; olpadronate; oxytocin; pamidronate disodium; pancuronium bromide; paroxetine;
   pefloxacin; pentamindine isethionate; pentostatin; pentoxifylline; periciclovir; pentagastrin;
   phentolamine mesylate; phenylalanine; physostigmine salicylate; plague vaccine; piperacillin
25 sodium; platelet derived growth factor-human; pneumococcal vaccine polyvalent; poliovirus
   vaccine (live or inactivated); polymixin B sulfate; pralidoxine chloride; pramlintide;
   pregabalin; propofenone; propenthaline bromide; pyridostigmine bromide; rabies vaccine;
   residronate; ribavarin; rimantadine hydrochloride; rotavirus vaccine; salmetrol xinafoate;
   sincalide; small pox vaccine; solatol; somatostatin; sparfloxacin; spectinomycin; stavudine;
30 streptokinase; streptozocin; suxamethonium chloride; tacrine hydrochloride; terbutaline sulfate;
   thiopeta; ticarcillin; tiludronate; timolol; tissue type plasminogen activator; TNFR:Fc; TNK
   tPA; trandolapril; trimetrexate gluconate; trospectinomycin; trovafloxacin; tubocurarine

                                                    - 17
   chloride; tumor necrosis factor; typhoid vaccine live; urea; urokinase; vancomycin;
   valaciclovir; varicella virus vaccine live; vasopressin and vasopessin derivatives; vecoronium
   bromide; vinbiastin; vincristine; vinorelbine; warfarin - sodium; yellow fever vaccine;
   zalcitabine; zanamavir; zolandtronate; and zidovudine.
 5 [0045]       Other therapeutic agents that can be administered in this formulation may comprise
   adrenal hormones, corticosteroids and derivatives, such as, ACTH and analogs thereof,
   teracosactrin, alsactide, cortisone, hydrocortisone alcohol, hydrocortisone acetate,
   hydrocortisone hemisuccinate, prednisolone terbutate, 9-alpha-fluoroprednisolone,
   triamcinolone acetonide, dexamethasone phosphate, flurisolide, toxicorol pivalate; anorectics,
10 such as, benzphetamine HCI chlorphentermine HCI; antibiotics, such as, tetracycline HC1,
   tyrothricin, cephalosporine, aminoglycosides, streptomycin, gentamycin, leucomycin, penicillin
   and derivatives; anti-allergic agents; antibodies, such as, monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies;
   anti-cholinergic agents; anti-depressants, such as, amitriptyline HCI, imipramine HCl; anti
   emitics, such as, neuroleptica, for example, metopimazin, anti-emetics having a regulatory
15 effect on the motility of the intestine, such as, domperidon; anti-histaminic agents and
   histaminic agents, such as, diphenhydramin HCI, chloropheniramine maleate, histamine,
   prophenpyridamine maleate, chlorprophenpyridamine maleate, disodiurn cromoglycate,
   meclizine; anti-hypertensive agents, such as, clonidine HCI; anti-inflammatory agents
   (enzymatic), such as, chymotrypsin, bromelain seratiopeptidase; anti-inflammatory agents
20 (non-steroidal), such as, acetaminophen, aspirin, aminopyrine, phenylbutazone, colchicine,
   probenocid; anti- inflammatory agents (steroidal), such as, fluticasone, predonisolone,
   triaxncinolone acetonide; anti-neoplastic agents, such as, actinomycin C.; anti-septics, such as,
   chlorhexidine HCI, hexylresorcinol, dequalinium cloride, ethacridine; anti-tussive expectorant
   (asthmatic agents), such as, sodium cromoglycate, isoprotereol HCl; anti-viral and anti-cancer
25 agents such as interferons (such as alpha-2 interferon for treatment of common colds), phenyl
   p-guanidino benzoate, enviroxime, etc.; beta-adrenergic blocking agents, such as, propranolol
   HCI; blood factors, such as, factor V11, factor VIII; bone metabolism controlling agents, such
   as, vitamin D 3 ; bronchoisters, such as, clenbuterol HCI, bitolterol mesylate; cardiotonics such
   as digitalis; cardiovascular regulatory hormones, drugs and derivatives, such as, bradykin
30 antagonists, atrial natriuretic peptide and derivatives, such as, hydrailsazine, angiotensin It
   antagonist, nitroglycerin, propranolol, clofilium rosylate; chemotherapeutic agents, such as,

                                                   - 18
   sulphathiazole, nitrofurazone; CNS-stimulants, such as, lidocaine, cocaine; corticosteroids,
   such as, lacicortone, hydrocorticeone, fluocinolone acetonide, triamcinolone acetonide;
   enzymes, such as, lysozyme chloride, dextranase; gastrointenstinal hormones and derivatives,
   such as, secretin, substance P; hypothalamus hormones and derivatives, such as, LHRH and
 5 analogues (such as naferelin, buserelin, zolidex), TRH (thyrotropin releasing hormone);
   hypothensives; local anaesthetics, such as, benzocaine; migraine treatment substances, such as,
   dihydroergot amine, ergometrine, ergotamine, pizotizin; pancreatic hormones and derivatives,
   such as, insulin (hexaneric/dimeric/ monomeric forms); parasympathomimetics, such as,
   nicotine, methacholine; parasympatholytics, such as, scopolamine, attopine, ipratropium;
10 Parkinson's disease substances, such as, apomorphin; pituitary gland hormones and derivatives,
   such as, growth hormone (e.g. human), vasopressin and analogues (DDAVP, Lypressin);
   prostaglandins, such as, PGA and derivatives thereof, PGEI and derivatives thereof, PGE 2 and
   derivatives thereof, PGF and derivatives thereof, dinoprost trometamol; protease inhibitors,
   such as, citrate, or a, -antitrypsin; sex-hormones, such as, ethinyloestradiol, levonorgestrel,
15 FSH, LH, LTH, estradiol-17-beta, norethindrone; sympathomimetics, such as, phenylephrine,
   xylometazoline, tramazoline, dopamine, dobutamine; sleep-aids, such as granistron and
   ramelteon, tranquilizers, such as, brotizolam, camazepam, chlorazepic acid, cloxazolam,
   delorazepam, estazolam, ethyl loflazepate, fludiazepam, flutazolam, halazepam, haloxazolam,
   ketazolam, loprazolam, lormetazepam, nimetazepam, nitrazepam, nordiazepam, oxazepam,
20 pinazepam, prazepam, temazepam, tetrazepam, tofisopam; vaccines, such as, AIDS-vaccines,
   parainfluenza virus, polio, rhinovirus type 13, respiratory syncytial virus; vasoconstrictors, such
   as, phenylephrine HCI, tetrahydrozoline HCI, naphazoline nitrate, oxymetazoline HCI,
   tramazoline HCl; vasodilators, such as, papaverine HCI, Substance P, vasoactive intestinal
   peptide (VIP).
25 [0046]      Certain exemplary formulations comprising alkoxy-polyethylene glycol also
   comprise one or more therapeutic agents selected from the group consisting of peptide drugs,
   such as, oxytocin, vasopression (desmopresin), insulin, calcitonin, elcatonin, cyanocobalmin
   Br1, and glucagon-like protein-I (GLP-1), and small organic molecules, such as, dinoprsoone,
   misoprostol, apomorphine, fentanyl, metoclopramide, butorphanol, and midazolam

                                                   - 19
           C. Other Excipients
   [0047]       It is understood that the compositions of the invention, in addition to the alkoxy
   polyethylene glycol and the therapeutic agent, can comprise a number of other excipients
   known to those skilled in the art, including absorption promoters, buffering agents, water
 5 absorbing polymers, alcohols, lipids, osmotic pressure controlling agents, pH-controlling
   agents, preservatives, propellants, surfactants, enzyme inhibitors, excipients for adjusting
   hydrophilic-lipophilic balance (HLB) and stabilizers.
   [0048]       Exemplary surfactants, include, for example nonoxynol, octoxynol, tweens, spans,
   sodium lauryl sulfate, and sorbitan monopalmitate. Exemplary absorption promoters include,
10 for example, bile salts and derivatives thereof, fusidic acid and derivatives thereof, oleic acid,
   lecithin, lysolechitins, dodecanoyl phosphatidylcholine (DDPC), sucrose monododecanoate, n
   dodecyl-o-D-maltopyranoside, pectin, chitosan, a-,     P- and y-cyclodextrins  and derivatives
   thereof, pegylated caprylic-/capric glycerides and derivatives thereof, such as, Softigen and
   Labrasol. Exemplary water absorbing polymers include, for example, polyethylene glycols
15 having an average molecular weight ranging from 200 to 7500, propylene glycol, or mixtures
   thereof, or single ethylene glycols such as tetraethylene glycol and pentaethylene glycol.
   Exemplary alcohols include, for example, ethanol, isopropyl alcohol, Exemplary lipids
   include, for example, vegetable oil, soyabean oil, peanut oil, coconut oil, maize oil, olive oil,
   sunflower oil, monoglycerides, diglycerides, mono/diglycerides, mono/di/triglycerides.
20 Exemplary osmotic pressure controlling agents include, for example, glycerol, dextrose,
   maltose, sucrose, mannitol, xylitol, various salts (for example, sodium chloride). Exemplary
   pH-controlling agents include, for example, buffers, acids (for example, nitric acid, phosphoric
   acid, or acetic acid). Exemplary preservatives include, for example, methyl paraoxybenzoate,
   phenyl ethyl alcohol or benzoic acid. Exemplary propellants, include, for example, butane or
25 air displacement such as nitrogen. Excipients adjusting the HLB of the formulation include, for
   example, Tween 20, 25, 40, 45, 65, 85, Span 20-80, Brij 30-98, acacia. Exemplary enzyme
   inhibitors include, for example aprotinin and other peptidase inhibitors,
   diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP), carbopol. Exemplary stabilizers include, for example,
   cyclodextrins.

                                                      - 20
   [0049]       Although it is understood that the alkoxy-polyethylene glycols described herein, for
   example, methoxy-polyethylene glycol, can solubilize poorly soluble therapeutic agents, under
   certain circumstances, it may be helpful to include additional compounds that enhance the
   solubility of the therapeutic agent. Examples of such solubilizers include, for example,
 5 alcohols and polyols, such as ethanol, isopropanol, butanol, benzyl alcohol, ethylene glycol,
   pmpylene glycol, butanediols and isomers thereof, glycerol, pentaerythritol, sorbitol, mannitol,
   transcutol, dimethyl isosorbide, polyethylene glycol, polypropylene glycol, pegylated-mono/di
   caprylic/capric glycerides, polyvinylalcohol, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose and other
   cellulose derivatives, cyclodextrins (for example, a-, $- , or y-cyclodextrins) and cyclodextrin
10 derivatives; ethers of polyethylene glycols having an average molecular weight of about 200 to
   about 6000 or tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol PEG ether (glycofurol, available commercially from
   BASF under the trade name Tetraglycol); surfactants, such as, sodium lauryl sulfate, oleic acid,
   linoleic acid, monoolein, lecithin, lysolecithin, deoxycholate, taurodeoxycholate,
   glycochenodeoxycholate, polyoxyethylene X-lauryl ether, where X is from 9 to 20, sodium
15 taumo-24, 25-dihydrofusidate, polyoxyethylene ether, polyoxyethylene sorbitan esters, p-t
   octylphenoxypolyoxyethylene, N-lauryl-p-D-maltopyranoside, 1-dodecylazacycloheptane-2
   azone; amides, such as, 2-pyrrolidone, 2-piperidone, caprolactam, N-alkylpyrrolidone, N
   hydroxyalkylpyrolidone, N-alkylpiperidone, N-alkylcaprolactam, dimethylacetamide, and
   polyvinylpyrrolidone; esters, such as, ethyl propionate, tributylcitrate, acetyl triethyleitrate,
20 acetyl tributyl citrate, triethylcitrate, ethyl oleate, ethyl caprylate, ethyl butyrate, triacetin,
   propylene glycol monoacetate, propylene glycol diacetate, caprolactone and isomers thereof,
   valerolactone and isomers thereof, p-butyrolactone and isomers thereof; and other solubilizers
   known in the art, such as dimethyl acetanide, dimethyl isosorbide (Arlasolve DMI (IC)), N
   methyl pyrrolidones (Pharmasolve (ISP)), monooctanoin, and diethylene glycol monoethyl
25 ether (available from Gattefosse under the trade name Transcutol).
   [0050]       Preferred additional solubilizers include triacetin, triethylcitrate, ethyl oleate, ethyl
   caprylate, dimethylacetamide, N-methylpyrrolidone, N-hydroxyethylpyrolidone,
   polyvinylpyrolidone, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, hydroxypropyl cyclodextrins, ethanol,
   polyethylene glycol 200-1000, PEG 300, PEG 400, Transcutol, and dimethyl isosorbide,
30 sorbitol, glycerol, triacetin, glycofurol and propylene glycol. Typically, the solubilizer, if
   present, is present in an amount of from about 0.1 % (w/v) to about 50 % (w/v), from about I

                                                    - 21
   % (w/v) to about 40 % (w/v) or from about 2 % (w/v) to about 25 % (w/v). In addition, the
   liquid pharmaceutical composition can comprise water, for example, from about 2 % (v/v) to
   about 99 % (v/v), from about 10 % (v/v) to about 95 % (v/v), or from about 20 % (v/v) to about
   90 % (v/v), of the liquid composition.
 5 [0051]       As discussed, the composition can comprise a preservative. In addition or in the
   alternative, the composition can be sterilized. Sterilization can be achieved by filter
   sterilization, autoclaving, exposure to ionizing radiation, for example, gamma radiation, UV
   irradiation, and chemical sterilization. In one embodiment, the sterile composition has a
   sterility assurance level of at least about 10'. The resulting liquid compositions preferably are
10 stable at room temperature, such that less than 5%, 4%, 3%, 2% or I % by weight of the
   therapeutic agent degrades after storage for 30 days, or more preferably 6 months, at 20"C.
   [0052]       In addition, the formulations may also include a sweetener or flavoring agent.
   Exemplary sweeteners or flavoring agents include, for example, acacia syrup, acesulfame
   potassium, anethole, anise oil, aromatic elixir, aspartame, benzaldehyde, benzaldehyde elixir,
15 cyclodextrins, caraway, caraway oil, cardamom oil, cardamom seed, cardamom spirit,
   cardamom tincture, cherry juice, cherry syrup, cinnamon, cinnamon oil, cinnamon water, citric
   acid, citric acid syrup, clove oil, cocoa, cocoa syrup, coriander oil, dextrose, eriodictyon,
   eriodictyon fluid extract, eriodictyon syrup, aromatic, ethylacetate, ethyl vanillin, fennel oil,
   ginger, ginger fluid extract, ginger oleoresin, glucose, sugar, maltodextrin, glycerin,
20 glycyrrhiza, glycyrrhiza elixir, glycyrrhiza extract, glycyrrhiza extract pum, glycyrrhiza fluid
   extract, glycyrrhiza syrup, honey, iso-alcoholic elixir, lavender oil, lemon oil, lemon tincture,
   maltodextrin, maltose, mannitol, methyl salicylate, menthol, nutmeg oil, orange bitter, elixir,
   orange bitter, oil, orange flower oil, orange flower water, orange oil, orange peel, bitter, orange
   peel sweet, tincture, orange spirit, orange syrup, peppermint, peppermint oil, peppermint spirit,
25 peppermint water, phenylethyl alcohol, raspberry juice, raspberry syrup, rosemary oil, rose oil,
   rose water, saccharin, saccharin calcium, saccharin sodium, sarsaparilla syrup, sarsaparilla
   compound, sorbitol solution, spearmint, spearmint oil, sucrose, sucralose, syrup, thyme oil, tolu
   balsam, tolu balsam syrup, wintergreen oil, vanilla, vanilla tincture, vanillin, wild cherry syrup,
   xylitol, or combinations thereof.

                                                  - 22
   [0053]      In addition, the formulations optionally can contain a taste masking agents.
   Exemplary masking agents include, for example, cyclodextrins, cyclodextrin emulsions,
   cyclodextrin particles, cyclodextrin complexes, or combinations thereof.
   [0054]      The foregoing list of excipients and additives is by no means complete, and it is
 5 understood that a person of ordinary skill in the art can choose other excipients and additives
   from the GRAS (generally regarding as safe) list of chemicals used in pharmaceutical
   preparations and those that are currently allowed in topical and parenteral formulations.
   [0055]      Exemplary liquid compositions of the invention contain, for example, the active
   ingredient (for example, midazolam), 40 % (v/v) to 70 % (v/v) methoxy-polyethylene glycol
10 (for example, mPEG 350), 0 % (v/v) to 20 % (v/v) polyethylene glycol (for example, PEG
   400), 0 % (v/v) to 10 % (v/v) propylene glycol, and 0 % (v/v) to 5 % (v/v) ethanol. Other
   exemplary liquid compositions of the invention contain, for example, the active ingredient
   dissolved in 50 % (v/v) to 70 % (v/v) mPEG 350, 1 % (v/v) to 4 % (v/v) propylene glycol, and
   I % (v/v) to 4 % (v/v) ethanol.
15 [0056]      It is understood that the choice and amounts of each of the therapeutic agents,
   alkoxy-polyethyline glycol and other excipients combined to produce the compositions of the
   invention will depend upon the ultimate use of the composition, and the intended therapy and
   mode of administration. When the liquid compositions ultimately are administered to a patient,
   the amount of a given excipient, unless the circumstances dictate otherwise, preferably is
20 limited to a bioacceptable amount, which is readily determined by one of skill in the art.
   Furthermore, it is understood that the liquid compositions of the invention can be formulated
   using techniques known to those skilled in the art. A thorough discussion of formulations and
   the selection of pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, stabilizers, etc. can be found, for
   example, in Remington's PharmaceuzicalSciences ( 18 h Ed.), Mack Publishing Company,
25 Eaton, PA.
   [0057]      Although the therapeutic agent and the alkoxy-polyethylene glycol are combined in
   the liquid formulations of the invention, they are not covalently linked to one another. In
   certain embodiments, the liquid formulations of the invention are free or are substantially free
   of chitosan. In certain embodiments, the compositions of the invention may be prepared in a
30 powder form.

                                                    - 23
   11 Modes of Administration and Pharmacokinetics
   [0058]       The compositions of the invention are particularly useful in delivering one or more
   therapeutic agents to a mucosal membrane or the skin of a mammal, for example, a human.
   The mucosal membrane to which the pharmaceutical preparation of the invention is
 5 administered may be any mucosal membrane of the mammal to which the therapeutic agent is
   to be applied, for example, the nose (for example, via a nasal membrane), vagina, eye (for
   example, via an ocular membrane), ear (for example, via a tympanic membrane), mouth (for
   example, via the buccal membrane), lungs (for example, via the pulmonal membrane), or
   rectum (for example, via the rectal membrane). The compositions am particularly useful in
10 delivering a therapeutic agent to the mucosa of the nose, mouth (buccal, gingual, sublingual or
   to the hard palate), or the vagina.
   [0059]       It is understand that the compositions of the invention are particularly useful in the
   intranasal delivery of a therapeutic agent. When the composition is applied to the nasal
   mucosa, the volume of the pharmaceutical composition applied typically is in the range of 1
15 1000 [L, preferably not mom than 700 p L, more preferably 50-150 p L per nostril, and most
   preferably about 100 pL/nostril.
   [0060]       It is understood that when administered intranasally, the compositions are delivered
   via a spray device that produces a plume of spray droplets that contact the nasal mucosa. It is
   contemplated that the compositions can be delivered using commercially available spray
20 devices available from, for example, Pfeiffer of America, Princeton, NJ; Valois of America,
   Inc., Greenwich, CT; or Becton Dickinson, Franklin Lakes, NJ. Furthermore, these devices are
   easily operable by the patient or care giver, and leave little or no residual formulation in the
   device after use.
   [0061]       Such devices can be filled with single or multi-dose amounts of the desired
25 formulation. The container holding the pharmaceutical composition and its sealing means are
   sterilizable. At least the parts of the device that are in contact with the pharmaceutical
   composition should be constructed and assembled in a configuration that can be sterilized.
   Exemplary delivery devices with one or more unit-dose(s) are described, for example, in U.S.
   Patent Nos. 4,946,069; 5,307,953; 6,948,492; and 6,446,839. Individual devices can be
30 packaged, sterilized and shipped; alternatively, entire shipping and storage packages can be

                                                     - 24
   sterilized at once, and the devices removed individually for dispensing, without affecting the
   sterility of the remaining units.
   [0062]       The mucosal epithelium in the nasal cavity is covered with many hair-like cilia that
   provide an important defense mechanism against inhaled dust, allergens and microorganisms.
 5 The normal half-time for non-absorbed substances administered to the nasal cavity is about 15
   minutes due to the mucociliary clearance removing foreign particles and excess mucus toward
   the pharynx. For this reason it is preferred that the absorption occurs rapidly and preferably
   within 0.5 to 20 minutes. However, in the current invention due to bioadhesive properties of
   the invention, the preferred absorption may occur within 0.5 to 300 minutes (e.g., for vaccines
10 and biologicals), preferably between 0.5 to 60 minutes (e.g., for large molecules) and more
   preferably between 0.5 and 20 minutes, for example, within 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15 or 20 minutes post
   administration. The composition can be formulated so that upon administration to a subject, for
   example, via intranasal administration to the subject, the therapeutic agent has a peak
   concentration (Tm)      in the blood of the subject within 30, 25, 20, 15, 10 8, 5, 3 or 2 minutes
15 after administration of the therapeutic agent.
   [0063]       In addition to administration to humans, the compositions of the invention can be
   used to deliver the therapeutic agent to an animal, for example: pets, for example, dogs, cats,
   rabbits, and guinea pigs; and farm animals, for example, homes, sheep, pigs, cattle, and
   chickens.
20 [0064]       Throughout the description, where compositions are described as having, including,
   or comprising specific components, it is contemplated that compositions also consist essentially
   of, or consist of, the recited components. Similarly, where processes are described as having,
   including, or comprising specific process steps, the processes also consist essentially of, or
   consist of, the recited processing steps. Except where indicated otherwise, the order of steps or
25 order for performing certain actions are immaterial so long as the invention remains operable.
   Moreover, unless otherwise noted, two or more steps or actions may be conducted
   simultaneously.

                                                   - 25
                                              EXAMPLES
   [0065]      The invention is explained in more detail with reference to the following Examples,
   which are to be considered as illustrative and not to be construed so as to limit the scope of the
   invention as set forth in the appended claims.
 5 EXAMPLE I - Exemplary Lorazapam Containing Formulation
   [0066]      In this Example, 10 mg lorazepam is dissolved in 2 mL of mPEG 350 using
   ultrasound to obtain a solution containing 5 mg/mL of lorazepam. 50 L of the resulting
   composition is administered into each nasal cavity of male New Zealand White rabbits held in
   a supine position during, and then one minute after application. An Eppendorf pipette is used
10 for each application. After administration, blood samples then are harvested from a marginal
   ear vein at 0, 2, 5, 10, 15, 30 and 60 minutes, and the lorazepam concentration determined by
   high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The pharmacokinetics of lorazepam
   delivery via intranasal administration can then be compared with the pharmacokinetics of
   lorazepam delivery by intravenous administration. It is contemplated that the pharmacokinetics
15 of the intranasally administered lorazepam will be comparable to those of the intravenously
   administered lorazepam.
   EXAMPLE 2 - Exemplary Midazolam Containing Formulation
   [0067]      In this Example, 10 mg of midazolarn is dissolved in 2 mL of mPEG 350 using
   ultrasound to obtain a solution containing 5 mg/mL midazolam. 50 L of the resulting
20 composition is then administered into each nasal cavity of male New Zealand White rabbits,
   held in a supine position during, and then one minute after application. After administration,
   blood samples then are harvested from a marginal ear vein at 0, 2, 5, 10, 15, 30 and 60 minutes,
   and the midazolam concentration determined by HPLC. The pharmacokinetics of midazolam
   delivery via intranasal administration can then be compared with the pharmacokinetics of
25 midazolam delivery by intravenous administration, It is contemplated that the
   pharmacokinetics of the intranasally administered midazolam will be comparable to those of
   the intravenously administered midazolam.

                                                  - 26
   EXAMPLE 3 - Pharmacokinetics of Exemplary Midazolam Formulations
   [0068]      This Example describes a variety of formulations containing methoxy-polyethylene
   glycol that demonstrate comparable pharmacokinetic properties to a control formulation
   containing polyethylene glycol and propylene. In addition to having comparable
 5 pharmacokinetic properties, the methoxy-polyethylene glycol formulations had a lower
   viscosity than the control formulation.
   [0069]      Table I lists the composition of a first test formulation, Table 2 lists the composition
   of a second test formulation, and Table 3 lists the composition of a control formulation.
10            TABLE 1 - Test Formulation I Containing 50 mg/mL Midazolam base
                               SComponlent                Pecenxt of Final
                                  mPEG 350                      47
                                   PEG 400                       18
                               Propylene Glycol                  5
                                   Ethanol                       7
                                    Water                       21
              TABLE 2 - Test Formulation 2 Containing 50 mg/mL Midazolam base
                               SComnponent                Pexit of Final
                                  mPEG 350                      47
                                   PEG 400                       18
                               Propylene Glycol                  10
                                Polysorbate 80                  0.1
                                    Water                       22

                                                          - 27
                       TABLE 3 - Control Containing 50 mg/mL Midazolam base
                                      Compn        t
                                           percent..f.Fina
                                                                      (' v/v.
                                       PEG 400                            18
                                  Propylene Glycol                       78
                              Butylatedhydoxytoluene                    0.01
   [0070]       Each of the test and control formulations contained 50 mg/mL midazolam. Once
   made, 5 mg of midazolam in 0.1 mL was delivered intranasally to the right nostril of each dog
 5 (3 dogs per set) for each formulation in a cross over manner, Blood was harvested from the
   dogs predose and at 0.03, 0.08, 0.16, 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1, 2, and 4 hours after administration, and
   the concentration of midazolam in the blood measured by HPLC. The pharmacokinetic
   properties are sunmmarized in Table 4.
                                   TABLE 4 - Pharmacokinetic Properties
               Formulation             T     (h)          _ ayd              AlJCpI....AUOia.
          Test Formulation 1        0.11 +0.05        2220 +289          506+94           508+95
          Test Formulation 2        0.05 +0.03        1880 +682          399 +75           403 +76
          Control                   0.07 +0.03        2350 +796          506 +72           509 +71
          Formulation
10
         In Table 4, Cmoax refer to the maximum plasma concentration, T_ refers to the tine to reach C., AUC,
         refers to area under the concentration curve front time zero to the last measurable plasnia concentration, and
         AUC, refers to the area under the concentration curve front time zero to infinity.
15 [0071]       The results demonstrate that the test formulations, when administered intranasally to
   the dogs, produced comparable pharmacokinetics to the control formulation. The test
   formulations, however, had a lower viscosity than the control formulations. Lower viscosity
   correlates with better spray pattern characteristics.
   EXAMPLE 4 -Additional Exemplary Methoxy-Polyethylene Glycol Containing
20 Formulations
   [0072]       This example describes the benefit of incorporating methoxy-polyethylene glycol
   into certain intranasal formulations. Table 5 describes a formulation containing methoxy-

                                                  - 28
   polyethylene glycol and PEG 400, Table 6 describes a formulation containing methoxy
   polyethylene glycol without PEG 400, Table 7 describes a formulation containing methoxy
   polyethylene glycol without PEG 400 (with reduced ethanol), and Table 8 describes a control
   formulation containing PEG 400 but no methoxy-polyethylene glycol.
 5
                                                TABLE
                           Sfripofient           Viscosity (CP)   %tw/w)
                           Propylene glycol            40            5
                                PEG 400                80           18
                              mPEG 350                 29           47
                                 Ethanol                -            6
                                  Water                 1           18
                              Midazolam                 -            7
                                                TABLE 6
                                 SCopnent        Visdosity e)     %ww
                           Propylene glycol            40            2
                              mPEG 350                 29           64
                                 Ethanol                -            5
                                  Water                 1           23
                              Midazolam                 -            7
10                                              TABLE 7
                       S75 ng Midab~aad~o.o                              25m dl           e
                              .................
          MPEG 350                    64.8                   64.8                64.8
       Propylene glycol                2.0                   2.0                  2.0
            Ethanol                    2.5                   2.5                  2.5
             Water                    23.7                  26.0                 28.3
           Phenethyl                 0.025                  0.025               0.025
            Alcohol
          Midazolam                    6.9                   4.6                  2.3

                                                   - 29
             TABLE 8 - Control Formulation (Without Methoxy-polyethylene Glycol)
                                   coponent          vsoity c)         I   w)
                                  PEG 400                  89              19
                             Propylene Glycol             40               76
                          Butylatedhydroxytoluene           -             0.01
                                 Midazolam                                  5
   [0073]       The formulation of Table 5 was prepared by mixing the propylene glycol, PEG 400,
   mPEG 350, and ethanol. The midazolam was then added to the mixture, and then after the
 5 midazolam had dissolved following mixing the water was added to the formulation. The
   formulations in Tables 6 and 7 were prepared as follows. The midazolam was weighed in a
   container and the ethanol was added to wet the active ingredient. After mixing, about 65% of
   the mPEG 350 was added, and the resulting mixture mixed for 2 minutes. Thereafter, the
   additional organic phase was added. The remaining 35% of the mPEG 350 was mixed with
10 water, and the diluted mPEG 350 then was gradually added with mixing to the midazolam
   solution until a clear solution was produced. The viscosity of the resulting formulations and
   spray patterns were tested.
   [0074]       The viscosity of the resulting formulations was tested at 25*C using a viscometer
   (Brookfield DV-il PRO), The viscosity of the control formulation without methoxy
15 polyethylene glycol (Table 8) was found to be about 42 cP, whereas the viscosity of the test
   formulation of Table 5 was found to be about 30 cP, and the viscosity of the test formulation of
   Table 6 was found to be about 23 cP. The reduced viscosity of the test formulations relative to
   the control formulation permitted the creation of more reproducible spray patterns.
   [0075]       The spray patterns produced by the two test formulations of Tables 5 and 6 were
20 tested using a Proveris spray view instrument. The resulting parameters of the resulting spray
   patterns were found to be more reproducible as the viscosity of the formulation decreased.
   [0076]       In addition, 100 pL of placebo formulations (no midazolam) corresponding to the
   formulations set forth in Tables 7 and 8 were administered intranasally to three healthy test
   subjects using a commercially available spray device from Pfeiffer. The placebo formulation
25 corresponding to Table 7 containing methoxy-polyethylene glycol had a less noticeable taste
   relative to the placebo formulation corresponding to Table 8.

                                                   - 30
   [0077]      These collective results demonstrate that mPEG 350 is a suitable excipient for nasal
   administration, for example, with midazolam.
   EXAMPLE 5 - Sprayability of Methoxy-Polyethylene Glycol Containing Formulations
   [0078]      This Example demonstrates that methoxy-polyethylene glycol-based formulations
 5 produce superior spray flumes relative to polyethylene glycol. Solutions containing 100 %
   methoxy-polyethylene glycol 350 (MPEG 350) from Sigma-Aldrich Chemie GmbH (St. Louis,
   MO, USA) and 100 %polyethylene glycol 300 (PEG 300) from Croda Chemicals Europe Ltd.
   (Goole, UK) were placed into Pfeiffer 20 mL bottles (Pfeiffer 34473) and attached to certain
   pumps from Valois or Pfeiffer (see Table 8). Each spray device was placed 25 cm under a
10 sheet of absorbent paper and the sprayability was measured as the diameter across of the paper
   wetted by the resulting spray. The results are summarized in Table 9.
                                                     TABLE 9
                      Pump Tpe           Fomlto              pa     imter (cm)
                      Pfeiffer 71514     PEG 300            2.0-3.2 cm
                      Pfeiffer 71514     mPEG 350           22-26 cm
                      Valois VP6/100     PEG 300            5.0-7.5 cm
                      Valois VP6/100     mPEG 350           15-21 cm
   [0079]      The results show that there is a clear difference in the sprayability of mPEG 350
15 compared with PEG 300. The required spray angle is not achieved using PEG 300, whereas a
   clinically relevant spray-angle can be achieved using mPEG 350.
                                INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
   [0080]      The entire disclosure of each of the patent documents and scientific articles referred
   to herein is incorporated by reference for all purposes.

                                                   - 31
                                            EQUIVALENTS
  [0081]       The invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the
  spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The foregoing embodiments are therefore to be
  considered in all respects illustrative rather than limiting on the invention described herein.
5 Scope of the invention is thus indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing
  description, and all changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the
  claims are intended to be embraced therein.
  WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:

                                                 - 32
1 1.     A liquid pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutic agent and an alkoxy
2 polyethylene glycol represented by Formula 1:
3                                     R-O-(CH 2CH 20).-H      (1)
4        wherein:
5                R is methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, or cyclopropyl; and
6                n is a number in the range of from about I to about 25.
1 2.     The pharmaceutical composition of claim 1, wherein the therapeutic agent is an organic
2 compound having a molecular weight of less than 1500 g/mol.
1 3.     A liquid pharmaceutical composition comprising a poorly soluble therapeutic agent and
2 an alkoxy-polyethylene glycol represented by Formula 1:
3                                     R-O-(CH 2CH 20)-H        (1)
4        wherein:
5                R is (Ci-C 6)alkyl; and
6                n is a number in the range of from about I to about 25.
1 4.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the alkoxy
2 polyethylene glycol comprises from about 0.5 % (v/v) to about 70 % (v/v) of the composition.
1 5.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the alkoxy
2 polyethylene glycol comprises about I % (v/v) to about 60 % (v/v) of the composition.
1 6.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the alkoxy
2 polyethylene glycol comprises about 5 % (v/v) to about 50 % (v/v) of the composition.
1 7.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the therapeutic
2 agent comprises about 0.001 % (w/v) to about 20 % (w/v) of the composition.
1 8.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the therapeutic
2 agent comprises about 0.1 % (w/v) to about 10 % (w/v) of the composition.
1 9.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-8, further comprising water.

                                                   - 33
1 10.      The pharmaceutical composition of claim 9, wherein the water comprises about 10 %
2 (v/v) to about 95 % (v/v) of the composition.
1 11.      The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-10, further comprising a buffer.
1 12.      The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-11, further comprising a
2 preservative,
1  13.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-12, wherein the composition at
2 a temperature of 20"C has a viscosity in the range of from about 1.5 cP to about 60 cP.
1 14.      The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-12, wherein the composition at
2 a temperature of 20"C has a viscosity in the range of from about 5 cP to about 25 cP.
1 15.      The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-14, wherein the composition
2 has a pH in the range of from about 4.5 to about 8.5.
1 16,      The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-14, wherein the composition
2 has a pH in the range of from about 5.5 to about 7.5.
1 17.      The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-16, wherein the composition is
2 sterile.
1 18.      The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-17, wherein the composition
2 has a sterility assurance level of at least about 103.
1 19.      The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-18, wherein less than I % by
2 weight of the therapeutic agent degrades after storage for 30 days at 20"C.
1 20.      The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-18, wherein less than I %by
2 weight of the therapeutic agent degrades after storage for 6 months at 20"C.
1 21.      The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-20, wherein the composition is
2 formulated so that upon intranasal administration to a subject, the therapeutic agent has a peak
3 concentration (T.) in the blood of the subject within 30 minutes after administration of the
4 therapeutic agent.
1 22       The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-20, wherein the composition is
2 formulated so that upon intranasal administration to a subject, the therapeutic agent has a peak

                                                 - 34
3 concentration (t.)  in the blood of the subject within 10 minutes after administration of the
4 therapeutic agent.
1 23.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-23, wherein R is methyl.
1 24.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-24, wherein n is 3-15.
1 25.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-24, wherein the alkoxy
2 polyethylene glycol is mPEG 350, mPEG 550, or a combination thereof.
1 26.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-24, wherein the alkoxy
2 polyethylene glycol is methoxy-triethylene glycol (m3EG), methoxy-tetraethylene glycol
3 (m4EG), methoxy-pentaethylene glycol (m5EG), methoxy-hexaethylene glycol (m6EG),
4 methoxy-heptaethylene glycol (m7EG), methoxy-octaethylene glycol (mSEG), methoxy
5 nonaethylene glycol (m9EG), methoxy-decaethylene glycol (mIOEG), methoxy
6 undecaethylene glycol (m I lEG), methoxy-dodecaethylene glycol (ml2EG), methoxy
7 tridecaethylene glycol (ml3EG), or methoxy-tetradecaethylene glycol (ml4EG).
1 27.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-26, wherein the therapeutic
2 agent has a molecular weight of less than 500 g/mol.
1 28.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-26, wherein the therapeutic
2 agent has an aqueous solubility of less than about 0.3 mg/mL at pH 7 and 20"C.
1 29.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-28, wherein the therapeutic
2 agent has an aqueous solubility of less than about 0.1 mg/mL at pH 7 and 20"C.
1 30.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-29, wherein the therapeutic
2 agent is a benzodiazepine.
1 31.     The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 30, wherein the therapeutic agent
2 is midazolam.
1 32.     A pharmaceutical composition comprising the formulation of Table 1, 2, 5, 6, or 7.
1 33.     A method of administering a therapeutic agent to a mammal, the method comprising
2 administering a pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-32 to a mucosal surface of
3 the mammal.

                                              -35
1 34.    The method of claim 33, wherein the mucosal surface is a nasal membrane, sublingual
2 membrane, buccal membrane, pulmonal membrane, ocular membrane, or rectal membrane.
1 35.    The method of claim 33, wherein the mucosal surface is a nasal membrane.
1 36.    The method of any one of claims 33-35, wherein the therapeutic agent has a peak
2 concentration (T.) in the blood of the mammal within 30 minutes after administration of the
3 therapeutic agent.
1 37.    The method of any one of claims 33-35, wherein the therapeutic agent has a peak
2 concentration (Tm)   in the blood of the mammal within 10 minutes after administration of the
3 therapeutic agent.
1 38.    The method of any one of claims 33-37, wherein the pharmaceutical composition is
2 administered in a volume of from about I pL to about 1000 pL.
1 39.    The method of claim 38, wherein the pharmaceutical composition is administered in a
2 volume from about 50 pL to about 300 pL.
1 40.    The method of any one of claims 33-39, wherein the mammal is a human.

