Abstract
The present disclosure illustrates a sectional door driving device including a
power assembly, a chassis assembly and a driving assembly. The power
assembly includes a motor, a gear set and a control unit, and the power
assembly is fastened on a main chassis of the chassis assembly. The driving
assembly includes two half-gears respectively in semicircular cylinder shape,
and each of the two half-gears has a combination surface which is formed
with an engagement assembly, and the two half-gears are engaged by the
engagement assemblies thereof to form a circular gear to cover a shaft of a
sectional door mechanism. The gear set includes an output gear configured
to drive the circular gear and the shaft to rotate. The sectional door driving
device can be separated from the shaft easily for repair, and the sectional
door driving device can also be installed on the existing sectional door easily.

                        3/9
         43
        32
                   3121
                                      3211
                1Fig.
        34                      32
      S31                   311
   44
34
                  23
            4
                                      141
                                   33
              331                      Fig. 4

                              AUSTRALIA
                             Patents Act 1990
                  COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
Invention title:
 "SECTIONAL DOOR DRIVING DEVICE"
Applicant:
                    GLADOOR TAIWAN LIMITED
Associated provisional applications:
The following statement is a full description of the invention, including
the best method of performing it known to me:

                                        2
                     "SECTIONAL DOOR DRIVING DEVICE"
Field of the Invention
[0001] The present disclosure relates to a driving device for a door such as
a garage door, more particularly to a sectional door driving device.
Background to the Invention
[0002] A sectional door is usually equipped with a building gate, a garage or
a wider channel, and also usually called an iron rolling door, quickly-rolling
door or a garage lift door. Please refer to FIG. 11, which shows a perspective
view of a conventional sectional door device. A sectional door 9 includes a
door leaf 91 formed by multiple door pieces, which can be jointed with each
other to bend. The two sides of the door leaf 91 are slidably accommodated
in sliding tracks 92. When the door leaf 91 is closed, the door leaf 91 is located
at vertical sliding tracks 921 below; and, when the door leaf 91 is opened, the
door leaf 91 is received in the horizontal sliding track 922 above. An electronic
mechanism 93 drives the door leaf 91 to move, and includes power structures
such as motor and gear set. The electronic mechanism 93 is located at an
end of a middle track 94 which is fastened on the ceiling by several middle
track supports 941. The electronic mechanism 93 is usually linked to a drag
rod 942 of other end of the middle track 94 by a rope or a screw rod (not
shown in FIG. 11). The drag rod 942 is linked to the uppermost part of the
door leaf 91, and when the electronic mechanism 93 acts, the door leaf 91
can be pulled upwardly or put down.
[0003]    In order to decrease the load of the electronic mechanism 93, a shaft
95 is disposed at an upper part of the door leaf 91 and springs 96 are mounted
at two ends of the shaft 95. The spring 96 has an end combined with the shaft
95 and other end locked with a board fixed with the building. When the door
leaf 91 is put down, the spring 96 has been rolled by several times to store a
restoring force close to a weight of the door leaf 91, so that the motor having
smaller horsepower is still able to lift the door leaf 91. The electronic
mechanism 93 drives rotation of the shaft 95 through a bevel gear (not shown
in FIG. 11) located at an end portion of a transmission rod. This transmission

                                        3
structure is well known in the art, so description of the transmission structure
is not repeated. A rope wheel 97 is disposed at the two ends of the shaft 95,
and configured to transmit the rotation force of the shaft 95 to the bottom of
the door leaf 91 through a rope or cable, thereby assisting in lifting the door
leaf 91.
[0004]    In aforementioned conventional structure, the middle track 94 and the
electronic mechanism 93 at the end of the middle track 94 occupy the upper
space of the sectional door; and, when the middle track 94 is located at the
high position,    it needs   precise construction and       easily causes high
construction difficulty; however, if the middle track 94 and the electronic
mechanism 93 are located at the middle section of the building, they are
collided and damaged more easily.
[0005] The present invention seeks to address some of these concerns, at
least in part.
Summary of the Invention
[0006] According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a
sectional door driving device including a power assembly, a chassis assembly
and a driving assembly; the power assembly including a motor, a gear set and
a control unit, and the power assembly being fastened on a main chassis of
the chassis assembly. The driving assembly includes two               half-gears
respectively in semicircular cylinder shape, and each of the two half-gears has
a combination surface which is formed with an engagement assembly. The
two half-gears are engaged with each other by the engagement assemblies
thereof to form a circular gear to cover a shaft of a sectional door mechanism,
and the gear set comprises an output gear configured to drive the circular gear
and the shaft to rotate.
[0007] Preferably, the main chassis is formed with a gap to pass the shaft.
[0008] Preferably, the sectional door driving device includes two half
bearings configured to engage with each other to mount on the shaft.

                                        4
[0009] Preferably, each of the two half-gears is formed with at least one
counterbore configured to lock with a screw.
[0010] Preferably, the engagement assembly of each of the two half-gears
includes an engagement structure including a protruded part and a recessed
part in cooperation with each other.
[0011] Preferably, the circular gear is covered by two half rope wheels, and
the two half rope wheels are assembled with each other as a rope wheel by
engagement assemblies thereof, and the rope wheel is wound by a rope.
[0012] Preferably, the engagement assembly of each of the two half-rope
wheels includes an engagement structure comprising a protruded part and a
recessed part in cooperation with each other.
[0013] Preferably, the chassis assembly includes an auxiliary chassis which
is formed with several holes and at least one combination board configured to
combine with the main chassis by a fastener.
[0014] Preferably, the rope includes a first combination end configured to
combine with a bottom part of a door leaf.
[0015] Preferably, the rope includes a second combination end configured to
combine with a top part of the door leaf.
[0016] Advantageously, the driving device of the present disclosure can be
separated from the shaft easily for repair, or it is easy to install the driving
device of the present disclosure on the existing sectional door to replace the
existing driving device; furthermore, the installation of the driving device of the
present disclosure does not need the middle track, so that the installation of
the driving device of the present disclosure is easier than the convention
driving device.

                                         5
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0017] It will be convenient to further describe the invention with reference to
preferred embodiments of the present invention. Other embodiments are
possible, and consequently the particularity of the following discussion is not
to be understood as superseding the generality of the preceding description
of the invention. In the drawings:
[0018] FIG. 1 is an exploded view of a first embodiment of a sectional door
driving device of the present disclosure;
[0019]    FIG. 2 is a perspective view of an assembled part and a
disassembled part of the first embodiment of the sectional door driving device
of the present disclosure;
[0020]    FIG. 3 is a perspective view of disassembly and assembly of a part
of the first embodiment of the sectional door driving device of the present
disclosure;
[0021]    FIG. 4 is a perspective view of the first embodiment of the sectional
door driving device of the present disclosure;
[0022]    FIG. 5 is a top view of the first embodiment of the sectional door
driving device of the present disclosure;
[0023]    FIG. 6 is a sectional view taken along line A-A of FIG. 5;
[0024]    FIG. 7 is a perspective view of the first embodiment of the sectional
door driving device equipped with a sectional door, in accordance with the
present disclosure;
[0025]    FIG.  8 is a perspective view of an assembled part and a
disassembled part of a second embodiment of a sectional door driving device
of the present disclosure;

                                        6
[0026]    FIG. 9 is a perspective view of the second embodiment of the
sectional door driving device equipped with the sectional door, in accordance
with the present disclosure;
[0027]    FIG. 10 is a perspective view of assembly and disassembly of a part
of a third embodiment of a sectional door driving device of the present
disclosure; and
[0028]    FIG. 11 is a perspective view of a conventional (prior art) sectional
door device.
Detailed Description of Preferred Embodiments
[0029] Regarding the drawings, the relative proportions and ratios of
elements in the drawings may be exaggerated or diminished in size for the
sake of clarity and convenience. Such arbitrary proportions are only illustrative
and not limiting in any way. The same reference numbers are used in the
drawings and description to refer to the same or like parts.
[0030] It is to be understood that, although the terms 'first', 'second', 'third',
and so on, may be used herein to describe various elements, these elements
should not be limited by these terms. These terms are used only for the
purpose of distinguishing one component from another component. Thus, a
first element discussed herein could be termed a second element without
altering the description of the present disclosure. As used herein, the term "or"
includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed
items.
[0031]     Please refer to FIGs. 1 through 3. FIG. 1 is an exploded view of a
first embodiment of a sectional door driving device of the present disclosure,
FIG. 2 is a perspective view of an assembled part and a disassembled part of
the first embodiment of the sectional door driving device of the present
disclosure, and FIG. 3 is a perspective view of assembly and disassembly of
a part of the first embodiment of the sectional door driving device of the
present disclosure. In this embodiment, the sectional door driving device of

                                        7
the present disclosure includes a power assembly 1, a chassis assembly 2
and a driving assembly 3.
[0032]   The power assembly 1 includes a motor 11, a gear set 12, a control
unit 13 and a switcher 14. The power assembly 1 is fastened with a main
chassis 21 of the chassis assembly 2. The motor 11 is operated to perform
variable-speed transmission through the gear set 12, and the gear set 12
transmits power to an output gear 121. The control unit 13 is configured to
count during action of the power assembly 1 or read a location of the power
assembly 1, so as to determine a location of the sectional door and then
generate a correct instruction according to the determination. The function of
the switcher 14 is similar to a clutch, and the switcher 14 includes a switch
handle 141 configured to switch link between the motor 11 and the output gear
121, and in a condition that power failure or motor fault occurs, the user can
manually open or close the sectional door. The control unit 13 and the switcher
14 of this embodiment are well known technology in the art, so their
descriptions are not repeated.
[0033]   The chassis assembly 2 includes the main chassis 21 and an
auxiliary chassis 22. Preferably, the chassis assembly 2 may include an outer
chassis 23 to have better appearance and prevent dust and vapor from
entering the chassis assembly 2. The main chassis 21 is formed as a shell
with a proper size to accommodate the components. The main chassis 21 is
formed with a gap 211 cut therethrough to pass a shaft 4 of the sectional door.
The auxiliary chassis 22 is formed with several holes 222 cut through a board
thereof, and several screws 223 can be inserted through the holes 222
respectively to fasten the driving device with a building. The auxiliary chassis
22 includes at least one combination board 221 extended from two sides
thereof. The outer chassis 23 can cover the main chassis 21 and the auxiliary
chassis 22, and is formed with a gap 231 to pass the shaft 4 of the sectional
door. After the sectional door driving device is mounted completely, a cover
board 232 can be used to cover the sectional door driving device, thereby
improving the sealability of entire device.

                                         8
[0034]    The driving assembly 3 includes two half-gears 31 in semicircular
cylinder shape. Each of the two half-gears 31 includes an engagement
assembly 311 formed on a combination surface thereof. By engaging the
engagement assemblies 311 with each other, the two half-gears 31 can be
assembled as a circular gear to cover the shaft 4 of the sectional door
mechanism. Each half-gear 31 has the same shape, and the engagement
assembly 311 is an engagement structure having a protruded part and a
recessed part. In this embodiment, the engagement assembly 311 can include
a circular rib and a circular groove which can be tightly mounted with each
other. In order to assemble the driving device, one of the two half-gears 31 is
placed on a surface of the shaft 4, and the circular rib and circular groove of
the engagement assembly 311 of the other half-gear 31 correspond in position
to and are slid into the circular groove and the circular rib of the half-gear 31
for combination. Each of the two half-gears 31 has at least one counterbore
312 formed on the outer surface thereof, the screw 313 can be locked into the
counterbore 312. Preferably, the screw 313 can be, but not limited to, a
tapping screw which can be locked into the surface of the shaft 4. The circular
gear formed by the two half-gears 31 can be disposed on the outer surface of
the shaft 4, so as to tightly combine the circular gear with the shaft 4.
[0035]    After the two half-gears 31 and the shaft 4 are combined and fixed,
the auxiliary chassis 22 is locked at a proper location on a wall of the building,
and the main chassis 21 is attached on the auxiliary chassis 22 to engage the
output gear 121 with the circular gear formed by the two half-gears 31, and
some fasteners such as the tapping screws, are used to lock the main chassis
21 with the combination board 221 of the auxiliary chassis 22; finally, the outer
chassis 23 covers the assembly, so as to complete assembly of the sectional
door driving device. After assembly, the driving device is able to drive the shaft
4 to rotate; that is, the motor 11 can transmit power to the output gear 121
through the gear set 12, and the output gear 121 engages the circular gear
formed by the two half-gears 31, so as to drive the shaft 4 to rotate.
[0036]    Preferably, there are two half-bearings 34 disposed in the gap 211 of
the main chassis 21, and each of the two half-bearings 34 can have a

                                         9
structure, which is similar to the engagement assembly 311 of the half-gear
31, to combine with the shaft 4, and the two half-bearings 34 are then fastened
in the gap 211 by screw. Preferably, the half-bearing 34 can be, but not limited
to, a slidable bearing made by plastic material or copper. The bearing can
improve stability of combination between the driving device and the shaft 4.
[0037]    In this embodiment, the two half-gears 31 are detachably assembled
to form the circular gear which is then combined with the shaft 4, and the half
bearings 34 are combined with the shaft 4 by the similar manner, so that the
half-gears 31 and the half-bearings 34 can be assembled to directly cover the
outer surface of the shaft 4. When the driving device must be disassembled
to separate from the shaft 4 because of device failure or any reason, the half
gears 31 can be disassembled from the shaft 4 by just loosening the screw
313. On the other hand, when the sectional door driving device of the present
disclosure is to install on an existing sectional door mechanism, for example,
the existing sectional door mechanism does not work and is to be replaced by
the driving device of the present disclosure, the installation of the driving
device of the present disclosure can be completed without disassembling the
existing mechanism.
[0038]    The two half-gears 31 of the present disclosure can be assembled as
a complete circular gear, and one of ordinary skill in the art can understand
the two half-gears 31 can be replaced by three one-third-circular gears
equivalently.
[0039]    Above-mentioned embodiment is applicable to the sectional door
having the rope wheel; furthermore, the sectional door driving device of the
present disclosure can include a rope wheel to pull the sectional door by rope.
Please refer FIGs. 1-3. The circular gear formed by two half-gears 31 is
covered by half rope wheels 32, and each half rope wheel 32 includes wheel
teeth formed on an inner ring surface thereof and matching with the half-gear
31, and the each half rope wheel 32 also includes an engagement assembly
321. The engagement assemblies 321 of the half rope wheels 32 can be
assembled as a rope wheel on which a rope 33 is wound. Preferably, the

                                         10
engagement assembly 321 can be an engagement structure including a
protruded part and a recessed part. In this embodiment, the engagement
assembly 321 can include a circular rib and a circular groove which can be
tightly mounted with each other. In order to assemble the driving device, the
circular rib and circular groove of the engagement assembly 321 of one of the
half rope wheels 32 is slid into the circular groove and the circular rib of the
engagement assembly 321 of the other of the half rope wheels 32 for
assembly, and the assembled half rope wheels 32 are mounted on the outer
surface of the circular gear formed by the two half-gears 31. The rope 33 can
be made by flexible but non-extensible material, for example, the rope 33 can
be, but not limited to, a steel cable, a nylon rope, a petrochemical textile rope,
a fiber braided rope or a cotton rope.
[0040]     Please refer to FIGs. 4-7. FIG. 4 is a perspective assembled view of
a first embodiment of a sectional door driving device of the present disclosure,
FIG. 5 is a top view of assembly of the first embodiment of the sectional door
driving device of the present disclosure, FIG. 6 is a sectional view taken along
line A-A of FIG. 5, and FIG. 7 is a perspective view of the first embodiment of
a sectional door driving device equipped with a sectional door, in accordance
with    the   present disclosure.    For   ease   of explanation,   unnecessary
components are omitted in FIG. 5 and FIG. 6. The rope 33 is wound on the
outer surface of the rope wheel formed by the half rope wheels 32, an end of
the rope 33 is fastened with one of the half rope wheels 32, and other end of
the rope 33 is served as a first combination end 331. Please refer to FIG. 7.
The sectional door driving device of this embodiment is assembled with the
shaft 4, and the first combination end 331 of the rope 33 is fastened with the
bottom door leaf 51 of the door leaf 5. When the door leaf 5 is put down,
springs 41 disposed at two sides of the shaft 4 store a restoring force. After
the driving device acts, the door leaf 5 is lifted upwardly by the first
combination end 331 of the rope 33, thereby receiving the door leaf 5 into the
upper space along a sliding rail 6, to open a channel. After the door leaf 5 is
put down, the bottom door leaf 51 pulls the rope 33 downwardly, so that the
driving device rotates the shaft 4 to wind the spring 41 with assistance of
weight of the door leaf 5, thereby storing the restoring force.

                                        11
[0041]    Please refer to FIGs. 8 and 9. FIG. 8 is a perspective view of an
assembled part and a disassembled part of a second embodiment of a
sectional door driving device of the present disclosure, and FIG. 9 is a
perspective view of the second embodiment of the sectional door driving
device equipped with the sectional door, in accordance with the present
disclosure. The difference between the second embodiment and the first
embodiment is that the rope 33 of the second embodiment includes a second
combination end 332. The first combination end 331 of the rope 33 is
combined with the bottom door leaf 51 of the door leaf 5, and the second
combination end 332 is passed through a hole (not shown in figures) of the
outer chassis 23 and combined and fixed with the top door leaf 52 of the door
leaf 5. After the driving device acts to open the sectional door, the first
combination end 331 of the rope 33 pulls the door leaf to move upwardly, and
other end of the rope 33 is released because the top door leaf 52 pulls the
second combination end 332, so that the door leaf 5 is received into the upper
space along the sliding rail 6, to open the channel. When the door leaf 5 is put
down, the bottom door leaf 51 pulls the first combination end 331 to release
the end of the rope 33 downwardly, and the second combination ends 332 of
rope 33 pulls the top door leaf 52 to move door leaf 5 downwardly. The two
ends of the rope 33 are respectively fastened with the bottom door leaf 51 and
top door leaf 52 of the door leaf 5, so that the door leaf 5 is reliably moved
correspondingly to rotation of the driving device; when the door leaf 5 is put
down in a door closed state, the top door leaf 52 of the door leaf 5 is pulled by
the second combination end 332, so that the door leaf 5 is unable to open until
the driving device is activated.
[0042]    Please refer to FIG. 10, which is a perspective view of disassembly
and assembly of a part of a third embodiment of a sectional door driving device
of the present disclosure. The difference between the third embodiment and
the first embodiment is that the engagement assembly 311 of each of the two
half-gears 31 of the third embodiment include a dovetail rib and a dovetail
groove which can be mounted with each other tightly; the engagement
assembly 321 of each of the half rope wheels 32 of the third embodiment can
also include a dovetail rib and dovetail groove which can be mounted with

                                          12
each other tightly. In order to assemble the driving device, one of the half
gears 31 is placed on the surface of the shaft 4 first, and the dovetail rib and
the dovetail groove of the engagement assembly 311 of the other of the half
gears 31 are placed correspondingly in position to the dovetail groove and the
dovetail rib of the half-gear 31 placed on the surface of the shaft 4, and the
other half-gear 31 is then slid to engage the half-gear 31 placed on the surface
of the shaft 4. Similarly, in order to assemble the half rope wheels 32, the
dovetail rib and the dovetail groove of the engagement assembly 321 of one
of the two half rope wheels 32 are placed correspondingly in position to the
dovetail groove and the dovetail rib of the engagement assembly 321 of the
other of the two half rope wheels 32, and one of the half rope wheel 32 is slid
to assemble with the other half rope wheel 32. The other parts of the third
embodiment are equal to the aforementioned embodiments, so their
descriptions are not repeated.
[0043]     In the technical solution of the present disclosure, the gear and the
rope wheel are disassembled into several half components which can be
respectively assembled as complete components, and the half component is
formed with the engagement assembly to improve the combination strength,
so that it is not necessary to mount components from the end of the shaft, and
the driving device of the present disclosure can be assembled or separated
without detaching the shaft.
[0044]      The present disclosure disclosed herein has been described by
means      of   specific embodiments.       However,   numerous    modifications,
variations and enhancements can be made thereto by those skilled in the art
without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure set forth in the
claims.

                                      13
Claims
1.     A sectional door driving device, comprising a power assembly, a
chassis assembly and a driving assembly, and the power assembly
comprising a motor, a gear set and a control unit, and the power assembly
fastened on a main chassis of the chassis assembly, wherein
       the driving assembly comprises        two   half-gears  respectively in
semicircular cylinder shape, and each of the two half-gears has a combination
surface which is formed with an engagement assembly, and the two half
gears are engaged with each other by the engagement assemblies thereof to
form a circular gear to cover a shaft of a sectional door mechanism, and the
gear set comprises an output gear configured to drive the circular gear and
the shaft to rotate.
2.     The sectional door driving device according to claim 1, wherein the
main chassis is formed with a gap to pass the shaft.
3.     The sectional door driving device according to claim 2, further
comprising two half-bearings configured to engage with each other to mount
on the shaft.
4.     The sectional door driving device according to any preceding claim,
wherein each of the two half-gears is formed with at least one counterbore
configured to lock with a screw.
5.     The sectional door driving device according to claim 4, wherein the
engagement assembly of each of the two              half-gears comprises an
engagement structure comprising a protruded part and a recessed part in
cooperation with each other.
6.     The sectional door driving device according to claim 4 or claim 5,
wherein the circular gear is covered by two half rope wheels, and the two half
rope wheels are assembled with each other as a rope wheel by engagement
assemblies thereof, and the rope wheel is wound by a rope.
7.     The sectional door driving device according to claim 6, wherein the
engagement assembly of each of the two half-rope wheels comprises an

                                       14
engagement structure comprising a protruded part and a recessed part in
cooperation with each other.
8.     The sectional door driving device according to claim 7, wherein the
chassis assembly comprises an auxiliary chassis which is formed with several
holes and at least one combination board configured to combine with the main
chassis by a fastener.
9.     The sectional door driving device according to claim 8, wherein the rope
comprises a first combination end configured to combine with a bottom part of
a door leaf.
10.    The sectional door driving device according to claim 9, wherein the rope
comprises a second combination end configured to combine with a top part of
the door leaf.
GLADOOR TAIWAN LIMITED
By its Patent Attorneys
ARMOUR IP
P2264AU00

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
