Abstract
A method and system is provided for verifying of the authenticity of a consumer
product, the method including: providing an overt code on a consumer product, the
overt code being readable prior to sale of the consumer product; providing a covert
code on the consumer product, the covert code being revealed post sale of the
consumer product; receiving a transmission of the covert code from a purchaser of
the consumer product; verifying the covert code by reference to a database; if the
covert code verifies the authenticity of the consumer product, transmitting an
authentication signal to the purchaser; and cancelling the covert code and the overt
code once the covert code has been used to verify the authenticity of the consumer
product.

      METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR VERIFYING OF THE AUTHENTICITY OF A
                                CONSUMER PRODUCT
Related Applications
[0001]      The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent
Application No. 2014366886, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
reference.
Field of the Invention
[0002]      The present invention relates generally to methods and systems for
verifying of the authenticity of a consumer product.        The invention relates more
particularly to methods and systems that enable a purchaser to be satisfied that a
consumer product was sourced from an authorised source and is a verified authentic
product.
Background to the Invention
[0003]      Trade in counterfeit goods is a lucrative and growing area. Counterfeiting
is often perceived as a victimless crime with counterfeit goods simply providing an
alternative purchase having a lower price, and is regarded by the counterfeiters
themselves as having a low risk of prosecution relative to the significant profits to be
made. However in reality, product counterfeiting and fraud jeopardises public health
and safety, poses a serious risk to national industries and undermines legitimate
business.
[0004]      The range of counterfeit products available is broad and trends indicate
that counterfeiters no longer confine their activities to luxury goods such as apparel
and    electronics but are increasingly turning to consumer goods, such as
pharmaceuticals, alcohol, cigarettes, dairy powders, baby food and cosmetics.
Counterfeiting consumer goods is not only illegal but constitutes a serious threat to
public health and safety, since counterfeit consumer products are not subject to the
usual regulatory checks that maintain product safety standards.
                                           1

[0005]       Accordingly whilst the availability of counterfeit apparel and electronics is
a significant financial and economic issue in terms of loss of revenue for the
authorised manufacturer and the potential to damage the reputation of the brand due
to poor quality counterfeit goods, there are also serious health and safety
implications associated with consumers unknowingly purchasing and consuming
certain counterfeit consumer products including food products, cosmetics and drugs.
Illness and harm has resulted from the consumption of counterfeit consumer
products including adverse reactions that may lead to hospital admission and even
death.    It is widely known, for example, that there have been cases of counterfeit
infant formula containing melamine which has resulted in the illness of thousands of
children in China in addition to a number of fatalities.
[0006]       As the quality of the packaging used by counterfeiters continues to
improve, it is increasingly difficult for consumers and enforcement agencies to
distinguish between authentic and counterfeit goods. New methods are required to
provide confidence to consumers that the product on offer is attributable to an
authorised source.
[0007]       Whilst various attempts have been made to provide security labels, these
have a number of drawbacks. Such validation systems typically generate a unique
code, e.g. a string of alphanumeric characters in text or a barcode, and attach the
resulting label to a consumer product. The label may be validated using a variety of
means employing a web browser or SMS. However, the response generated relates
to the validity of the label, that is, it indicates whether the label itself is authenticated
and the product is merely authenticated by association.           Accordingly such means
inherently provide opportunities for misuse by label relocation that is, transferring the
label from an authentic product to a counterfeit product, and the fraudulent
acquisition of labels.    In both cases, the label will generate a valid authentication
response although the product itself is counterfeit. Moreover, web browser based
authentication systems are vulnerable to counterfeiters due to the relative ease of
creating counterfeit security labels which point to a fraudulent authentication website
which in turn returns a false product authentication to the consumer.
[0008]        Moreover, there is an ongoing need for brand-owners to communicate
more effectively with consumers, and to provide information that will enable
                                                2

consumers to derive more benefit from products. The benefit to the consumer may
lies, at least in part, in confidence that the product is authentic.
[0009]      A reference herein to a patent document or other matter which is given as
prior art is not to be taken as an admission that that document or matter was, in
Australia, known or that the information it contains was part of the common general
knowledge as at the priority date of any of the claims.
Summary of the Invention
[0010]      According to an aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
method for verifying of the authenticity of a consumer product, the method including
the following steps: a) providing an overt code on a consumer product, the overt
code being readable prior to sale of the consumer product; b) providing a covert
code on the consumer product, the covert code being readable post sale of the
consumer product; c) receiving a transmission of the covert code from a purchaser of
the consumer product; d) verifying the covert code by reference to a database; e) if
the covert code verifies the authenticity of the consumer product, transmitting an
authentication signal to the purchaser; and f) cancelling the covert code and the
overt code once it has been used to verify the authenticity of the consumer product.
[0011]      The method may further include the step of transmitting information
regarding one or more discernible product attributes of the consumer product to
enable the purchaser to verify that the consumer product matches the one or more
discernible product attributes.      In one embodiment, a first set of one or more
discernible product attributes are associated with the overt code and a second set of
one or more discernible product attributes are associated with the covert code. The
second set of one or more discernible product attributes may include the first set of
one or more discernible product attributes and additionally at least one other
discernible product attribute. In this case, preferably at least one other discernible
product attribute is not discernible until post purchase. For example, the at least one
other discernible product attribute might be a specific colour of a scoop that cannot
be discerned until the packaging has been opened by the purchaser.
[0012]      The method may be preceded by the steps of generating the overt and
covert codes and associating a code pair comprising one overt code and one covert
                                               3

code in a database. In one embodiment, this entails associating a pair of overt and
covert codes which will be applied to the same consumer product.             The step of
associating a code pair preferably occurs at a secondary location that is remote from
one or more primary locations where the overt and covert codes are generated.
Moreover, the secondary location is further preferably remote from a location where
the consumer goods are manufactured and/or the code pair is applied to the product.
In a particular embodiment, the secondary location is associated with                  an
authentication authority.
[0013]      In the event that the covert code does not verify the authenticity of the
consumer product, the method may further include the step of transmitting a failure
to authenticate signal to the purchaser together with a request for information
relating to acquisition of the consumer product. This enables the authorised source
of the consumer product to obtain information regarding counterfeit products
including their location, and the identity of the entity offering the counterfeit product
for sale.
[0014]      In one embodiment, the method further includes the step of receiving an
application for registration from a purchaser; wherein the application for registration
is received prior to receipt of the transmission of the covert code. The registration
step is executed once only for each purchaser of the consumer product. Purchaser
registration significantly simplifies recall procedures in the event that a product recall
or similar requirement to contact purchasers arises at some time in the future.
Furthermore, securing registrations of purchasers, enables the authorised source of
the consumer product to collect valuable information regarding demographics and
buying habits of purchasers of the consumer products.
[0015]      In one particular form of the invention, the method further includes the
step of transmitting information regarding a product recall affecting the authenticated
consumer product to the purchaser.
[0016]      In another embodiment, the method further includes the step of providing
a batch code on a collection of consumer products, the batch code being associated
with data that identifies the collection of consumer products prior to sale.          The
provision of batch codes offers advantages for tracking larger volumes of the
                                              4

consumer product throughout the distribution channel.       Batch codes are readable
during distribution and no longer readable once the consumer product is offered for
sale in a retail environment.    For instance, the batch code may be provided on a
carton which holds a plurality of individually packaged consumer products.        The
batch code therefore is used to track "batches" of the consumer product and is
directed to product tracking rather than authentication.
[0017]      In one particular form of the invention, information regarding a product
recall affecting the consumer product is transmitted to a distribution channel
intermediary based on the batch code.            Preferably, the distribution channel
intermediary is the retailer or wholesaler.
[0018]      The consumer product may be any type of consumer product including
but not limited to apparel, sporting goods or electronics.           In one particular
embodiment, the consumer product is a perishable product such as alcohol,
cigarettes, pharmaceuticals or nutraceuticals. In another embodiment, the consumer
product is an edible product such as food including baby food, dairy products, meat
and meat products. In yet another embodiment, the consumer product is a multiple
use product intended for use by infants and children, e.g. infant formula.
[0019]      According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
system for verifying of the authenticity of a consumer product, the system including:
a) one or more code generating modules for providing an overt code and a covert
code, wherein the overt code and the covert code are both to be applied to the
consumer product; b) a database for associating the overt code with data that
identifies the consumer product and the covert code with data that can be used to
authenticate the consumer product; c) a receiving and transmission module for
receiving a transmission of the covert code from a communication device associated
with a purchaser of the consumer product and transmitting an authentication signal
to the communication device via a network, if the covert code verifies the authenticity
of the consumer product; and d) a code cancellation module for cancelling the covert
code and the overt code once the covert code has been used to verify the
authenticity of the consumer product.
                                            5

[0020]      In one embodiment, the system further includes a code linking module for
associating a code pair comprising one overt code and one covert code in a
database. The associated code pair may be physically linked. For example in one
embodiment, the overt code may be applied as an adhesive label over the covert
code which also constitutes an adhesive label. In this configuration, the overt and
covert codes can be simultaneously applied to the consumer product as a dual layer
security label in a single step. In another embodiment, the overt code is printed on a
surface which can be removed, for example, by scratching, over the covert code. In
yet another embodiment, the covert code is concealed by removable means and the
overt code is printed elsewhere on the consumer product.        In this particular case
there is no physical link between the overt code and the covert code.
[0021]      The code linking module may reside at a secondary location that is
remote to one or more primary locations where the one or more code generating
modules reside. Moreover, the secondary location is also located remotely from a
location where the consumer goods are manufactured and/or the overt and covert
codes applied to the product.
[0022]      The overt code preferably comprises a machine readable code.
[0023]      The covert code also preferably comprises a machine readable code.
[0024]      In one form of the invention, the machine readable code comprises a QR
or "Quick Response" code.
[0025]      The covert code may be concealed beneath the overt code.                This
functionality could be provided by way of a peel-off or scratch-off label comprising
the overt code which can be removed from the packaging once the consumer
product has been disposed of, i.e. sold and the purchaser wishes to authenticate the
consumer product. Accordingly, the overt code may be removed by a purchaser to
reveal the covert code post purchase of the consumer product.
[0026]      The machine readable codes may be read by a scanner associated with
the communications device. The communications device may be a smart phone or
other device connected        to a communications     network that has analogous
functionality.
                                            6

[0027]      The system may further include a database for storing information related
to the consumer product, the information relating to the consumer product being
transmitted to the communications device together with the covert code.                The
information related to the consumer product could comprise information regarding
special offers related to the consumer product, new products or services, or any
other information that the authorised source of the consumer product may wish to
communicate to the purchaser.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0028]      The invention will now be described in further detail by reference to the
accompanying drawings. It is to be understood that the particularity of the drawings
does not supersede the generality of the preceding description of the invention.
[0029]      Figure 1A is a flowchart demonstrating the steps involved in a method for
verifying of the authenticity of a consumer product.
[0030]      Figure 1B is a flowchart demonstrating the steps involved in a method for
verifying of the authenticity of a consumer product according to another embodiment.
[0031]      Figure 2 is a schematic diagram showing a computer-enabled system for
performing the method illustrated in Figure 1.
[0032]      Figure 3 is a schematic diagram showing one embodiment of a system for
applying the code pairs to a consumer product.
[0033]      Figure 4 is a schematic diagram showing the elements of a kit for verifying
the authenticity of a consumer product.
[0034]      Figure 5 is a schematic diagram showing various functional elements of
the computer-enabled system of Figure 2 in block form.
Detailed Description
[0035]      Referring firstly to Figure 1A, a method for verifying of the authenticity of a
consumer product 100 is described. The consumer product to be authenticated may
be any suitable consumer product including an item of apparel, sporting apparel or
electronics for example, or a consumable product such as pharmaceuticals, alcohol,
                                              7

cigarettes, infant formula, packaged food, or cosmetics. The consumer product may
be of the type presented in some sort of package or container or may simply have a
label attached.    In either case, the container, package or label provides a surface
upon which an overt code and a covert code may be provided.
[0036]      At step 110, the method provides a first code in the form of an overt code
on a consumer product. The overt code is associated with data that identifies the
consumer product.        That is, the overt code and the data are associated in a
database.    The overt code is intended to be readable throughout the distribution
process, and in particular, prior to sale of the consumer product.
[0037]      At step 120, the method provides a second code in the form of a covert
code on the consumer product. The covert code is associated with data that can be
used to authenticate the consumer product.            That is, the covert code and the
authentication data are associated in the database. Unlike the overt code, the covert
code is intended to be readable only post sale of the consumer product. A link exists
between the overt code and the covert code in the database. It is to be understood
that the order of steps 110 and 120 may be reversed, for instance in physical
application of the codes, wherein the overt code is applied over, or on top of, the
covert code.
[0038]      At step 130, a transmission of the covert code is received from the
purchaser. The covert code is verified by reference to the database. If the covert
code is verified, then an authentication signal will be transmitted to the purchaser at
step 150. If the first covert code is not verified at step 140, the verification process is
terminated at step 160.
[0039]      At step 170, the code pair comprising an overt and a covert code is
cancelled once the covert code has been used to verify the authenticity of the
consumer product.        "Cancelling" effectively means that the relevant codes are
"silenced" whether deleted or otherwise removed from a list of codes that will
generate an authentication response from a scan request.              This self-cancelling
feature prevents a single covert code from being used to authenticate a product on
more than one occasion. That is, the covert code is effectively a single use code for
the purposes of authenticating a product, thereby inherently increasing the security
                                              8

of the authentication method of the present invention. The covert code may however,
be scanned post authentication by the purchaser to provide information regarding
the consumer product. Such information may include a description of the product,
and information regarding availability for a repeat purchase. However the covert
code functions one time only as an authentication code.
[0040]       The overt code is a multi-read code which can be read any number of
times throughout distribution of the consumer product. That is, unless or until the
overt code is removed to reveal the covert code which may be concealed beneath
depending on the physical configuration of the code pair. Reading the overt code
provides valuable information regarding the identity of the product prior to purchase
of the consumer product.
[0041]       Referring now to Figure 1B, a method for verifying of the authenticity of a
consumer product 100 according to another embodiment is described. This method
is much the same as that described with reference to Figure 1A except that it
includes some additional steps wherein the overt code is separately verified at step
135.    If the overt code fails to verify at step 135, then an "Error" message will
generate at step 160 to alert the consumer that the product appears to be
counterfeit, and optionally to present a brief questionnaire to the consumer in an
effort to extract useful data relating to the attempted purchase of the counterfeit
product, such as location, store details, date, time, etc.
[0042]       If the overt code is verified at step 135, then product information which
generally identifies the product is displayed to the scanning entity at step 145,
whether the scanning entity be a potential purchaser of the consumer product, or
part of the distribution chain.
[0043]       The remaining steps 120, 130, 140, 150 and 170, are analogous to those
described with reference to Figure 1A.
[0044]       Optionally, in the event that the covert code cannot be verified and the
consumer product is suspected as being counterfeit, a message is transmitted to the
purchaser, advising that the consumer product is suspected as being counterfeit.
This message may be supplemented with advice not to consume the suspect
consumer product and/or a request for information identifying a date, time and place
                                             9

where the suspect consumer product was purchased. In such a case, the authorised
source of the product is provided with the details of the suspect consumer product to
enable necessary investigations to be undertaken as to the origin of the counterfeit
consumer product.
[0045]      Cancellation of the code pair, i.e. the overt code together with the
associated covert code, could occur at any suitable time, for instance, it is envisaged
that cancellation of the codes may occur immediately post scanning of the covert
code. Alternately, cancellation of the overt and covert codes may occur subsequent
to an authentication signal being transmitted to the purchaser.
[0046]      The overt and covert codes form a code pair placed on a consumer
product for security purposes.      Each code is a unique or substantially unique
identifier associated with the consumer product, that is, there is a one-to-one
correspondence between a set of overt codes and a set of consumer products and a
one-to-one correspondence between a set of covert codes and the set of consumer
products. Substantially unique is to be understood to require at least 95% of codes
to be unique, preferably at least 99% of codes to be unique and more preferably at
least 99.9999% of codes to be unique.
[0047]      The codes may consist of a string of ASCII characters for example. The
physical manifestation of the codes may be a label, typically comprising a machine
readable code, for example a bar code. The bar code can be a two dimensional bar
code, sometimes referred to as a QR or "Quick Response" code.         Hence the overt
and covert codes may be referred to by the designation QR1 and QR2, respectively.
[0048]      An   independent   authentication   authority  may    be  responsible    for
generating the overt (QR1) and covert codes (QR2) and transmitting them to a label
printer.  The manufacturer provides consumer product identifying and associated
information to the authentication authority which links this information to an overt
code or covert code in a database. The covert code will preferably contain some
additional information which is only transmitted post purchase. At this point the pair
of codes, i.e. QR1 and QR2, becomes active (i.e. capable of responding to a scan
request).
                                           10

[0049]      Moreover, since a security label includes an overt code which relates to a
specific product, they are not transferable between manufacturers, or even between
products produced by the same manufacturer. In fact, preferably, security labels are
not even transferable between different batches of the same consumer product.
[0050]      The steps of the method may be performed by or under authorisation by a
authentication authority which may or may not be the same entity that is the
authorised     source   of  the   consumer     product,  e.g.  the  consumer     product
manufacturer.     Alternately, it is envisaged that a consumer product verification
service as described, could be provided by some independent entity that is
authorised to provide a verification service on behalf of the authorised source of the
consumer product.
[0051]      The verification method of the present invention is intended to be
interactive, thereby involving the purchaser in the authentication process to give the
purchaser a high degree of confidence in the authentication process. The purchaser
may implement the verification method using an application on a smart phone or
similar hand held device.       Alternately, the method could be implemented via a
browser available via a smart phone or similar hand held device provided that the
device is connected to a communications network.           However, a web interface is
significantly less secure and more likely to be subject to "phishing" or similar security
breaches.
[0052]      Once the covert code has been scanned, in addition to transmitting an
authentication signal to the communication device, the authentication signal may be
accompanied by product description information to further enable the consumer to
be satisfied that the product is authentic based on a visual check. For example, the
product description information will typically relate to package contents, i.e. aspects
of a consumer product that is not discernible from viewing the external features of
the product. In the example where the consumer product is a consumable product
such as a pharmaceutical or infant formula, the product description information could
indicate visual characteristics of the product, e.g. "the contents of the packaging are
a cream/white/granular powder" or "the package contains a blue scoop for
dispensing the contents". This allows the consumer to satisfy him or herself by a
                                             11

visual check of the contents that because the description matched the contents and
has passed the other authentication steps, the product is safe for consumption.
[0053]       Preferably, the purchaser is required to register with the authentication
authority prior to using the verification method.    In order to register, the purchaser
must provide contact details such as a telephone number and email address and
preferably, other details to enable the authentication authority, or the authorised
source of the consumer product, to obtain some demographic data relating to the
purchaser, that is data such as gender, age, ethnicity, location and employment
status. A purchase history can subsequently be established for a registered
purchaser. Where the purchaser is registered with the authentication authority, the
purchaser is enabled to retrieve information regarding the consumer product by
scanning the formerly "covert" code post authentication of the product.
[0054]       The method may further include the step of providing a batch code on a
collection of consumer products. In this case, the batch code is associated with data
that identifies the collection of consumer products prior to sale. For example, batch
codes QR3, QR4, etc., are associated with product batches (e.g. for shipper boxes
that each contain x cans of consumer product, and for pallets that each contain y
shipper boxes.     These batch codes are unique identifier codes for the batch (not
individual items of consumer product).
[0055]       The overt, covert and batch codes are randomly generated.          However
before any of these code types are transcribed onto a label to be placed on a
consumer product, the code might be modified (usually by adding one or more
characters) so that the code can be rapidly identified as a valid code associated with
the authentication system, i.e. an overt or covert code. This enables rapid means of
identification by a scanner (provided in a smart phone) without the requirement for
remote communication.        That is, by distinguishing valid codes, a rapid and local
means of identifying false codes is provided. One means of implementing this rapid
identification strategy is through use of a checksum algorithm.      For example, if the
code is a string of 8 digits, two further digits are added to the end of the string of
digits such that the sum of the original string of 8 digits comprises the last two digits.
It is to be understood that there are a variety of alternative checksum algorithms or
non-checksum algorithms that could serve a similar purpose.
                                            12

[0056]      The provision of batch codes offers advantages for tracking larger
volumes of the consumer product throughout the distribution channel.        The batch
codes are readable during distribution and no longer readable once the consumer
product is offered for sale in a retail environment. For instance, the batch code may
be provided on a carton which holds a plurality of individually packaged consumer
products. The batch code therefore is used to track "batches" of consumer product
and is directed to product tracking rather than authentication.
[0057]      Information regarding a product recall affecting the consumer product can
be transmitted to a distribution channel intermediary based on the batch code. That
is, following the identification of a product security issue, information regarding a
product recall can be pushed to a smart phone application of the type previously
described, enabling direct flow of information to current potential consumers (in the
case of edible and/or perishable consumer products), e.g. recent purchasers of the
relevant consumer product.       Having only a small amount of geographic location
information associated with purchasers through voluntary registration, can be
sufficient to allow an authorised source of a consumer product to determine the
location of affected batches of product and isolate the regions where a suspect
consumer product may have been distributed.
[0058]      Referring now to Figure 2, the verification steps of the method described
with reference to Figure 1 are implemented using a computer system.             A code
generating module 210 provides an overt code and a covert code. Both the overt
code and the covert code are applied to the consumer product (see Figures 3 and 4).
[0059]      In database 240, the overt code is associated with data that identifies the
consumer product and the covert code is associated with data that can be used to
authenticate the consumer product.        That is, the database 240 may comprise a
single database, or may comprise a plurality of databases, i.e. with the overt codes
and their associated data being stored in a first database, and the covert codes and
their associated authentication data being stored in a second database.       Links will
exist between the overt code and the relevant covert code applied to a single
consumer product.      Alternately, the code pairs may exist in a single table in a
database linked to a number of other tables (most likely in the same database
although possibly in another database) that contains all the relevant product
                                             13

information and images.        Further tables in the same database could contain
information such as manufacturer details, consumer data, feedback and various
returned data and statistics arising from consumer interaction with the system.
[0060]     A receiving and transmission module 260 is provided for receiving a
transmission of the covert code from a communication device associated with a
purchaser of the consumer product and transmitting an authentication signal to the
communication device via a network 220.             The authentication signal is only
transmitted where the covert code verifies the authenticity of the consumer product.
If the covert code does not verify the authenticity of the consumer product, no
authentication signal is transmitted to the purchaser. Instead a message may be
transmitted to the purchaser advising that the purchased consumer product is
suspected of being counterfeit and optionally requesting the purchaser provide
information to enable the source of the counterfeit consumer product to be identified.
[0061]     A code cancellation module 270 is also provided for cancelling the covert
code and the overt code once it has been used to verify the authenticity of the
consumer product. Cancellation of a code effectively means that the code can no
longer be authenticated such that duplication of an overt or covert code by
counterfeiter will not work.      It need not require that the relevant code, or its
associated information, be literally deleted or otherwise removed from the database.
Cancellation of a code may entail assigning "ownership" of a particular code to the
purchaser, when the purchaser scans the covert code.                Assigning, linking or
otherwise associating the "cancelled code" with the purchaser in this manner means
that the particular code is effectively cancelled for all other consumers. This function
may be performed by the authentication authority, for example.
[0062]     The purchaser of the consumer product scans the covert code provided
on the consumer product using a communications device 230 associated with the
purchaser. The communications device 230 may be a smart phone, personal digital
assistant,  personal    computer or      similar computing      device  connected    to a
communications network 220. The communications network 220 preferably provides
wireless network access. The receiving and transmission module 260 receives a
transmission of the covert code from the communications device 230 via the
                                             14

communications network 220.         The database 240 verifies the authenticity of the
covert code.
[0063]      Verification effectively involves matching the transmitted covert code to
one or a plurality of issued covert codes for the consumer product. If the covert code
can be verified, an authentication signal is transmitted to the communications device
230 via the communications network 220.
[0064]      Referring now to Figure 3, the overt code and the covert code may be
applied to the consumer product 610, 620 in any one of a number of ways.           For
example, as a dual layer adhesive security label described in more detail with
reference to Figure 4.     Or alternately, applying the code pair on a production line
including a unit comprising of a three head in-line printer 650 facing a moving
conveyor 630.      The print heads 640a, 640b, 640c are ordered so as to print the
covert code, a concealment layer and the overt code either over the concealment
means or elsewhere on the consumer product 610, 620, as the consumer product
passes the relevant print heads on a conveyor belt 630. The concealment means
could be for example, scratchy ink which displays evidence of tamper when
removed. The code generating module 660 is associated with the printer 650 such
that the code pairs are either supplied to the printer or more generated on-site and
communicated to the authentication authority via a communications network 670.
[0065]      As previously described, it may be a requirement that the first time a
purchaser uses the verification service, the purchaser is required to register some
personal details in order to gain access to the verification service.    For example,
upon registration the purchaser may be required to provide one or more items of
personal data such as a full name, email address, telephone number, street address,
date of birth and the like. This data may be further supplemented by positional data,
e.g. the location of a smart phone providing the scanning capability being determined
by an integral GPS component. This personal data is stored in a secondary
database 250. The data stored in the secondary database 250 has various market
research and targeted marketing applications since personal details can be linked
with consumer purchase history.
                                             15

[0066]      For instance, as part of the verification process, the purchaser can be
provided with marketing material relevant to the consumer product in question. For
example, in the case of infant formula, the purchaser could be provided with general
information and tips relating to infant health, advertising relating to other baby
products whether they be other infant food products, or other baby products such as
clothing or toys, and also marketing material of a more general nature.
[0067]      Consumer products may also be functional foods and therapies for use by
people who wish to manage a chronic condition (such as diabetes), or who wish to
reduce the risk of disease or disease progression.     Consumers may derive benefit
not only by using the product, but also by making lifestyle changes such as taking
more exercise.     There is scope to include "nudges" to promote improved health
outcomes in the information provided to the consumer after authentication.      For
consumers that are registered with the system the "nudging" can be focused,
directed and adapted to the individual consumer based on analysis of historic data
and interaction.
[0068]      The authentication authority may operate a range of reward and loyalty
schemes.      For example, a retrospective reward scheme provides rewards to
consumers on the basis of products that were purchased before the reward scheme
is announced.     The purpose of the retrospective reward scheme is to motivate
consumers to become registered scanners (i.e., to initialise the smart phone
application). Other reward schemes might be brand/manufacturer specific.
[0069]      The covert code is a machine readable code, for example a bar code.
The bar code is a two dimensional bar code, sometimes referred to as a QR or
"Quick Response" code. A two dimensional bar code reader is provided within the
application provided on the smartphone or similar hand held communications device
associated with the purchaser.
[0070]      The covert code may be hidden from view by removable concealment
means.     That is, the covert code may not be readable, until the removable
concealment means is removed.       A concealed covert code provides an additional
measure of security since the covert code cannot be viewed and hence transmitted
to an authentication authority without it being evident that the package has been
                                          16

tampered with.     The covert code may be concealed by means of a removable
concealment means bearing the overt code. That is, the overt code is preferably
overt and available for scanning throughout the distribution cycle (including by
distributors and by consumers prior to purchase of the product), whilst the covert
code is only available for scanning by the consumer after purchase, i.e. by removing
the upper layer bearing the overt code to reveal the covert code.
[0071]      Accordingly, the overt code may be interchangeably referred to as the first
code, the overt code or the multi-scan code herein.           The covert code may be
interchangeably referred to as the second code, the covert code or the single-scan
code.
[0072]      Where an additional level of security is deemed necessary, the code pairs
are encrypted by the authentication authority.       The database only operates with
encrypted data, and the only place where the code pairs can be decrypted is inside
the database. Accordingly, in the event that the database was to be accessed by a
hostile party or a counterfeiter, the only data that would be returned in relation to the
codes and code pairs would be indecipherable.           All transmissions between the
authentication authority and external parties including manufacturers and consumers
may also be encrypted using communication channel encryption.
[0073]      The code pairs may be secured by encryption or hashing using known
encryption and/or hashing algorithms, e.g. a standard SHA1 hashing algorithm. This
has the advantage that the database of hashed code pairs cannot be "decoded" into
their original form since the hashing process is one way. Accordingly, any want-to
be counterfeiter is unable to decode the overt and covert codes and more
particularly, the code pairs.    The order of values of codes may also be altered.
Additionally, hashing data to a fixed size can significantly improve the speed of
sorting the data.    This confers a particular advantage where potentially 100's of
millions of active security labels might exist in a database. The hashing of codes in
the database is particularly of use if the database itself is compromised - the stolen
overt/covert code data cannot be reversed engineered into the actual codes which
need to appear on the products, i.e. a stolen set of code data from the database is
not useful. Other known encryption techniques may also be applied.
                                            17

[0074]       Referring now to Figure 3, there is shown an example consumer product
provided in a can like packaging 310 with the overt code 320 and covert code 330
applied to its exterior surface. Preferably, the physical removal of the upper layer of
the dual layer security label comprising the overt code, will result in obvious evidence
of tamper (i.e. damage) to the security label. This will avoid the incidence of a covert
code being exposed and re-covered. This can be achievable for example by
providing a dual layer security label including a perforation for removal of the upper
overt code, such that removal of the overt code via the perforations, exposes the
covert code beneath, whilst physically destroying the overt code.             Alternately,
printing the overt code on a removable surface, such as one that can be scratched
off, that is printed over the covert code, would also evidence tamper since the covert
code would only be revealed by removing, by scratching or similar, the overt code.
[0075]       Since the covert code 330 should only be accessed by a purchaser post
purchase, and is cancelled following a first attempt to use the covert code to verify
the authenticity of the consumer product, it provides an improved level of security
over known verification methods and systems. Any attempt to scan the covert code
prior to purchase will result in tamper which would be obvious.
[0076]       The overt code 320 exemplified in Figure 3, is a two dimensional bar code
preferably readable by a bar code scanning application installed on a mobile
communications device such as a smart phone. This overt code 320 is overt and is
preferably placed over the covert code 330.          Covert code 330 is also a two
dimensional bar code. Preferably, the codes contain no useful information such as a
URL, decipherable item identifier or details of product and/or manufacturer attributes.
[0077]       Where dual layer security labels are undesirable, such as for example
they are not allowed to be used in respect of particular consumer products due to
regulatory requirements, what will become the covert code is printed on the
consumer product in the first instance. Another printer then prints an ink surface
which is removable by scratching, over the "covert" code to conceal it. Yet another
printer then prints an overt code over the inked surface. Alternately, the overt code
is printed elsewhere on the consumer product.
                                            18

[0078]      A computing device in communication with the printers, may generate the
codes "on demand", for example, at the production line and securely encrypt and
upload the code pairs to the authentication authority (most likely in a batch process
e.g. after the application of every 10,000 codes).
[0079]       Referring back to Figure 2, the system 200 may be implemented using
hardware, software or a combination thereof and may be implemented in one or
more computer systems or processing systems. In particular, the functionality of the
host server 210 may be provided by one or more computer systems capable of
carrying out the above described functionality.
[0080]      Such a computer system is illustrated in Figure 4.      In this Figure, an
exemplary computer system 400 includes one or more processors, such as
processor 410. The processor 410 is connected to a communication infrastructure
420. The computer system 400 may include a display interface 430 that forwards
graphics, texts and other data from the communication infrastructure 420 for supply
to the display unit 440. The computer system 400 may also include a main memory
450, preferably random access memory, and may also include a secondary memory
460.
[0081]      The secondary memory 460 may include, for example, a hard disk
drive/solid state drive (SSD) 470, magnetic tape drive, optical disk drive, etc. The
removable storage drive 480 reads from and/or writes to a removable storage unit
490 in a well-known manner. The removable storage unit 490 represents a floppy
disk, magnetic tape, optical disk, USB etc.
[0082]      As will be appreciated, the removable storage unit 490 includes a
computer usable storage medium having stored therein computer software in a form
of a series of instructions to cause the processor 410 to carry out desired
functionality. In alternative embodiments, the secondary memory 460 may include
other similar means for allowing computer programs or instructions to be loaded into
the computer system 400.        Such means may include, for example, a removable
storage unit 500 and interface 510.
[0083]      The computer system 400 may also include a communications interface
520.    Communications interface 520 allows software and data to be transferred
                                            19

between     the    computer   system   400 and    external   devices.     Examples   of
communication       interface 520 may include a modem, a network interface, a
communications port, a PCMIA slot and card etc. Software and data transferred via
a communications interface 520 are in the form of signals 530 which may be
electromagnetic, electronic, optical or other signals capable of being received by the
communications interface 520.         The signals are provided to communications
interface 520 via a communications path 540 such as a wire or cable, fibre optics,
phone line, cellular phone link, radio frequency or other communications channels.
[0084]      It is an advantage of the method and system of the present invention, that
the dual layer - two code authentication system, permits partial validation of the
consumer product prior to sale, so that any potential purchaser considering
purchasing the consumer product is able to scan the overt code and obtain
information regarding the identity of the consumer product. Furthermore, the overt
code is available for scanning throughout the distribution cycle. However, final
verification is available once only to the actual purchaser, who exposes the covert
code.    Exposing the covert code should leave at least some evidence of tamper.
Scanning of this covert code causes an authentication signal to be transmitted to the
purchaser provided that the covert code can be verified. Once an attempt to verify a
covert code has been made, the code pair is cancelled such that the covert code is
no longer operational for authentication purposes.         This feature increases the
robustness and security level of the method and system of the present invention.
[0085]      Moreover, manufacturing high volumes of code pairs is technically easy to
achieve at a low-cost. Duplication of code pairs would require not only knowledge
and capability to generate the individual overt and covert codes in the appropriate
format, but also for the association or link between the code pairs to be known.
Since the association of overt and covert codes into code pairs occurs securely and
is then encrypted into the database, it becomes virtually impossible for a want-to-be
counterfeiter to generate       code pairs equivalent to those generated        by an
authentication authority.
[0086]      Furthermore, providing an opportunity for the purchaser to interact with
the authentication authority provides the purchaser with a high degree of confidence
that the verification system is robust and trustworthy. It also provides an opportunity
                                            20

to interact with the purchaser to collect valuable data relating to demographics and
purchasing behaviour which can be used for targeted marketing campaigns, as well
as in a product recall situation.
[0087]      Although    in  the   above described     embodiments     the    invention   is
implemented primarily using computer software, in other embodiments the invention
may be implemented           primarily in   hardware   using,   for example,     hardware
components      such     as   an   application  specific   integrated   circuit   (ASICs).
Implementation of a hardware state machine so as to perform the functions
described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art.          In other
embodiments, the invention may be implemented using a combination of both
hardware and software.
[0088]      While the invention has been described in conjunction with a limited
number of embodiments, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that many
alternative, modifications and variations in light of the foregoing description are
possible. Accordingly, the present invention is intended to embrace all such
alternative, modifications and variations as may fall within the spirit and scope of the
invention as disclosed.
                                             21

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.     A method for verifying of the authenticity of a consumer product, the method
       including the following steps:
       a. providing an overt code on a consumer product, the overt code being
           readable prior to sale of the consumer product;
       b. providing a covert code on the consumer product, the covert code being
           revealed post sale of the consumer product;
       c. receiving a transmission of the covert code from a purchaser of the
           consumer product;
       d. verifying the covert code by reference to a database;
       e. if the covert code verifies the authenticity of the consumer product,
           transmitting an authentication signal to the purchaser; and
       f. cancelling the covert code and the overt code once the covert code has
           been used to verify the authenticity of the consumer product.
2.     A method for verifying of the authenticity of a consumer product according to
       claim 1, further including the following step:
       a. transmitting    information  regarding one or more discernible product
           attributes of the consumer product to enable the purchaser to verify that
           the consumer product matches the one or more discernible product
           attributes.
3.     A method for verifying of the authenticity of a consumer product according to
       claim 2, wherein a first set of one or more discernible product attributes are
       associated with the overt code and a second set of one or more discernible
       product attributes are associated with the covert code.
4.     A method for verifying of the authenticity of a consumer product according to
       claim 3, wherein the second set of one or more discernible product attributes
                                            22

        includes the first set of one or more discernible product attributes and
        additionally at least one other discernible product attribute.
5.      A method for verifying of the authenticity of a consumer product according to
        any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the method is preceded by the steps of
        generating the overt and covert codes and associating a code pair comprising
        one overt code and one covert code in a database.
6.      A method for verifying of the authenticity of a consumer product according to
        any one of claims 1 to 4, further including the step of associating a code pair
        comprising one overt code and one covert code which will be applied to the
        same consumer product.
7.      A method for verifying of the authenticity of a consumer product according to
        claim 5 or 6, wherein the step of associating a code pair occurs at a
        secondary location that is remote from one or more primary locations where
        the overt and covert codes are generated.
8.      A method for verifying of the authenticity of a consumer product according to
        claim 7, wherein the secondary location is associated with an authentication
        authority.
9.      A method for verifying of the authenticity of a consumer product according to
        any one of claims 1 to 8, further including the following step:
        a. if the covert code does not verify the authenticity of the consumer product,
            transmitting a failure to authenticate signal to the purchaser together with a
            request for information relating to acquisition of the consumer product.
10.     A method for verifying of the authenticity of a consumer product according to
        any one of claims 1 to 8, further including the following step:
        a. receiving an application for registration from a purchaser;
    wherein the application for registration is received prior to receipt of the
    transmission of the covert code.
                                              23

11. A method for verifying of the authenticity of a consumer product according to
    any one of claims 1 to 10, further including the following step of:
    a. transmitting    information   regarding   a   product   recall   affecting the
        authenticated consumer product to the purchaser.
12. A method for verifying of the authenticity of a consumer product according to
    any one of claims 1 to 10, further including the following step:
    a. providing at least one batch code on a collection of consumer products,
        the batch code being associated with data that identifies the collection of
        consumer products prior to sale.
13. A method for verifying of the authenticity of a consumer product according to
    claim 12, further including the following step:
    a. transmitting information regarding a product recall affecting the consumer
        product to a distribution channel intermediary.
14. A method for verifying of the authenticity of a packaged consumer product
    according to any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein the consumer product is a
    perishable product.
15. A system for verifying of the authenticity of a consumer product, the system
    including:
    a. one or more code generating modules for providing an overt code and a
        covert code, wherein the overt code and the covert code are both to be
        applied to the consumer product;
    b. a database for associating the overt code with data that identifies the
        consumer product and the covert code with data that can be used to
        authenticate the consumer product;
    c. a receiving and transmission module for receiving a transmission of the
        covert code from a communication device associated with a purchaser of
        the consumer product and transmitting an authentication signal to the
                                         24

        communication device via a network, if the covert code verifies the
        authenticity of the consumer product; and
    d. a code cancellation module for cancelling the covert code and the overt
        code once the covert code has been used to verify the authenticity of the
        consumer product.
16. A system for verifying of the authenticity of a packaged consumer product
    according to claim 15, further including a code linking module for associating
    a pair of codes comprising one overt code and one covert code in a database.
17. A system for verifying of the authenticity of a packaged consumer product
    according to claim 16, wherein the code linking module resides at a
    secondary location that is remote to one or more primary locations where the
    one or more code generating modules reside.
18. A system for verifying of the authenticity of a consumer product according to
    claim 16 or 17, wherein the associated code pairs are physically linked.
19. A system for verifying of the authenticity of a packaged consumer product
    according to any one of claims 15 to 18, wherein the overt code comprises a
    machine readable code.
20. A system for verifying of the authenticity of a packaged consumer product
    according to any one of claims 15 or 19, wherein the covert code comprises a
    machine readable code.
21. A system for verifying of the authenticity of a consumer product according to
    any one of claims 15 to 20, wherein the covert code is concealed beneath the
    overt code.
22. A system for verifying of the authenticity of a consumer product according to
    claim 21, wherein the overt code is removed by a purchaser to reveal the
    covert code post purchase of the consumer product.
                                        25

23. A system for verifying of the authenticity of a packaged consumer product
    according to any one of claims 15 to 22, wherein the machine readable code
    is read by a scanner associated with the communications device.
24. A system for verifying of the authenticity of a packaged consumer product
    according to claim 23, wherein the communications device is a smart phone
    or other device connected to a communications network.
25. A system for verifying of the authenticity of a packaged consumer product
    according to any one of claims 15 to 24, further including a database storing
    information related to the consumer product, the information relating to the
    consumer product being transmitted to the communications device together
    with the covert code.
                                      26

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
        "#$
              %
                                       '%
&   !

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
    !
               %
!       )   *"  +
                                             '%
            , -
               .
        !                                !
                                     &
              (

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                         '%
!
&    %

                         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
            %        %      %
%   %
        %
                                                    '%
                %!
                %%
                                 %&

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     !'%

<removed-date>
                                  %'%
<removed-apn>
                      0       0         -       !
                  $           -1                        $       -
                  /               -0        -       &
                                                %
                                                                    5
                      2       $ 3$
              1
                                   /                            /           6
                              $                             4
                                                                        !
                                                                /
                          1
                                                            4
                                                !
                          1
                                   !
                                                    !
                                                                        !
                                            !

