                                          ABSTRACT
A payment system and method, the system comprising a user operable kiosk adapted to accept
a request for an entitlement to a good or service to be provided by a provider and payment for
the entitlement. The request identifies a recipient of the entitlement and the system is adapted
to respond to the payment by sending data to the provider indicative of the recipient and of the
entitlement.

            1/3
10
   14-1
             22             24
                      20
     26
        12      18
           28
            Figure 1
        18
                      -- 30
                         32
                   34
            Figure 2

                                                    AUSTRALIA
                                                Patents Act 1990
                                             COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                                                 Standard Patent
Applicant:
              Turtle Corporation Pty Ltd
Invention Title:
              PAYMENT METHOD AND SYSTEM
The following statement is a full description of this invention,
including the best method for performing it known to me/us:
                                         (M)
P78855AU Pat Set Fing Appiction2008-9-30OW

                               -2
                    PAYMENT METHOD AND SYSTEM
   Field of the Invention
 5 The present invention relates to a payment method and
   system, of particular but by no means exclusive
   application in the sale of credit, such as for
   telecommunications services.
10 Background of the Invention
   An existing payment system allows users to purchase mobile
   telephony credit from an EFTPOS device in data
   communication with a retailer of such credit.   The user
15 pays for credit in a predefined amount  (such as $20.00 or
   $50.00), and thereby purchases a credit certificate held
   by the retailer.  Such credit certificates are obtained by
   the retailer from the wholesaler  (which may be the actual
   telecommunications provider) periodically, and held in a
20 database of the retailer.
   Upon verification of payment, the retailer allocates one
   of the credit certificates in its database of the
   appropriate value to the user, and transmits to the EFTPOS
25 device a unique PIN associated with that credit
   certificate.  The printer of the EFTPOS device prints a
   receipt for the user that includes this PIN.   The user
   then operates his or her portable device to activate the
   newly acquired credit.  This is typically done by
30 telephoning a predefined telephone number that connects
   the portable device to a voice-interactive system, which
   prompts the user to enter the aforementioned PIN.   A
   server of the wholesaler checks whether the PIN
   corresponds to a valid credit certificate and, if so,
35 updates a user account associated with the mobile device
   of the user according to the value of the purchased credit
   certificate.

                              -3
   Summary of the Invention
   According to a first broad aspect, the present invention
 5 provides a payment system, comprising:
             a user operable kiosk adapted to accept a request
   for an entitlement to a good or service to be provided by
   a provider and payment for the entitlement;
             wherein the request identifies a recipient of the
10 entitlement and the system is adapted to respond to the
   payment by sending data to the provider indicative of the
   recipient and of the entitlement.
   The kiosk may be adapted to accept payment information
15 from the user, and communicate the payment information to
   a financial institution server.
   In one embodiment, the payment information includes a
   credit card or debit card number.
20
   The kiosk may further comprise a card reader, with the
   kiosk being adapted to accept payment information from the
   user with the card reader.
25 The kiosk may be configured to communicate the payment
   information to the financial institution server via an
   intermediate server.
   The system may comprise an intermediate server, wherein
30 the kiosk is configured to communicate the payment
   information to the financial institution server via the
   intermediate server and the intermediate server is adapted
   to send the data indicative of the recipient and of the
   entitlement to the provider.
35
   In another embodiment, the system comprises an
   intermediate server adapted to send the data indicative of

                                -4
   the recipient and of the entitlement to the provider.
   In general, the entitlement may be - for example -  an
   entitlement to telecommunications services, to an
 5 entertainment service, to use a toll road  (so that the
   payment amounts to paying a road toll before or after the
   use of the road), or to use a car park or parking garage.
   The kiosk may also be equipped to vend goods, such as
10 for example - confectionary, drinks or condoms.
   The request may identify the recipient by way of a
   telephone number.
15 The system may comprise an intermediate server adapted to
   communicate with the kiosk and with a plurality of other
   like kiosks.  Indeed, the system may comprise the other
   kiosks.
20 The kiosk may be adapted to communicate wirelessly with a
   mobile communications device.
   In a particular embodiment, the provider is a
   telecommunications provider.
25
   In a certain embodiment, the system comprises a provider
   server in data communication with the kiosk.
   The system may comprise an intermediate server adapted to
30 send the data indicative of the recipient and of the
   entitlement to the provider, and a provider server in data
   communication with the intermediate server adapted to
   receive the data indicative of the recipient and of the
   entitlement from the intermediate server.
35
   The provider server may be adapted to send a confirmation
   entitlement to a mobile device.

                                -5
    In a particular embodiment, the kiosk further comprises a
    touch screen, and the kiosk is adapted to accept the
    request for an entitlement with the touch screen.
  5
    The system may comprise a purchase data packet builder
    controllable by a payment validator to construct a
    purchase data packet indicative of a user account and of
    the payment, wherein the system is adapted to forward the
10  purchase data packet to a provider server of the provider,
    the purchase data packet being adapted to prompt the
    provider server to update an account record corresponding
    to the user according to the payment.
15  According to a second broad aspect, the present invention
    provides a payment system, comprising:
              a user operable kiosk adapted to accept a request
    for an entitlement to a good or service to be provided by
    a provider and payment for the entitlement;
20            wherein the request identifies a recipient of the
    entitlement and the system is adapted to respond to the
    payment by sending entitlement data to a mobile device,
    the entitlement data being storable on the mobile device
    as evidence of the entitlement.
25
    According to a third broad aspect, the present invention
    provides a payment method, comprising:
              a server receiving information indicative of a
    requested entitlement to a good or service, of a recipient
30  of the requested entitlement and of payment information
    pertaining to the requested entitlement from a user
    operable kiosk in data communication with the server;  and
              the server sending data indicative of the
    recipient and of the entitlement to a provider of the good
35  or service.
    The method may comprise:

                               -6
             the server forwarding the payment information to
   a financial institution;
             the server receiving payment validation from the
   financial institution; and
 5           the server responding to receipt of the payment
   validation by performing the sending of the data
   indicative of the recipient and of the entitlement to the
   provider of the good or service.
10 According to a fourth broad aspect, the present invention
   provides a method for purchasing an entitlement to a good
   or service using a kiosk, the method comprising the steps
   of:
             entering  a request for the entitlement to be
15 provided by a provider into the kiosk;
             entering information that identifies the intended
        recipient of the entitlement into the kiosk;
             entering payment information or a payment into
   the kiosk; and
20           controlling the kiosk to initiate purchase of the
   entitlement resulting in electronic transmission of data
   indicative of the recipient and of the entitlement to the
   provider.
25 The entering of the payment information or the payment may
   constitute the controlling of the kiosk to initiate the
   purchase.
   It should be noted that any of the optional or preferred
30 features of any aspect of the present invention may be
   employed where suitable and desirable with any other
   aspect of the invention.
   Brief Description of the Drawing
35
   In order to do that, the present invention may be more
   clearly ascertained, embodiments will now be described, by

                                -7
   way of example, with reference to the accompanied drawing,
   in which;
        Figure 1 is a schematic payment system according to
   an embodiment of the present invention, with a user mobile
 5 telephone;
        Figure 2 is a schematic view of the user-operable
   kiosk of the system of figure 1;
        Figure 3 is a schematic view of the components of a
   user-operable kiosk of the system of figure 1;
10      Figure 4 is schematic view of the system server of
   the system of figure 1; and
        Figure 5 is a flow diagram of the operation of the
   payment method implemented by the system of figure 1
   according to an embodiment of the present invention.
15
   Detailed Description of the Embodiments
   Figure 1 is a schematic view of a payment system 10
   according to an embodiment of the present invention, with
20 a user mobile telephone 12.   System 10 includes a server
   14 of a telecommunications wholesaler or provider    (termed
   "Telco server 14"), a system server 16 and a plurality of
   user-operable kiosks 18.   Kiosks 18 are in data
   communication with system server 16 over a secure private
25 wireless network 20, Telco server 14 is in data
   communication with system server 16 over a secure network
   22, system server 16 is in data communication with
   financial institutions servers   (not shown) over secure
   network 24, and telecommunications provider server 16 is
30 in data communication with mobile telephone 12 over a
   publicly accessible telephony network 26.
   Optionally, kiosks 18 are adapted to communicate with
   mobile telephone 12 wirelessly 28, such as by SMS (over a
35 mobile telephony network),  Bluetooth (trademark) and/or an
   RFID device).

                               -8
   Figure 2 is a schematic view of an exemplary kiosk 18.
   Kiosk 18 has an input/output device in a form of a touch
   screen 30, and a credit/debit card reader (not shown) with
   a slot 32 for receiving a user credit or debit card.
 5 kiosk 18 also has an output tray 34, for outputting
   receipts, tickets, vouchers, transactions statements, etc,
   in those embodiments where these are provided to the user.
   Figure 3 is a schematic view of the components of kiosk 18
10 most relevant to the operation of this embodiment of the
   present invention.   These include a processor 40, a memory
   42, an I/O card 44 and a card reader 46 (for reading user
   credit/debit cards). Processor 40 is adapted to execute
   software stored in memory 42, which includes an operating
15 system 50, a display driver 52   (for touch screen 30),  a
   printer driver 54 for controlling a printer    (not shown)
   provided in kiosk 18, and a server interface 56 for
   controlling communication with system server 16.
20 Figure 4 is a schematic view of the components of system
   server 16 most relevant to the operation of this
   embodiment of the present invention.    These include a
   processor 60, a memory 62, and an I/O card 44.     Processor
   60 is adapted to execute software stored in memory 62,
25 which includes an operating system 70, an F/I interface 72
   for controlling communication with financial institution
   servers (such as to query a financial institution as to
   the validity of a user payment),   a provider interface 74
   for controlling communication with the relevant provider
30  (in this example, Telco server 14),  a payment validator 76
   for determining whether a user payment is valid (and which
   employs F/I interface 72 to do so),   and a data packet
   builder 78 (controlled by payment validator 76) for
   constructing - and initiating the transmission to Telco
35 server 14 of - a purchase data packet (described in
   further detail below) if a user payment has been
   validated.

                                - 9
   Figure 5 is a flow diagram 80 of a method for paying for
   mobile telephone credit according to an embodiment of the
   present invention, as implemented by system 10 of figure
 5 1.   Thus, at step 82, a user operates kiosk 18 to request
   mobile telephone credit.    The user does this by selecting
   an icon displayed on touch screen 30 indicative of such
   services, followed by subsequent icons for identifying the
   user's account   (typically by entering the telephone number
10 of relevant device, in this example mobile telephone 12),
   and selecting a desired payment value.    These subsequent
   icons may either represent fixed amounts    (such as $10,
   $20,  $50 and $70) or allow the user to enter any desired
   monetary value.
15
   At step 82, kiosk 18 responds by requesting user payment,
   in response to which - at step 86 -   the user effects
   payment by inserting a credit or debit card, providing
   suitable authorisation (such as in the form of a PIN),    and
20 confirming that he or she wishes to proceed with the
   payment.
   At step 88, kiosk 18 communicates with system server 16
   via server interface 56 and requests validation of the
25 payment.   This request is processed by payment validator
   76 of system server 16 which communicates via F/I
   interface 72 with the relevant financial institution.     The
   response of the financial institution is processed by
   payment validator 76, which forwards to kiosk 18 data
30 indicating whether the payment has been validated or not.
   If not, processing continues at step 90, where the
   purchase requested by the user is rejected and processing
   ends.
35 If, at step 88, the payment was successful, processing
   continues at step 92, where the kiosk provides a purchase
   receipt to the user.    This purchase receipt can assume any

                               - 10
   suitable form;  for example, the kiosk may display a
   receipt number on touch screen 30,  transmit a receipt
   number to mobile telephone 12, or print a receipt for
   retrieval by the user from tray 34.   In some embodiments,
 5 the user is first asked whether he or she would like to
   receive a receipt, and will be provided with a receipt
   only if the user operates touch screen 30 to indicate that
   he or she would like a receipt.   It should be noted,
   however, that this receipt relates to the payment made at
10 step 86, and it is not of itself confirmation that the
   requested mobile telephone credit has been credited to the
   user's mobile telephony account with the Telco.
   At step 94, payment validator 76 of system server 16
is because the payment has been validated - controls data
   packet builder 78 of system server 16 to construct a
   purchase data packet for transmission to Telco server 14.
   This purchase data packet contains data indicative of the
   user  (typically in the form of the mobile telephone
20 corresponding to the user account),  of the value of the
   purchased credit, and of the date and time of the payment.
   Upon receipt of the purchase data packet, at step 96 Telco
   server 14 verifies the credit request   (including checking
25 that the indicated user account exists and has not been
   suspended) and applies the corresponding credit to the
   user's account.
   Notification that the account has been credited is then
30 provided to the user, but how this is done depends on
   whether the Telco server 16 is configured to provide such
   kiosks.   If, at step 98, it is determined that Telco
   server 16 does not provide such receipts to the kiosk,
   processing continues at step 100 where Telco server 16
35 notifies the user directly of the crediting of his or her
   account, such as by SMS to mobile telephone 12.

                               - 11
   If, at step 98, it is determined that the Telco server 16
   does provide such receipts to kiosk 18,   processing
   continues at step 102 where Telco server 14 notifies kiosk
   18 that the user's account has been credited, after which
 5 -  at step 104 - kiosk 18 notifies the user that his or her
   account has been credited   (such as by SMS or Bluetooth).
   Processing then ends.
   It should be noted that the mobile device whose account is
10 to be credited, in this example mobile telephone 12, need
   not be present when the user purchases credit, as the
   credit is "activated" without operation of the mobile
   device.   Also, if a receipt is sent to the mobile device,
   this can be done by -  for example -  sms, which also does
15 not require the presence of the mobile device.      (If kiosk
   18 attempts to deliver a receipt by a protocol -     such as
   Bluetooth -  that does require that the mobile device be in
   the vicinity of kiosk 18, this delivery may fail.
   Nonetheless, the account will still be credited.)
20
   It should also be noted that system server 16 does not
   in this embodiment -  hold a stock of credit certificates
   that are progressively sold to users   (as is required
   according to the background art).    However, such credit
25 certificates may optionally be used with the present
   invention.   For example, system server 16 may be provided
   with a stock of credit certificates by Telco server 14,
   and kiosk 18 may sell mobile telephony credit to a user
   only in amounts that are equal to one of the remaining
30 that is, unsold - credit certificates   (e.g. $10,   $20, and
   $50).   Thus, kiosk 18 would only display credit in amounts
   that are available, at least in principle, and/or check
   with system server 16 whether a desired amount of credit
   indeed corresponds to an available credit certificate
35 before proceeding with the sale of the credit.     In such
   cases, the purchase data packet built by data packet
   builder 78 may include a credit certificate identifier

                                -   12
    (such as a number) instead of the value of the purchased
   credit, as the credit certificate identifier would be
   translatable by Telco server 14 into that value.
 5 In some embodiments, kiosks 18 can be used to purchase
   other than mobile   (or other) telephony credit.    For
   example, in one embodiment, kiosks 18 are identical with
   those of figures 1 to 3, but are configured to display
   icons indicative of other services, including -     for
10 example, cinema tickets.    In such embodiments, when a user
   purchases one or more cinema tickets, the receipt that is
   transmitted (cf. steps 100 and 104 of figure 5) to the
   nominated mobile device -   such as mobile telephone 12
   constitutes a voucher either redeemable for paper a cinema
is ticket or itself constituting a cinema ticket.      In this
   embodiment, provider interface 74 communicates a
   successful user payment for the requested cinema ticket(s)
   to the cinema's server   (instead of, as in the previous
   example, the Telco server),     and the cinema's server
20 responds by transmitting a receipt to the user's mobile
   device either directly   (cf. communications link 26) or via
   kiosk  (cf. communications link 22,    20, 28).
   Indeed, in some embodiments, kiosks 18 may vend goods,
25 stored within each kiosk.      In such examples, system server
   16 need not employ provider interface 74 as, once the
   payment has been approved, the purchased good can be
   dispensed via tray 34.    In some cases, however, system
   server 16 will nonetheless report the purchase -     such as
30 for the purpose of inventory control - via provider
   interface 74 to the respective server of the original
   provider of the goods.
   Modifications within the scope of the invention may be
35 readily effected by those skilled in the art.      It is to be
   understood, therefore, that this invention is not limited
   to the particular embodiments described by way of example

                               - 13
    hereinabove.
    In the claims that follow and in the preceding description
    of the invention, except where the context requires
  5 otherwise owing to express language or necessary
    implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as
    "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
    that is, to specify the presence of the stated features
    but not to preclude the presence or addition of further
10  features in various embodiments of the invention.
    Further, any reference herein to prior art is not intended
    to imply that such prior art forms or formed a part of the
    common general knowledge in Australia or any other
is  country.

                                                    14
    THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
  5 1.      A mobile telephony account payment system comprising a purchase data packet
    builder controllable by a payment validator to construct a purchase data packet indicative of a
    mobile telephone user account and of the payment, wherein the system is adapted to forward
    the purchase data packet to a server of a telecommunications provider, the purchase data
    packet being adapted to prompt the server of a telecommunications provider to update an
 .0 account record corresponding to the user according to the payment.
    2.      A system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the purchase data packet comprises data
    indicative of a user.
 .5 3.      A system as claimed in claim 2 wherein the data indicative of a user is in the form of
    a mobile telephone corresponding to the user account.
    4.      A system as claimed in any one of claim 1 to 3, wherein the purchase data packet
    comprises data indicative of the value of the purchase credit.
 -O
    5.      A system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the purchase data packet
    comprises data indicative of the date and/or time of payment.
    6.      A system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein upon receipt of the purchase
25  data packet, the server of the telecommunications provider verifies the purchase credit and/or
    applies the corresponding credit to the user's account.
    7.      A system as claimed in claim 6 wherein verification of the purchase credit comprises
    checking that the indicated user account exists and/or has not been suspended.
30
    8.      A system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7 comprising notification that the
    account has been credited to the user.

                                                15
  9.      A system as claimed in claim 8 wherein the notification is sent directly from the
  server of the telecommunications provider to the user.
  10.     A system as claimed in claim 8 or claim 9 wherein the notification is by SMS.
5
  11.     A system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10 wherein the mobile telephone to be
  credited is not present when the user purchases credit.
  12.     A system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 11 wherein the server of the
0 telecommunication provider does not hold a stock of credit certificates.
  13.     A system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 12 wherein the system does not require
  the user to have regard to a PIN.
5 DATED: 16 January 2018
  BY: CHURCHILL ATTORNEYS
  Patent Attorneys for:
  ERIS TECHNOLOGY PTY LTD
O

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
