                                            ABSTRACT
         A method for prolonging the shelf life of a prepared eight-treasure duck by utilizing
   combined flexible sterilization relates to the field of meat product processing technologies.
   According to the present invention, during a process of making a staffing heart of an
 5 eight-treasure duck, a nano preservative containing a composite extract of clove, cinnamon,
   and onion is added to the stuffing heart.     After being cooked, the eight-treasure duck is
   vacuum packed by using a retort pouch, and then the packed eight-treasure duck is placed
   in a radio frequency working chamber to be sterilized by heating.           Subsequently, the
   packed eight-treasure duck is sterilized by short-time high temperature and high pressure
10 sterilization, and then is quickly cooled.    According to the method, a problem that the
   product quality is damaged by using a traditional high temperature and high pressure
   sterilization method and complexity of quality preservation that is caused because the
   eight-treasure duck has both the duck body and stuffs are resolved.             After flexible
   sterilization, quality preservation rates of the color, aroma, taste, and shape of the duck
15 body and the stuffing heart are respectively 90% and 88%.        Moreover, under the premise
   that no artificial preservative is added, commercial sterility is achieved, thereby obviously
   prolonging the high-quality shelf life of the product.   The high-quality shelf life at a room
   temperature (25'C to 35C) in summer may be 60 days, and the high-quality shelf life at a
   low temperature (4'C) may be 180 days.
20
                                                  16

          METHOD FOR PROLONGING SHELF LIFE OF PREPARED
     EIGHT-TREASURE DUCK BY UTILIZING COMBINED FLEXIBLE
                                        STERILIZATION
 5 Technical Field
        The present invention relates to a method for prolonging the shelf life of a prepared
   eight-treasure duck by utilizing combined flexible sterilization, mainly used for vacuum
   packing meat products, specifically relates to a meat product sterilization process,
   pertaining to the field of meat product processing technologies.
10 Related Art
        Eight-treasure duck is a traditional, delicious, and famous Huaiyang dish.           A key
   point of the dish is that bones of the duck are removed from the duck by using a whole
   duck bone removal technology without breaking the duck skin.                Stuffs (sticky rice,
   myotonin, diced bamboo shoots, diced mushrooms, diced ham, lotus seeds, red dates, diced
15 chestnuts, diced cooked chicken, and cooked pine nuts) are stuffed inside the duck belly,
   and the duck is made to a gourd shape.       The duck is fresh and tender, the stuffs are sticky
   and scattered, and the taste is salty, fresh, and mellow.    Quality deterioration of a vacuum
   packed eight-treasure duck during storage is mainly caused by physical factors, chemical
   factors, microorganism factors, and action of endogenous enzymes in the duck.           Because
20 the endogenous enzymes in the duck can be deactivated during cooking and sterilization of
   the product, the physical and chemical factors have relatively small impact on the quality
   deterioration of the duck.      Microorganisms and physicochemical quality deterioration
   caused by the microorganisms become main factors affecting the shelf life of the product.
   In addition, because the eight-treasure duck has two parts, that is, the duck body and the
25 stuffs, quality preservation of the eight-treasure duck is relatively complex, and there is a
   requirement on a sterilization manner.      Currently, for most eight-treasure duck products on
   the market, high temperature and high pressure sterilization at 121'C is applied, a
   preservative is added, or cryopreservation is applied to prolong the shelf life.        Because
                                                    1

   costs of chemical preservatives are relatively low, preservatives that are usually used in the
   food industry in the world are mostly chemical synthetic preservatives.        However, some
   chemical synthetic preservatives have problems, for example, the preservatives have
   cancerogenesis, carcinogenicity, and teratogenicity, and the preservatives may easily cause
 5 food poisoning.      Therefore, a natural preservative substance is used in combination with
   flexible sterilization, so that preservation and bacteriostasis are ensured while reducing a
   sterilization strength, thereby prolonging the shelf life of the eight-treasure duck at a room
   temperature and at a low temperature while ensuring the product quality.
         Science reports on the use of spices in food due to antibacterial properties thereof was
10 first appeared in 1880, reporting that mustard, clove, cinnamon, onion, and essential oils
   thereof have bacteriostatic effects.     Martindale studied the antibacterial property of the
   spice oils by using a phenol coefficient, and found that cinnamon oil and clove oil have
   strong bacteriostasis capacities.   A clove bud contains 15% to 20% essential oil, and 85%
   to 92% of the essential oil is the main bacteriostatic component eugenol.      The eugenol has
15 an inhibition effect on colibacillus, salmonella, dysentery bacillus, proteus, and the like.
   Similarly, cinnamon contains 1% to 3.5% essential oil, and cinnamic aldehyde occupies up
   to 80% to 95% of the essential oil, and the cinnamic aldehyde plays a major role in
   bacteriostasis.   The cinnamic aldehyde has a good inhibition effect on mould, has strong
   bacteriostatic action, and can effectively kill germs and colibacillus.     An onion contains
20 0.05% hot essential oil having a pungent odor.         The hot essential oil contains a large
   amount of sulfur compounds, and components thereof have an obvious bacteriostatic effect.
   Kang Meiling (2012) reported that onion juice has a good bacteriostatic effect on
   Gram-negative bacteria (bacillus subtilis) and Gram-positive bacteria (colibacillus).
         A radio frequency refers to a high-frequency alternating current electromagnetic wave
25 whose frequency ranges from 3 MHz to 300 MHz.              Radio frequency heating is a new
   quick heating technology by means of which a material absorbs electromagnetic wave
   energy and converts the energy into heat energy without any heat conduction process, and
   both the inside and surface of the material are heated and heated up almost at the same time.
   The mechanism of radio frequency sterilization is that, under action of a radio frequency
                                                   2

   having a particular strength, germs in a material can absorb radio frequency energy and be
   heated up at the same time due to molecular polarization, so that protein of the material is
   denatured and then deactivated.      On the other hand, a non-thermal effect of the radio
   frequency energy plays a special role in the sterilization compared with common physical
 5 sterilization, and is also one of reasons of germ death (Shi Huojie et al. in 2014).
   Compared with traditional heating manners, the heating rate of the radio frequency heating
   is high, and heating is relatively uniform.      Compared with microwave heating, for the
   radio frequency heating, heating is more uniform, the penetration depth is larger,
   temperature control is more stable, and product quality is better.       In addition, the radio
10 frequency is a non-ionizing radiation technology.        High energy generated by X-rays or
   gamma rays can change molecular structures.         However, energy generated by the radio
   frequency does not ionize water molecules.       Therefore, the radio frequency is considered
   as a safe heat treatment method.     Because the radio frequency technology has a selective
   heating property, and a treatment process has advantages such as high efficiency, a high
15 speed, low energy consumption, and a low material temperature, application of the radio
   frequency technology in the field of agricultural product and food sterilization becomes a
   research focus in China and foreign countries (Liu Yanhong et al. in 2010).               It was
   reported that the radio frequency sterilization technology has relatively good sterilization
   effects in canned lunch meats (Zhao Hui in 2015), canned pineapples (Hou Quan in 2015),
20 kiwi juice (Lv Xiaoying et al. in 2015), white breads (Liu Yanhong et al. in 2009), and the
   like.
         High temperature and high pressure sterilization mainly refers to sterilization at 120'C
   for 30 min, and is a necessary process link of most meat product at present.          The high
   temperature and high pressure sterilization can kill all microorganisms including brood
25 cells, and is one of methods having the best sterilization effect.    Although the sterilization
   method can ensure safety of a product, amino acids that are contained in meat and that are
   required by the human body are damaged, and the protein nutrition value is also reduced.
   In addition, for the product, the meat is flaccid, the juice runs off, and the aroma is
   seriously damaged.     Quality of the product is significantly affected.
                                                  3

        Flexible sterilization is a sterilization method in which a sterilization strength is
   reduced by combining different sterilization technologies or adding a preservative under a
   premise of ensuring safety of a product, thereby keeping the original color, aroma, and taste
   of the product as much as possible.
 5      Zhang Min et al. (Chinese Patent, Patent Application No.: 201310578719.9) invented a
   method for preparing a preservative containing a composite extract of clove and cinnamon
   and an application of the preservative in sauce product preservation.       For the application
   of the preservative in sauce product preservation, preservation and bacteriostasis are
   implemented by means of addition of 0.2% of the weight of the preservative in combination
10 with 85'C sterilization for 20 min to 30 min, so that quality assurance shelf lives of sauce
   products can reach one year, thereby achieving a good bacteriostasis and preservation effect.
   A difference between the present invention and this invention is that, in the present
   invention, three substances, that is, clove, cinnamon, and onion, are selected, so that a
   bacteriostatic spectrum is wider.       In addition, the particle size of a prepared nano
15 preservative containing a composite extract of clove, cinnamon, and onion is smaller,
   thereby facilitating uniform distribution of the preservative in food ingredients.
        Zhang Min et al. (Chinese Patent, Patent Application No.: 201510746427.0) invented a
   method for preparing a nano preservative containing a composite extract of clove,
   cinnamon, and ginger and an application of the preservative in       chicken stock preservation.
20 A combination of addition of 0.5 g/kg of the nano preservative and a condition of 85'C
   sterilization for 15 min to 20 min may be applied to preservation and bacteriostasis of baste
   products, so that storage shelf lives of the products can reach one year.          A difference
   between the present invention and this invention is that, in the present invention, three
   substances, that is, clove, cinnamon, and onion, are selected, and ultrasonic extraction is
25 performed twice.     Therefore, the extraction efficiency is higher, effective concentration of
   a bacteriostatic substance is higher, and a preservation effect is better.
        Ye Jian (Chinese Patent, Patent Application No.: 201410427261.1) invented a method
   for preparing a flavored spiced duck.     Artificial preservatives such as sodium nitride and
   potassium sorbate are used in the duck.      A difference between the present invention and
                                                  4

   this invention is that, in the present invention, a natural nano preservative containing a
   composite extract of clove, cinnamon, and onion is used.          Therefore, a preservation effect
   is achieved and a product flavor is added.        In addition, the preservative is harmless to the
   human body.
 5      Wu Guanghe et al. (1997) invented a preparation technology of an eight-treasure duck
   packed with a soft package.      A sterilization method is that the traditional high temperature
   and high pressure sterilization is used and a sterilization formula is (10-40-15) min/120'C.
   The product meets a commercial sterility requirement on canned foods.                A difference
   between the present invention and the invention is that, in the present invention, the radio
10 frequency sterilization is used in combination with short-time high temperature and high
   pressure sterilization, so that a sterilization strength is reduced, thereby avoiding damage to
   the product quality caused by the traditional high temperature and high pressure
   sterilization.  In addition, an overlong sterilization time causes reduction of the processing
   efficiency, and goes against quick and efficient industrial production.            In the present
15 invention, an action time of the method that combines the radio frequency sterilization and
   short-time high temperature and high pressure sterilization is short, thereby improving the
   production efficiency.
        Zhang Min et al. (Chinese Patent, Patent Application No.: 200910213553.4) invented a
   mycelium repressing and quality assurance method for reducing a thermal sterilization
20 strength for a prepared fowl or fish product.         A bacteriostatic spectrum is expanded by
   mixing nisin and potassium sorbate.           Freezing sterilization is combined with flexible
   thermal sterilization, thereby achieving a good sterilization effect by means of a large
   temperature difference change within a short time.             Therefore, damage to nutritional
   components of fowl meat caused by pure high temperature sterilization is reduced, and
25 quality of the fowl meat is kept.     Finally, under a premise that the shelf life of the product
   is ensured, a cooked fowl product with mycelium repressing and quality assurance is
   obtained.     A difference between the present invention and the invention is that, in the
   present invention, the used nano preservative containing the composite extract of clove,
   cinnamon, and onion is safer, and the product flavor is not obviously changed while
                                                      5

   reducing the strength of the traditional high temperature and high pressure sterilization.
         Zhang Min et al. (Chinese Patent, Patent Application No.: <removed-apn>58.2) invented a
   method for performing flexible sterilization on a ready-to-eat surimi product by means of a
   radio frequency-hot      air combination.      An edible      surimi product is placed on a
 5 polyetherimide resistance block inside a radio frequency working chamber after the product
   is vacuum packed, and radio frequency-hot air combined sterilization is directly performed.
   The obtained surimi product can keep relatively good flavor, texture, color, and nutritional
   quality, and the shelf life at a normal temperature may be more than 9 months.                  A
   difference between the present invention and this invention is that, in the present invention,
10 the radio frequency is used to reduce a high strength of the traditional high temperature and
   high pressure sterilization, so that an objective of the sterilization effect of the product is
   achieved at a lower strength.
         Guo Zhuozhao et al. (China Patent, Patent Application No.: 200910009361.1) invented
   a method for processing a brine fowl product.       In this invention, a sterilization technology
15 combining microwave and high temperature (1 18'C to 121 C, and 10 min to 15 min) is
   used, so that a time for high temperature sterilization of a product is reduced by 5 min to 10
   min, and the product quality is improved by approximately 20%.           Therefore, commercial
   sterility of the product is achieved, and the product can be stored for a long period.          A
   difference between the present invention and the invention is that, in the present invention,
20 the radio frequency is used, and the penetration depth of the radio frequency is much
   greater than that of a microwave, so that a problem of nonuniform sterilization caused due
   to the relatively small penetration depth of the microwave is avoid, and the strength of the
   high temperature sterilization is also reduced, thereby ensuring the product quality.
         Li Zhijian (Chinese Patent, Patent Application No.: 201410447763.0) disclosed a
25 method for preserving a salted meat product.       In this invention, a manner of sterilizing a
   salted meat product, is microwave sterilization and pulse strong light sterilization.
   However, the penetration depth of the microwave is relatively small. A nonuniform
   sterilization problem may be caused due to an insufficient penetration depth of the
   microwave.      In the present invention, the penetration depth of the radio frequency is much
                                                   6

   greater than that of the microwave, and can effectively resolve a nonuniform sterilization
   phenomenon.
        Li Xin and Xiong Guangquan et al. (Chinese Patent, Patent Application No.:
   201210174940.3) disclosed a preparation process and a sterilization method of a
 5 ready-to-eat anchovy.       In this invention, irradiation sterilization is used, an irradiation
   dosage is 3 Kgy, and an irradiation temperature is a normal temperature.           Compared with
   the traditional high temperature and high pressure sterilization, the hardness and chewiness
   of a product are increased.       Therefore, this patent provides a new idea for performing
   flexible sterilization on a meat product.        However, the meat product obtained after the
10 irradiation sterilization generates an "irradiation odor", affecting the acceptability of the
   product.    In the present invention, because the radio frequency is characterized by an
   extremely large penetration depth and uniform action, quick sterilization is implemented
   without generating another unfavorable odor, and the original quality of the product can
   also be kept.
15      Xia Xiaodong and Lv Xiaoying et al. (China Patent, Patent Application No.:
   201410314527.1) disclosed a method for             sterilizing kiwi juice.   The method includes
   steps of placing kiwi juice between pole plates of a radio frequency apparatus and
   performing     radio frequency      sterilization,   thereby effectively preserving nutritional
   components in the kiwi juice and improving the nutritional quality of the kiwi juice.
20 However, the sterilization is excessive long by using only the radio frequency heating, and
   neither energy saving nor high efficiency can be achieved.            In the present invention, by
   combining the radio frequency sterilization and the high temperature and high pressure
   sterilization, a sterilization time can be shortened, energy consumption can be reduced.
   Therefore, the method is and economy and environmental protection are implemented.
25      According to the present invention, a new preservative containing a composite of clove,
   cinnamon, and onion is added to the stuffing heart of the eight-treasure duck that is difficult
   to be sterilized and preserved, and the flexible sterilization is performed on the
   eight-treasure duck product by combining the radio frequency sterilization and the high
   temperature and high pressure sterilization, so that not only an effect of killing
                                                      7

   microorganisms is achieved, but also the nutrition and texture of the product can be
   protected from being damaged by the high temperature, thereby implementing the flexible
   sterilization with high efficiency and low damage.
                                              SUMMARY
 5       An objective of the present invention is to overcome the foregoing disadvantages, and
   to provide a method for prolonging the shelf life of a prepared eight-treasure duck by
   utilizing combined flexible sterilization.
         A method for prolonging the shelf life of a prepared eight-treasure duck by utilizing
   combined flexible sterilization, wherein a nano preservative is added to a stuffing heart of
10 an eight-treasure duck, and after the prepared eight-treasure duck is vacuum packed, the
   prepared eight-treasure duck is placed inside a radio frequency working chamber to be
   sterilized by heating in combination with short-time high temperature and high pressure
   sterilization; and specific steps are as follows:
          (1) addition of the nano preservative: adding the nano preservative in a process of
15 preparing the stuffing heart of the eight-treasure duck, wherein an addition amount is 0.2%
   of the weight of the stuffing heart of the eight-treasure duck; and
          (2) combined flexible sterilization: performing radio frequency heating sterilization
   after the prepared eight-treasure duck is vacuum packed, wherein a working frequency of a
   radio frequency apparatus is 27.12 MHz, a power is 1500 W, a distance between pole plates
20 is 30 cm to 35 cm, and a time for the sterilization is 10 min to 15 min; and then performing
   the short-time high temperature and high pressure sterilization, wherein a sterilization
   temperature is 115'C to 121'C, and a time for the sterilization is 8 min to 10 min.
         According to the present invention, the nano preservative is a nano preservative
   containing a composite extract of clove, cinnamon, and onion.
25       According to the present invention, the average particle size of the nano preservative is
   8.52 nm, and the polydispersity index PDI is 0.26.
         According to the present invention, the method for preparing the nano preservative is
   as follows:
                                                    8

         (1) preparation of extracts: preparation of extracts of clove, cinnamon, and onion:
   separately grinding clove bud, cinnamon bark, and dehydrated onion by using a high-speed
   plant grinder, and obtaining powder after screening with a 80-mesh screen; separately
   taking 50 g clove bud powder, 50 g cinnamon bark powder, and 50 g onion powder, and
 5 performing extraction twice, wherein for the extraction of each time, a ratio g/mL of solid
   to liquid is 1:2, that is, a total ratio of solid to liquid is 1:4; and subsequently, adding an
   alcohol solution whose mass concentration is 95%, performing extraction for 15 min with
   assistance of an ultrasonic wave of 200 W and a low frequency of 27 kHZ, and obtaining
   the extracts after the solution is concentrated to 10 mL;
10       (2) preparation of the composite extract of clove, cinnamon, and onion: uniformly
   mixing the clove extract, the cinnamon extract, and the onion extract that are obtained in
   the step (1) in a volume ratio of 1:1.8:1.8, to obtain the composite extract of clove,
   cinnamon, and onion; and
         (3) preparation of the nano preservative, wherein the temperature is set to 50'C, and
15 mixing and preparation are performed by using a magnetic stirrer based on mass
   percentages: dissolving 2% of the composite extract of clove, cinnamon, and onion that is
   obtained in the step (2) in 3% ethyl acetate, adding 10% alcohol and 30% tween-80, stirring
   uniformly until the mixture gradually changes from thick to thin, and finally dripping 55%
   distilled water, until the emulsion becomes clear and transparent, that is, the nano
20 preservative containing the composite extract of clove, cinnamon, and onion is obtained by
   means of preparation.
         According    to the present invention, the method for preparing the prepared
   eight-treasure duck is as follows:
         (1) pretreatment: removing bones of a duck and turning skin of the duck inside out,
25 taking off two pieces of duck breast meat, blanching the duck breast meat with hot water,
   and washing the blanched duck breast meat for use;
         (2) preparation of eight-treasure stuffs: taking sticky rice and soaking the sticky rice
   for 2 h to 3 h; removing plumules from lotus seeds and soaking the sticky lotus seeds for 2
                                                    9

   h; steaming and dicing the duck breast meat that is obtained in the step (1); adding sesame
   oil to a frying pan and heating the oil, adding chopped green onion and chopped ginger,
   then adding the sticky rice, the lotus seeds, diced bamboo shoots, diced mushrooms, diced
   ham, red dates, diced chestnuts, myotonin, cooked pine nuts, diced cooked chicken, and the
 5 duck breast meat; adding spices, wherein powdered pepper 3g, chicken powder 50g, and
   light soya sauce 300g; stir frying the spices with the nano preservative for 5 min, wherein
   the nano preservative is 0.2% of the weight of the stuffing heart;; and placing the fried
   materials in a tray for cooling and use;
         (3) frying: turning back the whole duck skin that is obtained in the step (1), placing
10 250 g/1 kg of the eight-treasure stuffs and correctly reversing the whole duck, tying the
   duck in a gourd shape by using a straw rope, applying the light soya sauce to duck skin, and
   then placing the duck in an oil pot to fry the duck until the duck become golden; and
         (4) smouldering: placing the eight-treasure duck that is obtained in the step (3) in a pot
   having ginger and green onion at the bottom, adding water, 250 g light soya sauce, 100 g
15 dark soya sauce, 500 g yellow wine, and 200 g crystal sugar; boiling the water with big fire;
   turning down the fire and smouldering the duck for 3 h; and taking out the duck, that is,
   obtaining the prepared eight-treasure duck.
        According to the present invention, the prepared eight-treasure duck is vacuum packed,
   the size of the vacuum package is within 20 cmxl3 cmxl0 cm, and the vacuum degree is
20 0.1 MPa.
        Beneficial effects of the present invention are: according to the present invention, the
   nano preservative containing the composite extract of clove, cinnamon, and onion is added
   to the stuffing heart of the eight-treasure duck that is relatively difficult to be sterilized, so
   that microorganism growth can be effectively inhibited, and a flavor of the product is
25 added.
        According to the present invention, the radio frequency sterilization is combined with
   the high temperature and high pressure sterilization, so that a sterilization strength is
   reduced, and better keeping product quality is better kept.
                                                  10

        According to the radio frequency sterilization method of the present invention, the
   sterilization can penetrate an interior of a material.        The penetration depth of the radio
   frequency sterilization is much greater than that of microwave sterilization, so that a
   satisfied sterilization effect can be achieved at a relatively low material temperature.
 5      According to the present invention, the radio frequency sterilization is first performed
   on the eight-treasure duck, to achieve objectives of quick temperature rise and initial
   sterilization.   After the radio frequency sterilization is performed, a whole temperature of
   the product is raised, and then the short-time high temperature and high pressure
   sterilization is performed.      This is helpful for quickly reaching a targeted sterilization
10 temperature, and shortening a time required by the sterilization.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        Embodiment 1 Method for prolonging the shelf life of a prepared eight-treasure duck at
   room temperature by utilizing combined flexible sterilization
        During making an eight-treasure duck, 0.2% (mass percent) of a new nano preservative
15 containing composite clove, cinnamon, and onion was added when a stuffing heart was
   fried.   After the eight-treasure duck was cooked, the prepared eight-treasure duck (1 kg
   duck with 250 g stuffs) was vacuum packed by using a retort pouch, then the duck was
   placed in a radio frequency working chamber to be sterilized.               A standard working
   frequency of a radio frequency apparatus was 27.12 MHz, a power was 1500 W, and a
20 distance between pole plates was 35 cm.          Sterilization lasted 10 min.  Subsequently, the
   prepared eight-treasure duck was placed in a retort to be sterilized.             A sterilization
   temperature was 115'C, the sterilization lasted 10 min, and a sterilization formula was
   (6-10-1) min/115'C.       After the sterilization, spraying was immediately performed to cool
   the prepared eight-treasure duck to a normal temperature.            A total amount of bacterial
25 colonies in the prepared eight-treasure duck was less than 10 cfu/g, which was reduced by
   6.2 orders of magnitude, and no disease germ was detected.              The hardness, color, and
   flavor of the eight-treasure duck did not obviously change, preservation rates of the color,
   aroma, taste, and shape of the duck body and the stuffing heart were respectively 91.3%
   and 88.2%.      A high-quality shelf life of an eight-treasure duck at room temperature (25'C
                                                     11

   to 35C) in summer could reach 60 days.
        Embodiment 2 Method for prolonging the shelf life of a prepared eight-treasure duck at
   low temperature by utilizing combined flexible sterilization
        During making an eight-treasure duck, 0.2% (mass percent) of a new nano preservative
 5 containing composite clove, cinnamon, and onion was added when a stuffing heart was
   fried.  After the eight-treasure duck was cooked, the prepared eight-treasure duck (1 kg
   duck with 250 g stuffs) was vacuum packed by using a retort pouch, then the duck was
   placed in a radio frequency working chamber to be sterilized.          A standard working
   frequency of a radio frequency apparatus was 27.12 MHz, a power was 1500 W, and a
10 distance between pole plates was 35 cm.     Sterilization lasted 10 min.  Subsequently, the
   prepared eight-treasure duck was placed in a retort to be sterilized.       A sterilization
   temperature was 115'C, the sterilization lasted 9 min, and a sterilization formula was
   (6-10-1) min/I 15'C. After the sterilization, spraying was immediately performed to cool
   the prepared eight-treasure duck to a normal temperature.       A total amount of bacterial
15 colonies in the prepared eight-treasure duck was less than 10 cfu/g, which was reduced by
   6.1 orders of magnitude, and no disease germ was detected.         The hardness, color, and
   flavor of the eight-treasure duck did not obviously change, preservation rates of the color,
   aroma, taste, and shape of the duck body and the stuffing heart were respectively 91.8%
   and 88.7%.    A high-quality shelf life of an eight-treasure duck at low temperature (4'C)
20 could reach 180 days.
                                                12

                                                CLAIMS
   What is claimed is:
          1. A method for prolonging the shelf life of a prepared eight-treasure duck by utilizing
   combined flexible sterilization, wherein a nano preservative is added to a stuffing heart of
 5 an eight-treasure duck, and after the prepared eight-treasure duck is vacuum packed, the
   prepared eight-treasure duck is placed inside a radio frequency working chamber to be
   sterilized by heating in combination with short-time high temperature and high pressure
   sterilization; and specific steps are as follows:
         (1) addition of the nano preservative: adding the nano preservative in a process of
10 preparing the stuffing heart of the eight-treasure duck, wherein an addition amount is 0.2%
   of the weight of the stuffing heart of the eight-treasure duck; and
         (2) combined flexible sterilization: performing radio frequency heating sterilization
   after the prepared eight-treasure duck is vacuum packed, wherein a working frequency of a
   radio frequency apparatus is 27.12 MHz, a power is 1500 W, a distance between pole plates
15 is 30 cm to 35 cm, and a time for the sterilization is 10 min to 15 min; and then performing
   the short-time high temperature and high pressure sterilization, wherein a sterilization
   temperature is 115'C to 121'C, and a time for the sterilization is 8 min to 10 min.
         2. The method for prolonging the shelf life of a prepared eight-treasure duck by
   utilizing combined flexible sterilization according to claim 1, wherein the nano preservative
20 is a nano preservative containing a composite extract of clove, cinnamon, and onion.
          3. The method for prolonging the shelf life of a prepared eight-treasure duck by
   utilizing combined flexible sterilization according to claim 1, wherein the average particle
   size of the nano preservative is 8.52 nm, and a polydispersity index PDI is 0.26.
         4. The method for prolonging the shelf life of a prepared eight-treasure duck by
25 utilizing combined flexible sterilization according to claim 1, wherein a method for
   preparing the nano preservative is as follows:
         (1) preparation of extracts: preparation of extracts of clove, cinnamon, and onion:
   separately grinding clove bud, cinnamon bark, and dehydrated onion by using a high-speed
                                                   13

   plant grinder, and obtaining powder after screening with a 80-mesh screen; separately
   taking 50 g clove bud powder, 50 g cinnamon bark powder, and 50 g onion powder, and
   performing extraction twice, wherein for the extraction of each time, a ratio g/mL of solid
   to liquid is 1:2, that is, a total ratio of solid to liquid is 1:4; and subsequently, adding an
 5 alcohol solution whose mass concentration is 95%, performing extraction for 15 min with
   assistance of an ultrasonic wave of 200 W and a low frequency of 27 kHz, and obtaining
   the extracts after the solution is concentrated to 10 mL;
         (2) preparation of the composite extract of clove, cinnamon, and onion: uniformly
   mixing the clove extract, the cinnamon extract, and the onion extract that are obtained in
10 the step (1) in a volume ratio of 1:1.6-2:1.6-2, to obtain the composite extract of clove,
   cinnamon, and onion; and
         (3) preparation of the nano preservative, wherein the temperature is set to 45 0 C to
   55'C, and mixing and preparation are performed by using a magnetic stirrer based on mass
   percentages: dissolving 2% of the composite extract of clove, cinnamon, and onion that is
15 obtained in the step (2) in 3% ethyl acetate, adding 10% alcohol and 30% tween-80, stirring
   uniformly until the mixture gradually changes from thick to thin, and finally dripping
   distilled water to form 100% emulsion, until the emulsion becomes clear and transparent,
   that is, the nano preservative containing the composite extract of clove, cinnamon, and
   onion is obtained by means of preparation.
20       5. The method for prolonging the shelf life of a prepared eight-treasure duck by
   utilizing combined flexible sterilization according to claim 1, wherein a method for
   preparing the prepared eight-treasure duck is as follows:
         (1) pretreatment: removing bones of a duck and turning skin of the duck inside out,
   taking off two pieces of duck breast meat, blanching the duck breast meat with hot water,
25 and washing the blanched duck breast meat for use;
         (2) preparation of eight-treasure stuffs: taking sticky rice and soaking the sticky rice
   for 2 h to 3 h; removing plumules from lotus seeds and soaking the sticky lotus seeds for 2
   h; steaming and dicing the duck breast meat that is obtained in the step (I); adding sesame
                                                    14

   oil to a frying pan and heating the oil, adding chopped green onion and chopped ginger,
   then adding the sticky rice, the lotus seeds, diced bamboo shoots, diced mushrooms, diced
   ham, red dates, diced chestnuts, myotonin, cooked pine nuts, diced cooked chicken, and the
   duck breast meat; adding spices, wherein a mass ratio of powdered pepper, chicken powder,
 5 and light soya sauce is 3:50:300; stir frying the spices with the nano preservative for 5 min,
   wherein the nano preservative is 0.2% of the weight of the stuffing heart;; and placing the
   fried materials in a tray for cooling and use;
         (3) frying: turning back the whole duck skin that is obtained in the step (1), placing
   250 g/l kg of the eight-treasure stuffs and correctly reversing the whole duck, tying the
10 duck in a gourd shape by using a straw rope, applying the light soya sauce to duck skin, and
   then placing the duck in an oil pot to fry the duck until the duck become golden; and
         (4) smouldering: placing the eight-treasure duck that is obtained in the step (3) in a pot
   having ginger and green onion at the bottom, adding water, 250 g light soya sauce, 100 g
   dark soya sauce, 500 g yellow wine, and 200 g crystal sugar; boiling the water with big fire;
15 turning down the fire and smouldering the duck for 3 h; and taking out the duck, that is,
   obtaining the prepared eight-treasure duck.
         6. The method for prolonging the shelf life of a prepared eight-treasure duck by
   utilizing combined flexible sterilization according to claim 5, wherein the prepared
   eight-treasure duck is vacuum packed, the size of the vacuum package is within 20 cmxl3
20 cmx10 cm, and the vacuum degree is 0.1 MPa.
                                                  15

