                                             ABSTRACT
        The present invention belongs to the field of meat product processing technologies, and
   provides a low frequency ultrasound assisted and high temperature and pressure combined
   sterilization method for prolonging the shelf life of red braised pork belly.    In the present
 5 invention, cooked red braised pork belly together with soup is first vacuum packaged by
   using a high temperature-resistant retort pouch, and then high temperature and pressure
   sterilization is performed.    After the packaged red braised pork belly is quickly cooled
   down, low frequency ultrasound sterilization is performed for assistance.       Compared with
   a conventional high temperature and pressure sterilization, the pork skin of the obtained
10 product in the present invention is more red and shiny, and the lean meat is strong brown
   and more lustrous.     In addition, the product has the unique rich aroma of red braised pork
   belly without any retort smell, and tastes moderate.      The lean meat is neither too mushy
   nor too dry, the fat meat is easily melted in the mouth, the pork skin is soft and glutinous,
   and the fat is far less oxidized, so that the product is not prone to be oxidized and go bad.
15 By means of the present invention, the problem that the sensory quality and the nutritional
   quality of a product are affected by using a conventional high temperature and pressure
   sterilization is resolved, and the problem that the sterilization strength is inadequate when
   only the ultrasound is used is resolved.    In addition, compared with the product before the
   sterilization, the flavor maintaining rate of the red braised pork belly is more than 93% on
20 the premise that no preservative is added, so that the high-quality shelf life of the red
   braised pork belly at the room temperature reaches 12 months.
                                                   12

           LOW FREQUENCY ULTRASOUND ASSISTED AND HIGH
      TEMPERATURE AND PRESSURE COMBINED STERILIZATION
       METHOD FOR PROLONGING SHELF LIFE OF RED BRAISED
                                        PORK BELLY
 5
   Technical Field
        The present invention relates to a low frequency ultrasound assisted and high
   temperature and pressure combined sterilization method for prolonging the shelf life of red
   braised pork belly, and specifically to two types of meat product sterilization processes, is
10 mainly for meat products in small vacuum packages, and pertains to the field of meat
   product processing technologies.
   Related Art
        Red braised pork belly is very popular in various places of China and is a well-known
   dish.   A main preparation material of red braised pork belly is pork belly and use of
15 casseroles is a primary cooking technique.       Characterized in being fat and lean, being
   fragrant, sweet, and soft, easily melting in the mouth, and being agreeably greasy, the
   delicacy of red braised pork belly is beyond words, making red braised pork belly reputed
   as a classic well-known dish in Chinese cuisine.    Currently, researches on red braised pork
   belly conducted in China are at an initial stage, and scientific knowledge about the nutrition
20 and the flavor of red braised pork belly is inadequate.   On the other hand, red braised pork
   belly gradually     develops  toward modernization       and industrialization.     With the
   development of food technologies, in addition that red braised pork belly can be savored in
   restaurants, products of red braised pork belly that are industrially produced, mainly
   including vacuum bagged red braised pork belly and canned red braised pork belly, can be
25 bought from supermarkets.      At present, red braised pork belly processed products have
   such disadvantages as heavy, and short in the shelf life, and meanwhile the degree of
   industrialization is low, and most of the processed products are ready-to-eat and do not
                                                  1

   have a commercial shelf life.     A part of the industrially produced red braised pork belly is
   sterilized by means of a high temperature and pressure sterilization process.            Such a
   product has a long shelf life, but nutrients are heavily damaged, and the mouthfeel and the
   texture of the product are quite different from those of freshly cooked products, failing to
 5 meet the requirements of consumers.       Therefore, it is urgent to find a proper sterilization
   method to improve the quality of red braised pork belly.         Changes of the quality of the
   vacuum packaged red braised pork belly during preservation are mainly caused by the
   action of physical factors, chemical factors, microbiological factors, and endogenous
   enzyme in meat.      Because the endogenous enzyme in the meat is inactivated in a retort
10 sterilization process of the product, microorganisms are reproduced, and the deterioration
   of the physicochemical quality caused by the microorganisms is a main factor affecting the
   shelf life of the product.
        The high temperature and pressure sterilization is mainly sterilization processing
   performed on food at 100'C to 130'C, and is a necessary part in the processing of most of
15 the current meat products.      The high temperature and pressure sterilization can kill all
   microorganisms including spores, and is one of the most effective sterilization methods.
   However, although the sterilization method can ensure the safety of a product, essential
   amino acids contained in meat are damaged, and the nutritional value of protein is reduced.
   In addition, meat in the product is mushy, the juice is lost, and the aroma is severely lost,
20 greatly affecting the quality of the product.
        Low frequency ultrasound is ultrasound having the frequency of 20 KHz to 100 KHz,
   and is characterized in good directivity, large power, and strong penetration.              The
   principle of low frequency ultrasound sterilization includes: cavitation, mechanical action,
   thermal effect, and the like.    It is generally considered that the sterilization effect of the
25 low frequency ultrasound is mainly due to cavitation generated by the ultrasound.
   Cellular contents in microorganisms are strongly shaken because of the cavitation, so that
   the microorganisms are damaged.           Cavitation refers to that during ultrasound-used
   processing, shock waves are generated when sound waves are in contact with a liquid
   medium.       The shock waves produce very high temperatures and pressures.               Local
                                                   2

   momentary high temperatures and temperature alternating and local momentary high
   pressures and pressure changes generated in the liquid due to the ultrasound cavitation kill
   some bacteria, inactivate virus, and even damage cell walls of some microorganisms having
   relatively small volumes.         The low frequency ultrasound can kill and damage
 5 microorganisms within an extremely short time, thereby better improving the quality of a
   food, maintaining the original taste and flavor of the food, and prolonging the shelf life of
   the food.
        Among patents in China about the processing of red braised pork belly, a salted and
   pickled vegetable red braised pork belly (Chinese Patent No. 201510602770.8) is invented
10 by inventors such as Zhou Ping.      The salted and pickled vegetable red braised pork belly
   include raw materials such as three line meat (a type of pork belly), salted and pickled
   vegetables, lard, soy sauce, scallions, ginger, garlic, and spices, and is essentially prepared
   by combining conventional processes and modern technologies.             High temperature and
   pressure sterilization is performed at (125±2) 'C for (30±1) min after the salted and pickled
15 vegetable red braised pork belly is vacuum packaged.        The high temperature sterilization
   prolongs the shelf life, and the salted and pickled vegetable red braised pork belly is
   ready-to-eat after being heated, thereby greatly facilitating and enriching eating of people.
   Different from this patent, in the present invention, the short-duration high temperature and
   pressure sterilization manner is combined with the low frequency ultrasound sterilization
20 manner, so that the strength of the high temperature and pressure sterilization is reduced,
   improving the sensory quality and the nutritional value of a red braised pork belly product
   while prolonging the shelf life.
        A red braised pork belly processing process (Chinese Patent No. 200510047872.4) is
   invented by Wang Yingxian.        A raw material of the red braised pork belly is pork belly in
25 Changbaishan area.      Cooked red braised pork belly is placed into vacuum packaging bags,
   ginger, decocted scallions segments, and seasoning are added to each bag, and each bag is
   vacuumized with no remaining air bubbles.         Then, a second sterilization is performed.
   That is, the red braised pork belly is placed into a steam cabinet to be steamed or into water
   to be boiled for sterilization for 8 min to 12 min.    After the sterilization is completed, the
                                                   3

   red braised pork belly is cooled downed to the room temperature by using flowing water,
   and the surface of the red braised pork belly is dried up before being quick-frozen.     In this
   way, an obtained product contains rich protein and essential amino acids needed in human
   bodies, looks fresh and lustrous, and tastes moderate.      Different from this patent, in the
 5 present invention, the short-duration high temperature and pressure sterilization manner is
   combined with the low frequency ultrasound sterilization manner, so that a product can be
   preserved at the room temperature for 12 months, avoiding problems such as texture and
   mouthfeel deterioration caused by quick-freezing and thawing.         In addition, the product
   can be heated or not when being eaten, thereby being more convenient and faster.
10      A red braised pork belly and a preparation method thereof (Chinese Patent No.
   201110000495.4) are invented by inventors such as Xiao Li'an.           Technologies are used
   such as seasoning injection, vacuum tumbling, and steaming that are completely different
   from conventional red braised pork belly preparation technologies, avoiding such
   disadvantages in a conventional red braised pork belly processing process as complex
15 process operations and greatly changed quality.      Plant-derived ginger oil, garlic essential
   oil, tea polyphenol, cinnamon oil, and clove oil are used as fresh-keeping agents and
   preservatives and combined with pasteurization, so that a product can be ensured to be
   preserved without change of the quality at the room temperature for more than six months,
   and the product is unique in the flavor, and is fragrant, sweet, delicious, and nutritious.
20 Different from this patent, in the present invention, the short-duration high temperature and
   pressure sterilization manner is combined with the low frequency ultrasound sterilization
   manner, so that a product can have a relatively long shelf life, and is safer and healthier
   since no preservative is added, thereby being more customer-attractive, and production
   costs can be reduced.
25      A red braised pork belly and a preparation process thereof (Chinese Patent No.
   201210541347.8) is invented by inventors such as Ma Laomo.             Different parts of fresh
   pork are segmented and piled up, cleaned, seasoned and soaked by using Chinese herbal
   medicine, dried by ventilating, and cooked in a pot.     Then, seasoning is added to the pot,
   and the pork completes cooking three hours later, and is cooled down by wind, packaged,
                                                  4

   pasteurized at a low temperature, preserved at a constant temperature (preserved for three
   days to six days at 20'C to 30'C), outsourced, stocked in, sold, and goes through other
   manufacturing processes.       The preparation process is standardized and is stable in the
   quality, and can implement industrial production. Different from this patent, in the present
 5 invention, the short-duration high temperature and pressure sterilization manner is
   combined with the low frequency ultrasound sterilization manner, so that joint sterilization
   is relatively strong, and the shelf life of red braised pork belly at the room temperature can
   be better prolonged.
        In terms of sterilization methods, a method for quantitatively brining to-be-brined beef
10 (Chinese Patent No. 201210115668.5) is invented by inventors such as Chen Tao, including
   the steps of preparing spice extracts, preparing beef Maillard reaction products, preparing a
   pickling solution, injection pickling, short-duration boiling, segmenting, adding the beef
   Maillard reaction products, vacuum packaging, high temperature and pressure curing
   sterilization, cooling down, and preserving.         After the high temperature and pressure
15 sterilization is performed at 121'C for 30 min to 40 min, the shelf life of a product can be
   more than six months.      A preparation method of boneless pig's trotters (Chinese Patent No.
   201410377219.3) is invented by inventors such as Lv Tiejun.         An end product is packaged
   in a vacuum sealed inner packaging bag, and high temperature and pressure sterilization is
   performed at 121'C for 25 min to 35 min.         In this way, the boneless pig's trotters can be
20 preserved for a long time and can be conveniently carried.        Different from this patent, in
   the present invention, the short-duration high temperature and pressure sterilization
   technology is combined with the low frequency ultrasound sterilization technology, to
   replace a conventional high temperature and pressure technology, so that the sterilization
   time at 121'C is greatly reduced, and the sterilization strength is decreased.       In this way,
25 on the premise that microorganisms in a red braised pork belly product are ensured to reach
   the national standards, the retort smell is greatly reduced.     In addition, the original color,
   flavor, mouthfeel, and nutritional value can be relatively well maintained, and the degree of
   fatty acid oxidation is greatly lowered, so that the product is not prone to be oxidized and
   go bad.
                                                    5

        A processing method for improving the quality of fish sausages (Chinese Patent No.
   201510456078.9) is invented by inventors such as Shi Wengzheng.               Meat of fresh or
   frozen fresh fish is selected, and bleached and dehydrated twice.      Then, a bound sausage is
   retorted in boiling water (100'C) for 20 min, cooled down to approximately 50'C, and then
 5 processed by using an ultra high voltage device at 300 MPa to 500 MPa for 10 min to 15
   min.    Compared with a fish sausage on which the ordinary high temperature and pressure
   sterilization is performed, not only the heat treatment temperature at which an obtained fish
   sausage is sterilized is lower, but also the quality of the fish sausage is improved.      For
   example, the gel strength can be improved and the unique flavor of fish can be maintained.
10 Different from this patent, in the present invention, the short-duration high temperature and
   pressure sterilization method is combined with the low frequency ultrasound sterilization
   method, so that compared with the ultra high voltage sterilization, the costs are lower, the
   operation is more flexible, and the quality such as the original flavor of red braised pork
   belly can be maintained.
15      A method for ultrasound sterilizing Escherichia coli in tangerine juice (Chinese Patent
   No. 200910202059.8) is invented by inventors such as Li Xing.          Ultrasound processing is
   performed on homogenized fresh tangerine juice for 5 min to 15 min with the ultrasonic
   amplitude being 60% to 80%.         Main compositions and the sensory quality of the product
   before and after the ultrasound sterilization do not undergo apparent changes, so that the
20 natural color, mouthfeel, and flavor of the product can be maintained to the maximum limit
   on the basis of ensuring the sterilization effect.      In this way, the method has a bright
   feature.    Different from this patent, in the present invention, the low frequency ultrasound
   is used as an assistant sterilization method and applied to sterilization of a solid food.   In
   this way, the sensory quality and the nutritional value of the product can be improved by
25 reducing a conventional high temperature and pressure sterilization strength.
        A     method    for  vinasse-making      ready-to-eat   shrimps    (Chinese   Patent  No.
   201510530516.1) is invented by Huang Ju.          Cooked shrimps are vacuum pickled by using
   salty water and are vinasse-made, and then a specially-made fresh-keeping agent is used in
   which an activated zeolite is used for absorbing tea polyphenol, antimicrobial peptide, and
                                                    6

   ascorbic acid.   Due to the absorbability of the zeolite. fewer of the effective compositions
   of the fresh-keeping agent are lost during the processing process of the vinasse-made
   shrimps.   Then, vacuum packaging and ultrasound sterilization are performed and the
   ready-to-eat vinasse-made shrimps are obtained.        Preferably, the ultrasound sterilization is
 5 performed at 1300 W and 55'C for 180s.             Different from this patent, in the present
   invention, the sterilization process is combined for prolonging the shelf life of red braised
   pork belly, and no fresh-keeping agent or preservative is added, so that the product is safer
   and healthier.
        A walnut salad dressing and a preparation method thereof (Chinese Patent No.
10 201510285367.7) is invented by Wang Zhenghong.                  Salad dressing is obtained by
   performing processes on walnuts such as peeling, drying, grinding, and sterilization.
   Before performing the sterilization, the walnut salad dressing is poured into a glass bottle,
   and the glass bottle is covered by using a bottle cap and placed into an ultrasound cleaning
   machine, to perform atmospheric          water bath pasteurization with the assistance of
15 ultrasound at 75'C to 90'C for 10 min to 25 min.        After the sterilization is completed, the
   salad dressing is cooled down to 30'C to 35'C by using the running water and is preserved
   in a refrigerator at 50 C to 8'C.      In this way, the original nutrition of the walnuts is
   maintained, and the salad dressing tastes smooth and soft, and fragrant, sweet, and delicious
   after being mixed with the walnuts.        In addition, long-chains of protein are broken by
20 using the ultrasound technology, making it easier for the protein to be absorbed by the
   human body and facilitating eating.        An ultrasound-assisting-electrolyzed-water method
   for foaming sea cucumbers (Chinese Patent No. 201410034367.5) is invented by inventors
   such as Zhang Longtao.       Ultrasound is used for assistance during the foaming of selected
   dry sea cucumbers or directly belly-opened, cleaned, and pre-cooked fresh sea cucumbers.
25 By controlling the ultrasound-assisted foaming time, temperature, frequency, and power,
   and replacing clean water used during the foaming with slightly acidic electrolyzed water,
   the foaming is fast, the sterilization effect is apparent, the texture is improved, nutrients are
   better maintained, and the shelf life is prolonged.    Different from this patent, in the present
   invention, the short-duration high temperature and pressure sterilization is the primary
30 method and the low frequency ultrasound sterilization is the assistant method.                 By
                                                    7

   researching on the best combination of the two methods, microorganisms are killed and the
   shelf life of red braised pork belly is prolonged.
                                             SUMMARY
        The objective of the present invention is to conduct research on the changes of the
 5 flavor, the mouthfeel, the nutritional value, and microorganisms during preservation of red
   braised pork belly at the room temperature, and determine the best process parameters of
   combining the high temperature and pressure sterilization and the ultrasound sterilization,
   thereby prolonging the shelf life of red braised pork belly and ensuring the quality.
         A low frequency ultrasound assisted and high temperature and pressure combined
10 sterilization method for prolonging the shelf life of red braised pork belly, comprising the
   following steps:
         (1) red braised pork belly vacuum packaging: vacuum packaging bags are used,
   wherein each bag contains five pieces of red braised pork belly, soup is added, wherein a
   solid (the red braised pork belly)-liquid (the soup) mass ratio is 2:1 to 4:1, and the vacuum
15 packaging bags are vacuumized by using a vacuum packaging machine at -0.15 MPa to -0.1
   MPa for 18s, and sealed at the intermediate temperature of 80'C to 90'C for 1.8s;
         (2) short-duration high temperature and pressure sterilization: the vacuum packaged
   red braised pork belly in the step (1) is sterilized by using an automatic rotary
   multifunctional sterilization kettle having a back-pressure cooling function at 0.3 MPa and
20 121'C for 8 min to 10 min, and the vacuum packaged red braised pork belly is immediately
   sprayed to room temperature after the sterilization; and
         (3) low frequency ultrasound sterilization: an ultrasound apparatus with parameters of
   150 W and 20 kHz to 60 kHz is used, to perform sterilization at the room temperature for
   18 min to 20 min by using the soup of the red braised pork belly as a medium.
25       The vacuum packaging bag described in step (1) is a nylon retort pouch for food
   vacuum packaging that is resistant to the high temperature of 121 C and has a size of 13 cm
   x 19 cm.
        The sizes of the red braised pork belly pieces described in the step (1) range from 1.5
                                                   8

   cm x 1.5 cm x 1.5 cm to 3 cm x 3 cm x 3 cm.
        The beneficial effects of the present invention: in the present invention, the high
   temperature and pressure sterilization is used, so that microorganisms and spores in red
   braised pork belly can be effectively killed, and the magnitude of the total quantity of
 5 bacterial colonies in the product can be greatly reduced.     The ultrasound sterilization is
   combined after the high temperature and pressure sterilization, so that the sterilization
   strength is further increased, and the shelf life of the product can be prolonged.           In
   addition, compared with a conventional high temperature and pressure sterilization, the
   time of the high temperature and pressure sterilization is reduced, so that the original
10 sensory quality and the nutritional value of the product can be maintained as much as
   possible.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        Embodiment 1: A combined sterilization method for maintaining the flavor of
   seasoned red braised pork belly in small packages in which a solid-liquid mass ratio is 2:1.
15      Five pieces of cooked red braised pork belly are taken and weighed, and soup a mass
   ratio of which is 1/2 that of the belly pieces is weighed.  The belly pieces and the soup are
   placed together into a high temperature-resistant vacuum retort pouch to be vacuum
   packaged, and then vacuum retort pouch is placed into a sterilization kettle for sterilization
   at 0.3 MPa and 121'C for 10 min.        The vacuum retort pouch is immediately sprayed with
20 cold water and cooled down to room temperature after the sterilization is completed.
   Then, the packaged red braised pork belly is placed into an ultrasound device containing
   water to be sterilized at 150 W, 20 kHz, and the room temperature for 18 min.       Then, the
   packaged red braised pork belly is taken out and becomes a delicious end product.
   Compared with the red braised pork belly before the sterilization, the flavor maintaining
25 rate of the red braised pork belly is more than 93%, and the high-quality shelf live at the
   room temperature reaches 12 months.
        Embodiment 2: A combined sterilization method for maintaining the flavor of
   seasoned red braised pork belly in small packages in which a solid-liquid mass ratio is 3:1.
                                                   9

        Five pieces of cooked red braised pork belly are taken and weighed, and soup a mass
   ratio of which is 1/3 that of the belly pieces is weighed. The belly pieces and the soup are
   placed together into a high temperature-resistant vacuum retort pouch to be vacuum
   packaged, and then vacuum retort pouch is placed into a sterilization kettle for sterilization
 5 at 0.3 MPa and 121'C for 9 min.        The vacuum retort pouch is immediately sprayed with
   cold water and cooled down to room temperature after the sterilization is completed.
   Then, the packaged red braised pork belly is placed into an ultrasound device containing
   water to be sterilized at 150 W, 40 kHz, and the room temperature for 19 min.       Then, the
   packaged red braised pork belly is taken out and becomes a delicious end product.
10 Compared with the red braised pork belly before the sterilization, the flavor maintaining
   rate of the red braised pork belly is more than 95%, and the high-quality shelf live at the
   room temperature reaches 12 months.
        Embodiment 3: A combined sterilization method for maintaining the flavor of
   seasoned red braised pork belly in small packages in which a solid-liquid mass ratio is 4:1.
15      Five pieces of cooked red braised pork belly are taken and weighed, and soup a mass
   ratio of which is 1/4 that of the belly pieces is weighed. The belly pieces and the soup are
   placed together into a high temperature-resistant vacuum retort pouch to be vacuum
   packaged, and then vacuum retort pouch is placed into a sterilization kettle for sterilization
   at 0.3 MPa and 121'C for 8 min.        The vacuum retort pouch is immediately sprayed with
20 cold water and cooled down to room temperature after the sterilization is completed.
   Then, the packaged red braised pork belly is placed into an ultrasound device containing
   water to be sterilized at 150 W, 60 kHz, and the room temperature for 20 min.       Then, the
   packaged red braised pork belly is taken out and becomes a delicious end product.
   Compared with the red braised pork belly before the sterilization, the flavor maintaining
25 rate of the red braised pork belly is more than 96%, and the high-quality shelf live at the
   room temperature reaches 12 months.
                                                   10

                                              CLAIMS
   What is claimed is:
          1. A low frequency ultrasound assisted and high temperature and pressure combined
   sterilization method for prolonging the shelf life of red braised pork belly, comprising the
 5 following steps:
          (1) red braised pork belly vacuum packaging: vacuum packaging bags are used,
   wherein each bag contains five pieces of red braised pork belly, soup is added, wherein a
   solid (the red braised pork belly)-liquid (the soup) mass ratio is 2:1 to 4:1, and the vacuum
   packaging bags are vacuumized by using a vacuum packaging machine at -0.15 MPa to -0.1
10 MPa for 18s, and sealed at the intermediate temperature of 80'C to 90'C for 1.8s;
          (2) short-duration high temperature and pressure sterilization: the vacuum packaged
   red braised pork belly in the step (1) is sterilized by using an automatic rotary
   multifunctional sterilization kettle having a back-pressure cooling function at 0.3 MPa and
   121PC for 8 min to 10 min, and the vacuum packaged red braised pork belly is immediately
15 sprayed to room temperature after the sterilization; and
          (3) low frequency ultrasound sterilization: an ultrasound apparatus with parameters of
   150 W and 20 kHz to 60 kHz is used, to perform sterilization at the room temperature for
   18 min to 20 min by using the soup of the red braised pork belly as a medium.
         2. The low frequency ultrasound assisted and high temperature and pressure combined
20 sterilization method for prolonging the shelf life of red braised pork belly according to
   claim 1, wherein the vacuum packaging bag in the step (1) is a nylon retort pouch for food
   vacuum packaging that is resistant to the high temperature of 121'C and has a size of 13 cm
   x 19 cm.
         3. The low frequency ultrasound assisted and high temperature and pressure combined
25 sterilization method for prolonging the shelf life of red braised pork belly according to
   claim 1, wherein the sizes of the red braised pork belly pieces in the step (1) range from 1.5
   cm x 1.5 cm x 1.5 cm to 3 cm x 3 cm x 3 cm.
                                                   11

