  TIME RELEASED BIODEGRADABLE OR BIOERODIBLE MICROSPHERES OR
     MICROPARTICLES SUSPENDED IN A SOLIDIFYING DEPOT-FORMING
                         INJECTABLE DRUG FORMULATION
                                         Abstract
       A composite drug delivery material may be injected into an eye of a human
being or mammal to provide sustained delivery of the drug. A composite drug
delivery material may include a plurality of microparticles dispersed in a media
composition. The microparticles may contain a drug and a coating comprising a
bioerodible material or a biodegradable material, and the media composition
includes the drug dispersed in a depot-forming material. The media composition may
gel or solidify upon injection into the eye.

   WO 2013/112434                                                      PCT/US2013/022466
   TIME RELEASED BIODEGRADABLE OR BIOERODIBLE MICROSPHERES OR
       MICROPARTICLES SUSPENDED IN A SOLIDIFYING DEPOT-FORMING
                            INJECTABLE DRUG FORMULATION
                    Inventors David A. Marsh and Hongwen M. Rivers
                                    CROSS-REFERENCE
[00001]     This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application
Serial Number 61/589,681, filed on January 23, 2012, the entire disclosure of which is
incorporated herein by this specific reference.
                                       BACKGROUND
[00002]     There is a continuing need for methods of improved sustained delivery of
drugs to human beings and animals.
                                          SUMMARY
[000031     An injectable liquid depot forming material may be used to implant a solid
sustained drug delivery device in a human being or animal without the need for making
an incision in the body. This may be useful for sensitive areas such as an eye, where
incision may be risky. Since the material may be in a liquid form, the size of the device
may not be limited by the diameter of a needle. For example, a solid implant may only
be injected if it has a cross-sectional area that allows it to pass through a needle. Thus,
a smaller needle size may be used for injectable liquid depot forming materials. It may
also provide more flexible dosing than a solid implant, since the amount of depot
material administered may be easily varied.
[00004]     Some embodiments include a composite drug delivery material comprising:
a plurality of microparticles dispersed in a media composition. Microparticles may
comprise: a drug; and a coating comprising a bioerodible material or a biodegradable
material.   A media composition may comprise a drug dispersed in a depot-forming
material. A media composition may be in a liquid form before administration and may
be configured to substantially increase in viscosity during or after being injected into a
body of a mammal, so that the form of the media after injection is a solid or a gel.
[00005]     Methods of treating ocular diseases or injuries comprising injecting a
composite drug delivery material described herein into an eye of a mammal in need
thereof are also described.
                                               1

    WO 2013/112434                                                   PCT/US2013/022466
                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[00006]     Generally, composite drug delivery materials described herein comprise a
plurality of microparticles dispersed in a media composition. In a given composite drug
delivery material, a drug may be present in both microparticles and a media
composition, or may be present in only the microparticles. A media composition may
comprise a depot-forming material and a drug dispersed in the depot-forming material.
A microparticle may comprise a drug, and may optionally include other materials such
as a biodegradable polymer or a bioerodible polymer, and may comprise a bioerodible
or a biodegradable coating. Thus, a composite drug delivery material may be an in
vivo, in-situ drug delivery system. Microparticles may be comprised of drug alone or
coated drug particles or coated drug-polymer particles or microspheres, wherein the
coating comprises a bioerodible or biodegradable material.
[00007]     Before administration, the media may be a liquid, such as a low viscosity
liquid. Low viscosity may allow the media to be injected. When a media is injected into
a body of a mammal, the media may substantially increase in viscosity so that the form
of the media in a body is a solid or a gel. A substantial increase in viscosity includes
any increase in viscosity that would substantially increase the difficulty of injecting a
liquid through a needle, such as an increase of about at least about 1000 cP, at least
about 10,000 cP, at least about 100,000 cP, at least about 500,000 cP, or at least about
1,000,000 cP. A solid includes a material that has a definite shape. A gel includes a
material that has a definite shape under normal conditions, but which may flow upon the
application of an external force greater than gravitational force.
[00008]     A media composition includes any composition comprising a depot-forming
material. A depot-forming material includes a material that may be in a liquid form
before administration and may substantially increase in viscosity so as to form a solid or
a gel during or after being injected into a body of a mammal.    Examples of depot
forming materials include, but are not limited to, REGEL@, sucrose acetate isobutyrate
complex, poly-lactide-co-glycolide (PLGA) in an organic solution, polylactide (PLA) in an
organic solution, etc.
[00009]     Some depot-forming materials may comprise PLGA or PLA dissolved in an
organic solvent, such as a water-soluble organic solvent. When the media composition
is injected, the solvent disperses, leaving a PLGA or PLA depot immersed in an
aqueous environment of physiological fluid. Since PLGA or PLA is insoluble in aqueous
media, it may quickly precipitate to form a solid on contact with physiological fluid.
                                              2

    WO 2013/112434                                                  PCT/US2013/022466
Examples of suitable organic solvents for a PLGA or PLA media composition may
include, but are not limited, N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone, propylene glycol, dimethyl
sulfoxide, tetrahydrofuran, triacetin, ethyl benzoate, benzyl benzoate, etc. In some
embodiments, the organic solvent may comprise N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone, benzyl
benzoate, or a combination thereof. A PLGA/N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone depot-forming
material is available from Atrix Lab under the tradename ELIGARD@. A PLGA/benzyl
benzoate depot forming material is available from Alza under the tradename
ALZAMER®.
[00010]     Some depot-forming materials may comprise sucrose acetate isobutyrate
dissolved in a water miscible organic solvent such as, ethanol, benzyl alcohol, etc. The
solution has a low viscosity which may improve ease of administration with a small
gauge needle. When injected, the sucrose acetate isobutyrate may increase in
viscosity to form a gel or a solid. A sucrose acetate isobutyrate depot forming material
is available from Durect under the tradename SABER®.
[00011]     Some depot-forming materials may comprise a thermosensitive
biodegradable triblock copolymer comprising hydrophobic PLGA blocks (A) and
hydrophilic polyethylene glycol (PEG) blocks (B) with an ABA or BAB block
configuration. REGEL@, developed by MacroMed, is an ABA triblock copolymer which
is soluble in water. An aqueous solution of REGEL® is a free flowing liquid at 15*C,
and transforms into a gel at body temperature when injected. The drug release rate
may be adjusted by varying the hydrophilic/hydrophobic content, polymer concentration,
molecular weight, and/or polydispersity of the triblock copolymer.
[00012]     Some depot-forming materials may comprise Poloxamer 407, a triblock
copolymer comprising a central hydrophobic block of polypropylene glycol that is
flanked by two PEG blocks. It is a water-soluble nonionic surfactant that forms an
aqueous solution with reverse-thermal gelation properties. A solution with more than
20% of the polymer exhibits a low viscosity at low temperatures, but rapidly forms a
rigid semi-solid gel network at body temperature.
[00013]     Some depot-forming materials may comprise GELSITE®, available from
DelSite Biotech. Inc.). GELSITE® is a natural acidic polysaccharide extracted and
purified from an aloe plant. The polymer, in aqueous solution, forms a gel in the
presence of calcium when injected, thus entrapping a drug and providing sustained
release.
                                               3

    WO 2013/112434                                                       PCT/US2013/022466
[00014]     A plurality of microparticles are dispersed in the media composition. The
term "dispersed" includes mixing the microparticles in the media composition so that a
substantial fraction of the microparticles, such as at least about 50%, at least about
80%, at least about 90%, or at least about 99%, have contact with, or are surrounded
by, a media composition. Individual microparticles or clusters of microparticles may be
dispersed in a media composition. Microparticles may be dispersed in an
approximately homogeneous manner, or may be dispersed heterogeneously.
[00015]     A microparticle includes a drug, including any compound or substance
recognized in the official United States Pharmacopoeia, official Homoeopathic
Pharmacopoeia of the United States, or official National Formulary, or any supplement
to any of them; and any compound or substance intended for use in the diagnosis, cure,
mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease in man or other animals; and any
substance other than food or water intended to affect the structure or any function of the
body of man or other animals.
[00016]     Some examples of drugs may include, but are not limited to: ace-inhibitors,
endogenous cytokines, agents that influence basement membrane, agents that
influence the growth of endothelial cells, adrenergic agonists or blockers, cholinergic
agonists or blockers, aldose reductase inhibitors, analgesics, anesthetics, antiallergics,
anti-inflammatory agents, antihypertensives, pressors, antibacterials, antivirals,
antifungals, antiprotozoals, anti-infectives, antitumor agents, antimetabolites,
antiangiogenic agents, tyrosine kinase inhibitors, antibiotics such as aminoglycosides
such as gentamycin, kanamycin, neomycin, and vancomycin; amphenicols such as
chloramphenicol; cephalosporins, such as cefazolin HCI; penicillins such as ampicillin,
penicillin, carbenicillin, oxycillin, methicillin; lincosamides such as lincomycin;
polypeptide antibiotics such as polymixin and bacitracin; tetracyclines such as
tetracycline; quinolones such as ciproflaxin, etc.; sulfonamides such as chloramine T;
and sulfones such as sulfanilic acid as the hydrophilic entity, anti-viral drugs, e.g.
acyclovir, gancyclovir, vidarabine, azidothymidine, dideoxyinosine, dideoxycytosine,
dexamethasone , ciproflaxin, water soluble antibiotics, such as acyclovir, gancyclovir,
vidarabine, azidothymidine, dideoxyinosine, dideoxycytosine; epinephrine; isoflurphate;
adriamycin; bleomycin; mitomycin; ara-C; actinomycin D; scopolamine; and the like,
analgesics, such as codeine, morphine, ketorolac, naproxen, etc., an anesthetic, e.g.
lidocaine; adrenergic agents such as a-adrenergic blockers,         p-adrenergic blockers, a
adrenergic agonists such as alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonists, 3-adrenergic
                                                   4

    WO 2013/112434                                                        PCT/US2013/022466
agonists, e.g. ephidrine, epinephrine, timolol, brimonidine, etc.; aldose reductase
inhibitor, e.g. epalrestat, ponalrestat, sorbinil, tolrestat; antiallergic, e.g. cromolyn,
beclomethasone, dexamethasone, and flunisolide; colchicine, anihelminthic agents, e.g.
ivermectin and suramin sodium; antiamebic agents, e.g. chloroquine and
chlortetracycline; and antifungal agents, e.g. amphotericin, etc., anti-angiogenesis
compounds such as anecortave acetate, retinoids such as Tazarotene, anti-glaucoma
agents, such as brimonidine (ALPHAGAN® and ALPHAGAN P®), acetozolamide,
bimatoprost (LUMIGAN®), Timolol, mebefunolol; memantine;; 2ME2; anti-neoplastics,
such as vinblastine, vincristine, interferons; a,   P and  y, antimetabolites, such as folic
acid analogs, purine analogs, and pyrimidine analogs; immunosuppressants such as
azathiprine, cyclosporine and mizoribine; miotic agents, such as carbachol, mydriatic
agents such as atropine, etc., ranibizumab, bevacizumab, protease inhibitors such as
aprotinin, camostat, gabexate, vasodilators such as bradykinin, etc., and various growth
factors, such epidermal growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor, nerve growth
factors, and the like. In some embodiments the drug is timolol, brimonidine,
bimatoprost, ketorolac, dexamethasone, memantine, prednisolone acetate,
triamcinolone acetonide, ranibizumab, or bevacizumab. Reference to a drug includes a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt or a prodrug of the drug.
[00017]     In some embodiments, two or more different drugs may be used in a
formulation. The drugs may be mixed together in any of the microspheres or may be
mixed together in the media composition, or may be separated. For example, one set
of microspheres may contain one drug and a different set of microspheres may contain
a second drug. In some embodiments, a formulation comprising a first set of
microspheres comprising ranibizumab or bevacizumab and a second set of
microspheres comprising a different drug may be used to treat macular degeneration or
diabetic retinopathy.
[00018]     After the media material increases in viscosity to form a solid or a gel,
microparticles and drug not part of a microparticle ("media drug") may be encapsulated
in the solid or gel so that contact between physiological fluid and media drug may be
limited. Over time, aqueous physiological fluid may slowly permeate the media material
and release the media drug. Eventually, physiological fluid may also begin penetrating
the microparticles so that drug may begin to be released from the microparticles. Media
drug composition may be released up to 1 month, up to 2 months, up to 3 months, or
possibly longer, after injection.
                                                5

    WO 2013/112434                                                     PCT/US2013/022466
[00019]    A liquid media composition, such as a low viscosity liquid media composition,
may allow a drug to be delivered through a very small needle, such as about 25 gauge
or about 30 gauge.     Use of a small needle may reduce the risk of needle-induced
serious adverse effects. Use of a small needle may be especially beneficial for injection
of a formulation comprising a drug into the vitreous humor of an eye. For injection into
a back of an eye area such as a vitreous humor, a smaller needle reduces the
likelihood of needle-induced serious adverse effects, such as endophthalmitis, retinal
separation, vitreal separation, severe pain, etc.
[00020]    Injecting a low viscosity liquid media composition that solidifies or gels in vivo
provides significant safety advantages over other methods of implanting solid devices.
For example, injecting a sustained release liquid to solid formulation may avoid surgical
implantation of a solid device of a similar size into an eye. A narrow gauge needle may
minimize trauma to an eye as compared to surgical implantation, and thus may
minimize loss of vitreal fluid, may decrease the probability of retinal and vitreal
separation, and may greatly reduce the risk of infection such as endophthalmitis.
[00021]    A solidifying or gelling media may trap microparticles and drug particles as
the formulation enters the vitreous. Liquid formulations comprising microparticles or
drug particles that do not undergo a phase change may "plume" and/or settle on the
posterior retina, which may cause temporary blindness. Furthermore, formulations that
plume may settle on the lens, where they may cause vitreous opacities or speckling.
Small particles may also be endocytosed within a cell, where they are rapidly degraded
and "dumped," thereby initiating a local inflammatory response.
[00022]    Penetration of microparticles may begin after a substantial amount of drug
has been released from the media. If the thickness of microparticle coatings varies
within a plurality of microparticles, particles with thinner coatings may begin releasing
drug before particles with thicker coatings. Thus, a range of coating thickness may help
to control drug release over time. A plurality of microspheres may have a variety of
coating materials, such that different coating materials allow different release
properties. Thus, a variety of coating materials may help to control drug release over
time.
[00023]    Microparticles include any particles having a size around the micron or pm
range, or smaller, such as about 0.01 pm to about 1000 pm, about 1 pm to about 300
pm, about 10 pm to about 100 pm. Microparticles may be of any shape, such as
                                                6

    WO 2013/112434                                                      PCT/US2013/022466
approximately spherical (e.g. microspheres), spheroid, ellipsoid, cylindrical, rod-shaped,
etc.
[00024]     Since microparticles are very small, they may be delivered through a very
small needle, such as about 25 gauge or about 30 gauge. Use of a small needle may
reduce the risk of needle-induced serious adverse effects, as explained above.
[00025]       A microparticle comprises a drug, as described above, and a coating. The
coating comprises a bioerodible material or a biodegradable material.
[00026]       A bioerodible material includes any material that erodes in vivo.
Bioerodible materials do not necessarily chemically degrade in vivo, but may disperse
or dissolve in vivo in a manner that can release a therapeutically effective amount of a
drug for a period that is significantly greater than the normal in vivo life of the drug.
Examples of bioerodible materials include, but are not limited to, polyvinylpyrrolidine
(PVP), carboxymethylcellulose (CMC), polyvinyl chloride (PVC),
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose (HPMC), polyorthoester, and the like.
[00027]       A biodegradable material includes a material which chemically degrades in
vivo in a manner that it can release a therapeutically effective amount of drug for a
period that is significantly greater than the normal in vivo life of the drug. A
biodegradable material may be a single polymer or copolymer, or any combination or
blend of polymers. Examples of biodegradable polymer materials may include, but are
not limited to, polymers made of monomers such as esters, ethers, anhydrides, amides,
orthoesters, which when degraded result in physiologically acceptable degradation
products. Polymer materials may be crosslinked or non-crosslinked. If crosslinked,
they may be lightly crosslinked, such as less than 5% or 1% crosslinked.
[00028]       Some biodegradable polymer materials may include polymers of
hydroxyaliphatic carboxylic acids, either homo- or copolymers, and polysaccharides.
Included among polyesters of interest are homo- or copolymers of D-lactic acid, L-lactic
acid, racemic lactic acid, glycolic acid, caprolactone, and combinations thereof. For
some copolymers of glycolic and lactic acid, biodegradation may be affected by the
ratio of glycolic to lactic acid.
[00029]     In some embodiments, biodegradable polymer material may comprise PLA,
PLGA, a polyanhydride, a polyorthosters (POE), etc., or a combination thereof. In
some embodiments, polylactide may be about 2% to about 100 %, about 2% to about
20%, about 20% to about 30%, about 30% to about 40%, about 40% to about 50%,
about 50% to about 60%, about 60% to about 70%, about 70% to about 80%, about
                                               7

   WO 2013/112434                                                     PCT/US2013/022466
80% to about 90%, or about 90% to about 100% of the weight of the polymer material.
In some embodiments, poly(lactide-co-glycolide) may be about 2% to about 100%,
about 2% to about 20%, about 20% to about 30%, about 30% to about 40%, about 40%
to about 50%, about 50% to about 60%, about 60% to about 70%, about 70% to about
80%, about 80% to about 90%, or about 90% to about 100% of the weight of the
polymer material.
[00030]      Polylactide, polylactic acid, or PLA, includes poly (D,L-lactide), and may
also be identified by CAS Number 26680-10-4 and may be represented by a formula:
                                            0
                                0                                 *0
                          *                      0
                                                            0
[00031]      Poly(lactic-co-glycolic)acid, poly(lactide-co-glycolide), or PLGA, includes
(D,L-lactide-co-glycolide), also identified by CAS Number 26780-50-7, and may be
represented by a formula:
                             0                            0
                           0                    0
                                  0           0               0
                                            o      x                    oy
[00032]      Thus, PLtA comprises one or more blocks of D,L-lactide repeat units and
one or more blocks of glycolide repeat units, where the size and number of the
respective blocks may vary.
[00033]      The molar percent of each monomer in poly(lactic-co-glycolic)acid (PLGA)
copolymer may be 0-100%, about 15-85%, about 25-75%, or about 35-65%. In some
embodiments, the OL-lactide may be about 50% to about 75%, about 48% to about
52%, or about 50%; or about 73% to about 77%, or about 75% of the PLGA polymer on
a molar basis. The balance of the polymer may essentially be glycolide repeat units.
                                              8

    WO 2013/112434                                                 PCT/US2013/022466
For example, glycolide may be about 25% to about 50%, about 23% to about 27%, or
about 25%; or about 48% to about 52%, or about 50% of the PLGA polymer on a molar
basis. Other groups, such as terminal or capping groups may be present in small
amounts. In some embodiments, PLGA copolymers are used in conjunction with
polylactide polymers.
[00034]        In some embodiments, a coating may comprise PLA, PLGA, PVP, CMC,
PVC, HPMC, polyorthoester, a PEG, or the like.
[00035]     In some embodiments, a plurality of microspheres have 3 different coatings, a
first group having a PLGA coating, a second group having a PLA coating, and a third
group having a POE coating.
[00036]       The thickness of a coating may vary. In some embodiments, a coating
may have a thickness of about 1 pm to about 5 pm, about 1pm, about 2 pm, about 3
pm, about 4 pm, about 5 pm, or any thickness in a range bounded by, or between, any
of these values.
[00037]     In some embodiments, a plurality of microparticles may have several different
coating thicknesses. For example, microparticles may have 2, 3, 4, 5, or more different
coating thicknesses, and or types of coating materials. In some embodiments, the
microparticles may have:
           a) 2 coating thicknesses such as: about 1 pm and about 2 pm, 1 pm and 3
           pm, 1 pm and 4 pm, 1 pm and 5 pm, 2 pm and 3 pm, 2 pm and 4 pm, 2 pm
           and 5 pm, 3 pm and 4 pm, 3 pm and 5 pm, 4 pm and 5 pm, etc.;
           b) 3 coating thicknesses such as 1 pm, 2 pm, and 3 pm; 1 pm, 2 pm, and 4
           pm; 1 pm, 3 pm, and 4 pm; 2 pm, 3 pm, and 4 pm; 1 pm, 2 pm, and 5 pm; 1
           pm, 3 pm, and 5 pm; 2 pm, 3 pm, and 5 pm; 1 pm, 4 pm, and 5 pm; 2 pm, 4
           pm, and 5 pm; 3 pm, 4 pm, and 5 pm; 1 pm, 2 pm, 3 pm, 4 pm, and 5 pm;
           etc.
           c) 4 coating thicknesses such as 2 pm, 3 pm, 4 pm, and 5 pm; 1 pm, 3 pm, 4
           pm, and 5 pm; 1 pm, 2 pm, 4 pm, and 5 pm; 1 pm, 2 pm, 3 pm, and 5 pm; 1
           pm, 2 pm, 3 pm, and 4 pm; etc.; or
           d) 5 coating thicknesses such as 1 pm, 2 pm, 3 pm, 4 pm, and 5 pm; etc
[00038]     In some embodiments, a plurality of microspheres may comprise a first
microsphere type comprising a PLA coating with a thickness of about 1 pm; a second
microsphere type comprising a PLA coating with a thickness of about 2 pm; a third
microsphere type comprising a PLA coating with a thickness of about 3 pm; a fourth
                                            9

   WO 2013/112434                                                     PCT/US2013/022466
microsphere type comprising a PLA coating with a thickness of about 4 pm; and a fifth
microsphere type comprising a PLA coating with a thickness of about 5 pm.
[00039]     Some examples of about 1 pm may include, but are not limited to, 0.5 pm,
0.6 pm, 0.7 pm, 0.8 pm, 0.9 pm, 1.0 pm, 1.1 pm, 1.2 pm, 1.3 pm, 1.4 pm, etc.
[00040]     Some examples of about 2 pm may include, but are not limited to, 1.5 pm,
1.6 pm, 1.7 pm, 1.8 pm, 1.9 pm, 2.0 pm, 2.1 pm, 2.2 pm, 2.3 pm, 2.4 pm, etc.
[00041]     Some examples of about 3 pm may include, but are not limited to, 2.5 pm,
2.6 pm, 2.8 pm, 2.8 pm, 2.9 pm, 3.0 pm, 3.1 pm, 3.2 pm, 3.3 pm, 3.4 pm, etc.
[00042]     Some examples of about 4 pm may include, but are not limited to, 3.5 pm,
3.6 pm, 3.7 pm, 3.8 pm, 3.9 pm, 4.0 pm, 4.1 pm, 4.2 pm, 4.3 pm, 4.4 pm, etc.
[00043]     Some examples of about 5 pm may include, but are not limited to, 4.5 pm,
4.6 pm, 4.7 pm, 4.8 pm, 4.9 pm, 5.0 pm, 5.1 pm, 5.2 pm, 5.3 pm, 5.4 pm, etc.
[00044]     In addition to a being coated with a bioerodible material or biodegradable
material, a microparticle may include a bioerodible material or a biodegradable material
inside the coating with the drug, and may thus further extend the delivery of a drug. If
the interior of a microparticle comprises a bioerodible material or a biodegradable
material, the amount may vary. In some embodiments, bioerodible material or
biodegradable material may be about 10% to about 90%, about 10% to about 30%,
about 30% to about 70%, about 30% to about 40%, about 40% to about 50%, about
50% to about 60%, about 70% to about 90%, or about 50% to about 85% of a
microparticle by weight.
[00045]       The amount of drug in a microparticle may vary. In some embodiments,
drug may be about 10% to about 90%, about 10% to about 30%, about 30% to about
70%, about 30% to about 40%, about 40% to about 50%, about 50% to about 60%, or
about 70% to about 90% of a microparticle by weight.
[00046]     In some embodiments, microparticles may comprise PLGA, PLA, or a
combination thereof loaded with therapeutically effective agent and a biodegradable or
bioerodible coating.
[00047]     In some embodiments, a composite drug delivery material may deliver an
effective amount of the drug at the site of injection for a longer period of time than: a
composition comprising the media material and the same amount of the drug without
any microparticles and/or a plurality of microparticles comprising the same amount of
the drug without any media material.
                                              10

   WO 2013/112434                                                       PCT/US2013/022466
[00048]     In some embodiments, a composite drug delivery material may provide
sustained release of a drug over a period of about 1 month to about 3 years, about 2
month to about 2 years, about 3 months to about 12 months, at least about 2 months,
about 3 months, about 6 months, about 12 months, or more. This sustained release
may reduce the risk of needle-induced serious adverse events because it may reduce
the frequency of injections. Reducing the frequency of injections into an eye may
reduce the risk of needle-induced serious adverse events, and may be preferred by
patients. Thus, a drug delivery system that allows injections to be at least about 3
months apart, about 6 months apart, about 9 months apart, about 12 months apart, or
longer, may be desirable.
[00049]     In some embodiments, pseudo-zero order delivery of a drug may be
obtainable over an extended period of time by varying (1) coating thickness of drug
loaded microparticles, (2) the total number of different thicknesses of coatings on drug
loaded microparticles (3), the number of microparticles within each coating group,
and/or (4) the biodegradable or bioerodible polymer used to prepare the microparticle.
[00050]     A composite drug delivery material may be used to treat any ocular disease
or injury, including but not limited to, the following:
[00051]     MACULOPATHIES/RETINAL DEGENERATION: Non-Exudative Age Related
Macular Degeneration (ARMD), Exudative Age Related Macular Degeneration (ARMD),
Choroidal Neovascularization, Diabetic Retinopathy, Acute Macular Neuroretinopathy,
Central Serous Chorioretinopathy, Cystoid Macular Edema, Diabetic Macular Edema.
[00052]     UVEITIS/RETINITIS/CHOROIDITIS:           Acute Multifocal Placoid Pigment
Epitheliopathy, Behcet's Disease, Birdshot Retinochoroidopathy, Infectious (Syphilis,
Lyme, Tuberculosis, Toxoplasmosis), Intermediate Uveitis (Pars Planitis), Multifocal
Choroiditis, Multiple Evanescent White Dot Syndrome (MEWDS), Ocular Sarcoidosis,
Posterior Scleritis, Serpignous Choroiditis, Subretinal Fibrosis and Uveitis Syndrome,
Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada Syndrome.
[00053]     VASUCLAR DISEASES/ EXUDATIVE DISEASES Retinal Arterial Occlusive
Disease, Central Retinal Vein Occlusion, Disseminated Intravascular Coagulopathy,
Branch Retinal Vein Occlusion, Hypertensive Fundus Changes, Ocular Ischemic
Syndrome, Retinal Arterial Microaneurysms, Coat's Disease, Parafoveal Telangiectasis,
Hemi-Retinal Vein Occlusion, Papillophlebitis, Central Retinal Artery Occlusion, Branch
Retinal Artery Occlusion, Carotid Artery Disease (CAD), Frosted Branch Angiitis, Sickle
                                                11

   WO 2013/112434                                                   PCT/US2013/022466
Cell Retinopathy and other Hemoglobinopathies, Angioid Streaks, Familial Exudative
Vitreoretinopathy, Eales Disease.
[00054]     TRAUMATIC/SURGICAL: Sympathetic Ophthalmia, Uveitic Retinal Disease,
Retinal Detachment, Trauma, Laser, PDT, Photocoagulation, Hypoperfusion During
Surgery, Radiation Retinopathy, Bone Marrow Transplant Retinopathy.
[00055]     PROLIFERATIVE DISORDERS: Proliferative Vitreal Retinopathy and
Epiretinal Membranes, Proliferative Diabetic Retinopathy, Retinopathy of Prematurity
(retrolental fibroplastic).
[00056]     INFECTIOUS DISORDERS: Ocular Histoplasmosis, Ocular Toxocariasis,
Presumed Ocular Histoplasmosis Syndrome (POHS), Endophthalmitis, Toxoplasmosis,
Retinal Diseases Associated with HIV Infection, Choroidal Disease Associated with HIV
Infection, Uveitic Disease Associated with HIV Infection, Viral Retinitis, Acute Retinal
Necrosis, Progressive Outer Retinal Necrosis, Fungal Retinal Diseases, Ocular
Syphilis, Ocular Tuberculosis, Diffuse Unilateral Subacute Neuroretinitis, Myiasis.
[00057]     GENETIC DISORDERS: Retinitis Pigmentosa, Systemic Disorders with
Associated Retinal Dystrophies, Congenital Stationary Night Blindness, Cone
Dystrophies, Fundus Flavimaculatus, Best's Disease, Pattern Dystrophy of the Retinal
Pigmented Epithelium, X-Linked Retinoschisis, Sorsby's Fundus Dystrophy, Benign
Concentric Maculopathy, Bietti's Crystalline Dystrophy, pseudoxanthoma elasticum,
Osler Weber syndrome.
[00058]     RETINAL TEARS/HOLES: Retinal Detachment, Macular Hole, Giant Retinal
Tear.
[00059]     TUMORS: Retinal Disease Associated with Tumors, Solid Tumors, Tumor
Metastasis, Benign Tumors, for example, hemangiomas, neurofibromas, trachomas,
and pyogenic granulomas, Congenital Hypertrophy of the RPE, Posterior Uveal
Melanoma, Choroidal Hemangioma, Choroidal Osteoma, Choroidal Metastasis,
Combined Hamartoma of the Retina and Retinal Pigmented Epithelium,
Retinoblastoma, Vasoproliferative Tumors of the Ocular Fundus, Retinal Astrocytoma,
Intraocular Lymphoid Tumors.
[00060]     MISCELLANEOUS: Punctate Inner Choroidopathy, Acute Posterior Multifocal
Placoid Pigment Epitheliopathy, Myopic Retinal Degeneration, Acute Retinal Pigment
Epithelitis, Ocular inflammatory and immune disorders, ocular vascular malfunctions,
Corneal Graft Rejection, Neovascular Glaucoma and the like.
Example 1
                                            12

   WO 2013/112434                                                     PCT/US2013/022466
[00061]    A batch of drug-loaded microspheres is separated into 3 portions. The first
portion is coated with PLGA. The second portion is coated with PLA having a second
thickness. The third portion is coated with a polyorthoester [POE] having a third
thickness. The POE is a poly(orthoester) polymer made by condensation
polymerization of 3,9-diethylidene-2,4,8,10-tetraoxaspiro[5.5]undecane (DETOSU),
cyclohexanedimethanol (CDM), triethylene glycol (TEG) and 1,10-decanediol (DD).
Triethylene glycol glycolide (TEG-GL) is added as a latent acid catalyst to initiate
hydrolysis of the POE backbone. The POE polymer molecular weight is about 30,000 to
about 35,000 Daltons. Coated microspheres from the three groups are mixed with a
solidifying depot-forming media containing the same drug. Once the suspension is
injected into the vitreous through a narrow gauge needle, it solidifies nearly instantly,
trapping the microspheres. As the depot slowly erodes, the drug from the depot is
released first. This is followed by release from the microspheres in the first group, the
second group, and the third group, respectively.
Example 2
[00062]     PLGA microspheres loaded with Compound 1 with PLA coatings of 1, 2, 3, 4,
and 5 pm thickness respectively, are suspended in a formulation of Compound 1 in
ReGel and adjusted for viscosity, pH, and ionic strength.    The suspension of
microspheres is then lyophilized for stability purposes and stored (the microspheres
may also be lyophilized in the presence of "free" drug, so as to provide a bolus dose, if
desirable, upon reconstitution and injection). After reconstitution, the formulation,
maintained at 50C, is injected through a 30 gauge needle into an animal vitreous and
the formulation instantly gels at the temperature of the vitreous, ca 37*C, trapping the
microspheres.
[00063]     Once in the vitreous, the ReGel begins to release Compound 1. As the
ReGel bioerodes, additional drug is released and the coated microspheres begin to be
exposed to the aqueous environment within the vitreous. As the microspheres are
exposed to the aqueous environment at 370C, the coatings begin to bioerode.
[00064]     The microspheres within the 1 pm coating have its drug-containing PLGA
matrix exposed first and begin to release Compound 1. Meanwhile, microspheres with
intact coating do not yet release the drug. As time continues, the coating on the
microspheres within the 2 pm coating erode and begin to expose its drug-containing
PLGA matrix, and drug begins to be released. Around the same time, the drug in the
ReGel and the microspheres in the 1 pm coating begins to be depleted.
                                             13

    WO 2013/112434                                                     PCT/US2013/022466
[00065]     Sometime later, the 3 pm coating on a third group of microspheres is bio
removed and this group begins releasing Compound 1, as the drug release from the
earlier releasing microspheres (e.g. those with 1 pm and 2 pm coatings) is depleted.
This is followed, sometime later, by the erosion of the 4 pm and 5 pm coatings from the
heaviest-coated microspheres, and subsequently, further drug is released.
[00066]     Unless otherwise indicated, all numbers expressing quantities of ingredients,
properties such as molecular weight, reaction conditions, and so forth used in the
specification and claims are to be understood as being modified in all instances by the
term "about." Accordingly, unless indicated to the contrary, the numerical parameters
set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations that may vary
depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained. At the very least, and
not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of
the claims, each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the
number of reported significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding techniques.
[00067]     The terms "a," "an," "the" and similar referents used in the context of
describing the invention (especially in the context of the following claims) are to be
construed to cover both the singular and the plural, unless otherwise indicated herein or
clearly contradicted by context. All methods described herein can be performed in any
suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by
context. The use of any and all examples, or exemplary language (e.g., "such as")
provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the invention and does not pose
a limitation on the scope of any claim. No language in the specification should be
construed as indicating any non-claimed element essential to the practice of the
invention.
[00068]     Groupings of alternative elements or embodiments disclosed herein are not
to be construed as limitations. Each group member may be referred to and claimed
individually or in any combination with other members of the group or other elements
found herein. It is anticipated that one or more members of a group may be included in,
or deleted from, a group for reasons of convenience and/or patentability. When any
such inclusion or deletion occurs, the specification is deemed to contain the group as
modified thus fulfilling the written description of all Markush groups used in the
appended claims.
[00069]     Certain embodiments are described herein, including the best mode known to
the inventors for carrying out the invention. Of course, variations on these described
                                               14

    WO 2013/112434                                                     PCT/US2013/022466
embodiments will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the
foregoing description. The inventor expects skilled artisans to employ such variations
as appropriate, and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than
specifically described herein. Accordingly, the claims include all modifications and
equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims as permitted by applicable law.
Moreover, any combination of the above-described elements in all possible variations
thereof is contemplated unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly
contradicted by context.
[00070]      In closing, it is to be understood that the embodiments disclosed herein are
illustrative of the principles of the claims. Other modifications that may be employed
are within the scope of the claims. Thus, by way of example, but not of limitation,
alternative embodiments may be utilized in accordance with the teachings herein.
Accordingly, the claims are not limited to embodiments precisely as shown and
described.
                                                15

   WO 2013/112434                                                     PCT/US2013/022466
                                             CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1.      A composite drug delivery material comprising:
                a plurality of microparticles dispersed in a media composition;
                wherein the microparticles comprise:
                        a drug; and
                        a coating comprising a bioerodible material or a biodegradable
                material; and
                wherein the media composition comprises the drug dispersed in a depot
        forming material;
                and wherein the media composition is in a liquid form before
        administration and is configured to substantially increase in viscosity during or
        after being injected into a body of a mammal, so that the form of the media after
        injection is a solid or a gel.
2.      A method of treating an ocular disease or injury comprising injecting a composite
drug delivery material according to claim 1 into an eye of a mammal in need thereof.
3.      The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein a single injection of the composite drug
material provides a therapeutically effective amount of the drug for about 3 months to
about 12 months.
4.      The method of any one of claims 2-3, wherein the ocular disease is macular
degeneration or diabetic retinopathy.
5.      The composite drug delivery material or method of any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the composite drug delivery material is configured to deliver an
effective amount of the drug at the site of injection for a longer period of time than a
composition comprising the media material and the same amount of the drug without
any microparticles.
6.      The composite drug delivery material or method of any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the composite drug delivery material is configured to deliver an
effective amount of the drug at the site of injection for a longer period of time than the
plurality of microparticles comprising the same amount of the drug without any media
material.
7.      The composite drug delivery material or method of any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the drug is timolol, brimonidine, bimatoprost, ketorolac,
                                                16

    WO 2013/112434                                                 PCT/US2013/022466
dexamethasone, memantine, prednisolone acetate, triamcinolone acetonide,
ranibizumab, or bevacizumab.
8.     The composite drug delivery material or method of any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the drug is ranibizumab.
9.     The composite drug delivery material or method of any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the coating comprises polylactide, poly-lactide-co-glycolide,
polyvinyl pyrrol id ine, carboxymethylcellulose, PVC, hydroxymethylpropylcell ulose,
polyorthoester, or a polyethylene glycol.
10.    The composite drug delivery material or method of any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the coating comprises polylactide.
11.    The composite drug delivery material or method of any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the coating has a thickness of about 1 pm to about 5 pm.
12.    The composite drug delivery material or method of any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the plurality of microparticles comprises:
               a first microsphere type comprising a polymer coating having a thickness
       of about 1 pm;
               a second microsphere type comprising a polymer coating having a
       thickness of about 2 pm;
               a third microsphere type comprising a polymer coating having a thickness
       of about 3 pm;
               a fourth microsphere type comprising a polymer coating having a
       thickness of about 4 pm; and
               a fifth microsphere type comprising a polymer coating having a thickness
       of about 5 pm.
13.    The composite drug delivery material or method of any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the microspheres further comprise poly-lactide-co-glycolide, polylactide,
or a combination thereof loaded with drug.
14.    The composite drug delivery material or method of any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the depot-forming material comprises: a biodegradable copolymer
comprising poly-lactide-co-glycolide blocks and polyethylene glycol blocks, a sucrose
acetate isobutyrate complex, a poly-lactide-co-glycolide in an organic solution, or a
polylactide in an organic solution.
15.    The composite drug delivery material or method of any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the polymer is a polylactide polymer.
                                              17

