   ABSTRACT
                Novel thionocarbamate compounds having one or more substituents with five or
   more carbon atoms have been produced and evaluated as collectors used in froth flotation
   processes for the recovery of minerals. The amounts of minerals being recovered are
 5 greater as compared to the results obtained from using a conventional collector as a
   standard when using the novel thionocarbamates. Not only is the amount of materials
   recovered increased, i.e. enhanced yield, but also the novel thionocarbamate collectors
   have enhanced selectivity by rejecting iron to a greater extent than the standard so that the
   purity of the mineral being recovered is increased. A method of making the novel
10 thionocarbamates is described using novel xanthates and amines, including novel amines.
   The advantage of the processes and methods is that the xanthates used to produce the
   novel thionocarbamates do not need to be pre-treated by being dried, purified, isolated, but
   rather the xanthates can be used in the form as produced.
                                                                                             13/12/17
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                      -1
                                     THIONOCARBAMATES AND PROCESSES
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
                The present invention relates to processes and methods of making
 5 thionocarbamates and to thionocarbamates made by such methods and processes.
                In one form, the present invention relates to methods and processes of making
   thionocarbamates from xanthates and to thionocarbamates made by such methods and
   processes.
                In one form, the present invention relates to new xanthate compounds, particularly
10 new xanthate compounds that are used to react with amines to form new thionocarbamates.
                In one form, the present invention relates to new and/or different amines, particularly
   new and/or different amines used in processes of making thionocarbamates, including new
   thionocarbamates.
                In one form, the present invention relates to collectors for use in froth flotation
15 processes to recover materials of economic value in which the collectors are, or comprise,
   thionocarbamates made by the methods and processes of the invention either alone or in
   combination with other collectors, activators, frothers and the like, including combinations of
   different thionocarbamates or combinations of thionocarbamates with other types of
   collectors.
20              In one form, the present invention relates to methods and processes of recovering
   materials of economic value in froth flotation processes using thionocarbamates as
   collectors in which the thionocarbamates are made generally in accordance with the
   methods and processes as described herein.
                The present invention finds particular application in making new thionocarbamates
25 from corresponding xanthates for use as collectors in froth flotation processes for recovering
   valuable materials from naturally occurring materials such as ores and the like, including
   gold, silver, platinum, copper, nickel, lead, palladium, zinc, molybdenum, and other valuable
   minerals or similar, optionally while rejecting simultaneous iron recovery.
30 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
                Thionocarbamates are a class of compounds that have been used previously in the
   minerals and mining industries as reagents for the extraction of valuable materials, such as
   minerals, from naturally occurring materials, such as ores or the like, from waste products,
   such as smelter slags, tailings or the like, containing deposits of minerals or metals which
35 are to be extracted from the waste products. Thionocarbamates are also known as
   thiourethanes and can be represented by the general formula
                                                                                                    5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                    -2
                                      RO-C(S)-NH R' (General Formula I)
   in which both R and R' are generally hydrocarbon radicals.
 5              Although certain thionocarbamates have been available in the past, the range of
   commercially available thionocarbamates has been severely restricted to a small number of
   selected thionocarbamates, such as for example thionocarbamates of general Formula 1 in
   which the substituents represented by R and R' are limited to the lower alkyl radicals
   containing from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, such as for example, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl and
10 isobutyl. Whilst the use of such thionocarbamates having lower alkyl radical substituents,
   i.e. up to 4 carbon atoms, has met with some commercial success, there has been little, if
   any, investigations into the use of thionocarbamates having higher alkyl radical substituents
   or non alkyl substituents for use as collectors in ore froth flotation processes for the recovery
   of minerals. One of the reasons for the very limited investigations into thionocarbamates
15 having higher alkyl substituents, or substituents other than alkyl substituents, is the problems
   encountered in actually preparing such thionocarbamates, such as for example, from
   corresponding xanthates because the xanthates were generally not in a usable form. In
   situations where xanthates are used as the precursors for the thionocarbamates, about the
   longest carbon chain of the substituents of the xanthate compounds that are currently
20 available commercially is about 4 or 5 carbon atoms, such as for example, amyl xanthate,
   which is believed to be about the longest chain xanthate in commercial production currently.
   However, even amyl xanthate has met with only limited success commercially and is not
   generally used as a collector.
                Xanthates having substituents of more than 4 carbon atoms are generally regarded
25 as being unsuitable for use in commercial production of thionocarbamates since it is
   believed by many that one of the reasons is that such xanthates are not capable of being
   dried sufficiently or economically into a form which is suitable for use in the subsequent
   manufacture of the thionocarbamates in commercial production processes. Another reason
   for the reluctance to use xanthates having substituents of more than about 4 carbon atoms
30 is that the xanthates, after having been made by current commercial manufacturing routes,
   remain as an untreatable or unusable mass which mass may contain many individual
   compounds, in addition to the xanthates of interest. This mixture of different compounds
   makes it extremely difficult to isolate the xanthates of interest. Additionally, the mass is
   difficult to handle for use in subsequent chemical reactions for forming the corresponding
35 thionocarbamate.
                                                                                                5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                       -3
                Additionally, the mass containing the xanthate is often of either low purity or is
   unstable or both, making it either difficult or expensive, or both, to purify the xanthate in the
   mass to an acceptable level for use commercially, because of the physical state and/or
   chemical composition of the mass. Thus, for those reasons, there has been no incentive to
 5 use higher alkyl substituted xanthates in the past.
                Surprisingly, it has now been discovered as a result of investigations by the inventor,
   that some xanthates having a wider variety of substituents represented by R and R' can be
   made and/or can be used to react with at least some amines and/or for use in the
   manufacture of thionocarbamates to be used as collectors in froth flotation processes when
10 made from the corresponding xanthates having substituents containing more than 4 carbon
   atoms.
                In order to be able to investigate the characteristics of the new thionocarbamates and
   their suitability for use as collectors, first it was necessary to not only investigate the different
   xanthates potentially useful for forming the thionocarbamates, but it was also necessary to
15 investigate the manufacture of the new xanthates by developing improved synthetic routes
   for making firstly the new xanthates themselves, and secondly making the new
   thionocarbamates from the new xanthates. The inventor has now been able to address both
   of these issues.
                Additionally, the inventor has been able to make new and/or improved xanthates as
20 well as the corresponding thionocarbamates by surprisingly discovering that the unstable
   amorphous mass of the longer chain xanthates can be used directly in the form as produced
   in the reactions, which obviates the need for the xanthates to first undergo expensive and/or
   time consuming treatments to purify and/or isolate the selected xanthates needed to make
   the new thionocarbamates thereby improving the efficiency of the processes and thus,
25 making the use of the longer chain thionocarbamates having more than 4 carbon atoms as
   collectors more economically attractive.
                As part of the investigation into the manufacture of the new thionocarbamates using
   the new xanthates, further investigations into the use of amines were conducted, such as for
   example, investigations into the effect of the reaction of amines with xanthates including
30 both established amines and amines not previously investigated for use in making
   thionocarbamates, particularly thionocarbamates having the potential to be effective
   collectors of minerals.
                Accordingly, it is an aim of the present invention to provide new thionocarbamates.
                Accordingly, it is an aim of the present invention to provide new thionocarbamates
35 that can be used as collectors in froth flotation processes to recover minerals of economic
   value.
                                                                                                    5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                       -4
                Accordingly, it is an aim of the present invention to provide a blend of one or more
   thionocarbamates suitable for use as collectors in froth flotation processes.
                Accordingly, it is an aim of the present invention to provide an improved synthetic
   route for using xanthates having substituents of 5 or more carbon atoms to make
 5 thionocarbamates having substituents of 5 or more carbon atoms.
                Accordingly, it is an aim of the present invention to provide amines, including
   established amines and amines not previously used, which are useful in reactions with
   xanthates to prepare thionocarbamates having substituents of 5 or more carbon atoms.
                Accordingly, it is an aim of the present invention to provide xanthates having
10 substituents of 5 or more carbon atoms which are useful in making thionocarbamates.
                Accordingly, it is an aim of the present invention to provide an improved synthetic
   route for making xanthates having substituents of 5 or more carbon atoms.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
15              According to one form of the invention, there is provided a method for the
   concentration of a mineral in a froth flotation installation to recover the mineral comprising
   the steps of comminuting a material containing the mineral to a size at which the mineral is
   at least partially liberated or accessible by a collector composition to form a comminuted
   material and contacting the comminuted mineral with the collector composition to
20 concentrate the mineral wherein, the collector composition comprises at least one
   thionocarbamate, which is the reaction product of contacting a xanthate having a substituent
   that is attached to the oxygen atom of the xanthate which substituent has 5 or more carbon
   atoms with an amine in the presence of an organic acid or organic acid salt to form the
   thionocarbamate.
25              According to one form of the invention, there is provided a method of extracting a
   mineral from a material containing the mineral using a thionocarbamate comprising the steps
   of comminuting the material containing the mineral to a size sufficient to expose the mineral
   to contact by the thionocarbamate and contacting the material containing the mineral with a
   collector composition containing the thionocarbamate in a froth flotation process to extract
30 the mineral from the material containing the mineral wherein the thionocarbamate is a
   compound of General Formula 1l:
                 R10C(=S)NR2R3         (II)
35              in which at least one of R1, R2, or R3 is selected from a generally hydrocarbon
   radical having 5 or more carbon atoms, and the others of R1, R2, or R3 are the same or
                                                                                                    5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                      -5
   different from each other wherein the thionocarbamate is a reaction product of contacting a
   xanthate having a substituent of 5 or more carbon atoms with an amine in the presence of
   an organic acid or organic acid salt.
                According to one form, there is provided a thionocarbamate compound of General
 5 Formula 1l:
                R10C(=S)NR 2 R3      (II)
   in which at least one of R1, R2 , or R3 is selected from a generally hydrocarbon radical having
10 5 or more carbon atoms and the others of R1, R2 , or R3 are the same or different from each
   other wherein R1, R2 , and R3 are each a hydrocarbon radical selected from linear radicals,
   branched radicals, saturated radicals, unsaturated radicals, unsubstituted radicals,
   substituted radicals, cyclic radicals, heterocyclic radicals, aliphatic radicals, aromatic
   radicals, saturated radicals, unsaturated radicals or the like.
15              According to one form, there is provided a thionocarbamate of General Formula II
   when made by a process comprising at least the steps of contacting a xanthate or xanthate
   containing material or a precursor of a xanthate or a material from which a xanthate can be
   derived with an amine or amine-containing material or a precursor of an amine material or a
   material from which an amine can be derived in the presence of an acid material to form a
20 thionocarbamate of General Formula Il being
                R10C(=S)NR 2 R3      (II)
   in which at least one of R1, R2 , R3 is selected from a hydrocarbon radical having 5 or more
25 carbon atoms in which the hydrocarbon radical includes linear radicals, branched radicals,
   saturated radicals, unsaturated radicals, unsubstituted radicals and substituted radicals,
   cyclic radicals, heterocyclic radicals, aliphatic radicals, aromatic radicals or the like having a
   total of 5 or more carbon atoms and in which the others of R1 , R2 , or R3 are the same or
   different from each other and are selected from hydrogen, hydrocarbon radicals, including
30 linear, branched, unsubstituted, substituted, cyclic, heterocyclic, saturated, unsaturated
   radicals, aliphatic, aromatic, or the like.
                According to one form of the present invention, there is provided a process for the
   preparation of a thionocarbamate of General Formula II
35              R1 0C(=S)NR 2 R3 (II)
                                                                                                   5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                      -6
   comprising the steps of contacting a xanathate or xanthate containing material and an
   amine, including a diamine or triamine,in the presence of an unsubstituted or substituted
   acetic acid to form a thionocarbamate of General Formula II in which at least one of R1, R2
   or R3 is selected from a hydrocarbon radical having 5 or more carbon atoms in which the
 5 hydrocarbon radical includes linear radicals, branched radicals, saturated radicals,
   unsaturated radicals, unsubstituted radicals and substituted radicals, cyclic radicals,
   heterocyclic radicals, aliphatic radicals, aromatic radicals, or the like, having a total of 5 or
   more carbon atoms and the others of R2 and R3 are the same or different and are selected
   from hydrogen or hydrocarbon radicals, including linear, branched, unsubstituted,
10 substituted, saturated, unsaturated, cyclic, heterocyclic, aliphatic, aromatic radicals or the
   like.
                According to one form of the present invention, there is provided a process for the
   production of a thionocarbamate comprising reacting a xanthate having a substituent
   attached to the oxygen atom of 5 or more carbon atoms with an amine in the presence of a
15 carboxylic acid at a high temperature for a period of time sufficient to form a
   thionocarbamate having a substituent of 5 or more carbon atoms attached to the oxygen
   atom of the thionocarbamate and recovering and/or isolating the thionocarbamate from the
   reaction mixture to produce the thionocarbamate in a form suitable for use as a collector or
   for being converted into a collector for use in froth flotation processes in which the
20 substituent is a linear, branched, unsubstituted, substituted, saturated, unsaturated, cyclic,
   heterocyclic, aliphatic, aromatic radicals, or the like.
                According to one form of the present invention, there is provided a process for the
   concentration of a mineral in a froth flotation installation comprising comminuting an ore
   containing the mineral to a size at which the desired mineral or minerals are at least partially
25 liberated or accessible by a collector composition, contacting the comminuted mineral with
   the collector composition wherein, the collector composition comprises at least one
   thionocarbamate which is the reaction product of contacting a xanthate having a substituent
   that is attached to the oxygen atom of the xanthate which has 5 or more carbon atoms, with
   an amine in the presence of a an organic acid or organic acid salt to form the
30 thionocarbamate wherein the thionocarbamate corresponds to the xanthate and has a
   substituent attached to the oxygen atom of the thionocarbamate, which substituent has 5 or
   more carbon atoms and is selected from linear branched, unsubstituted, substituted, cyclic,
   heterocyclic, aliphatic, aromatic radicals or the like.
                According to one form, there is provided a method of extracting a mineral from a
35 mineral containing material using a thionocarbamate comprising the steps of mixing an ore
   material containing the mineral with a collector containing at least one thionocarbamate in a
                                                                                                   5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                        -7
   froth flotation process such that the mineral is extracted from the ore material wherein the
   thionocarbamate is a compound of General Formula II:
                R10C(=S)NR 2 R3 (II)
 5
   in which at least one of R1, R2 , or R3 is selected from a generally hydrocarbon radical having
   5 or more carbon atoms and the others of R1, R2 , or R3 are the same or different from each
   other wherein R1, R2 , and R3 are each a hydrocarbon radical selected from linear radicals,
   branched radicals, saturated radicals, unsaturated radicals, unsubstituted radicals,
10 substituted radicals, cyclic radicals, heterocyclic radicals, aliphatic radicals, aromatic
   radicals, saturated radicals, unsaturated radicals or the like.
                According to one form, there is provided a xanthate of General Formula III
                               RO CS 2 M (III)
15
   in which R is generally a hydrocarbon radical having 5 or more carbon atoms selected from
   linear radicals, branched radicals, saturated radicals, unsaturated radicals, unsubstituted
   radicals, substituted radicals, cyclic radicals, heterocyclic radicals, aliphatic radicals,
   aromatic radicals, saturated radicals, unsaturated radicals or the like.
20              According to one form, there is provided an amine capable of reacting with a
   xanthate material to form a thionocarbamate compound having a substituent with 5 or more
   carbon atoms, wherein the thionocarbamate material is suitable for use as a collector for
   recovering a mineral of economic worth in a froth flotation process such that the use of the
   thionocarbamate in the froth flotation process improves the yield or amount of mineral
25 recovered in the process, and/or the selectivity of the collector for the mineral being
   recovered in the process thereby improving the efficiency of using the thionocarbamate in
   the process.
                According to one form, there is provided an amine capable of reacting with a
   xanthate material to form a thionocarbamate compound having at least one substituent on
30 either the oxygen atom or nitrogen atom or both, of the thionocarbamate in which the
   substituent has 5 or more carbon atoms.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
   THIONOCARBAMATES
35              It is to be noted that the substituents having 5 or more carbon atoms includes one of
   the substituents only or the total number of carbon atoms of all of the substituents
                                                                                                  5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                      -8
   represented by R1 and R3 . Preferably, the single substituent only has the 5 or more carbon
   atoms so that at least one of R1, R2 or R3 is a substituent with more than 5 carbon atoms.
                In some forms, the thionocarbamate has two substituents each having 5 or more
   carbon atoms.
 5              Typically, the substituents having 5 or more carbon atoms, typically include
   substituents with 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 or more carbon atoms, such as for example, hexyl, heptyl,
   octyl, aryl or the like including isomers of such substituent radicals, phenyl, cyclohexyl
   radicals or the like.
                Typical examples of thionocarbamates having substituents of 5 or more carbon
10 atoms include the thionocarbamates shown in Table 1 in which the substituent is derived
   from the xanthate only, or the amine only, or from a combination of the xanthate and amine.
                The examples shown in Table 1 include the following:
                isopropylmethyl thionocarbamate
                ethyldimethyl thionocarbamate
15              isopropyldimethyl thionocarbamate
                isobutyldimethyl thionocarbamate
                ethylethyl thionocarbamate
                isopropylethyl thionocarbamate
                isobutylethyl thionocarbamate
20              amylethyl thionocarbamate
                methylisobutylcarbinolethyl thionocarbamate
                isobutyldiethyl thionocarbamate
                ethylpropyl thionocarbamate
                isopropylpropyl thionocarbamate
25              amylpropyl thionocarbamate
                isobutylamyl thionocarbamate
                ethylbutyl thionocarbamate
                isopropylbutyl thionocarbamate
                isobutylbutyl thionocarbamate
30              amylbutyl thionocarbamate
                ethyldibutyl thionocarbamate
                isopropyldibutyl thionocarbamate
                isobutyldibutyl thionocarbamate
                amyldibutyl thionocarbamate
35              methylisobutylcarbinoldibutyl thionocarbamate
                ethylbenzyl thionocarbamate
                                                                                              5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                      -9
                isopropylbenzyl thionocarbamate
                isobutylbenzyl thionocarbamate
                amylbenzyl thionocarbamate
                methylisobutylcarbinolbenzyl thionocarbamate
 5              ethylphenyl thionocarbamate
                isopropylphenyl thionocarbamate
                isobutylphenyl thionocarbamate
                amylphenyl thionocarbamate
                ethylcyclohexyl thionocarbamate
10              isopropylcyclohexyl thionocarbamate
                isobutylcyclohexyl thionocarbamate
                amylcyclohexyl thionocarbamate
                ethyldicyclo thionocarbamate
                isopropyldicyclo thionocarbamate
15              isobutyldicyclo thionocarbamate
                amyldicyclo thionocarbamate
                ethyloctyl thionocarbamate
                isopropyloctyl thionocarbamate
                isobutyloctyl thionocarbamate
20              amyloctyl thionocarbamate
                ethylethylhexyl thionocarbamate
                isopropylethylhexyl thionocarbamate
                isobutylethylhexyl thionocarbamate
                amylethylhexyl thionocarbamate
25              isopropylethyldiamine thionocarbamate
                The examples shown in Table 2 include the following:
                ethyldibutyl thionocarbamate
                methylisobutylcarbinoldibutyl thionocarbamate ethylhexyldibutyl thionocarbamate
30              ethylcyclohexyl thionocarbamate
                isobutylcyclohexyl thionocarbamate
                isopropylcyclohexyl thionocarbamate
                amylcyclohexyl thionocarbamate
                methyl isobutylcarbinolcyclohexyl thionocarbamate
35              ethylhexylcyclohexyl thionocarbamate
                dicyclohexyl xanthate
                                                                                                5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                            -10
                ethyloctyl thionocarbamate
                isobutyloctyl thionocarbamate
                isopropyloctyl thionocarbamate
                amyloctyl thionocarbamate
 5              methylisobutylcarbinoloctyl thionocarbamate
                ethylethylhexyl thionocarbamate
                isobutylethylhexyl thionocarbamate
                isopropylethylhexyl thionocarbamate
                amylethylhexyl thionocarbamate
10              methylisobutylcarbinolethylhexyl thionocarbamate
                ethylisooctyl thionocarbamate
                isobutylisooctyl thionocarbamate
                isopropylisooctyl thionocarbamate
                amylisooctyl thionocarbamate
15              methylisobutylcarbinolisooctyl thionocarbamate
                ethylhexadecyl thionocarbamate
                methylisobutylcarbinonhexadecyl thionocarbamate
                ethylhexylhexadecyl thionocarbamate
                ethylbenzyl thionocarbamate
20              isobutylbenzyl thionocarbamate
                isopropylbenzyl thionocarbamate
                amylbenzyl thionocarbamate
                ethylaniline thionocarbamate
                ethylphenyl thionocarbamate
25              isopropylaniline thionocarbamate
                isopropylphenyl thionocarbamate
                Preferred examples of the thionocarbamates include the following.
                In respect of recovery of copper from samples of materials containing copper, the
   following compounds demonstrate superior suitability as collectors in froth flotation
30 processes.
   Copper only:
   Reagent No.                        Name
                42a            ethylcyclohexyl thionocarbamate
35              51             methylisobutylcarbinolhexyl thionocarbamate
                61 a           ethylhexylethylhexyl thionocarbamate
                                                                                                  5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                            - 11
                135            amylbenzyl thionocarbamate
                151            amylmethyl thionocarbamate
                The following compounds demonstrate superior suitability as collectors for copper
   and gold in combination in froth flotation processes:
 5
   Reagent No.                         Name
                113            ethylbutyl thionocarbamate
                135            amylbenzyl thionocarbamate
                153            isopropylbutyl thionocarbamate
10              154            isoamylethyl thionocarbamate
                The following compounds demonstrate superior suitability as collectors for gold,
   either alone or in combination with other minerals, particularly copper in froth flotation
   processes.
15 Reagent No.                         Name
                100            isopropylbenzyl thionocarbamate
                106            amylethyl thionocarbamate
                113            ethylbutyl thionocarbamate
                117            ethylbenzyl thionocarbamate
20              119            isobutylpropyl thionocarbamate
                121            methylisobutylcarbinolethyl xanthate
                125            isobutylbutyl thionocarbamate
                126            isobutylbenzyl thionocarbamate
                133            amylbutyl thionocarbamate
25              135            amylbenzyl thionocarbamate
                138            amylphenyl thionocarbamate
                150            isobutylmethyl thionocarbamate
                151            amylmethyl thionocarbamate
                It is to be noted that the reagent number associated with each of the above indicated
30 compounds corresponds to the number used in providing the results of tests conducted to
   determine the commercial efficiency of selected thionocarbamates as collectors as shown in
   Tables 5 to 7 under the heading "Reagent" in these Tables.
   Methods of making thionocarbamates
35              One form of the method and process of making the thionocarbamate includes:
                                                                                                  5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                       - 12
   MSC (=S) OR1 + HNR 2R 3 + XCH 2 C (=0) OH + MCO 3 -*R       1 OC (=S) NR 2R 3 + NaSCH 2 C (=0) OM
         (1)                    (2)     (3)            (4)                (5)             (6)
                                                 (IV)
 5              Generally, one form of a reaction scheme in accordance with the present invention is
   provided in general formula IV which comprises contacting a suitable xanthate (identified as
   compound (1) above), and a suitable amine (compound (2)) in the presence of a carboxylic
   acid (compound (3)) and an alkaline material (compound (4)), such as for example, sodium
   carbonate to form the corresponding thionocarbamate (compound (5)) and a thioglycolate
10 (compound (6)). Optionally, other materials or additives are included in the reaction between
   the xanthate and the amine to perform a variety of functions as required in accordance with
   the particular xanthate and/or amine selected and the reaction conditions.
                It is to be noted that other reaction schemes are possible.
                The reaction between the xanthate, amine and acid of general type IV above, is a
15 single step reaction in which all components are present at the same time in a single reactor
   or alternatively, is a two-step or three-step or more step reaction in which two of the
   reactants react with each other at least partially prior to the addition of a third and/or
   subsequent reactant. In one form, the xanthate and amine react with each other before the
   acid is added to the reactor. In one form, the xanthate and acid react with each other before
20 the amine is added to the reactor. It is to be noted that the reactants can be added to each
   other in any combination and/or in any order.
                In general, one form of the process can be represented by the chemical reaction
   equation indicated above in General Formula IV, wherein (1) is a suitable xanthate, such as
   for example, the metal salt of the xanthate, particularly, the potassium or sodium salt,
25 R1 0CS 2 M or the Xanthate ester (where M=R' such as R1 0C(=S)SR'), (2) is a suitable
   amine, (5) is the thionocarbamate produced in the reaction and (6) is a thioglycolate salt
   produced as a by-product in the reaction. It is to be noted that the thionocarbamate
   produced in the reaction corresponds partially to the xanthate and partially to the amine from
   which the thionocarbamate is produced in the reaction of the present invention. The acid (3)
30 may typically be an organic acid, such as for example, chloroacetic acid (X = CI) or may be
   an organic acid salt or the like. In other forms, other acid materials, such as for example,
   other carboxylic acids may be used as discussed below and/or elsewhere in this
   specification, such as for example, chloroacetic acid sodium salt, acetic acid, dichloroacetic
   acid, and the like.
35              In addition the use of diamino alkyl, triamino alkyl and tetramino alkyl amines may
   give compounds of formulae (7,8 and 9) which are di (7) and tri (8) and (9) thionocarbamte
                                                                                                     5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                        -13
   adducts. Such compounds could be prepared from ethylenediamine (where n= 2, y1= 1 for
   (7)), diethylene triamine (n=2, y1= 1 for (8)) and triethylene tetramine (n=2, y1=1 for (9)).
   Other amines could be used (n = 3,4, 5 etc). In addition polyamines (yl = 2,3, 4 etc, such as
   for example, diethylene triamine etc)could also be used. In addition, diaminocyclic
 5 compounds could also be used (piperazine, diazabycyclooctane and related compounds).
                          S                      S
   R1                                           jR2
               O                   N          N     O
                                   H          H
                                                 Yi
                                          (7)
                          S                             S
   R1                                            N          O   R2
                                     (8)
                                                R3
10
                          S                             S
   R1          O                         N~                 O*  R2
                                                NH
                                                               (9)
                                                    SR3
                Similarly, diols may make dixanthates (compound (10)) which can also form
   dithionocarbamate adducts (compound (11)). Such compounds could be prepared from
15 ethylene glycol (n=2, y1=1). Other diols could be used (n = 3,4, 5 etc). In addition glycols
   could also be used where (yl= 2,3, 4 etc, eg diethylene glycol etc)
                                                                                                 5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                                      -14
            S                                S                                       S                       S
   MS                                             SM                       R1R2 N          O          O            NR3 R4
                                            Yi                                                               Yi
                            (10)                                                               (11)
                Macrocyclic compounds may also be prepared by combination of dixanthates (from
   diols) and diamines or triamines. Some examples may be the macrocycles formed such as
 5 (compound (12)) where n1=n2 =2 , y1 = y2 = 1 prepared from ethylene glycol and ethylene
   diamine. Varied ring compounds where n1 and n2 = 1,2,3 etc may also be prepared. In
   addition glycols could also be used where (yl= 2,3, 4 etc, eg diethylene glycol etc) and poly
   amines (y2= 2,3, 4 etc, eg diethylene triamine, etc)
                Similarly, use of more complex amines such as for example, diethylene triamine may
10 give compounds such as (compound (13)) where R = CH 2NH2.
             S
                          -N
                                     NH
                 n                     Y2         (12)
                                  S
           S
                                           n2
           0                               NR
       n1       O=t                   NH                (13)
                                  S
15 KSC (=S) Oipr +              HNEt  2   +   C1CH2 C (=0) ONa +  Na 2 CO 3  -    iPrOC (=S) NEt 2
                                                                                                    +NaSCH 2 C (=0) ONa
         (1)                    (2)                 (3)            (4)                 (5)                 (6)
                                                              (V)
                                                                                                                          5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                     -15
                A list of thionocarbamates made in accordance with forms of the present invention is
   provided in Tables 1, 2 and 3, with preferred thionocarbamates being disclosed in Tables 1
   and 2. It is to be noted that Table 3 is a list of representative thionocarbamates which is not
   meant to be an exhaustive list of possible thionocarbamates.
 5              The reaction can be carried out in two or more batches in the same or in multiple
   reactors in which one reaction or set of reactions, occurs in one reactor before further
   reactants are added to the reactor for subsequent reactions occurring in the same reactor or
   separate reactions occur in separate reactors which are then combined into one of the
   reactors.
10              The thionocarbamates made from corresponding xanthates in accordance with the
   methods and processes as described herein can be used singly or in combination with one
   or more other thionocarbamates, including other thionocarbamates made in accordance with
   the described processes or methods or other currently available thionocarbamates, as
   mixtures, blends, combinations or the like. In other forms, the thionocarbamates or mixtures
15 of thionocarbamates can be mixed with other types of collector compounds, activators,
   frothers and the like to form mixed type collectors.
                Typically, one form of a blend is a mixture of isopropyl ethyl thionocarbamate with
   one or more thionocarbamates made in accordance with the described methods or
   processes having at least one substituent with 5 or more carbon atoms, or the total number
20 of carbon atoms of the substituents being 5 or more. Other forms of blends include
   isobutyldiethyl thionocarbamate (IBDETC) and ethylpropyl thionocarbamate (EPTC) as an
   example of a mixture of thionocarbamate made in accordance with the described method or
   process. Other thionocarbamates include nAMTC, isoamylethyl thionocarbamate (iAETC),
   methylisobutyl carbinol ethyl thionocarbamate (MIBCETC), isopropylpropyl thionocarbamate
25 (iPPTC), isopropylisopropyl thionocarbamate (IPIPTC), isobutylallyl thionocarbamater
   (iBATC), isobutylpropyl thionocarbamate (iBPTC), isobutylmethyl thionocarbonate (iBMTC),
   isopropylmethyl thionocarbamate (iPMTC), isopropylbutyl thionocarbamate (iPBTC) and
   similar.
                In one form, the collectors can be made by mixing or blending thionocarbamates as
30 described having a substituent of 5 or more carbon atoms with other types of collectors,
   activators, frothers or similar, including dithiophosphates, monothiophosphates, octyl
   sulphides, salts and esters of mercaptobenzothiazoles, dithiocarbamates, trithiocarbamates,
   hydroxamates, or the like.
35 XANTHATES
                                                                                                   5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                       -16
                Typically in one form, suitable xanthate salts are produced by the reaction of an
   alcohol with sodium or potassium hydroxide and carbon disulphide according to the reaction,
   such as for example, ROH+CS2+KOH-*ROCS 2K+H 20. (VI)
                Typically, the xanthates have the following formula:
 5
                HSC(S)OR
   where R is a radical having 5 or more carbon atoms, including long chain and branched
   chain alkyl radicals and isomers thereof, including substituted, unsubstituted, saturated and
10 unsaturated radicals, cylic, heterocyclic, aliphatic, aromatic or the like.
                In one form, suitable xanthates useful for the manufacture of thionocarbamates
   include xanthates made by reacting alcohols containing more than four carbon atoms with
   carbon disulphide. In one example, the alcohol is amyl alcohol, hexyl alcohol or similar. In
   other forms, the alcohol could be any suitable alcohol for forming suitable xanthates which
15 can be converted to thionocarbamates having substituents with five or more carbon atoms.
                Typical examples of suitable xanthates include sodium salts of xanthates, such as for
   example, hexyl xanthates, octyl xanthates and the like, including the potassium salts and
   sodium salts of the xanthates, such as potassium amyl xanthate (PAX)
                It is to be noted that a single xanthate can be used or a mixture of two or more
20 xanthates can be used to form the corresponding thionocarbamate having at least one
   substituent of 5 or more carbon atoms.
   AMINE
                The use of the term amine is not meant to be limiting of the scope of the invention to
25 monoamines or the like, but is more extensive in scope so as to include all types of amines.
   The term amine is used for clarity of expression and ease of understanding.
                It is to be noted that any suitable amine can be used in the reaction of the invention.
   In addition, the use of the term amine is not restricted to monoamines only, but also includes
   secondary amines, such as diamines, tertiary amines such as triamines, and other complex
30 amines.
                The amine can be a branched amine, a substituted amine, a monoamine, a diamine,
   a triamine, a primary amine, a secondary amine, a tertiary amine, a linear amine, a branched
   amine, a mixed amine, or a combination of two or more amines, an unsubstitued amine, a
   ring containing amine, an aliphatic amine, an aromatic amine, an amine substituted with a
35 hetero atom, including an aliphatic ring or aromatic ring having the hetero atom either as part
   of the base structure of the amine or as part of one or more of the substituents of the amine.
                                                                                                     5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                      -17
   In one form, the nitrogen of the amine is part of the ring structure of the amine, either an
   aliphatic ring or aromatic ring.
                The amine can be a simple amine, a complex amine, an unsubstituted amine, a
   substituted amine or the like. In one form, the amine comprises carbon, nitrogen and
 5 hydrogen atoms only. In other forms, the amine can additionally include a hetero atom, such
   as 0, S, P or the like.
                Typical examples of suitable amines are provided in Table 4.
                A list of amines in accordance with one or other form of the methods, processes
   and/or reaction schemes of the invention is provided in Table 4. The list of compounds of
10 Table 4 is representative of the types of amines useful in the present invention, and is not
   exhaustive.
                In some forms, two or more different amines can be used to react with the xanthate
   or two or more xanthates to form the desired thionocarbamate. The two or more amines can
   be added separately or together in combination. The two or more amines can be added at
15 different times in the reaction or in different steps or stages of the reaction.
   ORGANIC ACID
                Any suitable organic acid or organic acid salt can be used in the reaction or reactions
   to form the new thionocarbamates.
20              Typically, the organic acid is a carboxylic acid. More typically, any suitable
   carboxylic acid or carboxylic acid salt can be used in the process.
   In one form, the carboxylic acid is a mono-acid, a diacid, a triacid or the like. The acid can
   be an unsubstituted acid or a substituted acid.
                In one form, the carboxylic acid is an acetic acid, including an unsubstituted acid or a
25 substituted acid. The acetic acid can be a mono-substituted, di-substituted, or tri-substituted
   acetic acid.
                In one form, the acetic acid is a halogen substituted acetic acid. Typically, the
   substituted acetic acid is a monohalo-, dihalo-, trihalo- substituted acetic acid. If the acid
   contains more than a single halogen, the halogens can be the same or different. The
30 halogen is typically chlorine. A particularly preferred halo-substituted acetic acid is
   monochloroacetic acid.
                In one form, the acid is added in a single dose or in two or more separate doses.
   The acid can be added in one reaction step, in two or more reactions steps or the like.
                A carbonate salt may be added to the reaction, for example, when an organic acid is
35 used.
                                                                                                    5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                    -18
   ADDITIVES
                Other materials are optionally added to the reaction as required for a variety of
   purposes, such as buffers, and/or solvents or the like.
 5 MINERAL MATERIALS
                The thionocarbamates made in accordance with methods and processes of the
   invention can be used to treat a range of materials such as ores, pulps, slags, virgin
   material, previously treated material, minerals, tailings, waste materials, or the like to recover
   and/or extract a range of materials of economic importance which include gold, silver,
10 platinum, copper, nickel, lead, palladium, zinc, molybdenum, bismuth or similar. Optionally,
   the selected thionocarbamate used as the collector in the froth flotation processes also
   rejects iron by not substantially simultaneously recovering iron so that the selectivity of the
   collector is improved with respect to the specific mineral being recovered.
                The sample being treated, such as for example, the ore or similar being treated to
15 recover the mineral or metal contained therein is reduced in size prior to contact with the
   collector. In one form, the ore is communited using suitable devices or the like, such as for
   example, a stamping installation with a plurality of stamping hammers, a ball mill or other
   device. The purpose of comminution is to reduce the particle size of the ore to a size at
   which the individual minerals contained within the ore can be partially, or almost entirely
20 accessible by the thionocarbamate collectors to liberate the minerals from the surrounding
   gangue.
   COLLECTORS
                The thionocarbamates made by the described reaction can be used alone or in
25 combination with other thionocarbamates, including other thionocarbamates made by the
   reaction of this invention, or thionocarbamates made by other reactions. Additionally, the
   collectors can include other materials for a variety of purposes to enhance the collection
   properties of the collector. Other materials include dithiophosphates, monothiophosphates,
   hydroxamates, octylsulphides, salts of mercaptobenzothiozoles or the like in any range
30 and/or in any combination. A preferred collector composition is a blend of collector materials
   or components, including a blend of new thionocarbamates with other new
   thionocarbamates, new thionocarbamates with existing thionocarbamates, and new
   thionocarbamates with non thionocarbamates.
                Collectors containing thionocarbamates in accordance with the present invention can
35 be used in connection with a range of minerals, including but not limited to copper, gold,
   copper in combination with gold, silver, or the like. Optionally, the thionocarbamates are
                                                                                                  5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                     -19
   selective by simultaneously rejecting iron so as to be more selective in recovering the
   wanted mineral, i.e. improved selectivity as well as recovering increased amounts of the
   selected mineral, i.e. improved yield.
                Typically, results that were successful against the control (standard Isopropyl Ethyl
 5 Thionocarbamate) are list below in three categories
          -     Copper Improved result over the standard,
          -     Gold Improved results over the standard,
          -     Both Copper & Gold Improved results over the standard.
                As a reference point, the standard Isopropyl Ethyl Thionocarbamate (type 1) results
10 are as follows (test 108);
   Cu recovery 79.96%
   Au recovery 67.01%
   Fe recovery 31.00% (lower recovery is usually good on this parameter.. .with the exception
   of some gold operations)
15
   1)           Copper Improved result over standard (Cu/Fe)
   123 - 81.67/36.6
   154 - 83.82/36.36
   156 - 82.31/17.34
20 164 - 83.15/27.78
   42A - 82.86/15.88
   131 - 81.50/26.63
   2)           Gold Improved results over the standard (Au/Fe)
25 119 - 77.95/33.09
   121 - 70.49/25.85
   125 - 78.39/30.63
   133 - 70.07/24.91
   138 - 76.18/31.08
30
   3)           Both Copper & Gold Improved results over the standard (Cu/Au/Fe)
   106 - 80.68/72.49/40.22
   113 - 82.09/81.21/40.33
   117 - 85.03/88.13/50.99
35 150 - 84.20/88.40/47.53
   151 - 86.59/82.64/47.49
                                                                                                   5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                      - 20
   100 - 84.70/80.10/41.45
   135 - 84.81/76.17/35.14
   126 - 87.72/88.75/52.80
 5              Tests conducted using different thionocarbamates as the collectors in froth flotation
   processes of different minerals, most notably copper, gold and copper/gold in combination,
   are provided in the following Tables which provide information about the test results of a
   selection of thionocarbamates obtained from treating samples of ores when recovering
   selected minerals such as gold, copper or gold and copper in combination whilst rejecting
10 iron.
                Table 5 provides information about the amount of copper recovered using selected
   thionocarbamates compared to a standard identified in dark grey.
                Table 6 provides information about the amount of gold alone recovered using
   selected thionocarbamates compared to a standard identified in dark grey.
15              Table 7 provides information about the amount of gold and copper recovered
   together using selected thionocarbamates compared to a standard identified in dark grey.
                As can be readily seen from Tables 5 to 7, particularly Table 6, the thionocarbamates
   of the present invention have superior performance than the standard when recovering gold
   alone. Thus, the results of Tables 5 to 7 show that thionocarbamates having a single
20 substituent with five or more carbon atoms have improved performance as collectors for
   recovering greater amounts of copper and/or gold in the samples tested, i.e. enhanced yield,
   and are more discriminating by simultaneously substantially rejecting iron, i.e. enhanced
   selectivity than does the standard used for comparison.
25 EXAMPLES
                Aspects of forms of the invention will now be described with reference to the
   following example.
   Example 1
30              One example of the reaction scheme in accordance with one form of the invention is
   along the following lines for the manufacture of the thionocarbamate from reacting a
   xanthate with an amine.
                In a glass lined 100 litre reactor, monochloroacetic acid and sodium carbonate or
   sodium hydroxide or anhydrous sodium carbonate (soda ash), are combined under
35 conditions of high temperature and pressure to initiate the reaction to form sodium
   monochloroacetate. As this reaction is substantially exothermic, cooling is required to control
                                                                                                   5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                     -21
   the rate of reaction, particularly in hot weather conditions in order to slow the reaction to
   enable the reaction to go to completion.
                Subsequently, the sodium monochloroacetate is combined with the xanthate to form
   the corresponding sodium xanthate salt. In the event that NaOH had been used, cooling
 5 water is required to control the rate of reaction.
                The sodium xanthate is then combined with the selected amine, such as for example,
   dimethyl amine, or diethyl amine, to complete the reaction scheme in which the reaction
   product is a more or less a homogeneous mass which includes the corresponding
   thionocarbamate (compound (5)), sodium thioglycolate (compound (6)) and sodium chloride
10 in aqueous solution.
                The selected amine is added at a rate of 400 kg per 1000 kg of the reaction product
   of making the xanthate mass, i.e. the mass containing the sodium xanthate salt produce a
   mass containing the thionocarbamate sodium thioglycolate and sodium chloride solution in
   which the total amount thionocarbamate is .50 to 50% of the mass.
15              The mass of reaction product is then separated into various phases by settling,
   typically by settling for about two hours in which the thionocarbamate rises to the surface of
   the settling tank to form a top layer. The top layer containing the thionocarbamate is
   removed from the settling tank.
                The remaining layers undergo secondary separation for a duration of about 10 to 15
20 days, into two layers in the settling tank. The upper of the two layers includes small
   amounts of the thionocarbamate which is recovered from this layer.
                The lower layer of the secondary separation containing sodium thioglycolate is
   separated for subsequent treatment and optionally undergoes further treatment, such as for
   example, refining the sodium thioglycolate into thioglycollic acid which is a marketable by
25 product of the reaction forming the thionocarbamate.
                In one form, the residues from the primary and secondary separation processes can
   undergo further treatments, such as for example, distillation, and/or further settling over
   periods of say, from 1 to 2 months, to recover additional amounts of thionocarbamate to
   improve the yield of the reactions, and hence the commercial acceptability of the
30 thionocarbamates. In addition, the by-products of sodium thioglycolate and thioglycollic acid
   can be further treated, i.e. refined for use in formulating into useable compositions.
                Typically, the selected thionocarbamate is present in the blend forming the collector
   composition in an amount in the range of about 1% to about 99%, typically in the range of
   about 5% to about 80%, preferably in the range of about 7% to 60%, more preferably, in the
35 range of 10% to 40%, most preferably in the range of about 15% to 30%, by weight based
   on the total weight of the collector composition.
                                                                                                  5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                       - 22
                In one form, the dithiophosphate is a metal salt of dithiophosphate. In one form, the
   amount of dithiophosphate is from about 10% to 80% by weight of the total weight of the
   collector composition, preferably from about 25% to about 75%, more preferably from about
   40% to 70%, and most preferably about 50% to 65%.
 5              Preferably, the collector composition will have a 25 - 40% active dithiophosphate
   constituent.
   ADVANTAGES
                One advantage includes more of the target mineral or metal is able to be recovered
10 using the new thionocarbamates made in accordance with the present invention either singly
   or in combination.
                Another advantage is that less unwanted material is recovered along with the wanted
   material so that the thionocarbamate made in accordance with the invention are more
   selective in recovering the target mineral or metal.
15              The described arrangement has been advanced by explanation and many
   modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention
   which includes every novel feature and novel combination of features herein disclosed.
                Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention described herein is
   susceptible to variations and modifications other than those specifically described. It is
20 understood that the invention includes all such variations and modifications which fall within
   the spirit and scope.
                                                                                                   5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                                 - 23
                                                                TABLE 1
                                              LIST OF THIONOCARBAMATE SAMPLES
     Amine/xanthate                    Etyl           Isopropyl         Isobutyl  Amyl      MIBC
     Methyl                                           IPMT
     Dimethyl                          EDMT           IPDMT             IBDMT
     Ethyl                             EET            IPET              IBET      AET       YET
     Diethyl                                                            IBDET
     Propyl                            EPT            IPPT              EBPT      APT
     Allyl                                                              IBAT
     Butyl                             EBT            IPBT              IBBT      ABT
     Dibutyl                           EDBT           IPDBT             IBDBT     ADBT      YDBT
     Benzyl                            EBzT           IPBzT             IPTzT     ABzT      YBzT
     Phenyl                            EBET           IPBET             IBBET     ABET
     Cyclohexyl                        ECT            IPCT              IBCT      ACT
     Dicyclohexyl                      EDCT           IPDCT             IBDCT     ADCT
     Octyl                             EIOT           IPIOT             IBIOT     AIOT
     Ethylene                                         IPEDT
     diamine
 5   Dioctylamine and Diethylhexylamine - no products
                                                                TABLE 2
                                           Ethyl    Isobutyl        Isopropyl    Amyl  MIBC  Ethylhexyl
   Dibutyl
   Cyclohexyl                               /                         V                      V
   Dicyclohexyl                            X
   Octyl                                                                               V
   Dioictyl
   Ethylhexyl/isooctane
   Diethylhexyl
   Hexadecyl
   Benzyl                                                           v",          /
   Aniline/phenyl
   Ethylene diamine
   Triethhalene
   tertramine
     Xanthate
10
     Amine
     * = prepared China
     * = gram scale
     v - small trial scale
                                                                                                      5/01/18
     9504022 1 (GHMattors) P87966.AU.2

                                                  - 24
                                                TABLE 3
           Possible Thionocarbamates
                            Alcohol                                 Amine
                   Name                R1                    Name           R2    R3
  Linear                                     Linear
           Methanol                             Methylamine               Methyl  H
            Ethanol                             Dimethylamine
            Propanol                            Trimethylamine
            Pentanol                            Ethylamine                 Ethyl  H
            Hexanol                             Diethylamine
           Octanol                              Triethylamine
           Stearyl                              Propylamine               Propyl  H
  Branched                                      Dipropylamine
           i-Propanol               i-Propyl    Tripropylamine
           i-Butanol                 i-Butyl    n-Butylamine              n-Butyl H
           Amyl alcohol                         Di-n-Butylamine
           2-Ethylhexanol                       Tri-n-Butylamine
           i-Nonanol                            Penylamine
           i-Decanol                            Dipentylamine
           MIBC                                 Tripentylamine
  Cyclic                                        Hexylamine
           Cyclopentanol                        Octylamine
           Cyclohexanol                         Decylamine
  Unsaturated                                Branched
           Butenol                              Isoproplymaine
           Octenol                              Diisopropylamine
            Propargyl alcohol                   Isobutylamine
           Oleyl alcohol                        Diisobutylamine
           Linoleic alcohol                     Triisobutylamine
  Aromatic                                      2-Aminobutane
            Phenol                              Bis(2-aminobutane)
           Benzyl alcohol                       t-Butylamine
           Cinnamyl alcohol                     2-Aminopentane
  Diols and higher                              3-Aminpentane
            Ethylene glycol                     2-Methylbutylamine
           Glycerol                             3-Methylbutylamine
           Butanediol                           Bis(3-methylbutyl)amine
                                                Tris(3-methylbutyl)amine
                                                2-Ethylhexylamine
                                                Allylamine                 Allyl  H
                                                Diallylamine
                                                3-Methoxypropylamine
                                                                                   5/01/18
9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                       - 25
Table 3 continued
                                  N-substituted
                                     N-Methylbutylamine
                                     N-Ethylbutylamine
                                     N,N-Dimethylethylamine
                                     N,N-Dimethylisopropylamine
                                     N-Ethyldiisopropylamine
                                     N,N-Dimethyl-2-chloroethylamine
                                     N,N-Diethyl-2-chloroethylamine
                                  Diamines
                                     Ethylenediamine
                                     Diethylenetriamine
                                     Triethylenetetramine
                                     Tetramethylethylenediamine
                                     Tetraethylenepentamine
                                     Propylene-1,2-diamine
                                     Trimethylendiamine
                                     N-Methyl-1,3-propanediamine
                                     1-5-Diaminopentane
                                     1-Diethylamino-4-aminopentane
                                     Diethylenetetramine
                                     Pentaethylenehexamine
                                     Dipropylenetriamine
                                     N-Methyldipropylenetriamine
                                     N,N-Bis(3-aminopropyl)-1,2-diaminoethane
                                     Triethylenediamine
                                     Hexamethylenetetramine
                                  Cyclic
                                     3-Aminomethyl-3,5,5-trimethylcyclohexylamine
                                     Cyclohexylamine
                                     N-Methylcyclohexylamine
                                     N,N-Dimethylcyclohexylamine
                                     N-Ethylcyclohexylamine
                                     Dicyclohexylamine
                                     N-Methyldicyclohexylamine
                                     4,4-Diaminodicyclohexylmethane
                                     2,2-Bis(4-aminocyclohexyl)propane
                                     Cyclooctylamine
                                     Cyclododecylamine
                                     Pyrrolidine
                                     Piperidine
                                     Hexamethyleneimine
                                     Morpholine
                                     Piperazine
                                  Aromatic
                                     Aniline
                                  Heterocylyic
                                     Pyrole
                                     Indole
                                     Imidazole
                                     Purine
                                     Benzimidazole
                                                                                  5/01/18
9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                        - 26
  Table 3 continued
                                Thionocarbamates
                   Name                       R1     R2      R3
    Isopropyl Ethyl                       i-Propyl  Ethyl    H
    Isopropyl Propyl                      i-Propyl Propyl    H
    Isopropyl Butyl                       i-Propyl  Butyl    H
    Isobutyl Methyl                        i-Butyl Methyl    H
    Isobutyl Ethyl                         i-Butyl  Ethyl    H
    Isobutyl Allyl                         i-Butyl  Allyl    H
5
                                                                5/01/18
  9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                            - 27
                                           TABLE 4
  Ref       Name                              CAS #      Physical State Public
                                                                        AICS
      1     Methylamine                       74-89-5    Gas at RT
      2     Dimethylamine                     124-40-3   Gas at RT
      3     Trimethylamine                    75-50-3    Gas at RT
      4     Ethylamine                        75-04-7    Liquid at RT
      5     Diethylamine                      109-89-7   Liquid at RT
      6     Triethylamine                     121-44-8   Liquid at RT
      7     Propylamine                       107-10-8   Liquid at RT
      8     Dipropylamine                     142-84-7   Liquid at RT
      9     Tripropylamine                    102-69-2   Liquid at RT   Yes
    10      Isopropylamine                    75-31-0    Liquid at RT
    11      Diisopropylamine                  108-18-9   Liquid at RT
    12      Butylamine                        109-73-9   Liquid at RT
    13      Dibutylamine                      111-92-2   Liquid at RT
    14      Tributylamine                     102-82-9   Liquid at RT
    15      Isobutylamine                     78-81-9    Liquid at RT
    16      Diisobutylamine                   110-96-3   Liquid at RT
    17      Triisobutylamine                  1116-40-1  Liquid at RT
    18      1-Methylpropylamine (d,l)         13952-84-6 Liquid at RT
    19      Bis(1-methyl)propylamine (d,l)    626-23-3   Liquid at RT
    20      1,1-Dimethylethylamine            75-64-9    Liquid at RT
    21      Pentylamine                       110-58-7   Liquid at RT
    22      Dipentylamine                     2050-92-2  Liquid at RT
    23      Tripentylamine                    621-77-2   Liquid at RT
    24      2-Pentylamine                     625-30-9   Liquid at RT
    25      3-Pentylamine                     616-24-0   Liquid at RT
    26      2-Methylbutylamine                96-15-1    Liquid at RT
    27      3-Methylbutylamine                107-85-7   Liquid at RT
    28      Bis(3-methylbutyl)amine           544-00-3   Liquid at RT
    29      Tris(3-methylbutyl)amine          645-41-0   Liquid at RT
    30      Hexylamine                        111-26-2   Liquid at RT
    31      Octylamine                        111-86-4   Liquid at RT
    32      2-Ethylhexylamine                 104-75-6   Liquid at RT
    33      Decylamine                        2016-57-1  Liquid at RT
    34      N-Methylbutylamine                110-68-9   Liquid at RT
    35      N-Ethylbutylamine                 13360-63-9 Liquid at RT
    36      N,N-Dimethylethylamine            598-56-1   Liquid at RT
    37      N,N-Dimethylisopropylamine        996-35-0   Liquid at RT
                                                                               5/01/18
9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                              - 28
Table 4 continued
    38      N-Ethyldiisopropylamine             7087-68-5  Liquid at RT
    39      Allylamine                          107-11-9   Liquid at RT Yes
    40      Diallylamine                        124-02-7   Liquid at RT Yes
    41      N,N-Dimethyl-2-chloroethylamine     107-99-3   Liquid at RT
    42      N,N-Diethyl-2-chloroethylamine      100-35-6   Liquid at RT
    43      3-Methoxypropylamine                5332-73-0  Liquid at RT
    44      Tetramethylethylenediamine          110-18-9   Liquid at RT
    45      Ethylenediamine                     107-15-3   Liquid at RT
    46      Diethylenetriamine                  111-40-0   Liquid at RT
    47      Triethylenetetramine                112-24-3   Liquid at RT
    48      Tetraethylenepentamine              112-57-2   Liquid at RT
    49      Propylene-1,2-diamine               78-90-0    Liquid at RT
    50      Trimethylenediamine                 109-76-2   Liquid at RT
    51      Methylaminopropylamine              6291-84-5  Liquid at RT
    52      1,5-Diaminopentane                  462-94-2   Melt at 9'C
    53      1-Diethylamino-4-aminopentane       140-80-7   Liquid at RT
    54      Diethylene Tetramine                112-57-2   Liquid at RT
    55      Pentaethylenehexamine               4067-16-7  Liquid at RT
    56      Dipropylenetriamine                 56-18-8    Liquid at RT
    57      N-Methyldipropylenetriamine         105-83-9   Liquid at RT
    58      N,N-Bis(3-aminopropyl)-1,2-         79554-59-9 Liquid at RT
            diaminoethane
    59      3-(2-Aminoethyl)-                   13531-52-7 Liquid at RT
            aminopropylamine
    60      Isophorone diamine,                 2855-13-2  Melt at 100C
    61      Cyclohexylamine                     108-91-8   Liquid at RT
    62      N-Methylcyclohexylamine             100-60-7   Liquid at RT
    63      N,N-Dimethylcyclohexylamine         98-94-2    Liquid at RT
    64      N-Ethylcyclohexylamine              5459-93-8  Liquid at RT
    65      Dicyclohexylamine                   101-83-7   Liquid at RT
    66      N-Methyldicyclohexylamine           7560-83-0  Liquid at RT
    67      4,4-Diaminodicyclohexylmethane      1761-71-3  Liquid at RT
    68      2,2-Bis(4-aminocyclohexyl)propane   3377-24-0  Liquid at RT
    69      Cyclooctylamine                     5452-37-9  Liquid at RT
    70      Cyclododecylamine                   1502-03-0  Liquid at RT
    71      Pyrrolidine                         123-75-1   Liquid at RT
    72      Piperidine                          110-89-4   Liquid at RT
    73      Hexamethyleneimine                  111-49-9   Liquid at RT
    74      Morpholine                          110-91-8   Liquid at RT Yes
    75      Piperazine                          110-85-0   Liquid at RT
                                                                            5/01/18
9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                - 29
Table 4 continued
    76       Triethylenediamine                   280-57-9   Solid at RT, melt
                                                             at 159'C
    77       Hexamethylenetetramine               100-97-0   Solid at RT, melt
                                                             at >2700C
    78       1-Naphthylthiourea                   86-88-4
    79       2-Naphthylamine                      91-59-8
    80       3,3-Dichlorobenzidine                91-94-1
    81       4,4-Methylene-bis(2-chloroaniline)   101-14-4
    82       4,4-Methylenedianiline               101-77-9
    83       4-Aminobiphenyl                      92-67-1
    84       4-Butylmorpholine                    1005-67-0                    Yes
    85       4-ethyl-Morpholine                   100-74-3                     Yes
    86       Aniline                              62-53-3
    87       Anisidine (o-, p-isomers)            29191-52-4
    88       Benzidine                            92-87-5
    89       Di(2-ethylhexyl) amine               106-20-7                     Yes
    90       Diphenylamine                        122-39-4
    91       m-Xylene-godiamine                   1477-55-0
    92       N,N-Dimethylaniline                  121-69-7
    93       N-Isopropylaniline                   643-28-7
    94       N-Methyl Morpholine                  109-02-4                     Yes
    95       N-Methylaniline                      100-61-8
    96       N-Phenyl-2-naphthylamine             135-88-6
    97       o-Tolidine                           119-93-7
    98       o-Toluidine                          95-53-4
    99       p-Nitroaniline                       100-01-6
  100        p-Phenylenediamine                   106-50-3
  101        Pyridine                             110-86-1                     Yes
  102        Pyrrole                              109-97-7   Liquid at RT      Yes
  103        Triethanolamine                      102-71-6
  104        Triphenylamine                       603-34-9
  105        Xylidene                             1300-73-8
  106        N,N-Diethyl-2-chloroethylamine       100-35-6
  107        Pyrimidine                           289-95-2
  108        Morpholine                           110-91-8
  109        N-methyl Pyrrolidine                 120-94-5
  110        Benzylamine                          100-46-9
                                                                                   5/01/18
9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                   - 30
                          TABLE 5 - Copper alone
                      i~|                        |
            -R                   Si  R S S i *
                                                   /11
9!002_ (H aer}81,0A12

                                            -   31
                                     TABLE 6  -   Gold alone
                       4--
                         ~
                                   2
                    C
                   -Th
                    C
                    ~0
                    -a
                    F
                           z ~
                       ~
                                     ~K   ;J- 1
                                       ~
                       ~ . .   . ~      g
                                                             a
                        S
                                                               5/OltlS
                   PS7~ThAU.2
AS04On I (OHMaflets}

                            - 32
               TABLE 7 - Copper and gold together
         H!'!7
AH______

                                                            - 33
   CLAIMS:
                 1.            A method for the concentration of a mineral in a froth flotation installation to
                 recover the mineral comprising the steps of comminuting a material containing the
 5               mineral to a size at which the mineral is at least partially liberated or accessible by a
                 collector composition to form a comminuted material and contacting the comminuted
                 mineral with the collector composition to concentrate the mineral wherein, the
                 collector composition comprises at least one thionocarbamate, which is the reaction
                 product of contacting a xanthate having a substituent that is attached to the oxygen
10               atom of the xanthate which substituent has 5 or more carbon atoms with an amine in
                the presence of an organic acid or organic acid salt to form the thionocarbamate.
                2.             A method of extracting a mineral from a material containing the mineral using
                 a thionocarbamate comprising the steps of comminuting the material containing the
15               mineral to a size sufficient to expose the mineral to contact by the thionocarbamate
                 and contacting the material containing the mineral with a collector composition
                 containing the thionocarbamate in a froth flotation process to extract the mineral from
                the material containing the mineral wherein the thionocarbamate is a compound of
                 General Formula 1l:
20
                 R1 0C(=S)NR 2 R3 (II)
                in which at least one of R1, R2 , or R3 is selected from a generally hydrocarbon radical
                 having 5 or more carbon atoms, and the others of R1, R2 , or R3 are the same or
25               different from each other wherein the thionocarbamate is a reaction product of
                 contacting a xanthate having a substituent of 5 or more carbon atoms with an amine
                 in the presence of an organic acid or organic acid salt.
                 3.            A method according to claim 2 in which the thionocarbamate is a reaction
30               product of contacting a xanthate having a substituent of 5 or more carbon atoms with
                 an amine in the presence of an organic acid or organic acid salt.
                4,             A method according to claim 2 or 3 in which the substituent represented by R1
                 of Formula II is the substituent having 5 or more carbon atoms.
35
                                                                                                              5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                          - 34
                5.             A method according to any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the thionocarbamate
                of the collector composition improves the yield or amount of mineral recovered in the
                method, and/or enhances the selectivity of the collector composition for the mineral
                being recovered in the method thereby improving the efficiency of using the
 5              thionocarbamate in the method.
                6.             A method according to any one of the preceding claims in which the
                substituent having five or more carbon atoms of the thionocarbamate includes
                substituents having six, seven, eight, nine, ten or more carbon atoms.
10
                7.             A method according to any one of the preceding claims in which two of the
                substituents represented by R1, R2 or R3, have 5 or more carbon atoms.
                8.             A method according to any one of claims 4 to 7 in which the substituent
15              represented by R1 and one of the substituents of R2 or R3 both have 5 or more
                carbon atoms.
                9.             A method according to any one of the preceding claims in which the
                carboxylic acid is acetic acid.
20
                10.            A method according to any one of the preceding claims in which the
                substituent having 5 or more carbon atoms includes linear radicals, branched
                radicals, saturated radicals, unsaturated radicals, unsubstituted radicals and
                substituted radicals, cyclic radicals, heterocyclic radicals, aliphatic radicals, aromatic
25              radicals, and the others of R2 and R3 are the same or different and are selected from
                hydrogen or hydrocarbon radicals, including linear, branched, unsubstituted,
                substituted, saturated, unsaturated, cyclic, heterocyclic, aliphatic or aromatic
                radicals.
30              11.            A method according to any one of the preceding claims in which the reaction
                of the xanthate with the amine occurs in the presence of the carboxylic acid or acid
                salt at a high temperature for a period of time sufficient to form the thionocarbamate
                having the substituent of 5 or more carbon atoms attached to the oxygen atom of the
                thionocarbamate.
35
                 12.           A method according to any preceding claim in which the substituent having 5
                or more carbon atoms, is as indicated in Table 1, Table 2 or Table 3.
                                                                                                        5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                          - 35
                13.            A method according to any preceding claim in which the thionocarbamate
                having five or more carbon atoms as a substituent is useful as a collector for
                materials containing any one or more of copper, gold, silver, platinum, nickel,
 5              molybdenum, cobalt, lead, palladium, zinc, bismuth or similar, either alone or in
                combination of two or more.
                14.            A method according to any preceding claim in which the thionocarbamate
                having a substituent of five or more carbon atoms is useful as a collector in froth
10              flotation processes having enhanced selectivity, particularly enhanced selectivity
                against recovering iron.
                15.            A method according to any preceding claim in which the thionocarbamate
                having a substituent of five or more carbon atoms is useful as a collector in froth
15              flotation processes for more than a single mineral, including the simultaneous
                recovery of copper and gold.
                16.            A method according to any preceding claim wherein the amine used in the
                reaction of amine with the xanthate to produce the thionocarbamate having a
20              substituent of 5 or more carbon atoms is one or more amine as indicated in Table 4.
                17.            A method according to any preceding claim in which the collector composition
                comprises a first collector material of a first thionocarbamate having a substituent of
                five or more carbon atoms and a second collector material in which the second
25              collector material includes a second thionocarbamate having a substituent of five or
                more carbon atoms, in which the second thionocarbamate is different to the first
                thionocarbamate, a dithiophosphate, a monothiophosphate, an octylsulphide, a salt
                or ester of a mercaptobenzothiozole, a dithiocarbamate, a trithioicarbamate, or a
                hydroxolamate, or the like.
30
                18.            A method according to any preceding claim in which the amine is a branched
                amine, substituted amine, a monoamine, a diamine, a triamine, a primary amine, a
                secondary amine, a tertiary amine, a linear amine, a mixed amine, or a combination
                of two or more amines, an unsubstituted amine, a ring containing amine, an aliphatic
35              amine, an aromatic amine, an amine substituted with a hetero atom including an
                aliphatic ring or aromatic ring, having the hetero atom as either part of the base
                structure of the amine, or as part of one or more of the substituents of the amine.
                                                                                                       5/01/18
   9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

                                                         - 36
               19.            A method according to any preceding claim in which the material containing
               the mineral being treated to recover the mineral includes ores, pulps, slags, virgin
               material, previously treated material, minerals, tailings or waste materials.
5              20.            A method according to any preceding claim in which the amount of the
               mineral being recovered from the sample being treated is from about 60% to 95%,
               typically from 67% to 88%, more typically from about 70% to 87%.
                                                                                                       5/01/18
  9504022 1 (GHMatters) P87966.AU.2

