      METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR IMPLEMENTING MYSTERY BONUS IN PLACE OF
                         BASE GAME RESULTS ON GAMING MACHINE
 5                              ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
           Embodiments of the present invention are directed to gaming devices and methods for
   implementing mystery bonus results in place of base game results on a gaming display. The
   gaming device comprises a base game having a base game display. A random number
   generator is optionally operable with the base game to obtain a base game result, and the base
to game display operative to display the base game result. A base game pay table is tied to the
   base game result and includes winning outcomes and non-winning outcomes. A bonus game
   award mechanism is configured to determine a threshold tied to a bonus result, track play of the
   base game, advance a counter responsive to play at the base game, display the bonus result at
   the base game display in place of the base game result when the counter bears a predefined
15 relationship with the threshold, and award a bonus to a player.

        Attorney Docket No. 1351-0023/Application No. Filed Herewith
                                  1/22
                                119                                   110
                               118
                                                                             115
 12U-                                                                     126
 1120
                                                                           125
                                                                               112
                       150
132                                         A                               133
 140            ~
14 1,-        E
   138tw137
142\-          C                                                     145
                              ------- 14 7
         Network                                    146
                       150
                            FIG. 1A

                                                   TITLE
       "Method and System for Implementing Mystery Bonus in Place of Base Game Results on
                                            Gaming Machine"
 5
    Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word "comprise" and
    variations such as "comprises", "comprising" and "comprised" are to be understood to imply
    the presence of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any other integer
    or group of integers.
 0  Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word "include" and
    variations such as "includes", "including" and "included" are to be understood to imply the
    presence of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any other integer or
    group of integers.
 5                                         TECHNICAL FIELD
             This disclosure relates generally to a gaming device and system and novel methods
    for implementing results on the base game of a gaming machine display.
                                          BACKGROUND ART
 !0          Any discussion of background art, any reference to a document and any reference to
    information that is known, which is contained in this specification, is provided only for the
    purpose of facilitating an understanding of the background art to the present invention, and is
    not an acknowledgement or admission that any of that material forms part of the common
    general knowledge in Australia or any other country as at the priority date of the application
25  in relation to which this specification has been filed.
             Playing games of chance is a popular recreational activity. There are many types of
    games of chance including table games where players wager against a live dealer such as
    blackjack, Pai Gow, roulette, Baccarat. Other types of games of chance are offered as
    automated machines. Examples include slots, poker, bingo, etc. Still other types of games of
30  chance allow players to wager against one another, such as a poker table. In return for a
    wager, games of chance generate randomly determined outcomes, some of which result in a
    winning event. Games of chance are often played with wagers having financial value but
                                                    1

    some games of chance are played with points or other freely available currency having no
    fiscal worth.
             Games of chance may be played in casinos, or at home using electronic devices or
    mechanical equipment. Gambling via Internet, whether for fun or for money, is also a
  5 popular activity.
             Games of chance typically associate a winning event with a specific game outcome.
    For example, achievement of BAR-BAR-BAR on the payline of a three reel slot machine
    might pay 20 credits on a 1 credit wager. Determination of a base game result often involves
    building a table of possible results on the base game, generating a random number using a
  0 random number generator (RNG), comparing the generated number with the results listed in
    the table, and displaying that result on the base game display as a base game result.
             As one example of a base game implementation, a base game has three reels each
    having 20 reel positions. Symbols appear at each reel position, with the more likely symbols
    (such as cherries) appearing multiple times and less likely symbols (such as a '7') appearing
  5 only once. The reel positions may be reel, as in a physical slot machine reel, or virtual. The
    three reels thus result in 20*20*20  = 8,000 possible combinations of reel positions. The
    chance of receiving a 7-7-7 result may occur only 1:8000 times using the RNG because
    each '7' appears only once in each reel. At the start of each play, a player uses one or more
    game credits and pulls the slot machine handle or pushes a button to activate the game. A
 !0 RNG is then generated from I to 8000-say 1,433-which corresponds to the result lemon
    BAR-BAR. The base game result is referenced against a look-up table to determine whether
    the result is a win or a non-win. In this case, the lemon-bar-bar corresponds to a non-winning
    result. Zero credits would thus be paid out to the player.
             One drawback to a random result-oriented base game is that winning results are
25  completely unpredictable. That is, the chance of a winning result is the same after each play.
    With random results such as those using typical RNG-based games, there is the chance that a
    player will not obtain a winning result of a long time. When this happens, a player may
    become discouraged and never choose to play again. Further, many players grow frustrated if
    there is a long period of play between wins. Other players prefer to have longer periods
30  between winning events but to have winning events that are larger or occur in clusters.
             Accordingly, it would be desirable for the casino to be able to configure the timing of
    an award at the base game to coincide with player preferences to maintain their interest, while
                                                   2

    conforming to the payback percentage of the gaming machine per applicable gaming
    regulations.
                                       SUMMARY OF INVENTION
 5           In accordance with one aspect of the present invention there is provided a gaming
    device comprising:
             a base game having a base game display;
             a random number generator operable with the base game to obtain a base game result
    comprising a combination of symbols, the base game display operative to display the base
 0  game result;
             a base game pay table tied to the base game result;
             a bonus game award mechanism configured to determine a threshold tied to a bonus
    result, track play of the base game, advance a counter responsive to play at the base game,
    display the bonus result at the base game display in place of the base game result or next non
 5  winning outcome when the counter bears a predefined relationship with the threshold, and
    award a bonus to a player.
             In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method
    of operating a gaming device having a base game with base game indicia displayed at base
    game indicia locations, the method comprising:
 !0          monitoring the occurrence of at least one base game event each time the base game is
    enabled, the base game having a plurality of possible winning base game results and at least
    one non-winning base game result;
             incrementing a count for each occurrence of the monitored event, wherein the count is
    associated with at least one of the possible winning base game results;
25           comparing the count with a trigger threshold; and
             displaying a first one of the possible winning results on base game indicia locations of
    the base game when the count bears a predefined relationship to the trigger threshold,
    otherwise displaying one of the non-winning base game results.
              In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method
30  of operating a gaming device having a base game and a bonus game, comprising:
             allowing play of the base game of a gaming machine;
                                                    3

             randomly determining a base game result from a plurality of possible results, the
    plurality of possible results including winning base game results and non-winning base game
    results;
             determining a bonus result and a trigger threshold for said bonus result;
  5          advancing a count response to play on the gaming machine; and
    displaying the bonus result on the gaming device in place of the base game result when the
    count bears a predefined relationship to the trigger threshold.
             In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a gaming
    device comprising:
  0          a results display having indicia locations for displaying indicia related to a game result;
    and
             a game award mechanism configured to determine a threshold tied to a winning game
    result, track play of the gaming device, advance a counter responsive to play at the gaming
    device, display the winning game result at the results display in the indicia locations when the
  5 counter bears a predefined relationship with the threshold, and award an amount to a player
    associated with the winning game result.
             The bonus game award mechanism may be further configured to utilize at least one
    bonus result that does not match any base game result possible on the base game.
             The display may include indicia locations, and the bonus game award mechanism may
 !0 be configured to display an indicia at one of the indicia locations that is unavailable in any base
    game outcome.
             The indicia locations may include three reel positions and a final one of the reel
    positions for the bonus result is a -7-, and the final -7- indicia may be unavailable in the base
    game outcome.
25           The gaming device may further comprise a delay circuit for delaying display of a
    bonus result comprising a combination of symbols responsive to a specified event.
             The base game paytable may include winning outcomes and non-winning outcomes,
    wherein the specified event is one of the winning outcomes, whereby the base game display
    displays the bonus result only after play of the base game results in a next non-winning
30  outcome
             The gaming device may further include:
             a player tracker with player record; and
                                                     4

             the threshold may be set according to criteria stored in the player record.
             The threshold may be set differently for players having different player records.
             The gaming device may include a plurality of base games, the bonus game award
    mechanism may be further configured to track play of the plurality of base games, advance a
  5 counter responsive to play at the plurality of base games, display a bonus result at a particular
    one of the plurality of base games in place of the base game result at that particular one of the
    plurality of base games, and award a bonus to a player at that particular one.
             The gaming device may be configured to allow play by a plurality of players, the bonus
    game award mechanism may be further configured to track play by the plurality of players,
 to advance a counter responsive to play by the plurality of players, display a bonus result to a
    particular one of the plurality of players in place of a base game result obtained by that
    particular player, and award a bonus to the particular player.
             The plurality of players may form a group selected according to a common player
    profile.
 [5          The random number generator may integrated within the base game.
             The random number generator may be external of the base game.
             The bonus game award mechanism may be integrated within the base game.
             The bonus game award mechanism may be external of the base game.
             The bonus game award mechanism may be further configured to determine a threshold
  0 tied to a non-winning result, track play of the base game, advance a counter associated with the
    non-winning result responsive to play at the base game, and display the non-winning result at
    the base game display in place of the base game result when the counter associated with the
    non-winning result bears a predefined relationship with the threshold tied to the non-winning
    result.
25           The bonus game award mechanism may be further configured to display a plurality of
    indicia at indicia locations of the base game display that differ from a bonus result by only a
    single indicia.
             The threshold may comprise a number randomly selected from within a predefined
    range of numbers.
30           The bonus game award mechanism may be configured to determine a plurality of
    thresholds each tied to a different bonus result.
                                                     5

           Each threshold may comprise a number randomly selected from within a predefined
   range of numbers.
           At least two of the numbers may be randomly selected from within different
   predefined ranges of numbers.
 5         The predefined range of numbers for one bonus result may be at least two orders of
   magnitude greater than the predefined range of numbers for another bonus result.
           The gaming device may further include a plurality of spinnable reels each having a
   plurality of symbols thereon and the combination of symbols may be made up of at least one
   symbol from each of at least two of the reels.
 0
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           The present invention will now be described, by way of example only, with reference to
   the accompanying drawings, in which:
           FIG. 1A is a functional block diagram that illustrates a gaming device according to
 5 embodiments of the invention.
           FIG. 1B is an isometric view of the gaming device illustrated in FIG. 1A.
           FIGs. 2A, 2B, and 2C are detail diagrams of exemplary types of gaming devices
   according to embodiments of the invention.
           FIG. 3 is a functional block diagram of networked gaming devices according to
 0 embodiments of the invention.
           FIG. 4 is a schematic diagram illustrating a system configured to implement the
   invention.
           FIGs. 5-7 are flow diagrams illustrating processes for determining results on the gaming
   machine according to various implementations of the invention.
25         FIG. 8 is a graph illustrating the occurrence of various bonus results in relation to the
   advance of a counter as play on the gaming machine progresses.
           FIGs. 9A-9E illustrate win proximity of the various bonus results taken at five different
   counter slices as shown in FIG. 8.
           FIG. 10 illustrates a magnified view of the relationship of the count to the proximity of
30 various bonus awards at time ti.
           FIG. 11 is a front view of game adapted to implement the invention using a visually
   discernable proximity meter.
                                                   6

           FIG. 12 is an enlarged view of a screen in the view of FIG. 11.
           FIGs. 13-16 are views of the screen of FIG. 12 in different stages of game play.
           FIG. 17 is a highly schematic diagram of selected components of the game of FIG. 11.
           FIGs. 18-19 are schematic diagrams of a portion of the circuitry for controlling lights
 5 and displays on the game of FIG. 11.
                             DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
           To increase player interest, bonus awards which are won independently of any single
   game outcome are sometimes offered. The "mystery" bonus is a popular bonus award that is
 0 so named because players cannot easily discern why the award occurred, as it may be
   completely independent of the game's normal schedule of payments.
           Mystery bonuses are awarded as a function of game play and are increasingly likely to
   be won with each game played. In one aspect, the mystery award is a progressive amount
   because it grows in value as a function of each wager made until it is won. Other mystery
 5 awards, such as those winnable using methods described herein, do not grow with each play,
   but rather are set amounts triggered after a certain number of plays (the "count"). Once won,
   the award and/or count can be initialized to a starting value and the process begun again.
   Alternately, the count continuously progresses with various awards triggered at various count
   points as described further below and particularly with reference to FIG. 8.
 0         Further, many players grow frustrated if there is a long period of play between wins.
   Other players prefer to have longer periods between winning events but to have winning
   events that are larger or occur in clusters. It would be desirable for the casino to be able to
   configure the timing of the next mystery bonus award. It would also be desirable to associate
   a frequency of awarding the mystery bonus to base game outcomes, for example, or to
25 associate the frequency of awarding the mystery bonus to payout percentages of the base
   game.
           Players would enjoy a heightened sense of entertainment if they know that an award is
   won before the winner identity and bonus amount won are revealed. Furthermore, in mystery
   bonus awards that are a function of wagers made, it would be useful to illustrate that larger
30 wagers have a greater likelihood of winning, and it would heighten player enjoyment to have
   an indication of how likely the next mystery award is of being won. Additionally, players
                                                   7

   would enjoy a heightened sense of entertainment if they know that an award is won before
   the winner identity and bonus amount won are revealed.
            FIGs. 1A and 1B illustrate example gaming devices according to embodiments of the
   invention.
 5          Referring to FIGs. 1A and IB, a gaming device 110 is an electronic gaming machine.
   Although an electronic gaming machine or "slot" machine is illustrated, various other types of
   devices may be used to wager monetarily based credits on a game of chance in accordance with
   principles of the invention. The term "electronic gaming device" is meant to include various
   devices such as electro-mechanical spinning-reel type slot machines, video slot machines, and
 0 video poker machines, for instance. Other gaming devices may include computer-based
   gaming machines, wireless gaming devices, multi-player gaming stations, modified personal
   electronic gaming devices (such as cell phones), personal computers, server-based gaming
   terminals, and other similar devices. Although embodiments of the invention will work with all
   of the gaming types mentioned, for ease of illustration the present embodiments will be
 5 described in reference to the electronic gaming machine 110 shown in FIGs. 1A and lB.
            The gaming device 110 includes a cabinet 115 housing components to operate the
   gaming device 110. The cabinet 115 may include a gaming display 120, a base portion 113, a
   top box 118, and a player interface panel 130. The gaming display 120 may include
   mechanical spinning reels (FIG. 2A), a video display (FIGs. 2B and 2C), or a combination of
 0 both spinning reels and a video display (not shown). The gaming cabinet 115 may also include
   a credit meter 127 and a coin-in or bet meter 128. The credit meter 127 may indicate the total
   number of credits remaining on the gaming device 10 that are eligible to be wagered. In some
   embodiments, the credit meter 127 may reflect a monetary unit, such as dollars. However, it is
   often preferable to have the credit meter 127 reflect a number of 'credits,' rather than a
25 monetary unit. The bet meter 128 may indicate the amount of credits to be wagered on a
   particular game. Thus, for each game, the player transfers the amount that he or she wants to
   wager from the credit meter 127 to the bet meter 128. In some embodiments, various other
   meters may be present, such as meters reflecting amounts won, amounts paid, or the like. In
   embodiments where the gaming display 120 is a video monitor, the information indicated on
30 the credit meters may be shown on the gaming display itself 120 (FIG. 2B).
            The base portion 113 may include a lighted panel 114, a coin return (not shown), and a
   gaming handle 112 operable on a partially rotating pivot joint 111. The game handle 112 is
                                                  8

   traditionally included on mechanical spinning-reel games, where the handle may be pulled
   toward a player to initiate the spinning of reels 122 after placement of a wager. The top box
   118 may include a lighted panel 117, a video display (such as an LCD monitor), a mechanical
   bonus device (not shown), and a candle light indicator 119. The player interface panel 130 may
 5 include various devices so that a player can interact with the gaming device 110.
           The player interface panel 130 may include one or more game buttons 132 that can be
   actuated by the player to cause the gaming device 110 to perform a specific action. For
   example, some of the game buttons 132 may cause the gaming device 110 to bet a credit to be
   wagered during the next game, change the number of lines being played on a multi-line game,
 0 cash out the credits remaining on the gaming device (as indicated on the credit meter 127), or
   request assistance from casino personnel, such as by lighting the candle 119. In addition, the
   player interface panel 130 may include one or more game actuating buttons 133. The game
   actuating buttons 133 may initiate a game with a pre-specified amount of credits. On some
   gaming devices 110 a "Max Bet" game actuating button 133 may be included that places the
 5 maximum credit wager on a game and initiates the game. The player interface panel 130 may
   further include a bill acceptor 137 and a ticket printer 138. The bill acceptor 137 may accept
   and validate paper money or previously printed tickets with a credit balance. The ticket printer
   138 may print out tickets reflecting the balance of the credits that remain on the gaming device
   110 when a player cashes out by pressing one of the game buttons 132 programmed to cause a
 0 'cashout.' These tickets may be inserted into other gaming machines or redeemed at a cashier
   station or kiosk for cash.
           The gaming device 110 may also include one or more speakers 126 to transmit auditory
   information or sounds to the player. The auditory information may include specific sounds
   associated with particular events that occur during game play on the gaming device 110. For
25 example, a particularly festive sound may be played during a large win or when a bonus is
   triggered. The speakers 126 may also transmit "attract" sounds to entice nearby players when
   the game is not currently being played.
           The gaming device 110 may further include a secondary display 125.        This secondary
   display 125 may be a vacuum fluorescent display (VFD), a liquid crystal display (LCD), a
30 cathode ray tube (CRT), a plasma screen, or the like. The secondary display 125 may show any
   combination of primary (or base) game information and ancillary information to the player.
                                                   9

   For example, the secondary display 125 may show player tracking information, secondary
   bonus information, advertisements, or player selectable game options.
            The gaming device 110 may include a separate information window (not shown)
   dedicated to supplying any combination of information related to primary (or base) game play,
 5 secondary bonus information, player tracking information, secondary bonus information,
   advertisements or player selectable game options. This window may be fixed in size and
   location or may have its size and location vary temporally as communication needs change.
   One example of such a resizable window is International Game Technology's "service
   window". Another example is Las Vegas Gaming Incorporated's retrofit technology which
 0 allows information to be placed over areas of the game or the secondary display screen at
   various times and in various situations.
            The gaming device 110 includes a microprocessor 140 that controls operation of the
   gaming device 110. If the gaming device 110 is a standalone gaming device, the
   microprocessor 140 may control virtually all of the operations of the gaming devices and
 5 attached equipment, such as operating game logic stored in memory (not shown) as firmware,
   controlling the display 120 to represent the outcome of a game, communicating with the other
   peripheral devices (such as the bill acceptor 137), and orchestrating the lighting and sound
   emanating from the gaming device 110. In other embodiments where the gaming device 110 is
   coupled to a network 150, as described below, the microprocessor 140 may have different tasks
 0 depending on the setup and function of the gaming device. For example, the microprocessor
   140 may be responsible for running the base game of the gaming device and executing
   instructions received over the network 150 from a bonus server or player tracking server. In a
   server-based gaming setup, the microprocessor 140 may act as a terminal to execute
   instructions from a remote server that is running game play on the gaming device.
25          The microprocessor 140 may be coupled to a machine communication interface (MCI)
   142 that connects the gaming device 110 to a gaming network 150. The MCI 142 may be
   coupled to the microprocessor 140 through a serial connection, a parallel connection, an optical
   connection, or in some cases a wireless connection. The gaming device 110 may include
   memory 141 (MEM), such as a random access memory (RAM), coupled to the
30 microprocessor 140 and which can be used to store gaming information, such as storing total
   coin-in statistics about a present or past gaming session, which can be communicated to a
   remote server or database through the MCI 142. The MCI 142 may also facilitate
                                                 10

   communication between the network 150 and the secondary display 125 or a player tracking
   unit 145 housed in the gaming cabinet 115.
           The player tracking unit 145 may include an identification device 146 and one or more
   buttons 147 associated with the player tracking unit 145. The identification device 146 serves
 5 to identify a player, by, for example, reading a player-tracking device, such as a player
   tracking card that is issued by the casino to individual players who choose to have such a
   card. The identification device 146 may instead, or additionally, identify players through
   other methods. Player tracking systems using player tracking cards and card readers 146 are
   known in the art. Briefly summarizing such a system, a player registers with the casino prior
 0 to commencing gaming. The casino issues a unique player-tracking card to the player and
   opens a corresponding player account that is stored on a server or host computer, described
   below with reference to FIG. 3. The player account may include the player's name and
   mailing address and other information of interest to the casino in connection with marketing
   efforts. The player account may also include the players psychographic profile indicating
 5 preferences of play and determining from a tracked history of play what outcomes motivate a
   player to keep playing. For instance, some players are motivated to keep playing by more
   frequent (but smaller) wins while others are motivated by the pursuit of a larger jackpot. This
   psychographic profile can be integrated within the invention to provide appropriate mystery
   bonuses to players at somewhat predictable times so that the player is properly motivated to
 o keep playing. Prior to playing one of the gaming devices in the casino, the player inserts the
   player tracking card into the identification device 146 thus permitting the casino to track
   player activity, such as amounts wagered, credits won, and rate of play.
           To induce the player to use the card and be an identified player, the casino may award
   each player points proportional to the money or credits wagered by the player. Players
25 typically accrue points at a rate related to the amount wagered, although other factors may
   cause the casino to award the player various amounts. The points may be displayed on the
   secondary display 125 or using other methods. In conventional player tracking systems, the
   player may take his or her card to a special desk in the casino where a casino employee scans
   the card to determine how many accrued points are in the player's account. The player may
30 redeem points for selected merchandise, meals in casino restaurants, or the like, which each
   have assigned point values. In some player tracking systems, the player may use the secondary
   display 125 to access their player tracking account, such as to check a total number of points,
                                                   11

   redeem points for various services, make changes to their account, or download promotional
   credits to the gaming device 110. In other embodiments, the identification device 146 may read
   other identifying cards (such as driver licenses, credit cards, etc.) to identify a player and match
   them to a corresponding player tracking account. Although FIG. 1A shows the player tracking
 5 unit 145 with a card reader as the identification device 146, other embodiments may include a
   player tracking unit 145 with a biometric scanner, PIN code acceptor, or other methods of
   identifying a player to pair the player with their player tracking account.
            During typical play on a gaming device 110, a player plays a game by placing a wager
   and then initiating a gaming session. The player may initially insert monetary bills or
 0 previously printed tickets with a credit value into the bill acceptor 137. The player may also
   put coins into a coin acceptor (not shown) or a credit, debit or casino account card into a card
   reader/authorizer (not shown). In other embodiments, stored player points or special 'bonus
   points' awarded to the player or accumulated and/or stored in a player account may be able to
   be substituted at or transferred to the gaming device 10 for credits or other value. For
 5 example, a player may convert stored loyalty points to credits or transfer funds from his bank
   account, credit card, casino account or other source of funding. The selected source of
   funding may be selected by the player at time of transfer, determined by the casino at the time
   of transfer or occur automatically according to a predefined selection process. One of skill in
   the art will readily see that this invention is useful with all gambling devices, regardless of
 0 the manner in which wager value-input is accomplished.
            The credit meter 127 displays the numeric credit value of the money inserted
   dependent on the denomination of the gaming device 110. That is, if the gaming device 110
   is a nickel slot machine and a $20 bill inserted into the bill acceptor 137, the credit meter will
   reflect 400 credits or one credit for each nickel of the inserted twenty dollars. For gaming
25 devices 110 that support multiple denominations, the credit meter 127 will reflect the amount
   of credits relative to the denomination selected. Thus, in the above example, if a penny
   denomination is selected after the $20 is inserted the credit meter will change from 400
   credits to 2000 credits.
            A wager may be placed by pushing one or more of the game buttons 132, which may
30 be reflected on the bet meter 128. That is, the player can generally depress a "bet one" button
   (one of the buttons on the player interface panel 130, such as 132), which transfers one credit
   from the credit meter 127 to the bet meter 128. Each time the button 132 is depressed an
                                                   12

   additional single credit transfers to the bet meter 128 up to a maximum bet that can be placed
   on a single play of the electronic gaming device 110. The gaming session may be initiated by
   pulling the gaming handle 112 or depressing the spin button 133. On some gaming devices
   110, a "max bet" button (another one of the buttons 132 on the player interface panel 130)
 5 may be depressed to wager the maximum number of credits supported by the gaming device
   110 and initiate a gaming session.
            If the gaming session does not result in any winning combination, the process of
   placing a wager may be repeated by the player. Alternatively, the player may cash out any
   remaining credits on the credit meter 127 by depressing the "cash-out" button (another button
 0 132 on the player interface panel 130), which causes the credits on the credit meter 127 to be
   paid out in the form of a ticket through the ticket printer 138, or may be paid out in the form
   of returning coins from a coin hopper (not shown) to a coin return tray.
            If instead a winning combination (win) appears on the display 120, the award
   corresponding to the winning combination is immediately applied to the credit meter 127.
 5 For example, if the gaming device 110 is a slot machine, a winning combination of symbols
   123 may land on a played payline on reels 122. If any bonus games are initiated, the gaming
   device 110 may enter into a bonus mode or simply award the player with a bonus amount of
   credits that are applied to the credit meter 127.
            FIGs. 2A to 2C illustrate exemplary types of gaming devices according to embodiments
 0 of the invention. FIG. 2A illustrates an example spinning-reel gaming machine 11 A, FIG. 2B
   illustrates an example video slot machine 11B, and FIG. 2C illustrates an example video poker
   machine 1OC.
            Referring to FIG. 2A, a spinning-reel gaming machine 11OA includes a gaming display
   120A having a plurality of mechanical spinning reels 122A. Typically, spinning-reel gaming
25 machines 11OA have three to five spinning reels 122A at specified base game indicia locations.
   Each of the spinning reels 122A has multiple symbols 123A that may be separated by blank
   areas on the spinning reels 122A, although the presence of blank areas typically depends on the
   number of reels 122A present in the gaming device 11 OA and the number of different symbols
   123A that may appear on the spinning reels 122A. Each of the symbols 122A or blank areas
30 makes up a "stop" on the spinning reel 122A where the reel 122A comes to rest after a spin.
   Although the spinning reels 122A of various games 11 OA may have various numbers of stops,
   many conventional spinning-reel gaming devices 11 OA have reels 122A with twenty-two stops.
                                                  13

            During game play, the spinning reels 122A may be controlled by stepper motors (not
   shown) under the direction of the microprocessor 140 (FIG. 1A). Thus, although the spinning
   reel gaming device 1 10A has mechanical based spinning reels 122A, the movement of the reels
   themselves is electronically controlled to spin and stop. This electronic control is advantageous
 5 because it allows a virtual reel strip to be stored in the memory 141 of the gaming device 1 10A,
   where various "virtual stops" are mapped to each physical stop on the physical reel 122A. This
   mapping allows the gaming device 11 OA to establish greater awards and bonuses available to
   the player because of the increased number of possible combinations afforded by the virtual
   reel strips.
 0          A gaming session on a spinning reel slot machine 1 10A typically includes the player
   pressing the "bet-one" button (one of the game buttons 132A) to wager a desired number of
   credits followed by pulling the gaming handle 112 (FIGs. 1A, IB) or pressing the spin button
   133A to spin the reels 122A. Alternatively, the player may simply press the "max-bet" button
   (another one of the game buttons 132A) to both wager the maximum number of credits
 5 permitted and initiate the spinning of the reels 122A. The spinning reels 122A may all stop at
   the same time or may individually stop one after another (typically from left to right) to build
   player anticipation. Because the display 120A usually cannot be physically modified, some
   spinning reel slot machines 11 OA include an electronic display screen in the top box 118 (FIG.
   IB), a mechanical bonus mechanism in the top box 118, or a secondary display 125 (FIG. 1A)
 0 to execute a bonus.
            Referring to FIG. 2B, a video gaming machine 1 OB may include a video display 120B
   to display virtual spinning reels 122B and various other gaming information 121 B. The video
   display 120B may be a CRT, LCD, plasma screen, or the like. It is usually preferable that the
   video display 120B be a touchscreen to accept player input. A number of symbols 123A
25 appear on each of the virtual spinning reels 122B. Although FIG. 2B shows five virtual
   spinning reels 122B at specified base game indicia locations, the flexibility of the video display
   120B allows for various reel 122B and game configurations. For example, some video slot
   games 1 OB spin reels for each individual symbol position (or stop) that appears on the video
   display 120B. That is, each symbol position on the screen is independent of every other
30 position during the gaming sessions. In these types of games, very large numbers of pay lines
   or multiple super scatter pays can be utilized since similar symbols could appear at every
   symbol position on the video display 120B. On the other hand, other video slot games 11 OB
                                                    14

   more closely resemble the mechanical spinning reel games where symbols that are vertically
   adjacent to each other are part of the same continuous virtual spinning reel 122B.
             Because the virtual spinning reels 122B, by virtue of being computer implemented, can
   have almost any number of stops on a reel strip, it is much easier to have a greater variety of
 5 displayed outcomes as compared to spinning-reel slot machines 11OA (FIG. 2A) that have a
   fixed number of physical stops on each spinning reel 122A.
             With the possible increases in reel 122B numbers and configurations over the
   mechanical gaming device 11 A, video gaming devices 1 OB often have multiple paylines 124
   that may be played. By having more paylines 124 available to play, the player may be more
 0 likely to have a winning combination when the reels 122B stop and the gaming session ends.
   However, since the player typically must wager at least a minimum number of credits to enable
   each payline 124 to be eligible for winning, the overall odds of winning are not much different,
   if at all, than if the player is wagering only on a single payline. For example, in a five line
   game, the player may bet one credit per payline 124 and be eligible for winning symbol
 5 combinations that appear on any of the five played paylines 124. This gives a total of five
   credits wagered and five possible winning paylines 124. If, on the other hand, the player only
   wagers one credit on one payline 124, but plays five gaming sessions, the odds of winning
   would be identical as above: five credits wagered and five possible winning paylines 124.
             Because the video display 120B can easily modify the image output by the video
 0 display 120B, bonuses, such as second screen bonuses are relatively easy to award on the video
   slot game 1 OB. That is, if a bonus is triggered during game play, the video display 120B may
   simply store the resulting screen shot in memory and display a bonus sequence on the video
   display 120B. After the bonus sequence is completed, the video display 120B may then
   retrieve the previous screen shot and information from memory, and re-display that image.
25           Also, as mentioned above, the video display 120B may allow various other game
   information 121B to be displayed. For example, as shown in FIG. 2B, banner information may
   be displayed above the spinning reels 122B to inform the player, perhaps, which symbol
   combination is needed to trigger a bonus. Also, instead of providing a separate credit meter
   127 (FIG. 1A) and bet meter 128, the same information can instead be displayed on the video
30 display 120B. In addition, "soft buttons" 129B such as a "spin" button or "help/see pays"
   button may be built using the touch screen video display 120B. Such customization and ease of
   changing the image shown on the display 120B adds to the flexibility of the game 1 10B.
                                                    15

           Even with the improved flexibility afforded by the video display 120B, several physical
   buttons 132B and 133B are usually provided on video slot machines 110B. These buttons may
   include game buttons 132B that allow a player to choose the number of paylines 124 he or she
   would like to play and the number of credits wagered on each payline 124. In addition, a max
 5 bet button (one of the game buttons 132B) allows a player to place a maximum credit wager on
   the maximum number of available paylines 124 and initiate a gaming session. A repeat bet or
   spin button 133B may also be used to initiate each gaming session when the max bet button is
   not used.
           Referring to FIG. 2C, a video poker gaming device 1 OC may include a video display
 0 120C that is physically similar to the video display 120B shown in FIG. 2B. The video display
   120C may present a poker hand of five cards 123C and various other player information 121C
   including a number of player selectable soft (touch-screen) buttons 129C and a paytable for
   various winning hands. Although the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 3C shows only one hand
   of poker on the video display 120C, various other video poker machines 1 OC may show
 5 several poker hands (multi-hand poker). Typically, video poker machines 11 OC play "draw"
   poker in which a player is dealt a hand of five cards that are displayed at specified base game
   indicia locations, has the opportunity to hold any combination of those five cards, and then
   draws new cards to replace the discarded ones. All pays are usually given for winning
   combinations resulting from the final hand, although some video poker games 11 OC may give
 0 bonus credits for certain combinations received on the first hand before the draw. In the
   example shown in FIG. 2C a player has been dealt two aces, a three, a six, and a nine. The
   video poker game 1 OC may provide a bonus or payout for the player having been dealt the
   pair of aces, even before the player decides what to discard in the draw. Since pairs, three of a
   kind, etc. are typically needed for wins, a player would likely hold the two aces that have been
25 dealt and draw three cards to replace the three, six, and nine in the hope of receiving additional
   aces or other cards leading to a winning combination with a higher award amount. After the
   draw and revealing of the final hand, the video poker game 11 OC typically awards any credits
   won to the credit meter.
           The player selectable soft buttons 129C appearing on the screen respectively
30 correspond to each card on the video display 120C. These soft buttons 129C allow players to
   select specific cards on the video display 120C such that the card corresponding to the selected
   soft button is "held" before the draw. Typically, video poker machines 1 OC also include
                                                  16

    physical game buttons 132C that correspond to the cards in the hand and may be selected to
    hold a corresponding card. A deal/draw button 133C may also be included to initiate a gaming
    session after credits have been wagered (with a bet button 132C, for example) and to draw any
    cards not held after the first hand is displayed.
  5         Although examples of a spinning reel slot machine 11 OA, a video slot machine 11 OB,
    and a video poker machine 1 OC have been illustrated in FIGs. 2A-2C, gaming machines and
    various other types of gaming devices known in the art are contemplated and are within the
    scope of the invention.
            FIG. 3 is a block diagram illustrating networked gaming devices according to
 t0 embodiments of the invention. Referring to FIG. 3, multiple electronic gaming devices
    (EGMs) 170, 171, 172, 173, 174, and 175 may be coupled to one another and coupled to a
    remote server 180 through a network 150. For ease of understanding, gaming devices or EGMs
    170, 171, 172, 173, 174, and 175 are generically referred to as EGMs 170-175. The term
    EGMs 170-175, however, may refer to any combination of one or more of EGMs 170, 171,
 [5 172, 173, 174, and 175. Additionally, the gaming server 180 may be coupled to one or more
    gaming databases 190. These gaming network 150 connections may allow multiple gaming
    devices 170-175 to remain in communication with one another during particular gaming modes
    such as tournament play or remote head-to-head play. Although some of the gaming devices
    170-175 coupled on the gaming network 150 may resemble the gaming devices 110, 11 A,
 !o 11 OB, and 1 OC shown in FIGs. lA-lB and 2A-2C, other coupled gaming devices 170-175
    may include differently configured gaming devices. For example, the gaming devices 170-175
    may include traditional slot machines 175 directly coupled to the network 150, banks of
    gaming devices 170 coupled to the network 150, banks of gaming devices 170 coupled to the
    network through a bank controller 160, wireless handheld gaming machines 172 and cell
25  phones 173 coupled to the gaming network 150 through one or more wireless routers or
    antennas 161, personal computers 174 coupled to the network 150 through the internet 162, and
    banks of gaming devices 171 coupled to the network through one or more optical connection
    lines 164. Additionally, some of the traditional gaming devices 170, 171, and 175 may include
    electronic gaming tables, multi-station gaming devices, or electronic components operating in
30  conjunction with non-gaming components, such as automatic card readers, chip readers, and
    chip counters, for example.
                                                    17

            Gaming devices 171 coupled over an optical line 164 may be remote gaming devices in
   a different location or casino. The optical line 164 may be coupled to the gaming network 150
   through an electronic to optical signal converter 163 and may be coupled to the gaming devices
   171 through an optical to electronic signal converter 165. The banks of gaming devices 170
 5 coupled to the network 150 may be coupled through a bank controller 160 for compatibility
   purposes, for local organization and control, or for signal buffering purposes. The network 150
   may include serial or parallel signal transmission lines and carry data in accordance with data
   transfer protocols such as Ethernet transmission lines, RS-232 lines, firewire lines, USB lines,
   or other communication protocols. Although not shown in FIG. 3, substantially the entire
 o network 150 may be made of fiber optic lines or may be a wireless network utilizing a wireless
   protocol such as IEEE 802.11 a, b, g, or n, Zigbee, RF protocols, optical transmission, near
   field transmission, or the like.
            As mentioned above, each gaming device 170-175 may have an individual processor
   140 (FIG. 1A) and memory 141 to run and control game play on the gaming device 170-175, or
 5 some of the gaming devices 170-175 may be terminals that are run by a remote server 180 in a
   server based gaming environment. Server based gaming environments may be advantageous to
   casinos by allowing fast downloading of particular game types or themes based on casino
   preference or player selection. Additionally, tournament based games, linked games, and
   certain game types, such as BINGO or keno may benefit from at least some server 180 based
 0 control.
            Thus, in some embodiments, the network 150, server 180, and database 190 may be
   dedicated to communications regarding specific game or tournament play. In other
   embodiments, however, the network 150, server 180, and database 190 may be part of a player
   tracking network. For player tracking capabilities, when a player inserts a player tracking card
25 in the card reader 146 (FIG. 1A), the player tracking unit 145 sends player identification
   information obtained on the card reader 146 through the MCI 142 over the network 150 to the
   player tracking server 180, where the player identification information is compared to player
   information records in the player database 190 to provide the player with information regarding
   their player account or other features at the gaming device 110 where the player is wagering.
30 Additionally, multiple databases 190 and/or servers 180 may be present and coupled to one or
   more networks 150 to provide a variety of gaming services, such as both game/tournament data
   and player tracking data.
                                                  18

            The various systems described with reference to FIGs 1-3 can be used in a number of
   ways. For instance, the systems can be used to track data about various players. The tracked
   data can be used by the casino to provide additional benefits to players, such as extra bonuses
   or extra benefits such as bonus games and other benefits as described above. These added
 5 benefits further entice the players to play at the casino that provides the benefits.
            FIG. 4 illustrates is a simplified schematic representation of a gaming network 200
   configured to implement features of the invention. The system general includes a player
   tracking database 202, a bonus server 204, gaming machines 206, and accounting systems (not
   shown) coupled to a network 208 for communication therebetween.
 0          Player tracking database 202 interfaces with a player input device such as an
   identification card reader 145 (FIG. 1) on gaming machine 206 and can operate as described
   above to identify a player, track player wagers and winnings, and maintain biographical and/or
   psychographic information about the player. The player's psychographic profile, as described
   above, can include information indicating the player's preferences of play and determining
 5 from a tracked history of play what outcomes motivate a player to keep playing. For
   instance, some players are motivated to keep playing by more frequent (but smaller) wins
   while others are motivated by the pursuit of a larger jackpot. This psychographic profile can
   be integrated within the invention to provide appropriate mystery bonuses to players at
   somewhat predictable times so that the player is properly motivated to keep playing as noted
 0 below.
            Bonus server 204 is configured to set a threshold, advance a count, and implement a
   bonus on gaming machine 206 once the threshold is met as described below. Instructions for
   operating the gaming machine 206 can be communicated through the network 208 to the
   gaming machine's machine control interface (MCI) 210, that then operates the gaming
25 machine to implement the bonus. Although bonuses on networked gaming machines can be
   controlled remotely through a networked device such as a bonus server 204, it is understood
   that the gaming machine can be operated alone to set a bonus threshold, advance a count
   according to play on the machine, and implement the bonus. The invention is not intended to
   be limited to the embodiment shown specifically in FIG. 4, but is only one of many
30 contemplated within the spirit of the invention.
            Electronic gaming machine 206 includes an MCI 210 that operates to control a
   microprocessor 212, which itself implements programming adapted to control the appearance
                                                    19

    of gaming indicia on a display 214 at distinct gaming indicia locations. In the embodiment
    shown, display 214 includes three gaming indicia locations 216a, 216b, 216c representative
    of three slots. It is understood that the number and placement of the locations are not so
    limited, and can be four as shown in the slot machine of FIG. 1A, five as shown in the
  5 gaming machines of FIGs. 2A, 2B, and 2C, or any other number appropriate to the base game
    being played. For instance, if the game of single-hand poker is to be played on gaming
    machine 206, the base game indicia locations on the display is set to five.
            Operation of the gaming machine according to preferred embodiments involves
    playing the base game (e.g. slots) which tracking a player's advance toward a threshold.
  0 Once the threshold is reached, the gaming machine enters a bonus operation where symbols
    or indicia are displayed in the indicia locations 216a, 216b, 216c in place of a base game
    operation. By way of example, and as discussed in more detail further below, a bonus trigger
    event could result in a 7-7-7 on the three slot locations, an event which may or may not be
    possible on the base game.
 [5         Other embodiments are contemplated in which outcomes are at least partially
    determined by mystery bonus.
            A first such embodiment is as described above in which winning results on a base
    game can comprise a combination of random number generated winning outcomes and
    triggered mystery bonus outcomes where, preferably, a triggered mystery bonus result is
 !o displayed on the gaming machine in place of a randomized base game result. The mystery
    bonuses may be tracked and triggered through a bonus server 204 as shown in FIG. 4.
    Additionally, the random number generated outcome on the gaming machine 206 may be
    determined internally or externally of the gaming machine. When determined externally, the
    gaming machine 206 would simply act as a display device to display a result determined
25  externally of the machine but otherwise not act to determine a result.
            In a second embodiment, winning results can again be a combination of random
    number generated winning outcomes and triggered mystery bonus outcomes. The mystery
    bonus, however, may be tracked and triggered within gaming machine 206 itself so that there
    is no need for external equipment such as MCI 210, network 208, or bonus server 204. Each
30  mystery jackpot can be calculated by the gaming machine based upon wagers made, games
    played, or a combination thereof. The exact calculation (including jackpot size, trigger
    threshold ranges, the thresholds themselves, etc.) may be calculated identically for all players,
                                                   20

    may vary according to the player profile or other factors such as time of day, busyness of the
    casino, etc.
            In a third embodiment, there are no random number generated winning outcomes
    and instead all winning outcomes are the result of triggered mystery bonus events. That is,
  5 all winning results on the base game are triggered by a mystery bonus so that there are in fact
    no random number generated outcomes-the RNG only determining the threshold at which
    the award occurs within the jackpot range.
            In the third embodiment, the mystery bonuses are tracked externally of the gaming
    machine 206.
 to         In a fourth embodiment, the mystery bonus is tracked internally of the gaming
    machine so that there is no need for external equipment such as MCI 210, network 208, or
    bonus server 204.
            In a fifth embodiment, the mystery bonus is tracked externally as via bonus server
    204. Play on more than one gaming machine may advance a count common to players on
 [5 multiple gaming machines so that the player that created the event that triggered the mystery
    bonus would be granted the award. For example, a mystery jackpot controls the striking of a
    BAR-BAR-BAR winning outcome. But all play on all connected games may increment the
    mystery counter. Whichever player causes the threshold to be met wins the prize, and the
    players may or may not be aware of the competition.
 !o         In a sixth embodiment, the mystery jackpot for a particular outcome is grouped by
    player profile or other category. As one example, all play from players of type A feed into
    one mystery pool while all play from players of type B feed another mystery pool.
            Various permutations of the invention and of the system of FIG. 4 are contemplated
    as shown in Table 1 below where selection is taken from each of columns A, B, and C.
25
                                                 21

                                                      Table 1
                                    Base Game/Mystery Bonus Combinations
                      A                                 B                            C
         RNG Award Mechanism              Mystery Award Mechanism             Count Advance
        Internal                         Internal                      Single Player
        External                         External                     Multiple (e.g. bank) machines
        Internal and External            Internal and External        Multiple (e.g. type) Players
       No RNG Award
  5          The term "internal" means that the mechanism (whether for RNG awards or mystery
    awards) is within the gaming machine itself. In some hybrids of the invention, e.g. where the
    mechanisms are located both internally and externally, some RNG/mystery outcomes may be
    determined by the base game while others are determined by system elements. Variations of
    the above embodiments are contemplated without varying from the spirit of the invention.
 to          FIG. 5 illustrates an operation of the invention. Play starts at block 220 when a player
    inserts his or her player card into a machine or commences play at a machine without the
    player card. The process enters query block 222 in which a player record is consulted to
    determine whether a record exists and whether the player has played previously. Alternately
    or additionally, query block 222 determines whether play (even by another player) on the
 ts gaming machine had previously taken place and sets the win thresholds and tracked count(s)
    accordingly.
             If there is no record of previous play, then the process proceeds to block 224 in which
    win thresholds for all bonus results are set. As a simple example, two bonus results might be
    BAR-BAR-BAR and 7-7-7 with base probabilities of occurrence for each set at 1:40 and
20  1:10,000. That is, BAR-BAR-BAR has a default probability of occurrence of once every
    forty plays, which 7-7-7 has a default probability of occurrence of once every ten
    thousand plays. The occurrence of the bonus may be varied by interposing a randomized
    number (e.g. random number between 1 and 80 for the BAR-BAR-BAR result) into the
    probability so that, on average the bonus occurs every 40 plays, but that the result could occur
25  on the 1" play, the   8 0 th play, or any play in between. Once a win occurs, the next threshold is
    determined. Alternately, thresholds can be mapped out for multiple awards so that it is
    known in advance by the gaming system that a player will achieve a BAR-BAR-BAR result
                                                       22

    on the  6 th play, the 6 0 th play, the 9 8 th play, the 1 0th play, the I 11h play and the 19 0 th play. In
    the context of the invention, a "play" is associated with a "count" that is tracked according to
    methods described below.
             In an alternative aspect of the invention, the player psychographic profile can be
  5 consulted to best alter the probabilities to motivate the player to keep playing. For instance, a
    player whose record (or personal choice) indicates that he or she desires more frequent wins
    may have the base BAR-BAR-BAR probability of occurrence set to 1:30 rather than 1:40; to
    balance the odds back in the house's favor, the 7-7-7 result probability of occurrence
    would be set to 1:20,000 rather than 1:10,000. In contrast, a player exhibiting a preference
 t0 for larger wins may result in the odds of obtaining a 7-7-7 result in the bonus game to
    1:4000, with a resultant decrease in the odds of obtaining the smaller bonus awards. In
    another variation, the player could choose which probabilities to use right on the game screen
    so that the player is given more custom control over his or her win probabilities and types
    within predefined payback percentages or budgets.
 [5          If in query block 222 it is determined that a player record does indicate previous play,
    then account information is retrieved in block 226 for the current tracked count information
    and win threshold for all possible bonus results. The player may then play at one machine to
    accumulate a count, leave the machine, come back later to that or a similar machine, and
    maintain their count and proximity to various awards.
 !o          Alternate embodiments are contemplated for setting proximity, thresholds, and counts
    for achieving certain game results. One option is that no player history is taken into
    account-that is, each new play session starts from a predefined initial point. Another option
    is that the game is left in the state a player leaves it in. In other words, if player A gets very
    close to winning an award but does not, the next player to play the game begins from that
25  very close position. Yet another option is that any accumulated play progress expires or
    diminishes if a defined elapsed time passes. Finally, progress on some awards could be
    allowed to carry over from only play session to another while others reset or are passed off to
    the next player. For example, a player could keep his progress on the top two awards but all
    other progress is passed on to the subsequent payer.
30           A player plays the base game 228 and a determination is made in query block 230
    whether the player's count is to be advanced. In one aspect of the invention, the count is
    advanced when only a MAX bet is played. For instance, if the first two credits played fund
                                                          23

   the base game and the third credit in funds the bonus game, then only the third credit in
   advances the count toward winning any of the bonus awards. In other contemplated aspects,
   the count is advanced for each credit played, at random, for designated players, during
   designated times, only during promotional events, or any combination thereof. If the count is
 5 not to be advanced, the play proceeds back to block 228 where the base game is played again.
            If the count is to be advanced, the play proceeds to block 232 where the new count
   value is equal to the old count value plus some amount. If the count is advanced by a MAX
   bet, then the count advances one. If the count is advanced by each credit played, then the 'x'
   amount added to the count is the number of credits played.
 0          Play proceeds to query block 234 in which the updated count number is compared to
   the threshold determined for each bonus award. If the count does not meet the threshold for
   any bonus award, the play returns back to block 228 in which play of the base (primary)
   game proceeds. This return may also include display of a non-winning result on the base
   game as in block 235. If, on the other hand, the count meets one or more bonus award
 5 thresholds, then a bonus result is activated on the gaming machine in block 236 by displaying
   a winning result on the display and awarding an appropriate number of credits to the win
   meter of the gaming machine or player account. As will be appreciated from a discussion of
   FIG. 7, the bonus result may be immediately activated to appear on the base game display or
   delayed depending upon the result of the next base game result.
 0          Once a bonus award is won, the threshold counter for that award may be reset in
   block 238. For instance, a single cherry result may occur on average every five times the
   base game is played-or between every 1 and 10 plays according to a random number
   generator. If a random determination causes the single cherry result to occur on the 3 rd play
   of the base game, then payment of the award causes a recalculation of the trigger event
25 (example: the     9 th play after payment), and so on. In this way, win proximity to that particular
   bonus award zeroes out after a win and advances toward the threshold set. Alternately, the
   counter need not be reset in block 238, but rather the thresholds are cumulative. So instead of
   the threshold being set after each win, the threshold is alternately set progressively so that it
   occurs when the count reaches 3, 11, etc.
30          Although the invention might most often be used to trigger the award of winning
   results, it is also contemplated that some or all non-winning results could also be triggered
   using count and threshold triggering. For instance, a bonus game award mechanism such as
                                                    24

   bonus server 204 (FIG. 4) can be further configured to determine a threshold tied to a non
   winning result, track play of the base game, advance a counter associated with the non-winning
   result responsive to play at the base game, and cause display of the non-winning result at the
   base game display in place of the base game result when the counter associated with the non
 5 winning result bears a predefined relationship with the threshold tied to the non-winning result.
            The term bonus award/result can potentially include game results that do not result in a
   payout to the player, but also include special non-winning outcomes. Some losing outcomes
   have more impact to players than others. For example, a 7-7-space, in which the 3 rd '7' is
   one spot above or below the pay line is more exciting than a space-space-space result, in which
 0 three blanks are displayed. The frequency in which each of these types of special losing
   outcomes is displayed could be determined using the same process as with determining
   winning bonus outcomes. Accordingly, the gaming device bonus game award mechanism can
   be further configured to display a plurality of indicia at indicia locations 216a, 216b, and 216c
   (FIG. 4) of the base game display that differ from a bonus result by only a single indicia.
 5          Stopping play, as in query block 240, triggers the system to store in block 242 the
   updated counts and thresholds for the bonus awards in a database (e.g. remote player tracking
   database 202 or bonus server 204) and the process ends in block 244. The stored counts and
   thresholds may then later be retrieved and used by the player in block 226 in subsequent play
   of that or a similar gaming machine. If play continues, the process returns to play of the base
 o game in block 228 and the process proceeds as described above.
            FIG. 6 illustrates another aspect of the method for implementing a bonus at the
   gaming machine. Two mutually exclusive elements may be incorporated: that of taking
   player preferences into account when setting thresholds for each of the bonus awards, and
   using the mystery bonus method to fully control all winning outcomes of the gaming
25 machine.
            Play commences at start block 250 when a player inserts his or her player card into
   the gaming machine or otherwise identifies themselves as by punching in identification codes
   and pin numbers into a keypad at the gaming machine, using a fingerprint ID system, etc.
   Thresholds for each of the bonus awards are set or retrieved in block 254 in light of player
30 preferences expressed in the player record and retrieved in block 252. The base game is
   played in block 256-such as slots, poker, keno, or other game-and the count is advanced in
   query block 258 and block 260 as by methods expressed above. A count meeting a threshold
                                                   25

    for a bonus award (or base game award) in query block 262 causes the gaming machine to
    implement a 'win' in block 264. If the win is a bonus award, then play proceeds to FIG. 7
    where the bonus award may be substituted in place of the base game result or, alternately,
    delayed if the base game is a winning result or one that meets a certain threshold. If, on the
  5 other hand, the bonus award method is operative to control all wins on the gaming machine,
    then the winning result is displayed on the gaming machine display; otherwise, a losing result
    is displayed.
            Once a winning or bonus result tied to a count and threshold is obtained, play
    proceeds optionally to block 266 in which the counter is reset for the particular bonus award
  0 won. As before, the threshold numbers can be progressively determined so that the counter
    need not be reset.
            Once play stops in query block 268, the process ends in block 270; otherwise, play
    returns to block 254 in which the threshold of the winning result is reset (or not).
            FIG. 7 illustrates an alternative aspect of the inventive method that expands the
  5 implemented bonus process block 264 of FIG. 6. If the count for a particular award or result
    meets the determined threshold in query block 262, then play proceeds to block 272 in which
    the bonus result (e.g. 7-7-7) is determined. Play then branches in one of three directions
    depending upon the particular implementation of the invention selected.
            In branch A, query block 274 determines whether the base game result from the play
 !0 causing the trigger event is a 'no win' event. If the base game result is a win, then play
    proceeds to block 276 in which display and award of the bonus result is delayed; that is, the
    winning base game result is displayed and awarded to the player and the bonus result is only
    displayed in place of a non-winning result in block 278. The bonus award is then awarded to
    the player in block 280.
25          In branch B, the bonus award is displayed in place of the base game result in block
    282 regardless of the outcome of the base game. The bonus is then awarded to the player in
    block 280.
            In branch C, query block 284 determines whether the base game result meets a certain
    threshold. In one aspect, the threshold is size of win of the base game result. In this way, the
30  player would not lose out on a major jackpot simply because a threshold was crossed for the
    base game. If the base game result in query block 284 meets or exceeds a certain threshold,
    then play proceeds to block 286 in which the base game result is implemented on the gaming
                                                   26

   machine and the base game played until the base game (e.g. winning or non-winning) result
   does not meet a certain threshold. For a sufficiently negative base game result, the bonus
   result indicated by the threshold crossing is displayed in place of the base game result in
   block 288. Play the proceeds to block 280 in which the bonus award is awarded to the player.
 5 After award in block 280, play proceeds optionally to step 266 in which the counter
   associated with the won bonus award is reset.
            An example of a branch C operation is with the following base game results: (1) non
   win*, (2) non-win, (3) high win*, (4) low win, (5) non-win, (6) non-win, (7) low win* where
   * denotes a bonus award event. Play on the gaming machine results in seven (7) base game
 0 results and three (3) bonus results. If the filter of query block 284 is that only high win
   awards on the base game will supersede a bonus award, then the resulting play results are in
   the following order: (1) bonus, (2) non-win, (3) high win, (4) bonus, (5) non-win, (6) non
   win, (7) bonus. One appreciates that under the process of branch C that the bonus awards
   take the place of spins (1), (4) and (7). Even though a bonus occurred in spin (3), the fact that
 5 the base game result was a high-win caused the base game result to be implemented and the
   bonus implemented in the next non-high-win result, e.g. the low-win result of spin (4). In
   contrast, branch B would result in the high-win being superseded, and branch A would result
   in a total of eight (8) spins since spin (7)-being a winning base game result-cannot be
   supplanted by a bonus win.
 0          FIG. 8 illustrates the occurrence of bonus events along a countline/timeline. Four
   different potential bonus results for a three-reel slot machine are illustrated as examples: (a) a
   single cherry result, (b) a two-cherry result, (c) a BAR-BAR-BAR result, and (d) a 7-7-7
   result. Each bonus result is tied to a particular threshold, or potential range of thresholds.
   For instance, whereas a single cherry bonus result is intended to occur on average once every
25 five plays, the actual occurrence of the single cherry bonus result could be determined by a
   random number generator (RNG) that chooses a trigger point between a range of numbers,
   say between 1 and 9. That is, to achieve an average occurrence of 1:5, the range within
   which the threshold is selected can be composed from many formulas, one being where the
   range is between 1 to 2N-1, where 1:N is the desired win ratio/probability (that is, where a
30 win occurs approximately once every five plays). Hence, a 1:5 value is obtained by selecting
   a trigger amount from a range of 1 to 9. This trigger point corresponds with the threshold
   count at which the particular bonus result occurs. So if play commences with a cumulative
                                                  27

   count of 17, and the randomly determined trigger point for a single-cherry result is 6, then the
   single-cherry bonus result occurs at cumulative count 23 (=17+6) subject to the base game
   result as noted in FIG. 7.
            The countline in FIG. 8 indicates five different points in time during play of a gaming
 5 machine by a player at which certain counts occur. The countline shown is cumulative in
   nature, although the count for each result can be reset after award. Thus, for instance, the
   threshold for a single-cherry event as determined by a random number generator between
   trigger points 1 and 9 can be as follows: 6, 7, 2, 6, 3, etc. In cumulative form, these are 6, 13,
   15, 21, 24, etc.
 0          Each of the different possible bonus award results is shown on different lines, and the
   occurrence of those awards along the countline are shown by various symbols: a triangle for a
   single-cherry bonus result, a circle for a double-cherry bonus result, a square for a BAR
   BAR-BAR result, and a double-cross for a 7-7-7 result. At time ti, for instance, the BAR
   BAR-BAR bonus result is closest to being won and its win proximity would be reflected as
 5 illustrated in the win proximity meter described below with reference to FIGs. 11-16. Bonus
   result 7-7-7 is still a long way from being awarded so that its win proximity is relatively
   low. Bonus result single-cherry is next closest, and is actually awarded prior to time t2. At
   time t2, and after the single-cherry bonus event has occurred, the double-cherry bonus event is
   imminent. At time t3, and after the double-cherry bonus result has occurred, the single-cherry
 0 bonus event is again imminent. Between time t3 and time t 4 , four more single-cherry bonus
   results have occurred and two more double-cherry events. No BAR-BAR-BAR bonus results
   and no 7-7-7 have yet occurred. At time t 4 , the thresholds of two different bonus results
   coincide: that of a single-cherry bonus result and a double-cherry bonus result. The award
   process can be structured to display the best bonus event in place of the base game results,
25 both bonus events consecutively, or any combination contemplated. Finally, at time t 5 and
   after many occurrences of the other possible bonus results, the threshold count for a 7-7-7
   bonus result is achieved and implemented according to teachings of the invention.
            One items of note in the illustration of FIG. 8 is the variable distance between
   adjacent bonus events. Some events are close in count or time as the two adjacent double
30 cherry results between time t3 and t4 or immediately adjacent occurrences of the single-cherry
   result. On the other hand, some occurrences may be far separated such as the occurrence
   between the 1" and 2 "doccurrence of the BAR-BAR-BAR result when compared to the count
                                                  28

   trigger between the 2 "dand 3 rd occurrence. This variable count difference reflects the use of a
   random number generator to determine the next occurrence of a bonus result according to an
   established range and average odds rate.
            FIGs. 9A through 9E illustrate win proximity at the times ti through     t5 , respectively,
 5 noted in FIG. 8.
            FIG. 9A illustrates the bonus results showing symbols at designated indicia locations
   for the base game, wherein the base game is a three-reel slot machine. The win proximity
   column illustrates the percentage of advancement to the next threshold amount shown by the
   win line 'threshold'. For example, at time ti, the count has advanced halfway to the threshold
 0 determined for a single-cherry bonus result. As shown in FIG. 10, with a count trigger of '6',
   the count has already been advanced by three for the single-cherry result. The count has
   advanced almost completely to the threshold determined for the BAR-BAR-BAR bonus
   result. As shown in FIG. 10, with a count trigger of '18', the count has already been
   advanced by seventeen. The trigger event for the bonus would then occur on the next count
 5 (e.g. the next play with a MAX credit bet).
            FIG. 9B illustrates the same four bonus results with win proximity at time       t2.  One
   notes that the win proximity for the BAR-BAR-BAR bonus result is reset to zero after an
   award just after time ti and has now only advanced just a small amount toward the threshold
   set for the award. Whereas the count threshold may have been set at '18' by the RNG in a
 o previous process step, once won the threshold is reset to a new number between the
   designated range of values. Here, as shown in FIG. 10, the next BAR-BAR-BAR result does
   not occur for a long period of time/count, such that the new threshold value is near its
   maximum of '80'. In this case, the count must advance eighty places before the BAR-BAR
   BAR bonus result is again awarded. At time t2, the double-cherry bonus trigger is imminent.
25 Note how, because of the high threshold amount for the 7-7-7 award, the win threshold for
   that award advances so slowly between ti and       t2.
            FIG. 9C illustrates the same four bonus results with win proximity at time       t3.  This
   time takes place just after an award of the double-cherry bonus award and just before a
   single-cherry bonus award.
30          FIG. 9D illustrates the same four bonus results with win proximity at time       t4 . By
   coincidence, the randomized threshold set for both the single-cherry and double-cherry bonus
   coincide with the count determined at time    t 4.  In this case, the awards may be presented
                                                  29

    consecutively, only one of the awards given, a combination, or a new award presented
    according to the preferences of the game operator.
             FIG. 9E illustrates the same four bonus results with win proximity at time t5 . This
    time takes place just before the large 7-7-7 bonus is to be awarded according to the
  5 teachings of the invention. That is, the count has advanced through much play until it finally
    approaches the threshold set for the 7-7-7 bonus.
             FIG. 10 illustrates an expanded schematic tracking the win threshold for the four
    designated bonus results. The win proximity line for each result is shown with shaded and
    unshaded sections to illustrate how advancement takes place toward the win line 'threshold'.
 to For the single-cherry result, at time ti, the threshold number had been set at '6' and the player
    has already advanced three places toward the threshold win line. For the double-cherry
    result, at time ti, the threshold number had been set at '11' and the player has already
    advanced six places. For the BAR-BAR-BAR result, the threshold number had been set at
    '18' and the player has already advanced seventeen places. The counts for the 7-7-7 result
 [5 cannot be accurately presented in the drawing because there are so many. But the count is
    shown advanced almost 70% toward the win threshold, which is actually achieved at time t 5 .
             Operation of the invention will now be described.       The gaming device comprises a
    base game having a base game display. A random number generator is operable with the base
    game to obtain a base game result, and the base game display operative to display the base
  o game result. By operable, the RNG can physically exist within the gaming machine itself, be
    external to the gaming machine (e.g. within the bonus server), or be a combination of internal
    and external processes. A base game pay table is tied to the base game result and includes
    winning outcomes and non-winning outcomes. A bonus game award mechanism is configured
    to determine a threshold tied to a bonus result, track play of the base game, advance a counter
25  responsive to play at the base game, display the bonus result at the base game display in place
    of the base game result when the counter bears a predefined relationship with the threshold, and
    award a bonus to a player. The step of displaying the bonus result at the base game display in
    place of the base game result can take place by the various methods described in FIG. 7
    whereby the base game result is simply replaced or delayed. As the bonus result is intended to
30  appear as an indistinguishable part of the base game, preferred implementations of the bonus
    game are by displaying winning indicia at the same base game indicia locations (e.g. in the slot
    locations, at the card locations, etc.) as base game indicia are displayed. By displaying the
                                                    30

   bonus at these base game indicia locations, the face that the winning result is a mystery bonus is
   masked from the player who instead thinks the result may have been randomly determined. As
   a result, the player may be encouraged to keep playing under the belief that they are lucky.
            The bonus game award mechanism of the gaming device can be further configured to
 5 utilize at least one bonus result that does not match any base game result possible on the base
   game. For instance, in a three-reel slot game where the third coin-in funds the bonus, a 7-7
   7 result is only possible in the bonus game and does not appear within the base game results
   table. In a video poker game, it might be configured so that a royal flush is only obtainable in a
   bonus game.
 0          If the bonus game uses a special symbol, then that special symbol might only be
   obtained in a bonus event and never in a base game result. That is, the display of the base game
   may include indicia locations where the bonus game award mechanism is configured to display
   an indicia at one of the indicia locations that is unavailable in any base game outcome. So
   rather than all of the symbols being determined in the bonus game, the bonus result can be
 5 limited to the display of a single symbol at a designated indicia location. For example, when
   the indicia locations include three reel positions, a final one of the reel positions for the bonus
   result may be a -7-, wherein the final -7- indicia is unavailable in the base game outcome to
   complete a 7-7-7 result.
            The gaming device may further include a delay circuit for delaying display of the bonus
 o result responsive to a specified event. In one aspect, the base game paytable may include
   winning outcomes and non-winning outcomes, wherein the specified event is one of the
   winning outcomes, and whereby the bonus outcome is displayed only after play of the base
   game results in a next non-winning outcome.
            For player tracking, the gaming device may further include a player tracker with player
25 record, wherein the threshold is set according to criteria stored in the player record. That is, the
   bonus threshold ranges may be adjusted to accommodate a particular player's psychographic
   profile such that easily discouraged players are incentivized to keep playing, even if the bonus
   awards adjusted are small. The threshold may be set differently for players having different
   player records. That is, and in contrast with the first player, a second player desirous of larger
30 awards is incentivized by increasing the frequency at which large awards are granted in the
   bonus game, with a corresponding offset to the frequency of the smaller awards so that a
   particular payback percentage is maintained.
                                                   31

            The invention also comprises a method of operating a gaming device having a base
   game that completely operates according to the mystery bonus system. The method
   comprises monitoring the occurrence of at least one base game event (e.g. "credit in") each
   time the base game is enabled. The base game would have a plurality of possible winning
 5 base game results and at least one non-winning base game results. The count is incremented
   for each occurrence of the monitored event, wherein the count is associated with a first one of
   the possible winning base game results. The count is then compared with a trigger threshold
   for a possible award and the winning result on the base game is displayed when the count
   bears a predefined relationship to the trigger threshold; otherwise, the base game displays one
 0 of the non-winning base game results. Whereas the game could simply display a single
   losing result message (e.g. "You Lose") if no winning results are to be displayed responsive
   to a threshold crossing event, it would be more common to display one of a plurality of
   indicia combinations (e.g. plum-lemon-BAR) that do not appear in a paytable for the gaming
   machine or otherwise result in a win.
 5          A gaming device operating according to the above method comprises a results display
   having indicia locations for displaying indicia related to a game result and a game award
   mechanism. The game award mechanism is configured to determine a threshold tied to a
   winning game result, track play of the gaming device, advance a counter responsive to play at
   the gaming device, display the winning game result at the results display in the indicia locations
 o when the counter bears a predefined relationship with the threshold, and award an amount to a
   player associated with the winning game result.
            The gaming device of claim may further be configured to determine a threshold tied to
   a non-winning result, track play of the gaming device, advance a counter associated with the
   non-winning result responsive to play at the gaming device, and display the non-winning result
25 at the results display in the indicia locations when the counter associated with the non-winning
   result bears a predefined relationship with the threshold tied to the non-winning result. As one
   example of this non-winning result, the bonus game award mechanism may be further
   configured to display a plurality of indicia at indicia locations of the results display that differ
   from a winning game result by only a single indicia.
30          Operation of the inventive device or method above may occur by incrementing a
   second count for each occurrence of the monitored event, wherein the second count is
   associated with a second one of the winning results on the base game and wherein the second
                                                   32

    winning result is different from the first winning result. The second count is then compared
    with a second trigger threshold. The second winning result is then displayed on the base
    game when the count bears a predefined relationship to the second trigger threshold. The
    second trigger threshold may be different from the first trigger threshold.
  5          The count and threshold numbers can be configured to follow a player from game to
    game. The player is allowed to play on a first game machine and accumulate a count toward
    one or more mystery bonuses (e.g. first and second counts). The first and second (and other)
    counts are stored in a database coupled over a network to the first game machine. The player
    can stop play at the first game machine and begin play at a second game machine, the second
 to game machine also coupled to the database via the network. As with play on the first machine,
    the first and second count are incremented responsive to play on the second game machine by
    the player.
             Aspects of the invention also allow methods for supplementing a base game with a
    mystery bonus. A player is allowed to play the base game of a gaming machine and a base
 [5 game result is randomly determined from a plurality of possible results. The plurality of
    possible results includes winning base game results and non-winning base game results. A
    bonus result and trigger threshold are determined as by consulting a list of possible bonus
    events, determining the odds for occurrence of the bonus events, setting a range of occurrences,
    and using a RNG to determine a trigger threshold from within the range. The tracked count is
 !o advanced response to play on the gaming machine, and the bonus result is displayed on the
    gaming device in place of the base game result when the count bears a predefined relationship
    (e.g. equal to) to the trigger threshold.
             In one aspect of the invention, the step of displaying the bonus result occurs
    immediately after the count bears a predefined relationship to the trigger threshold. In another
25  aspect of the invention, the step of displaying the bonus result on the gaming device in place of
    the base game result occurs only if the base game result is a non-winning base game result,
    otherwise delaying the step of displaying the bonus result until a non-winning base game result
    is randomly determined during play of the base game. In yet another aspect of the invention,
    the step of displaying the bonus result on the gaming device in place of the base game result
30  occurs only if the base game result is a winning base game result below a certain threshold or is
    a non-winning base game result, otherwise delaying the step of displaying the bonus result until
                                                    33

    a non-winning base game result or a winning base game result below a certain threshold is
    randomly determined during play of the base game.
            The method may further include resetting the count after the count bears a predefined
    relationship to the trigger threshold and determining a new trigger threshold for the bonus
  5 result. Play is allowed to continue on the base game of the gaming machine and the count
    advanced toward the new trigger threshold responsive to continued play on the gaming
    machine. The bonus result is then displayed on the gaming device in place of the base game
    result when the count bears a predefined relationship to the new trigger threshold.
            The bonus result on the gaming machine may include a collection of indicia that is not
 t0 possible in any winning base game result. That is, a 7-7-7 may only be possible with a
    bonus result, but never a base game result.
            Alternately, the step of displaying the bonus result on the gaming device in place of the
    base game result when the count bears a predefined relationship to the trigger threshold
    includes displaying a single bonus indicia at a single base game indicia location. That is, it is
 [5 the single bonus indicia itself that is never included at the single base game indicia location in
    any base game result. For example, in a three reel slot machine, it is possible in the base game
    to achieve a '7' result in the first two reels, but that it is only possible to achieve a '7' in the
    third reel (to complete a 7-7-7 result) during a bonus event and never during a base game
    event.
 !o         Finally, the inventive method also includes steps of storing player preferences such as a
    psychographic profile and determining the trigger threshold responsive to the player
    preferences. This profile can be projected based upon a player's age, zip code, gender, etc.
    That is, the frequency of bonuses, and the bonus levels, are adjusted depending upon whether
    the player is easily discouraged and therefore likes more frequent, but smaller bonuses, or if the
25  player is encouraged to keep playing for that one big win.
            Accounting for wins using the methods described may affect some aspect of the
    payback percentage (e.g. "PAR") of the machines. As the PAR of gaming machines may
    need to be established, accounted for, and maintained by law, it may be necessary to account
    for mystery bonus occurrences using base game indicia to be accommodated separately.
30  Different scenarios are contemplated. For instance, no winning base game result should be
    superceded or replaced by a mystery bonus result if the calculated PAR of a machine is to be
    maintained. That is, branch A from FIG. 7 is to be selected where the bonus result is
                                                     34

    presented at the indicia locations of the base game only in substitution for the next non
    winning base game result. In this way, the base game results can be accounted for
    completely separately from the bonus game results.
             With truly random outcomes, a player's specific gaming experience cannot be
  5 guaranteed. Thus, it is possible for first time player to play 100 times and never win. He'll
    never come back. But if one can provide a bonus during that gaming session, then he is more
    likely to come back. If one takes the typical 95% PAR pay-back percentage and reduce this
    to 60% from RNG and take the other 35% and pay back as bonuses then the bonuses can be
    used to ensure wins every so often. Plus, one might put in some marketing dollars, give
  o rebates to best customers, and a little extra to the first time player. Studies show that first
    time players are far more likely to come back to casino and remain a loyal customer after a
    winning experience than after a losing one. A best way to guaranty that first time players are
    winners is to use the described bonusing system.
             As one example, one using the invention can market the following: "Guaranteed triple
  5 bar-triple bar-triple bar within the first 40 pulls". This result can be funded by marketing
    dollars - this as opposed to just handing first time players 100 credits when they walk
    through the door (thought of as a 'gift' rather than a 'win'). Therefore, such mystery bonus
    winnings can be accounted for under a marketing budget.
             As for hardware, contemplated variations include: (1) build it in to single game box,
 !o e.g. within proximity indicator, (2) all kinds of games connected to a system, e.g. server,
    SMIB [single machine interface board], player tracking display, game has two sets of meters
    (software) + ability for some external device to stop at a given outcome; or (3) all machines
    have base game and game controller that performs RNG + SMIB where the server can issue
    bonus commands or you might have separate Bonus Server so that something outside of the
25  machine issues command to SMIB, or directly to game board, to carry out command.
             For specific accounting, a bonus award win can be partially funded from a bonus pool
    and/or marketing pool, and partly from the base game PAR. For example, if a bonus award
    results in payment of 100 credits but is presented in place of a base game award (e.g. via
    branch B in FIG. 7) that would have awarded 20 credits, then 20 of the 100 credits is
30  accounted for in the base game PAR and the remaining 80 credits are accounted for in the
    bonus pool or marketing budget. If branch A is used, then the 5 credits played on the base
                                                   35

    game to advance the count and trigger the award would be taken into account in accounting
    so that the real bonus is 95 instead of 100 credits.
                                Gaming Device with Proximity Indicator
  5          Turning now to FIG. 11, indicated generally at 10 is a gaming device constructed in
    accordance with the present invention to present a visual representation of win proximity.
    The gaming device includes a base game 12 and a secondary game 14. In the preferred
    embodiment of the invention, the secondary game is a mystery bonus game that displays
    bonus results in place of base results at the base game indicia locations so that there is no
 t0 apparent difference between the base game and bonus game from the player's perspective.
    Gaming device 10 can incorporate, for example, a Bally CineVision gaming machine. In
    gaming device 10, the Bally game comprises the base game.
             The Bally game includes a display 16 that comprises an LCD screen. Display 16
    displays information about the outcome of the video slot game played by base game 12 in the
 ts form of three video reel symbols 18, 20, 22 defining the base game indicia locations. It also
    displays, on either side and above the reel symbols, information related to the secondary
    game, which will shortly be described more fully.
             In the present embodiment, the base game accepts wagers of one, two, or three
    credits. These are placed by pressing a corresponding one of buttons 24, 26, 28, respectively.
 !o Alternatively, or in addition, touch screen symbols 30, 32, 34, respectively, may be used to
    place a bet. Display 16 further includes a Your Credits display 36 for showing total credits
    on the machine, including credits applied by a player as well as credits won as a result of
    play. A Bet display 37 shows the amount bet on the current game. A cash-out button 38
    permits a player to receive all of his or her credits on the machine at the conclusion of play.
25  A corresponding Collect image 40 can be provided to facilitate the same function, either
    alternatively or in addition to button 38.
             Although a distinct secondary game is not preferred in the practice of the present
    invention, one is described below in combination with the element of win proximity.
    Secondary game 14 includes a rotatable mechanical wheel 42, although it should be
30  appreciated that other types of indicators, including lighted simulations of wheels and other
    indications, could be equally well used. When the secondary game is enabled and played,
    wheel 42 rotates about an axis in the center of the wheel. A pointer 44 points to one of the
                                                   36

   awards in the segments of wheel 42 when it comes to a stop, thus indicating the amount
   awarded in the secondary game. As with the other embodiments, the opportunity to play the
   secondary game is a mystery award that is not tied to the outcome of the base game.
            Gaming device 10 indicates in several ways how close the player is to being eligible
 5 to play the secondary game, i.e., how close the mystery bonus is. First, illuminated polymer
   rods, like rods 46, 48, span the top of the gaming device above the wheel and form a
   semicircular lighting bank 49. In this view, rod 46 is colored red as are all other rods that are
   similarly designated with upper-left to lower-right cross hatching. Rod 48 is colored blue as
   are all other rods that are similarly designated with lower-left to upper-right cross hatching.
 0 As will be described in more detail, as the likelihood of playing the secondary game, i.e., the
   mystery bonus, becomes higher, the color of the rods progressively changes so that more
   become red as fewer remain blue.
            The second way in which the player is informed about the proximity to the mystery
   bonus is a meter 50, which comprises an image on display 16 above the image of reel
 5 symbols 18, 20, 22. As will also be described in more detail, a left portion of the meter is red
   and a right is blue with the left portion progressively moving to the right thus making the
   meter more red and less blue as the mystery approaches.
            The third way that the player is informed about progress toward the mystery bonus is
   by images of rods 52, 54, which flank either side of the reel images and which mirror the
 o progression in color of the polymer rods on the top of gaming device 10. Rod images 52, 54
   are also hatched in the same fashion as rods 46, 48 to indicate color.
            Consideration will now be given to play of the game from a player's perspective
   before description of the hardware and software to implement the game. Turning now to
   FIG. 12, display 16 is shown after a play of the bonus game. As a result, the meter 50 is
25 illustrated as being all blue, indicating that the player may be far from obtaining a mystery
   bonus (e.g. "cool/blue" as opposed to "hot/red"). It should be appreciated, however, that a
   mystery round is typically started at a low end of a range defined by low and high numbers so
   that even after the secondary game has just been played, the red portion of the meter will
   indicate a starting point at zero, although the initial starting point could be above zero as well.
30          Meter 50 further includes pointer images 56, 58. Pointer 56 is aligned with the
   dividing line between the red and blue portions of the meter, thus indicating progress toward
   another secondary game. Pointer 58 points to the location on the meter when the last mystery
                                                   37

   was triggered. Additional pointers (not shown), similar to pointer 58, could be added to
   indicate the location on the meter when the mystery was triggered for the last two, three, or
   more secondary games.
            Continuing to FIG. 13, multiple plays on base game 11 have occurred so that pointer
 5 56, as well as the red and blue images, indicate further progression toward the mystery bonus,
   i.e., play of the secondary game. As will be explained more fully in connection with a
   description of how the game is implemented, the progression of pointer 56 as play continues
   may provide an indication of how close the machine is to providing the mystery award or it
   may indicate how close the machine is to the upper end of a range that contains a randomly
 0 selected trigger of the mystery award, preferably the latter.
            In FIG. 14, the pointer 56 has further progressed, and in this illustration, the machine
   has triggered play of the secondary game at the location of pointer 56 in FIG. 14. When this
   happens, pointer 56 and the corresponding dividing line between the red and blue images
   move rapidly all the way to the right, thus filling the meter with all red, as shown in FIG. 15.
 5 The player is then instructed, via display 16, to hit button 28 to play the secondary game.
   This initiates rotation of wheel 42, which spins and stops on a number indicating the amount
   of credit that then goes to the Your Credits display 36. The game is reset, as will be
   described, and progress begins toward the opportunity to play another secondary game.
            In still another approach to displaying win proximity, the rightmost position of the
 o meter is not tied to either the top value in the range from which the random trigger is selected
   or to the value of the random trigger. Rather, the rightmost meter value starts at the top value
   in the range from which the trigger is selected and changes toward the value of the random
   trigger as the count progresses. This results in meter movement proportional to more than one
   count at a time as the rightmost value of the meter decreases toward the random trigger value.
25 Of course, the counter continues to count one count at time, and all of the counts between the
   lower end of the range and the random trigger must occur before the secondary game is
   triggered.
            In a preferred embodiment, only a maximum credit bet (3 credits in the game depicted
   here), qualifies the player to play the secondary game. A bet of one or two credits will result
30 in the player not being eligible to play the secondary game according to rules set forth in the
   eligibility engine operating at controller or within the machine 10. When deactivation of the
   win proximity occurs due to non-qualification, all of the displays that indicate progress
                                                  38

   toward play of the secondary game may be shown in gray, as can be seen in FIG. 16. And
   the rods, like rods 46, 48 (FIG. 11), also become a gray or neutral light. A symbol (a circle
   with a slash) 60 also appears over meter 50 to indicate that there is no eligibility nor will the
   progress toward the game be displayed. Alternatively, one or more of these win proximity
 5 indicators may be shown even when the wager is less than the maximum possible wager. In
   still another implementation, only wagers that are less than a predetermined value are
   counted, e.g., only wagers of one credit or of one or two credits.
            The term "graphical" as used herein means a pictorial representation. This could
   include changes in images on a display, changes in light intensity, changes in color, or a
 0 combination of the foregoing, whether or not combined with numeric, alphabetical or
   alphanumeric displays.
            In an alternative embodiment, audio indications could be used in lieu of or in addition
   to graphical indications of win proximity. Substantially the same controls used that are used
   to create graphical indications of win proximity could be used to create audio indications. In
 5 other words, signals generated by the controls are applied to an audio system that provides an
   audio indication of the change in likelihood of awarding a bonus award.
            Sometimes casinos are plagued by undesirable players, some of whom operate in
   teams, looking to play games only when a mystery award appears to be near. Because prior
   art systems, as described above, show the current value of an award and because the high end
 0 of the award is known, players may begin playing minimum credits only until the award is
   near. This reduces revenue from the games and potentially awards these undesirable players
   at the expense of patrons who generate more revenue for the casino. These undesirable
   players are discouraged by requiring maximum credits to be eligible for the mystery award
   and by preventing display of the mystery proximity when less than maximum credits are
25 played. Other rules may be implemented within the eligibility engine to activate or
   deactivate one or more win proximity meters, e.g. time between wagers, credits remaining,
   player status (e.g. automatically for a newly incoming player for the first 15 minutes of their
   wagering, and thereafter only if they reach gold status), time and date (e.g. the proximity
   meter may be available only during special occasions), etc., and any combination of the
30 above.
            It will be appreciated that with multiple possible bonus game results as noted in FIGs.
   9A-9E that win proximity advances at different rates depending upon the odds or achieving
                                                  39

   the bonus result. For instance, a single-cherry result would approach its designated trigger
   threshold much more quickly that a 7-7-7 bonus result. It will be further appreciated that
   the win-proximity advance lines in FIGs. 9A-9E give a visual representation of the
   approximate percentage advancement toward the trigger threshold. It is contemplated that
 5 the win threshold may be displayed using the colored rods 46, 48 using only the bonus award
   having the greatest advancement toward the win threshold trigger. Thus, the win proximity
   would be displayed for the BAR-BAR-BAR result at time ti, for the double-cherry result at
   time t2, for the single-result at time t3, for either of the single- or double-cherry result at time
   t 4, and for the 7-7-7 result at time t 5 . It will further be appreciated that because of the
 0 different rates of advancement of the win proximity for each of the results, that there may be
   a cross-over point at which the win proximity advances slowly (e.g. because the 7-7-7 win
   proximity is being tracked) but then is overtaken by a more quickly advancing (e.g. single
   cherry) bonus result. In this case, the player would see a sudden quick rise in proximity and
   know that one is imminent event though it had been only slowly advancing before. This
 5 sudden advancement may add yet further enjoyment to the player's experience.
             With reference to FIG. 17, consideration will now be given to the implementation of
   gaming device 10. Indicated generally at 62 is a highly schematic diagram of some of the
   components of gaming device 10. Components that have been previously identified retain
   the same numeral in FIG. 17. Base game 12 includes a pay table 64 that controls the odds of
 0 producing various combinations of reel symbols 18, 20, 22 (in FIG. 11), some of which
   provide associated base-game awards. Control of video slot machines that implement such
   pay tables is well known. Although display 16 is built into the base game, inputs into the
   base game permit images related to the secondary game, as described above, to appear on the
   display along with the base-game reel symbols.
25           A bus 66 communicates with base game 12 and display 16. Also in communication
   with the bus are a processor 68, a random number generator (RNG) 70, a counter 72, a wheel
   controller 74, and a light display controller 76. Processor 68 is programmed, as will be soon
   described, to selectively activate wheel controller 74, which in turn causes wheel 42 to spin
   and stop at a preselected number.
30           In the present embodiment, processor 68 is part of the base game. In addition to
   controlling the base game, additional programming, as will be explained, is implemented to
   control the secondary game. For example, processor 68 is programmed to trigger RNG 70,
                                                     40

   which in the present embodiment is implemented in software, upon completion of a
   secondary game to select a new trigger threshold for the next secondary game. Counter 72,
   also implemented in software in this embodiment, counts each base game played with
   maximum (in this case 3) credits, and when the trigger threshold is reached, processor 68
 5 triggers the start of the next secondary game. Additional counters could be implemented to
   count toward their associated trigger thresholds to provide additional awards via additional
   bonus award mechanisms. This could be an implementation in which each of the segments in
   wheel 42 has its own associated counter, trigger threshold and award as described above in
   connection with a different embodiment. The bonus award mechanism in the present
 0 embodiment of the invention comprises the software and associated hardware that delivers
   the bonus to a player.
           The processor also indicates which light displays, both on display 16 and on lighting
   bank 49, are presented depending upon the state of game play.
           In another approach, the odds of playing the secondary game may be improved by
 5 changing the odds for a random number generator (RNG) to trigger the secondary game after
   each play of the base game. For example, an RNG could be programmed to have a 1/200
   chance to trigger the secondary game after the first play of the base game and thereafter
   reduce the odds after each successive game in the following sequence: 1/199, 1/198, 1/197 . .
   . 1/1 until the secondary game is triggered. In a variation on this aspect, the odds might only
 o reduce after each game to a certain level and then hold at that level for additional base games.
           In another variation, the odds of winning decrease with each successive play. For
   example, on the first play odds of 1/10 are provided for winning the secondary bonus. On the
   second play, odds of 1/11, etc. Odds of winning the secondary bonus could continually
   increase or decrease, increase or decrease until a limit was reached or increase for a period of
25 time and then decrease and then increase again. In addition, odds could change after one or
   more wagers and not change after another one or more wagers. Any such sequence of
   successively changing odds is useful with the invention. One of ordinary skill in the art could
   readily implement this variation.
           FIG. 18 comprises a schematic diagram of light display controller 76 in FIG. 17.
30 Light display controller 76 includes a Programmable Intelligent Computer (PIC)
   microprocessor 78 and an RS232 interface 80. Interface 80 communicates with processor 68
                                                41

   via a transmit line 82 and a receive line 84. Interface 80 in turn communicates with PIC
   microprocessor 78 via lines 86, 88.
            The PIC microprocessor includes a serial data out (SDO) line 90 and a clock (CLK)
   line 92 that are connected to a light module 94, which is the first in a chain of light modules,
 5 including the next light module 59 and the last light module 96. There are a total of 27 light
   modules, one for each of the rods, like rods 42, 42, in light bank 49. As will soon be seen,
   each light module controls the light in a particular one of the rods to create a variety of
   lighting effects.
            For a more detailed schematic of each of the light modules, attention is directed to
 0 FIG. 19, which depicts light module 94. Light module 94 is substantially identical to each of
   the other light modules. Included therein is a tri-color LED chip 98. Chip 98 includes a blue
   LED 100, a red LED 102, and a green LED 104. Each LED has its anode tied to +5 volts,
   and each cathode is driven with a separate dedicated LED driver 106, 108, 110, respectively.
   Each driver includes an enable line 112, 114, 116, respectively. The enable lines are driven
 5 by a chip 118 in response to data provided to the chip via data-in (DAI) terminal 120 and
   clock (CLK) terminal 122. The data in chip 118 may be shifted out to the next light module
   95 in FIG. 18 via data-out (DAO) terminal 122 and clock (CLK) terminal 126.
            The data that is transferred into each light module, like light module 94, via DAI and
   CLK terminals, like DAI terminal 120 and CLK terminal 122 comprises 24 bits of data, 8 bits
 o associated with each color. Each 8 bits modulates a pulse with signal on their associated
   enable line, like the blue enable line 112. As a result, each color can be selected with an
   intensity of between 0 and 255, with 0 being off and 255 being the most intense illumination
   possible.
            Each of tri-color LED chips is positioned at the base of a corresponding one of the
25 rods, like rods 46, 48, in light bank 49. In the present embodiment, the rods are made from
   Plexiglas polymer, which conducts light into a light channel surrounded with a frosted edge.
   The result is a rod that glows with selected colors and intensities.
            In operation, a number of pre-programmed lighting modes are stored in a memory
   associated with PIC microprocessor 78. These include:
30
                *  PURESWEEP -           sets all 27 rods to the same color.
                                                    42

                e   GRAY -     fills all rods with gray that starts at the center rod and sweeps
                    toward the outer rods on each side in a little over a second.
                "   REDFILL -       fills all rods with blue starting at the outer rods and sweeping
                    toward the center in a little over a second.
 5              .   RANBOWANIM -               starts with the rods set to different colors and rotates the
                    colors from left to right.
                *   BLUETORED -           processor 68 provides a single byte with a value of 0-255 to
                    PIC microprocessor 78, which determines the percentage of rods starting from
                    the outside and moving toward the center) that are red. The rest of the rods are
 0                  blue except for the one between the transition from red to blue, which is a
                    combination of blue and red.
            The value of the byte provided in the BLUETORED mode is related to the likelihood
   of initiating the secondary game. As described above this could be an indication of the how
 5 close the count is to the random trigger value, to the upper end of the range from which the
   random trigger value is chosen, or to a combination of the two. In addition to driving the
   rods, signals from light display controller 76 also control the display of meter 50 and the
   display of rod images 52. As a result, coordinated graphical representations of win proximity
   are provided in a variety of ways.
 0          Some embodiments of the invention have been described above, and in addition, some
   specific details are shown for purposes of illustrating the inventive principles. However,
   numerous other arrangements may be devised in accordance with the inventive principles of
   this patent disclosure. Further, well known processes have not been described in detail in
   order not to obscure the invention. Thus, while the invention is described in conjunction with
25 the specific embodiments illustrated in the drawings, it is not limited to these embodiments or
   drawings. Rather, the invention is intended to cover alternatives, modifications, and
   equivalents that come within the scope and spirit of the inventive principles set out in the
   appended claims.
            Modifications and variations such as would be apparent to a person skilled in the art
30 are deemed to be within the scope of the present invention.
                                                      43

   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
            1.      A gaming device comprising:
            a base game having a base game display;
 5          a random number generator operable with the base game to obtain a base game result
   comprising a combination of symbols, the base game display operative to display the base
   game result;
            a base game pay table tied to the base game result;
            a bonus game award mechanism configured to determine a threshold tied to a bonus
 0 result, track play of the base game, advance a counter responsive to play at the base game,
   display the bonus result at the base game display in place of the base game result or next non
   winning outcome when the counter bears a predefined relationship with the threshold, and
   award a bonus to a player.
 5          2.      The gaming device of claim 1, wherein the bonus game award mechanism is
   further configured to utilize at least one bonus result that does not match any base game result
   possible on the base game.
            3.      The gaming device of claim 1 or 2, wherein the display includes indicia
 o locations and wherein the bonus game award mechanism is configured to display an indicia at
   one of the indicia locations that is unavailable in any base game outcome.
            4.      The gaming device of claim 3, wherein the indicia locations include three reel
   positions and a final one of the reel positions for the bonus result is a -7-, wherein the final -7
25 indicia is unavailable in the base game outcome.
            5.      The gaming device of any one of claims I to 4, further including a delay circuit
   for delaying display of the bonus result responsive to a specified event.
30          6.      The gaming device of claim 5, the base game paytable including winning
   outcomes and non-winning outcomes, wherein the specified event is one of the winning
                                                  44

    outcomes, whereby the bonus outcome is displayed only after play of the base game results in a
    next non-winning outcome.
            7.       The gaming device of any one of the preceding claims, further including:
  5         a player tracker with player record; and
            wherein the threshold is set according to criteria stored in the player record.
             8.      The gaming device of claim 7, wherein the threshold is set differently for
    players having different player records.
 -0
            9.       The gaming device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the gaming
    device includes a plurality of base games, the bonus game award mechanism being further
    configured to track play of the plurality of base games, advance a counter responsive to play at
    the plurality of base games, display a bonus result at a particular one of the plurality of base
 [5 games in place of the base game result at that particular one of the plurality of base games, and
    award a bonus to a player at that particular one.
             10.     The gaming device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the gaming
    device is configured to allow play by a plurality of players, the bonus game award mechanism
 !o being further configured to track play by the plurality of players, advance a counter responsive
    to play by the plurality of players, display a bonus result to a particular one of the plurality of
    players in place of a base game result obtained by that particular player, and award a bonus to
    the particular player.
25           11.     The gaming device of claim 10, wherein the plurality of players form a group
    selected according to a common player profile.
             12.     The gaming device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the random
    number generator is integrated within the base game.
30
             13.     The gaming device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the random
    number generator is external of the base game.
                                                    45

            14.     The gaming device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the bonus game
    award mechanism is integrated within the base game.
  5         15.     The gaming device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the bonus game
    award mechanism is external of the base game.
            16.     The gaming device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the bonus game
    award mechanism is further configured to determine a threshold tied to a non-winning result,
 t0 track play of the base game, advance a counter associated with the non-winning result
    responsive to play at the base game, and display the non-winning result at the base game
    display in place of the base game result when the counter associated with the non-winning
    result bears a predefined relationship with the threshold tied to the non-winning result.
 [5         17.     The gaming device of any one of claims 14 to 16, wherein the bonus game
    award mechanism is further configured to display a plurality of indicia at indicia locations of
    the base game display that differ from a bonus result by only a single indicia.
            18.     A method of operating a gaming device having a base game with base game
 !o indicia displayed at base game indicia locations, the method comprising:
            monitoring the occurrence of at least one base game event each time the base game is
    enabled, the base game having a plurality of possible winning base game results and at least
    one non-winning base game result;
            incrementing a count for each occurrence of the monitored event, wherein the count is
25  associated with at least one of the possible winning base game results;
            comparing the count with a trigger threshold; and
            displaying a first one of the possible winning results on base game indicia locations of
    the base game when the count bears a predefined relationship to the trigger threshold,
    otherwise displaying one of the non-winning base game results.
30
            19.     The method of claim 18, further including the steps of:
            associating a non-winning result count with a non-winning result;
                                                  46

            incrementing the non-winning result count with each occurrence of the monitored
    event;
            comparing the non-winning result count with a non-winning count trigger threshold;
    and
  5         displaying the non-winning result on the base game indicia locations of the base game
    when the non-winning result count bears a predefined relationship to the non-winning result
    trigger threshold.
            20.     The method of claim 19, wherein the step of displaying the non-winning result
  0 on the base game indicia locations includes displaying a plurality of indicia that differ from at
    least one of the winning base game results by only a single indicia.
            21.     The method of any one of claims 18 to 20, further including:
            incrementing a second count for each occurrence of the monitored event, wherein the
  5 second count is associated with a second one of the possible winning game results on the base
    game and wherein the second winning result is different from the first winning result;
            comparing the second count with a second trigger threshold; and
            displaying the second winning result on the base game when the count bears a
    predefined relationship to the second trigger threshold.
 -0
            22.     The method of any one of claims 18 to 21, wherein the second trigger
    threshold is different from the first trigger threshold.
            23.     The method of any one of claims 18 to 22, further including:
25          allowing play on a first game machine by a player;
            storing the first and second count, and first and second trigger threshold in a database
    coupled over a network to the first game machine;
            allowing play on a second game machine by the player, the second game machine also
    coupled to the database via the network; and
30          incrementing the first and second count responsive to play on the second game machine
    by the player.
                                                    47

             24.     The method of any one of claims 18 to 23, further including:
             allowing play on a first game machine by a first player;
             allowing play on a second game machine by a second player;
             associating said first game machine and said second game machine with a gaming
  5 machine bonus bank;
             incrementing the count responsive to play on the first and second gaming machine; and
             awarding a mystery bonus to one of the gaming machines in the gaming machine bank
    when the count bears a predefined relationship to the trigger threshold.
  0          25.     The method of any one of claims 18 to 24, wherein the steps of monitoring,
    incrementing, and displaying occurs within a gaming machine implementing the base game.
             26.     The method of any one of claims 18 to 25, wherein the steps of monitoring,
    incrementing, and displaying occurs external to a gaming machine performing the displaying
 [5 step.
             27.     A method of operating a gaming device having a base game and a bonus
    game, comprising:
             allowing play of the base game of a gaming machine;
 !o          randomly determining a base game result from a plurality of possible results, the
    plurality of possible results including winning base game results and non-winning base game
    results;
             determining a bonus result and a trigger threshold for said bonus result;
             advancing a count response to play on the gaming machine; and
25           displaying the bonus result on the gaming device in place of the base game result when
    the count bears a predefined relationship to the trigger threshold.
             28.     The method of claim 27, wherein the bonus result is one of the non-winning
    base game results, wherein the step of displaying the bonus result includes displaying a
30  plurality of indicia corresponding to the one of the non-winning base game results that is a
    single indicia different from one of the winning base game results.
                                                   48

             29.     The method of claim 27 or 28, wherein the step of displaying the bonus result
    occurs immediately after the count bears a predefined relationship to the trigger threshold.
             30.     The method of any one of claims 27 to 29, wherein the step of displaying the
  5 bonus result on the gaming device in place of the base game result occurs only if the base game
    result is a non-winning base game result, otherwise delaying the step of displaying the bonus
    result until a non-winning base game result is randomly determined during play of the base
    game.
 to          31.     The method of any one of claims 27 to 30, wherein the step of displaying the
    bonus result on the gaming device in place of the base game result occurs only if the base game
    result is a winning base game result below a certain threshold or is a non-winning base game
    result, otherwise delaying the step of displaying the bonus result until a non-winning base game
    result or a winning base game result below a certain threshold is randomly determined during
 [5 play of the base game.
             32.     The method of any one of claims 27 to 31, further including:
             resetting the count after the count bears a predefined relationship to the trigger
    threshold;
 !o          determining a new trigger threshold for the bonus result;
             continuing to allow play of the base game of a gaming machine;
             advancing the count toward the new trigger threshold responsive to continued play on
    the gaming machine; and
             displaying the bonus result on the gaming device in place of the base game result when
25  the count bears a predefined relationship to the new trigger threshold.
             33.     The method of any one of claims 27 to 32, wherein the bonus result on the
    gaming machine includes a collection of indicia that is not possible in any winning base game
    result.
30
             34.     The method of any one of claims 27 to 33, wherein the step of displaying the
    bonus result on the gaming device in place of the base game result when the count bears a
                                                    49

    predefined relationship to the trigger threshold includes displaying a single bonus indicia at a
    single base game indicia location.
             35.      The method of any one of claims 27 to 34, wherein the single bonus indicia is
  5 never included at the single base game indicia location in any base game result.
             36.      The method of any one of claims 27 to 35, further including:
             storing player preferences; and
             determining the trigger threshold responsive to the player preferences.
 -0
             37.      The method of any one of claims 27 to 36, further including:
             allowing play of the base game on a second gaming machine;
             randomly determining a base game result for the second gaming machine from a
    plurality of possible results, the plurality of possible results including winning base game
 ts results and non-winning base game results;
             advancing the count response to play on both the gaming machine and the second
    gaming machine; and
             displaying the bonus result on a determined one of the first or second gaming machine
    in place of the base game result when the count bears a predefined relationship to the trigger
 !0 threshold.
             38.      A gaming device comprising:
             a results display having indicia locations for displaying indicia related to a game result;
    and
25           a game award mechanism configured to determine a threshold tied to a winning game
    result, track play of the gaming device, advance a counter responsive to play at the gaming
    device, display the winning game result at the results display in the indicia locations when the
    counter bears a predefined relationship with the threshold, and award an amount to a player
    associated with the winning game result.
30
             39.      The gaming device of claim 38, the game award mechanism further being
    configured to determine a plurality of thresholds tied to a plurality of associated winning game
                                                     50

    results, displaying an associated one of the winning game results when the counter bears a
    predefined relationship with at least one of the thresholds associated with the one of the
    winning game results, and awarding an amount of a player associated with the one of the
    winning game results.
  5
             40.     The gaming device of claim 38 or 39, further including:
    a player tracker with player record; and
    wherein the threshold is set according to criteria stored in the player record.
  0          41.     The gaming device of claim 40, wherein the threshold is set differently for
    players having different player records.
             42.     The gaming device of any one of claims 38 to 41, wherein the gaming device
    includes a plurality of gaming machines, the game award mechanism being further configured
 [5 to track play of the plurality of gaming machines, advance a counter responsive to play at the
    plurality of gaming machines, display a bonus result at a particular one of the plurality of
    gaming machines, and awarding a amount to a player at that particular one.
             43.     The gaming device of any one of claims 38 to 42, wherein the gaming device is
 !o configured to allow play by a plurality of players, the bonus game award mechanism being
    further configured to track play by the plurality of players, advance a counter responsive to play
    by the plurality of players, display a game result to a particular one of the plurality of players,
    and awarding an amount to the particular player.
25           44.     The gaming device of claim 43, wherein the plurality of players form a group
    selected according to a common player profile.
             45.     The gaming device of any one of claims 38 to 44, wherein the game award
    mechanism is integrated within an individual gaming machine of the gaming device.
30
             46.     The gaming device of any one of claims 38 to 45, wherein the game award
    mechanism is external of an individual gaming machine of the gaming device.
                                                   51

             47.     The gaming device of any one of claims 38 to 46, wherein the bonus game
    award mechanism is further configured to determine a threshold tied to a non-winning result,
    track play of the gaming device, advance a counter associated with the non-winning result
  5 responsive to play at the gaming device, and display the non-winning result at the results
    display in the indicia locations when the counter associated with the non-winning result bears a
    predefined relationship with the threshold tied to the non-winning result.
             48.     The gaming device of claim 47, wherein the bonus game award mechanism is
 to further configured to display a plurality of indicia at indicia locations of the results display that
    differ from a winning game result by only a single indicia.
             49.     The gaming device of any one of claims I to 17, or 38 to 48, wherein the
    threshold comprises a number randomly selected from within a predefined range of numbers.
 [5
             50.     The gaming device of any one of claims I to 17, or 38 to 49, wherein the bonus
    game award mechanism is configured to determine a plurality of thresholds each tied to a
    different bonus result.
 !o          51.     The gaming device of claim 50, wherein each threshold comprises a number
    randomly selected from within a predefined range of numbers.
             52.     The gaming device of claim 51, wherein at least two of the numbers are
    randomly selected from within different predefined ranges of numbers.
25
             53.     The gaming device of clam 52, wherein the predefined range of numbers for
    one bonus result is at least two orders of magnitude greater than the predefined range of
    numbers for another bonus result.
30           54.     The gaming device of any one of claims I to 17, or 38 to 53, wherein the
    gaming device further includes a plurality of spinnable reels each having a plurality of
                                                   52

  symbols thereon and wherein the combination of symbols is made up of at least one symbol
  from each of at least two of the reels.
5
                                           53

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
