   PCT-1729
                                                ABSTRACT
               A SYSTEM AND METHOD THEREOF FOR OFF SHORE MINING
 5
   Embodiments of the present disclosure, relates to the field of deep sea mining. Particularly, but
   not exclusively, the present disclosure relates to a system and method of off shore mining for
   retrieval and extraction of heavy mineral concentrate from placer deposits or other suitable
10 materials. The system comprises a dredge vessel and a barge, coupled in conjunction to the dredge
   vessel. The dredge vessel having thereon a dredging unit, at least one gravity separator and spiral
   separators for procurement of total heavy minerals from dredged sediment and debris. The barge
   is configured to acquire and process the total heavy minerals, wherein the barge has thereon at
   least one magnetic separator, electro-magnetic separators, and density separators for separation of
15 desired minerals based on their physical properties. The system further comprises at least one
   discharge conduit for tailing of wastes, leftover after extraction and separation of desired minerals,
   back into water bodies.
20
                                                     13

   PCT-1729
               A SYSTEM AND METHOD THEREOF FOR OFF SHORE MINING
   RELATED APPLICATIONS
   The present application claims the benefit of Indian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>26 filed
 5 on December 19, 2016 and is herein incorporated by reference.
   TECHNICAL FIELD
   The present disclosure generally relates to the field of deep sea mining. Particularly, but not
   exclusively, the present disclosure relates to a system and method of off shore mining for retrieval
10 and extraction of heavy mineral concentrate from placer deposits or other suitable materials.
   BACKGROUND
   Advancement in technology and rapidly progressing industrialization in the current modern world
   has spurred an upsurge in usage of minerals and metals. Increasing world demand for minerals
15 mandates requisite of new sources of high-quality reserves of heavy minerals concentrate (HMC)
   which contains metals, minerals and precious stones including gold, diamond, magnetite, rutile,
   ilmenite, zircon and like. HMC is currently being dredged from continental shelves of global sea
   floor having placer deposits to cater the increasing world demand for minerals. Placer deposit is a
   natural concentration of heavy minerals caused by the effect of gravity and weathering processes.
20 Thus, the heavy minerals become concentrated in stream, beach, and lag (residual) gravels and
   constitute workable ore deposits.
   The continental shelves being dredged may constitutes only a very small fraction of HMC from
   the material recovered from the sea-bed. In generally, the material recovered from the sea-bed is
   transport to an on-shore processing plant for retrieval and extraction of HMC from the material
25 recovered from the sea-bed. This method is considerably very uneconomical due to increase in
   cost arising from supply and maintenance of mining and transportation equipment. Moreover, in
   on shore processing plant, large volumes of wastes like sand, gravel and silt are separated after
   retrieval and extraction of HMC. With the increasing environmental and pollutions control norms,
   disposal of these wastes is stipulated and screened to minimize disruption of landscapes, this in
30 turn add a significant cost for the operation. Conventionally, various off-shore techniques have
                                                      1

   PCT-1729
   been proposed in order to obtain HMC by undertaking primary separation of material recovered
   from the sea-bed, considering the fact that waste disposal may be easier and therefore cheaper than
   on land. Although greater care must be exercised to ensure that waste is not deposited on unworked
   reserves on the sea-bed. Furthermore, these conventional techniques don't provide a system and
 5 method which accomplishes the complete retrieval and extraction of heavy mineral concentrate
   from material recovered from the sea-bed. The conventional off-shore techniques have limitation
   with respect to production capacities, higher production costs. Also, there is no significant cost
   difference in comparative cost between on-shore and off-shore techniques except in special
   circumstances such as distance from a shore base, environmental factors and like.
10 The present disclosure is directed to mitigate the above stated problems or other similar problems
   associated with the prior art.
   SUMMARY
   One or more shortcomings of the existing methods is overcome by a system and method thereof
   for off shore mining as claimed in the present disclosure.
15
   Additional features and advantages are realized through the techniques of the present disclosure.
   Other embodiments and aspects of the disclosure are described in detail herein and are considered
   a part of the claimed disclosure.
   In a non-limiting embodiment of the present disclosure, an off-shore mining system comprises a
20 dredge vessel and a barge. The dredge vessel having thereon a dredging unit adapted for excavate
   of water bodies and procurement of sediment and debris, at least one gravity separator adapted for
   separation and exclusion of oversized particles from sediments and debris. Further the dredge
   vessel comprises of at least one spiral classifier coupled to at least one gravity separator wherein
   at least one spiral classifier is configured to receive finer particles of sediments and debris to extract
25 total heavy minerals and at least one discharge conduit for tailing of wastes, leftover after
   extracting total heavy minerals, back into water bodies. The barge is operably coupled in
   conjunction to the dredge vessel, configured to acquire and process the total heavy minerals,
   wherein the barge has thereon a dewatering unit configured to expel water absorbed by the total
   heavy minerals, at least one magnetic separator for separation of desired minerals from total heavy
30 minerals based on magnetic properties of the minerals, at least one electro-magnetic separator for
                                                         2

   PCT-1729
   separation of desired minerals from total heavy minerals based on electro-magnetic properties of
   the minerals and at least one density separator for further separation of desired mineral from total
   heavy minerals based on density of minerals. Furthermore, the barge comprises of at least one
   discharge conduit for tailing of wastes, leftover after extraction and separation of desired minerals,
 5 back into water bodies.
   In another non-limiting embodiment of the present disclosure, a method for off shore mining
   comprising the steps of dredging and procuring sediments and debris from water bodies, excluding
   oversized particles and obtaining of finer particles from sediments and debris by gravity separators,
10 extracting total heavy minerals from finer particles of sediments and debris by spiral classifiers.
   The method further comprises the steps of dewatering the total heavy minerals to expel water
   absorbed by the total heavy minerals and separation of desired minerals from total heavy minerals
   based on at least one predetermined properties selected from a group comprising magnetic
   properties, electro-magnetic properties, and density. Furthennore, the method comprises the step
15 of tailing of wastes, leftover after extraction and separation of desired minerals, back into water
   bodies.
   It is to be understood that the aspects and embodiments of the disclosure described above may be
   used in any combination with each other. Several of the aspects and embodiments may be
20 combined together to form a further embodiment of the disclosure.
   The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In
   addition to the illustrative aspects, embodiments, and features described above, further aspects,
   embodiments, and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following
25 detailed description.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF ACCOMPANYING DRAWINGS
   The novel features and characteristic of the disclosure are set forth in the appended claims. The
30 disclosure itself, however, as well as a preferred mode of use, further objectives and advantages
   thereof, will best be understood by reference to the following detailed description of an illustrative
                                                      3

   PCT-1729
   embodiment when read in conjunction with the accompanying figures. One or more embodiments
   are now described, by way of example only, with reference to the accompanying figure wherein
   like reference numerals represent like elements and in which:
 5 Figure 1 illustrates a schematic block diagram of off shore mining system in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present disclosure.
   The figures depict embodiments of the disclosure for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in
   the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative embodiments of the
10 system and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of
   the disclosure described herein.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
15 In the present document, the word "exemplary" is used herein to mean "serving as an example,
   instance, or illustration." Any embodiment or implementation of the present subject matter
   described herein as "exemplary" is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous
   over other embodiments.
20 While the disclosure is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms, specific
   embodiment thereof has been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in
   detail below. It should be understood, however that it is not intended to limit the disclosure to the
   forms disclosed, but on the contrary, the disclosure is to cover all modifications, equivalents, and
   alternative falling within the spirit and the scope of the disclosure.
25
   The terms "comprises", "comprising", or any other variations thereof, are intended to cover a non
   exclusive inclusion, such that a system, device or method that comprises a list of components or
   steps does not include only those components or steps but may include other components or steps
   not expressly listed or inherent to such system or device or method. In other words, one or more
30 elements in a system or apparatus proceeded by "comprises...           a" does not, without more
   constraints, preclude the existence of other elements or additional elements in the system or
   apparatus.
                                                      4

   PCT-1729
   Embodiments of the present disclosure are related to an off shore mining system (100). Figure 1
   illustrates a block diagram of off shore mining system (100). The dredge vessel (10) having thereon
   a dredging unit (11), at least one gravity separator (12), and at least one spiral classifiers (13).
   The dredging unit (11) is adapted to perform excavation of a bed or body of water bodies (lakes,
 5 rivers, harbours, and like) for procurement of sediment and debris. The dredging unit (11) is
   substantially a mechanical dredger or a hydraulic dredger or a hydrodynamic dredger, such as a
   bucket wheel dredger, cutter suction dredger and like.        The bucket wheel dredger, employs a
   plurality of buckets on a revolving chain to dig, scope and remove large quantities of sediment and
   debris from the bed of water bodies below a plane of movement of the bucket wheel dredger. The
10 cutter suction dredger is equipped with a rotating cutter head, which can cut hard soil or rock,
   existing in the bed of the water bodies, into fragments. The cutter head is a rotating mechanical
   device, mounted in front of the suction head and rotating along the axis of the suction pipe. The
   fragment of sediment and debris thus produced is then sucked in by dredge pumps. Cutter suction
   dredger can be configured cut the soil according to a pre-set profile.
15 The gravity separators (12) are coupled to the dredging unit (11), wherein the gravity separators
   (12) are adapted for separation and exclusion of oversized particles from sediments and debris
   obtained by the dredging unit (11). The gravity separator (12) is operate by the principle of
   separation based in difference in size and shape of the particles of sediments and debris. Thus, a
   finer particle of sediments and debris are obtained by gravity separation (12) of the sediments and
20 debris obtained by the dredging unit (11). The gravity separator (12) is substantially a vibrating
   screen or a rotary sieve and like.
   The spiral classifier (13)   is coupled to at least one gravity separator (12), wherein the spiral
   classifier (13) are configured to receive finer particles of sediment and debris to obtained total
   heavy minerals. The spiral classifier (13) segregate total heavy minerals and lightweight waste
25 particles, such as sand and silt, from the finer particles of sediment and debris. The segregation is
   based on the datum that the waste particles have comparatively less specific gravity in comparison
   with specific gravity of the total heavy minerals. The spiral classifier (13) receive the finer particles
   of sediment and debris and pass them through a spiral. As the particles of sediment and debris
   travels down the spiral, the total heavy minerals are segregated from the waste particles.
                                                      5

   PCT-1729
   The dredge vessel (10) further comprises of at least one discharge conduit (14) coupled to at least
   one spiral classifier (13) for tailing of wastes, leftover after extracting total heavy minerals, back
   into water bodies.
 5
   The barge (20) is a floating vessel which is operably coupled in conjunction accompanying the
   dredge vessel (10). The barge (20) is configured to acquire and process the total heavy minerals
   obtained by the dredge vessel (10). The barge (20) has thereon a dewatering unit (21), at least one
   magnetic separator (22), at least one electro-magnetic separator (23), and at least one density
10 separator (24). The dewatering unit (21) is configured to expel water absorbed by the total heavy
   mineral. The dewatering unit (21) can accomplish removal of water from the total heavy minerals
   by sun drying or application of ovens and other similar heating or dehydrating equipment. The
   magnetic separator (22) is an equipment for selectively retaining magnetic materials, so as to
   separate them from material fed into the equipment. The magnetic separator (22) is employed for
15 separation of desired minerals from total heavy minerals based on magnetic properties of the
   minerals. Similarly, the electro-magnetic separator (23) is an equipment for selectively retaining
   electro-magnetic materials, so as to separate them from material fed into the equipment. The
   electro-magnetic separator (23) is employed for separation of desired minerals from total heavy
   minerals based on electrical properties of the minerals. The density separator (24) is a device to
20 classify, separate or sort particles in a fluid (air or water) suspension based on the ratio of their
   centripetal force to fluid resistance. The density separators (24) are substantially a hydro-sizer or
   a cyclonic separator or an air/liquid density separator and like.
   The barge (20) further includes at least one discharge conduit (25) for tailing of wastes, leftover
   after extraction and separation of desired minerals, back into water bodies.
25
   In an embodiment, the dewatering unit (21), magnetic separators (22), electro-magnetic separators
   (23), and density separators (24) included in the barge (20) can be arranged and configured in any
   sequence based on the requirement of user.
                                                       6

   PCT-1729
   In an embodiment, the off shore mining system (100) further comprises of at least one intermediate
   conduit (30) interconnecting said dredge vessel (10) with the barge (20) for transferring the total
   heavy minerals by pumps.
   In an embodiment, the total heavy minerals can be passed multiple times through the magnetic
 5 separators (22), electro-magnetic separators (23), and density separators (24) to achieve complete
   extraction of desired minerals.
   In an embodiment, a method for off shore mining comprising the steps of:
        1. dredging and procurement of sediments and debris from water bodies,
10     2.   exclusion of oversized particles and obtaining of finer particles from sediments and debris
            by gravity separators,
       3.   extracting total heavy minerals from finer particles of sediments and debris by spiral
            classifiers,
       4.   dewatering of total heavy minerals to expel water absorbed by the total heavy minerals,
15     5. separation of desired minerals         from total heavy minerals based on at least one
            predetermined properties selected from a group comprising magnetic properties, electro
            magnetic properties, density and like, and
       6.   tailing of wastes, leftover after extraction and separation of desired minerals, back into
            water bodies.
20 Equivalents:
   With respect to the use of substantially any plural and/or singular terms herein, those having skill
   in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and/or from the singular to the plural as is
   appropriate to the context and/or application. The various singular/plural permutations may be
   expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.
25 It will be understood by those within the art that, in general, terms used herein, and especially in
   the appended claims (e.g., bodies of the appended claims) are generally intended as "open" terms
   (e.g., the term "including" should be interpreted as "including but not limited to," the term
   "having" should be interpreted as "having at least," the term "includes" should be interpreted as
   "includes but is not limited to," etc.). It will be further understood by those within the art that if a
                                                       7

   PCT-1729
   specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended, such an intent will be explicitly
   recited in the claim, and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example,
   as an aid to understanding, the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory
   phrases "at least one" and "one or more" to introduce claim recitations. However, the use of such
 5 phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite
   articles "a" or "an" limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to
   inventions containing only one such recitation, even when the same claim includes the introductory
   phrases "one or more" or "at least one" and indefinite articles such as "a" or "an" (e.g., "a" and/or
   "an" should typically be interpreted to mean "at least one" or "one or more"); the same holds true
10 for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition, even if a specific
   number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited, those skilled in the art will recognize
   that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number (e.g., the
   bare recitation of "two recitations," without other modifiers, typically means at least two
   recitations, or two or more recitations).     Furthermore, in those instances where a convention
15 analogous to "at least one of A, B, and C, etc." is used, in general such a construction is intended
   in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention (e.g., "a system having at
   least one of A, B, and C" would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone, B alone,
   C alone, A and B together, A and C together, B and C together, and/or A, B, and C together, etc.).
   In those instances, where a convention analogous to "at least one of A, B, or C, etc." is used, in
20 general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand
   the convention (e.g., "a system having at least one of A, B, or C" would include but not be limited
   to systems that have A alone, B alone, C alone, A and B together, A and C together, B and C
   together, and/or A, B, and C together, etc.). It will be further understood by those within the art
   that virtually any disjunctive word and/or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms, whether
25 in the description, claims, or drawings, should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of
   including one of the terms, either of the terms, or both terms. For example, the phrase "A or B"
   will be understood to include the possibilities of "A" or "B" or "A and B."
   While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein, other aspects and
30 embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments
                                                      8

   PCT-1729
   disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting, with the true
   scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.
   List of reference numerals:
     Reference Numeral                      Particular
    100
    10                      Dredge vessel
    11                      Dredging unit
    12                      At least one gravity separator
    13                      At least one spiral classifier
    14                      At least one discharge conduit
    20                      Barge
    21                      Dewatering unit
    22                      At least one magnetic separator
    23                      At least one electro-magnetic separator
    24                      At least one density separator
    25                      At least one discharge conduit
    30                      At least one Intermediate conduit
 5
10
                                                     9

   PCT-1729
   We claim:
      1. An off shore mining system (100) comprising:
 5              a dredge vessel (10) having thereon
                        a dredging unit (11) adapted for excavate of water bodies and procurement
                        of sediment and debris;
                        at least one gravity separator (12) adapted for separation and exclusion of
                        oversized particles from sediments and debris;
10                      at least one spiral classifier (13) coupled to at least one gravity separator
                        (12) wherein at least one spiral classifier (13) is configured to receive finer
                        particles of sediments and debris to extract total heavy minerals;
                        at least one discharge conduit (14) for tailing of wastes, leftover after
                        extracting total heavy minerals, back into water bodies;
15              a barge (20), operably coupled in conjunction to the dredge vessel (10), configured
                to acquire and process the total heavy minerals, wherein the barge (20) has thereon
                        a dewatering unit (21) configured to expel water absorbed by the total heavy
                        minerals;
20
                        at least one magnetic separator (22) for separation of desired minerals from
                        total heavy minerals based on magnetic properties of the minerals;
                        at least one electro-magnetic separator (23) for separation of desired
                        minerals from total heavy minerals based on electro-magnetic properties of
25                      the minerals;
                        at least one density separator (24) for further separation of desired mineral
                        from total heavy minerals based on density of minerals; and
                                                   10

   PCT-1729
                          at least one discharge conduit (25) for tailing of wastes, leftover after
                          extraction and separation of desired minerals, back into water bodies.
      2. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the dredging unit (11) is substantially a bucket
          wheel dredger or a cutter suction dredger.
 5    3.  The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the gravity separator (12) is substantially a
          vibrating screen or a rotary sieve.
      4. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the system further comprising at least one
          intermediate conduit (30) interconnecting said dredge vessel (10) with the barge (20) for
          transferring total heavy minerals.
10    5. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the dewatering unit (21) accomplishes removal
          of water from the total heavy minerals by sun drying or heating or dehydrating equipment.
      6. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the density separator (24) is substantially a
          hydro-sizer or a cyclonic separator or an air density separator or a liquid density separator.
      7. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the dewatering unit (21), magnetic separators
15        (22), electro-magnetic separators (23), and density separators (24) included in the barge
          (20) can be arranged and configured in any sequence based on the requirement of user.
      8.   A method for off shore mining comprising the steps of:
                  dredging and procuring sediments and debris from water bodies;
20                excluding oversized particles and obtaining of finer particles from sediments and
                  debris by gravity separators;
                  extracting total heavy minerals from finer particles of sediments and debris by
                  spiral classifiers;
25
                  dewatering the total heavy minerals to expel water absorbed by the total heavy
                  minerals;
                  separating desired minerals from total heavy minerals based; and
30
                                                   11

  PCT-1729
                tailing of wastes, leftover after extraction and separation of desired minerals, back
                into water bodies.
     9. A method for off shore mining as claimed in claim 8, wherein separating desired minerals
         from total heavy minerals is based on at least one predetermined properties selected from
5        a group comprising magnetic properties, electro-magnetic properties, and density.
                                                   12

<U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
        <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F>
           <U+271F><U+2720>

