                                      ABSTRACT
  A device (110) for mapping a first set of telecommunication lines (14) to a second
  set of telecommunication lines (16) in a telecommunications network is disclosed.
  The first and second sets of telecommunication lines are on opposite sides (15,
5 17) of a distribution frame (12). The device includes a processing system (212),
  and a first pair of contacts (1') for connecting to a first pair of terminals (1) for a
  telecommunication line of the first set of telecommunication lines (14). The
  processing system is configured to perform the following steps: (a) output a first
  signal onto the first pair of contacts (1') and (b) monitor the first pair of contacts
0 (1') for a first response signal. In the event that the processing system (212)
  detects a first response signal, the processing system determines, from
  identification data in the first response signal, which pair of terminals for a
  telecommunication line of the second set of telecommunication lines (16) is in
  communication with the first pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the
5 first set of telecommunication lines (14). Also disclosed is a responding device
  configured to monitor for the first signal on the second set of telecommunication
  lines (16) and, if first signal is detected, output the first response signal.

                         Telecommunications Network Mapping
                                       Field of the invention
          The present invention relates to mapping of telecommunications networks.
                                  Background of the invention
 5        A portion of an exemplary telecommunications network 10 is illustrated in Figure 1.
   The telecommunications network has a distribution frame 12 which connects a first set
   of telecommunication lines 14 on one side of the distribution frame 12 and to a second
   set of telecommunication lines 16 on the opposite side of the distribution frame 12.
          Either the first or the second set of telecommunication lines services various
 0 customers, and the other set connects back to a telecommunication exchange 18. In the
   embodiment shown in Figure 1, the first set of telecommunication lines 14 connects to
   the various customers. At the customer end, each of the telecommunication lines 14 (eg
   14a to 14c) may be connected to one or more corresponding devices, such as a
   telephone, a modem or a fax machine etc. In a residential environment, commonly each
 5 home will      be serviced     with   one,   or   sometimes  more   than  one,    of these
   telecommunication lines 14.
          Each of the first telecommunication lines 14 consists of a twisted pair of wires that
   is routed from the customer access point (where the end device is connected) to the
   distribution frame 12. The distribution frame which may be outside the customer
?0 premises or, in the case of large apartment buildings, may be inside the premises. The
   customer side 15 of the distribution frame 12, also known as the distribution side, has M
   pairs of terminals, commonly 600 or 1200 pairs of terminals, for connecting to
   respective telecommunication lines of the first set of telecommunication lines 14.
          An opposite, exchange side 17 of the distribution frame 12 has m pairs of
?5 terminals for connecting to respective telecommunication lines of the second set of
   telecommunication lines 16, which are directed back towards the telecommunications
   exchange 18. Like the telecommunication lines of the first set of telecommunication
   lines 14, each telecommunication line of the second set of telecommunication lines
   consists of 2 conductors which, in current telecommunications networks, is a twisted
30 pair of wires. The second set of telecommunication lines 16 may be connected directly
                                                   I

   back to the exchange 18 or may be routed via further, larger distribution frames, such
   as a main distribution frame (MDF).
         To meet the bandwidth requirements of modern telecommunications, many
   networks     are   being     updated    to have   Fibre-to-the-Node   technology.   In such
 5 embodiments, the second set of telecommunication lines 16 routes to an optic fibre-to
   wire pillar. At the pillar, the telecommunication lines connect with fibre optic cable that is
   routed back to the exchange.
         Commonly, there are fewer telecommunication lines on the exchange side 17 of
   the distribution frame 12 than on the customer side 15. For example, in the embodiment
 0 shown in Figure 1, where there are m telecommunication lines 16 on the exchange side
   17, there may be 300 to 600 telecommunication lines, i.e. half of the quantity of lines on
   the customer side.
         Each telecommunication          line connects to     a respective pair of terminals
   ("termination pair") on that line's corresponding side of the distribution frame 12.       For
 5 simplicity, each termination pair is indicated on Figure 1 as a single termination point (1
   to m on the exchange side, and 1 to M on the customer side). Telecommunication lines
   on opposing sides of the distribution frame are connected to each other by jumpers or
   some other switching mechanism that connects termination points on one side to
   termination points on the other. However, which termination point connects to which
 0 termination point is not fixed. When a connection is made between a customer line and
   an exchange line, the connection is selected depending on which of the exchange side
   telecommunication lines are not already in use. In the example shown in Figure 1,
   terminal pairs 1, 2 and N+1 of the customer side, are respectively connected to terminal
   pairs 2, N+2 and 3 of the exchange side by respective jumpers 20, 22 and 24.
?5       There are challenges in determining which of the first set of telecommunication
   lines is connected         to which of the      second set of telecommunication         lines.
   Telecommunications service providers maintain a map between the first and second
   sets of telecommunication lines, stored electronically in the exchange. However the
   map often contains errors. The errors can be introduced for example, by servicemen
30 changing the jumper connections without updating the map.
         When a serviceman next visits the distribution frame to service a fault or connect a
   new customer to a given line to the exchange, the serviceman may not be able to
   readily ascertain which customer-side lines are connected to which exchange-side lines
                                                   9

   without undertaking the very arduous process of tracing each of the jumpers by hand
   from the exchange side to the customer side of the distribution frame, unless the service
   has a system for mapping the connections.
          In telecommunications networks where Fibre-to-Node technology is being rolled
 5 out, there may be a need to map the wire-based telecommunication lines on the
   customer side of the distribution frame to their corresponding terminations at the optic
   fibre-to-wire pillar.
          Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or
   suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any
 0 jurisdiction or that this prior art could reasonably be expected to be understood,
   regarded as relevant, and/or combined with other pieces of prior art by a skilled person
   in the art.
                                    Summary of the invention
         A first aspect of the present invention provides a device for mapping a first set of
 5 telecommunication      lines  to   a  second    set   of  telecommunication   lines    in  a
   telecommunications network, the first and second sets of telecommunication lines being
   on opposite sides of a distribution frame. The device includes    a first pair of contacts
   for connecting to a first pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the first set of
   telecommunication lines. The device also includes a processing system configured to
 0 sequentially perform the following steps: (a) output a first signal onto the first pair of
   contacts between a beginning time and an ending time; and (b) after the ending time,
   monitor the first pair of contacts for a first response signal. In the event that the
   processing system detects a first response signal, the processing system determines,
   from identification data in the first response signal, which pair of terminals for a
?5 telecommunication      line  of the    second   set of telecommunication      lines   is  in
   communication with the first pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the first set
   of telecommunication lines.
          Preferably, in the event the a first predefined condition has been met, the
   processing system is configured to repeat steps (a)-(b). In one embodiment, the first
30 predefined condition is that steps (a)-(b) have been repeated less than a maximum
   number of times and/or for less than a maximum duration of time. In another
   embodiment, the first predefined condition is that steps (a)-(b) have been repeated less

   than a maximum number of times and/or for less than a maximum duration of time; and
   that the processing system has not detected the first response signal.
          A second aspect of the invention provides a device for mapping a first set of
   telecommunication       lines  to   a  second       set  of   telecommunication    lines  in  a
 5 telecommunications network, the first and second sets of telecommunication lines being
   on opposite sides of a distribution frame. The device includes a first pair of contacts for
   connecting to a first pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the second set of
   telecommunication lines. The device also includes a processing system configured to
   monitor the first pair of contacts for a first signal. In the event that the processing system
 0 detects the first signal, the processing system outputs a first response signal onto the
   first pair of contacts. The first response signal includes identification data for identifying
   the first pair of terminals for a telecommunication               line of the second set of
   telecommunication lines. The device has an impedance between the first pair of
   contacts. The impedance has a first impedance while the device outputs the first
 5 response signal, and a second impedance while the device monitors the first pair of
   contacts for the first signal. The second impedance is larger than the first impedance.
          A third aspect of the present invention provides a system for mapping a first set of
   telecommunication       lines  to   a  second       set  of   telecommunication    lines  in  a
   telecommunications network, the first and second sets of telecommunication lines being
 0 on opposite sides of a distribution frame. The system includes a requesting device and
   a responding device. The requesting device includes a first pair of contacts for
   connecting to a first pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the first set of
   telecommunication lines. The requesting device also includes a processing system. The
   processing system is configured to output a first signal onto the first pair of contacts,
?5 and monitor the first pair of contacts for a first response signal. In the event that the
   processing system detects a first response signal, the processing system determines,
   from identification data in the first response signal, which pair of terminals for a
   telecommunication       line  of the    second      set of telecommunication       lines  is in
   communication with the first pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the first set
30 of telecommunication lines. The responding device includes a first pair of contacts for
   connecting to a first pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the second set of
   telecommunication lines. The responding device also includes a processing system.
   The processing system of the responding device is configured to monitor the first pair of
   contacts for the first signal. In the event that the processing system detects the first
                                                    11

   signal, it outputs a first response signal onto the first pair of contacts. The first response
   signal includes identification data for identifying the first pair of terminals for a
   telecommunication line of the second set of telecommunication lines. The responding
   device has an impedance between the first pair of contacts that has a first impedance
 5 while the responding device outputs the first response signal, and a second impedance
   while the responding device monitors the first pair of contacts for the first signal. The
   second impedance is larger than the first impedance.
          A fourth aspect of the present invention provides a system for mapping a first set
   of telecommunication         lines to a second set of telecommunication              lines in a
 0 telecommunications network, the first and second sets of telecommunication lines being
   on opposite sides of a distribution frame. The system includes a requesting device and
   a responding device. The requesting device includes a first pair of contacts for
   connecting to a first pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the first set of
   telecommunication lines. The requesting device also includes a processing system. The
 5 processing system is configured to output a first signal onto the first pair of contacts,
   and monitor the first pair of contacts for a first response signal. In the event that the
   processing system detects a first response signal, the processing system determines,
   from identification data in the first response signal, which pair of terminals for a
   telecommunication       line    of the second    set of telecommunication          lines   is in
 0 communication with the first pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the first set
   of telecommunication lines. The responding device includes a first pair of contacts for
   connecting to a first pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the second set of
   telecommunication lines. The responding device also includes a processing system.
   The processing system of the responding device is configured to monitor the first pair of
?5 contacts for the first signal. In the event that the processing system detects the first
   signal, it outputs a first response signal onto the first pair of contacts. The first response
   signal includes identification data for identifying the first pair of terminals for a
   telecommunication line of the second set of telecommunication lines. At least one of the
   first signal and the first response signal is in a frequency band that is greater than a
30 fundamental frequency of a mains supply to the telecommunications network and less
   than at least one of (i) a bottom frequency of a telecommunications voice band or (ii) a
   bottom frequency of a signalling band in the telecommunications voice band.
          A fifth aspect of the present invention provides a method of mapping a first set of
   telecommunication       lines    to  a second    set   of  telecommunication       lines   in  a

   telecommunications network, the first and second sets of telecommunication lines being
   on opposite sides of a distribution frame. The method includes: (a) outputting a first
   signal onto the first pair of contacts, the first pair of contacts being for connecting to a
   first pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the first set of telecommunication
 5 lines; and (b) monitoring the first pair of contacts for a first response signal. In the event
   that the monitoring detects a first response signal, the method further includes
   determining,     from  the   first  response    signal, which      pair  of terminals     for  a
   telecommunication      line  of the     second    set of telecommunication         lines   is in
   communication with the first pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the first set
 0 of telecommunication lines.
          A sixth aspect of the present invention provides a method of mapping a first set of
   telecommunication      lines    to  a  second    set   of   telecommunication       lines  in  a
   telecommunications network, the first and second sets of telecommunication lines being
   on opposite sides of a distribution frame. The method includes the following sequence
 5 of steps: (a) monitoring a first pair of contacts for a first signal, the first pair of contacts
   being for connecting to a first pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the
   second set of telecommunication lines; and (b) in the event that the monitoring detects
   the first signal outputting a first response signal onto the first pair of contacts. The first
   response signal for identifying the first pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of
 0 the second set of telecommunication lines.
          Another aspect of the present invention provides a device for mapping a first set of
   telecommunication      lines    to  a  second    set   of   telecommunication       lines  in  a
   telecommunications network, the first and second sets of telecommunication lines being
   on opposite sides of a distribution frame. The device includes a first pair of contacts for
?5 connecting to a first pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the first set of
   telecommunication lines. The device also includes a processing system. The processing
   system is configured to output a first signal onto the first pair of contacts, and monitor
   the first pair of contacts for a first response signal, In the event that the processing
   system detects a first response signal, it determines, from the first response signal,
30 which     pair of terminals for a telecommunication            line of the     second set of
   telecommunication lines is in communication with the first pair of terminals for a
   telecommunication line of the first set of telecommunication lines, wherein the first
   signal encodes a symbol.

          A further aspect of the present invention provides a device for mapping a first set
   of telecommunication        lines to a second set of telecommunication            lines in a
   telecommunications network, the first and second sets of telecommunication lines being
   on opposite sides of a distribution frame. The device includes a first pair of contacts for
 5 connecting to a first pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the second set of
   telecommunication lines; and a processing system. The processing system is
   configured to monitor the first pair of contacts by decoding a signal received at the first
   pair of contacts to detect whether the signal is from a requesting device connected to a
   telecommunication line of the first set of telecommunication lines. In the event that the
 0 processing system detects that the signal is from a requesting device, the processing
   system outputs a first response signal onto the first pair of contacts, the first response
   signal including identification data for identifying the first pair of terminals for a
   telecommunication line of the second set of telecommunication lines.
          A further aspect of the present invention provides system for mapping a first set of
 5 telecommunication       lines   to a  second     set  of   telecommunication    lines   in a
   telecommunications network, the first and second sets of telecommunication lines being
   on opposite sides of a distribution frame. The system includes at least one requesting
   device and at least one responding device. The requesting device that includes a first
   pair of contacts for connecting to a first pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of
 0 the first set of telecommunication lines, and a processing system. The processing
   system is configured to output a first signal onto the first pair of contacts, and monitor
   the first pair of contacts for a first response signal. In the event that the processing
   system detects a first response signal, it determines, from the first response signal,
   which     pair of terminals for a telecommunication           line of the   second set of
?5 telecommunication lines is in communication with the first pair of terminals for a
   telecommunication line of the first set of telecommunication lines, wherein the first
   signal encodes a symbol, The responding device includes a first pair of contacts for
   connecting to a first pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the second set of
   telecommunication lines, and a processing system. The processing system is
30 configured to monitor the first pair of contacts for the first signal, and in the event that
   the processing system detects the first signal, output a first response signal onto the
   first pair of contacts.
          In one embodiment, at least one of the first signal and the first response signal is
   in a frequency band that is greater than a fundamental frequency of a mains supply to
                                                  7

   the telecommunications network and less than at least one of (i) a bottom frequency of
   a telecommunications voice band or (ii) a bottom frequency of a signalling band in the
   telecommunications voice band.
          Preferably, communication over the contact pairs of the requesting and receiving
 5 devices is in half duplex mode over a single frequency band. This reduces the risk of
   interfering with other signals that be on the telecommunication network. However, in
   other some embodiments, an operator of the mapping system may have exclusive use
   over the part of the network being mapped, for example during installation of a
   distribution frame. In such instances, a full duplex mode of communication may be
 0 employed for faster mapping. In the full duplex mode, the first signal and the first
   response signal may be transmitted over different frequency bands to each other. For
   exclusive use situations, one or both of these first signal and first response signal can
   be in a voiceband and/or can coincide with a frequency that would be used for signalling
   were that part of the telecommunications network in operational use.
 5        It is a further aspect of the invention to provide a method of mapping a first set of
   telecommunication        lines  to   a  second    set  of  telecommunication  lines   in   a
   telecommunications network, the first and second sets of telecommunication lines being
   on opposite sides of a distribution frame. In the method at least one telecommunication
   line of the first and second sets of telecommunication is connected to an optic fibre. The
 0 method includes identifying an optic fibre-to-wire pillar from which the first response
   signal was transmitted or received. The method can further use any of the method
   steps, devices or systems of any other aspect of the invention.
          As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term "comprise"
   and variations of the term, such as "comprising", "comprises" and "comprised", are not
?5 intended to exclude further additives, components, integers or steps.
          Various embodiments of the invention are set out in the claims at the end of this
   specification. Further aspects of the present invention and further embodiments of the
   aspects described in the preceding paragraphs will become apparent from the following
   description, given by way of example and with reference to the accompanying drawings.
30                                Brief description of the drawings
          Figure 1 is a portion of a telecommunications network having attached thereto a
   telecommunications network mapping system in accordance with the present invention;

          Figure 2 shows, in a block diagram form, a device that is part of the system in
   Figure 1; and
          Figure 3 shows a timing diagram showing communication between a plurality of
   devices in accordance with Figure 2.
 5                          Detailed description of the embodiments
          An embodiment of the present invention will now be described with reference to
   the exemplary telecommunications network 10 illustrated in Figure 1. In particular,
   Figure 1 shows a mapping system 100 for mapping the first set of telecommunication
   lines 14 to the second set of telecommunication lines 16 of the telecommunications
 0 network 10. The mapping system 100 includes a plurality of devices 110 to 120.
   Devices 110, 112 and 114 are configured to be requesting devices and devices 116,
   118 and 120 are configured to be responding devices. The hardware and software on
   each of the devices 110 to 120 may be the same but with each device being configured
   into a mode of operation that corresponds to either a requesting device or a responding
 5 device, as required. Therefore, optionally, the responding devices may be configured to
   act as requesting devices, and the requesting devices may be configured to act as
   responding devices.      In one embodiment, as illustrated in Figure 1, the responding
   devices are on the exchange side of the distribution frame and the requesting devices
   on the customer side. However, in another embodiment, the responding devices may be
 0 attached to the customer side, with the requesting devices being on the exchange side.
          Each device 110 to 120 has N pairs of contacts (labelled 1' to N' in Figure 1) for
   respectively connecting with N pairs of terminals for N telecommunication lines, ie each
   pair of terminals being for one telecommunication line. The distribution frame 12 has m
   pairs of terminals on the second, exchange side so that the distribution frame can have
?5 up to m telecommunications lines in the second set of telecommunication lines 16. In
   total there are r responding devices 116 to 120 used to fully populate the second side of
   the distribution frame. For a distribution frame having 300 exchange-side lines and of
   each the responding devices 116 to 120 having 25 pairs of contacts each, there will be
   12 responding devices (ie m/N responding devices) required to fully populate the
30 second side of the distribution frame.
          On the first side 15 of the distribution frame, at least one requesting device 110,
   112, and/or 114 is connected to terminal pairs for the first set of telecommunication
   lines. In the example of Figure 1, this corresponds to the customer side of the
                                                  Q

   exchange. To most quickly map the telecommunication network, this first side 15 of the
   distribution frame 12 may be fully populated with R requesting devices (ie it may have
   M/N devices connected to it). Alternatively, one or more requesting devices (eg devices
   110 and/or 112) may be connected to a subset of the telecommunication lines to firstly
 5 map the first subset and then be sequentially moved to other subsets until all of the first
   set of telecommunication lines are mapped to the second set of telecommunication
   lines.
          The conceptual components of an exemplary device, which may be any one of
   devices 110 to 120 illustrated as a block diagram in Figure 2, with the illustrated device
 0 being connected to the distribution frame 12. The exemplary device is denoted in Figure
   2 as device 200.
          The device 200 includes a processing system 212 comprising at least one
   processing unit 214, such as a microprocessor, or a microcontroller or a plurality of
   these or other computer processing devices. The device 200 also includes a memory
 5 system 222 in communication with the processing system 212 via a bus 224. The
   memory system 222 includes one or more machine readable storage devices which
   store instructions and/or data for controlling operation of the processing system 212. In
   this instance, memory system 222 includes a system memory (eg a ROM for a Bios),
   volatile memory (eg a random access memory such as one or more DRAM modules)
 0 and non-volatile memory (eg Flash memory or other EEPROM device). The device 200
   also includes an antenna 226 to enable wireless transmission of data stored in the
   memory system 222. The device also includes a graphical for user interface (GUI) 228
   in communication with the processing system 212 to enable display of information to a
   user at the device 200. The device 200 also includes an input/output (1/O) interface 230
?5 to enable user control over the device 200, eg via a keypad or touchscreen. Optionally,
   some of components of the device, such as a component of the processing system 214,
   may be performed by one or more other devices that are in communication with device
   200.
          The device 200 has N pairs of contacts, marked 1' to N' in Figure 2. The device
30 200 has at least one connector 203 that mates with at least one connector-block 202 to
   connect the device to N terminal pairs (from either terminal pairs 1 to M or terminal pairs
   1 to m) in the distribution frame 12. Each of the connector-block terminal pairs (1 to M
   and 1 to m) of the distribution frame may be connected to respective telecommunication
                                                 in

   lines 204, each being a twisted pair of wires. Each connector 203 has a plurality of
   planar fingers 205, with each finger 205 having one of the pairs of contacts 1' to N',
   such that when the finger is inserted into the connector block 202, the contacts on the
   finger electrically connect with contacts of the corresponding terminal pair in the
 5 connector block 12. In other embodiments, there can be an intermediate connector
   between the contact pairs (1' to N') of the device 200 and the terminal pairs (1 to N) to
   which they mate.
         In the device 200, each of the N pairs of contacts 1' to N' are electrically
   connected     to   a  multiplexer/demultiplexer  module    210  to   selectively   enable
 0 communication between each contact pair and the processing system 212. The
   processing system includes at least one high-impedance input 216 for presenting a high
   impedance between the contacts in any one of the pairs of contacts 1' to N' that may
   receive an input signal. The processing system 212 also includes a modem module 218
   for enabling low impedance communication           between the device 200 and the
 5 telecommunications network accessed via a selected contact pair (1' to N'). A switch
   220 enables selection between the high-impedance input 216 and the low-impedance
   modem 218 so that the impedance between each pair of contacts can be selectively
   determined.
         Advantageously, the device can be configured so that it can monitor the contact
 0 pairs 1' to N', for any received signals, in a high impedance mode, and can transmit
   signals in a low-impedance mode. The low impedance mode enables effective
   transmission of data over a telecommunication line of the telecommunications network
   10. For example, the impedance is preferably less than 1 kOhm. For example, it may be
   equal to a characteristic impedance the telecommunication line, typically eg 600 Ohms
?5 for twisted wire pairs. The high-impedance mode presents a contact pair 1' to N' with a
   high impedance when it is not transmitting data, so that the impedance presented to the
   telecommunications network 10 by the device 200 has as little a loading effect on the
   telecommunications network 10 as possible. If too much loading occurs, the voltage on
   the affected telecommunication line can be interpreted to be indicating that a telephone
30 is "off the hook". The high impedance is selected to be high enough to avoid such a
   situation, and can be determined from the relevant telecommunications standard
   imposed by regulations, such as Australian Standard AS/CA S002:2010. Consistent
   with this standard, for a 600 Ohm characteristic impedance line, the high impedance
                                                11

   mode presents an impedance greater than 15 kOhms to avoid and off-line (off the hook)
   state.
         Advantageously, the presented impedance is high in a voice band (eg 300Hz to
   3.4kHz), so that it does not attenuate any voice signals which may be transmitted over
 5 the telecommunications network. This enables the device to be used without being
   noticed by a customer who may be using a telecommunication line on which the device
   200 is connected.
          Further, so signals transmitted by device 200 are not heard by such a customer (or
   at least not to any significant degree), when transmitting data with modem 218, the
 0 device 200 transmits its data in a frequency band that is less than the voice-band on the
   telecommunications network 10. More particularly, the transmission is between (i) a
   fundamental frequency (eg above 25Hz), or a top frequency of a frequency band, for a
   ring signal on the telecommunications network and (ii) a bottom frequency of the
   telecommunications voice band (eg 300Hz) or a bottom frequency of a signalling band
 5 in the telecommunications voice band (eg 425Hz, as used in some networks to signal
   that a phone        line is "busy").   In one embodiment,      the transmission   is also
   advantageously        above  a  fundamental    frequency  of   a  mains   supply to   the
   telecommunications network (eg 50Hz or 60Hz).
          In one embodiment, transmitted signals are in a frequency band that does not
 0 intersect with one or more of: an odd harmonic of the fundamental frequency of the
   mains supply; a third harmonic of the fundamental frequency of the mains supply; an
   odd harmonic of a ring signal used on the telecommunications network; and a third
   harmonic of a ring signal used on the telecommunications network. For example, in
   some networks a ring signal is at 25Hz, resulting in a third harmonic at three times this
?5 frequency (ie 75 Hz) and other odd harmonics at 125Hz and every 50Hz thereafter.
   Preferably, the frequency band does not intersect with at least the third and fifth
   harmonics of the mains supply and the ring signal.
          Optionally, the communication mode may be by amplitude modulation. However,
   in one embodiment, the transmitted signals are transmitted by frequency modulation
30 having a carrier frequency at about 216Hz, or more precisely, 215.625Hz, and a
   bandwidth of 30Hz. Thus the signals are in a frequency band from about 201 to 231 Hz,
   thus being intermediate the third and fifth harmonics of a mains supply (at 50Hz or
                                                19

   60Hz). This band also advantageously avoids interference with the third, fifth and
   seventh harmonics of a 25 Hz ring tone.
         Communication over this frequency band is advantageously performed in a half
   duplex mode of communication. Further, signals sent and received by the device 200
 5 via its contacts can be sent and received over the same frequency band. The
   communication is based on a data rate of between 5 and 50 baud, more particularly 25
   baud. Advantageously, an encoding scheme can be used in which the bit rate is the
   same as the data rate. In one embodiment, the mode of communication uses an
   8bit/10bit encoding scheme. With this scheme, the bit rate can be 25 bits per second
 0 with the data rate being at 25 baud.
         During operation of the mapping system 100, each requesting device 110, 112,
   114 generates a first signal which is identifiable by one or more responding device 116,
   118, 120 that receives the first signals. Each of the first signals encodes a symbol which
   can be decoded by the responding device 116, 118, 120 to verify that the source of the
 5 signal is a requesting device. For example, the symbol can be an identification code. A
   responding device 116, 118, 120 that receives such a signal can reply by sending a
   reply signal that encodes identification data defining an identity associated with the
   telecommunication line and/or pair of terminals on which the responding device
   received the request signal. The reply signal also includes a cyclic redundancy check
 0 (CRC) or other error checking code. The identification data and CRC are included
   between symbols identifying the beginning and end of the reply data packet that makes
   up the reply signal.
         The identification data may be formatted to suit the hierarchical structure and/or
   nomenclature of the given telecommunications network                10. For example, the
?5 identification data can include an identifier of a distribution frame 12 (eg a number
   and/or location identifier) and a terminal pair identifier (eg pair number and whether the
   pair is on the exchange or customer side) on which the request signal was received by
   the responding device. If the telecommunications network includes twisted wire pairs
   between the distribution frame and a more central location in the network 10, such as at
30 the exchange 18, the responding devices 116, 118, 120 can be connected to the
   network 10 at that location, eg at the exchange. In this case, the identification data in
   the reply signal can include an identifier of the exchange, a cable number (if such a
   level exists in the hierarchy), and the terminal pair number on which the request signal

   was received by the responding device. In another example, the identification data may
   include an identifier of a fibre-to-copper pillar in the telecommunications network and a
   terminal pair of the pillar at which the device 116, 118, 120 is connected.
          A requesting device 110, 112, 114 that receives a reply signal will decode the
 5 identification data to determine the identity of the exchange-side terminal pair that
   received the request signal. The requesting device then stores, to its memory system
   222, data that correlates that exchange-side terminal pair with the customer-side
   terminal pair on which the request signal was sent, thus identifying, which exchange
   side terminal pair is connected to that customer-side terminal pair. Once the requesting
 0 device 110, 112, 114 has determined these correlations for each of its N terminal pairs,
   the device 110, 112, 114 transmits the accumulated data to a central database in the
   telecommunications network. At the central database, a map of a greater part of the
   telecommunications network is stored, and is maintained and used by the relevant
   telecommunications service provider. Such a database may be stored in a central
 5 responder unit in the telecommunications network.
          Figure 3 depicts a timing diagram in which a first requesting device 110 and
   second requesting device 112 send request signals onto the telecommunications
   network 10. The timing diagram of Figure 3 shows how responding device 116
   responds to the requesting devices 110 and 112.
 0        At time 302 the first requesting device transmit a first signal on its first pair of
   contacts. At time 306, the responding device 116 switches to contact pair 1' to monitor
   contact pair 1' for a period of time T2 to determine if a signal (ie a request signal) from a
   requesting device has been sent.
          However, as shown in Figure 1, the first pair contacts 1' of the responding device
?5 116 is not in electrical communication with terminal pair 1 on the customer side of the
   distribution frame 12, so it does not receive this request signal sent from requesting
   devices 110. As a result, the responding device does not send a reply signal. Rather, at
   time 307, when the monitoring period expires, the multiplexor/demultiplexor module 210
   on the monitoring device 116 switches from contact pair 1' to contact pair 2' to monitor
30 terminal pair 2 on the second side 17 of the distribution frame 12.
          At 308, the processing system of device 110 monitors whether any reply signals
   are received on its first pair of contacts. This monitoring occurs for a period of time T1.
                                                 IA

   In this case, no reply is received by requesting device 110, so the requesting device 110
   sends another of these first signal requests from its first pair of terminals, at 310.
         The request signal that was sent by the first requesting device 110 (at 310) is
   detected by the responding device 116. This is because the responding device 116 is
 5 now monitoring for signals on its second pair of contacts, and these contacts are
   electrically connected, because of jumper 20, to the first pair of terminals on the first
   side 15 distribution frame 12. As a result, at 314, the responding device 116 detects the
   arrival of the request signal.
         The times T1 and T2 respectively spent by the requesting device 110 and the
 0 responding device 116 each time they are monitoring for received signals requires
   careful management so that the overall time to map the telecommunication network can
   be kept to a minimum. The monitoring times at a given device are set to be just long
   enough to detect if a signal was sent to the device. However, this monitoring time might
   not be enough to receive the entire signal, particularly if the start of the signal arrives at
 5 the monitoring device near the expiry of the monitoring period. In such instances, the
   monitoring device is configured to extend the monitoring period so that it can receive the
   entire signal.
          In the timing diagram example of Figure 3, the responding device 116 detects the
   arrival of the request signal at time 314 well into the monitoring period T2, with not
 0 enough time left in monitoring period T2 to receive the full request signal. Therefore, the
   monitoring period is extended by a further period T4 to time 316 to enable all of the
   signal to be received and decoded.
         At 316, the responding device 116 sends a reply signal which then is detected by
   the first requesting device 110, at time 318. In this particular instance, the requesting
?5 device 110 detects the arrival of the reply signal only just before the end of the
   monitoring period T1 is due to end at time 320. There is insufficient time within the
   period T1 to receive all of the signal, so the monitoring period performed by first
   requesting device 110 is extended by a further period T3 to enable all of the signal to be
   received and decoded.
30       The first requesting device 110 then stores the identification data decoded from
   the received signal (eg distribution frame number 12, exchange-side, pair number 2)
   together with data identifying the terminal pair which sent the request (eg distribution
   frame number 12, customer-side, pair number 1).

         Had no reply signal been received by the requesting device 110, the device 110
   would have continued to send signals from its first pair of contacts until the responding
   device had had enough time to cycle through monitoring all of the N contacts pairs of
   the responding device and send any reply signals. However, in the example illustrated
 5 in Figure 3, the first terminal pair of the requesting device has already been mapped
   after receiving the reply at 318. Therefore, at 322, the requesting device 110 sends a
   request signal from its second pair of contacts (ie a "second request signal"). The
   second pair of contacts are mapped to a different responding device (ie second
   responding device 118), so this request signal is not received by the first responding
 0 device 116. Figure 3 shows that if no identification data is received from the second
   responding device 118, a further second request is sent by the first requesting device
   110 from its second pair of contacts at time 323.
         The second requesting device 112 is not synchronised with the first requesting
   device 110. In this example the second requesting device 112 begins sending its first
 5 request signal from its first pair of contacts at time 304, which as depicted in Figure 3,
   maybe some period of time after the first requesting device 110.
         The first pair of contacts of the requesting device 112 are connected by jumper 24
   to terminal 3 of the responding device 116. However, when the first request from the
   second requesting device 112 arrives at the responding device 116, the responding
 0 device 116 is sending data from its second contact pair, so does not detect the request.
         At 309, the processing system of device 112 monitors whether any reply signals
   are received on its first pair of contacts. This monitoring occurs for a period of time T1.
   No reply is received by requesting device 112, so the requesting device 112 sends
   another of these first signal requests from its first pairs of terminals, at 312.
?5       The responding device 116 is still sending data from its second pair of contacts.
   Therefore, again, no reply signal is received by the second requesting device 112
   before the end of the monitoring period T1, now at time 321. Therefore, at 324, the
   second requesting device 112 sends another first request signal, which is now the third
   time it has sent such a signal.
30       In the absence of receiving any reply signals, the requesting device 112 will send
   request signals from its first pair of contacts for a predetermined period of time, Tr (not
   shown), sufficient to allow each responding device 116, 118, 120 to monitor each of
   their N contact pairs and send at least one reply signal that includes identification data.
                                                 1A

          At time 325, the first responding device has finished sending data from its second
   pair of contacts and has just switched to monitoring its third pair of contacts. As a result,
   at 326 the first responding device 116 receives the entirety of the request signal within
   the monitoring period T2, and sends a reply signal at time 328. However, because of
 5 the time taken to send the first response signal (between time 316 and time 325), were
   the responding device 116 to now send to the second requesting device 112 a full
   response signal that includes identification data and a CRC, the monitoring functions
   still needing to be performed by the first responding device on its other contact pairs
   would be behind schedule. There may not be enough time available to cycle through its
 0 contact pairs fast enough to keep up with the timeout timers of the requesting devices
   on the other side of the distribution frame, which will timeout at the expiry of the period
   Tr. Therefore, to save on time, at 328 the responding device sends a shorter reply
   signal to inform that second requesting device 112 that its request was received but that
   there was not enough time to send a full reply that included a terminal pair identifier.
 5        This shorter reply signal is received by the second requesting device 112, at time
   330. The predetermined time period Tr is set to allow for at least one, and preferably
   multiple, of these shorter reply signals. In one embodiment, Tr is large enough to allow
   at least one full reply signal and 8 to 10 shorter reply signals to be received.
          In response to receiving the shorter the reply, the processing device of the second
 0 requesting device 112 stays in communication with its first contact pair until the first
   responding device 116 has a chance to send a full reply signal that includes the relevant
   terminal pair identification data. More particularly, the second requesting device 112
   continues to send requests from the same pair of contacts (ie in this case its first
   contact pair) until the first responding device 116 has a chance to receive the signal and
?5 send the full reply signal.
          Meanwhile, the first responding device 116 continues to cycle through monitoring
   each of its N contact pairs. After N cycles have been performed all contact pairs of the
   first responding device have been monitored. Three cycles later, at time 331, the first
   responding device 116 is now again monitoring its third contact pair, ie in the (N+3)th
30 cycle, and thus receives the request signal at time 332, and sends a full reply at time
   334. In other embodiments, first responding device skips those contact pairs which it
   has already identified (in this example, its second terminal pair), thus returning to the
   third contact pair before the (N+3)th cycle.
                                                 17

          Once the second requesting device 112 receives the full reply signal at time 336, it
   stores the relevant identification data and begins sending request signals from its
   second contact pair, at time 338.
          Once each requesting device 110, 112 finishes its request cycles on all of its N
 5 contact pairs, it transmits all of the stored mapping data to the central responder unit
   (not shown) in the telecommunications network. The data can be sent via one or more
   of its contact pairs (1' to N') or via its wireless transmission via antenna 226.
          While    the   description    herein   refers   to the   mapping      of a first    set of
   telecommunication lines to a second set of telecommunication lines, some pairs of
 0 terminals on the distribution frame may have no twisted wire pairs attached to it, and
   hence no line, per se. For example, the distribution frame 12 may not be fully populated
   with customer-side telecommunication lines. By connecting to terminal pairs, which may
   or may not have a telecommunication line terminated to it, the mapping system 100 can
   also map any unused terminal pair on the distribution frame 12. For example, if an old
 5 jumper connects a previously used, but now unused, customer-side terminal pair to an
   exchange-side telecommunication line, the mapping system 100 can identify that when
   a customer-side telecommunication line will be connected to that customer-side terminal
   pair, which exchange-side line it will be connected to. Additionally, the device 200 can
   positively identify any terminal pairs that are not connected to a terminal pair on the
 0 other side of the exchange, thus identifying any free terminal pairs or potentially, a fault
   in the network 10.
          It will be understood that the invention disclosed and defined in this specification
   extends to all alternative combinations of two or more of the individual features
   mentioned or evident from the text or drawings. All of these different combinations
?5 constitute various alternative aspects of the invention.
   In one aspect there is provided a device for mapping a first set of telecommunication
   lines to a second set of telecommunication lines in a telecommunications network, the
   first and second sets of telecommunication lines being on opposite sides of a
   distribution frame, wherein the device includes:
30                    a first pair of contacts for connecting to a first pair of terminals for a
            telecommunication line of the first set of telecommunication lines; and
                      a processing system configured to sequentially perform the following
            steps:

                    (a) output a first signal onto the first pair of contacts between a
                        beginning time and an ending time;
                    (b) after the ending time, monitor the first pair of contacts for a first
                        response signal; and
 5                  in the event that the processing system detects a first response
           signal, determine, from identification data in the first response signal,
           which pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the second set of
           telecommunication lines is in communication with the first pair of terminals
           for a telecommunication line of the first set of telecommunication lines.
 0
   The first signal can be a modulated carrier wave that encodes a symbol for
   identifying that the first signal is from a device of this aspect.
   In another aspect there is provided a device for mapping a first set of
 5 telecommunication lines to a second set of telecommunication lines in a
   telecommunications network, the first and second sets of telecommunication
   lines being on opposite sides of a distribution frame, wherein the device includes:
              a first pair of contacts for connecting to a first pair of terminals for a
   telecommunication line of the first set of telecommunication lines; and
 0            a processing system configured to:
                    output a first signal onto the first pair of contacts; and
                    monitor the first pair of contacts for a first response signal; and
               in the event that the processing system detects a first response signal,
   determine, from the first response signal, which pair of terminals for a
?5 telecommunication line of the second set of telecommunication lines is in
   communication with the first pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the
   first set of telecommunication lines, wherein the first signal encodes a symbol.
   In some embodiments of the above aspects the modulated carrier wave is an FM
30 modulated carrier wave.
   In some embodiments of the above aspects the first signal is in a frequency band
   that is greater than a fundamental frequency, or a top of a frequency band, for a
   ring signal on the telecommunications network and less than at least one of (i) a
                                              IQ

   bottom frequency of a telecommunications voice band or (ii) a bottom frequency
   of a signalling band in the telecommunications voice band.
   In some embodiments the first signal is in a frequency band between (i) a
 5 fundamental frequency of a mains supply to the telecommunications network Hz
   and (ii) at least one of 300Hz and 425Hz.
   Preferably, the first signal is in a frequency band that does not intersect with at
   least one of:
 0            an odd harmonic of the fundamental frequency of a mains supply;
              an third harmonic of the fundamental frequency of the mains supply;
              an third and fifth harmonic of the fundamental frequency of the mains
   supply;
              an odd harmonic of a ring signal used on the telecommunications
 5 network;
              a third harmonic of a ring signal used on the telecommunications
   network;
              a third and fifth harmonic of a ring signal used on the
   telecommunications network; and
 0            a third, fifth and seventh harmonic of a ring signal used on the
   telecommunications network.
   Preferably, the first signal has a carrier frequency of about 216 Hz, such as
   215.625 Hz.
?5
   In some embodiments of the above aspects the first signal has a data rate of
   between 5 and 50 baud.
   In some embodiments of the above aspects the processing system is configured
30 to send the first signal and receive the first response signal using a half-duplex
   mode of communication over the first pair of contacts and/or over the same
   frequency band.
                                            9n

   In some embodiments of the above aspects, after outputting the first signal, the
   processing system monitors for the first response signal for a first predetermined
   time period; and
              wherein the processing system monitors the first pair of contacts for a
 5 first predetermined time period, wherein in the event that the processing system
   detects a signal representing part of the first response signal, the processing
   system extends the monitoring period to detect an entirety of the first response
   signal.
 o In some embodiments of the above aspects in the event the first predefined
   condition has been met, the processing system is configured to repeat steps (a)
   (b).
   Preferably, the first predefined condition is:
 5                 that steps (a)-(b) have been repeated less than a maximum number
                   of times and/or for less than a maximum duration of time; and
                   that the processing system has not detected the first response
                   signal.
   Preferably, after outputting the first signal, the processing system monitors for the
 o first response signal for a first predetermined time period; and
              in the event that, within the first predetermined time period, the
   processing signal receives a response signal that does not have identification
   data for identifying which pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the
   second set of telecommunication lines is in communication with the first pair of
?5 terminals for telecommunication line of the first set of telecommunication lines,
   the processing system repeats steps (a)-(b) for more than said maximum number
   of times and/or maximum duration of time.
   Preferably, the response signal that does not have the identification data has a
30 shorter duration that the first response signal.
   The device can include:
              a second pair of contacts for connecting to a second pair of terminals
   for a telecommunication line of the first set of telecommunication lines;
                                           91

             wherein in that event that the predefined condition is not met, the
   processor is further configured to sequentially perform the following steps:
                  (c) output a second signal onto the second pair of contacts between
                      a beginning time and an ending time;
 5                (d) after the ending time, monitor the second pair of contacts for a
                      first response signal to the second signal; and
                  in the event that the processing system detects the first response
             signal to the second signal: determine, from the first response signal to
             the second signal, which pair of terminals for a telecommunication line
 0           of the second set of telecommunication lines is in communication with
             the second pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the first set
             of telecommunication lines.
   Preferably the second signal is indistinguishable from said first signal.
 5 In some embodiments of the above aspects the device further includes a
   memory system wherein the processing system is configured to store data
   identifying which pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the second set
   of telecommunication lines is in communication with the first pair of terminals for
   a telecommunication line of the first set of telecommunication lines.
 o Preferably the processing system is configured to accumulatively store data
   identifying which pairs of terminals for telecommunication lines of the second set
   of telecommunication lines are respectively in communication with a plurality of
   pairs of terminals for telecommunication lines of the first set of
   telecommunication lines, and then transmit the accumulatively stored data to a
?5 central database.
   In another aspect there is provided a device for mapping a first set of
   telecommunication lines to a second set of telecommunication lines in a
   telecommunications network, the first and second sets of telecommunication
   lines being on opposite sides of a distribution frame, wherein the device includes:
30           a first pair of contacts for connecting to a first pair of terminals for a
   telecommunication line of the second set of telecommunication lines; and
             a processing system configured to:
                       monitor the first pair of contacts for a first signal;
                                            99

                        in the event that the processing system detects the first signal:
                             output a first response signal onto the first pair of contacts,
   the first response signal including identification data for identifying the first pair of
   terminals for a telecommunication line of the second set of telecommunication
 5 lines; and
              wherein the device has an impedance between the first pair of contacts
   that has:
                        a first impedance while the device outputs the first response
   signal; and
 0                      a second impedance while the device monitors the first pair of
   contacts for the first signal;
                        wherein the second impedance is larger than the first
   impedance.
 5 Preferably,          the second impedance is a relatively high impedance (eg
   greater than 15 kOhms); and
              the first impedance is a relatively low impedance (eg less than or equal
   to 1 kOhm, such as being approximately equal to a characteristic impedance of
   one of said telecommunication lines, eg 600 Ohms).
 0
              The second impedance can have a relatively high impedance at least in
   a voice band (eg 300Hz to 3.4kHz) of the telecommunications network, and
   preferably also at a carrier frequency of the first signal.
?5 In some embodiments of this aspect the first impedance has a relatively low
   impedance at a carrier frequency of the response signal and, optionally, a higher
   impedance in the voice band.
   in a further aspect there is disclosed a device for mapping a first set of
30 telecommunication lines to a second set of telecommunication lines in a
   telecommunications network, the first and second sets of telecommunication
   lines being on opposite sides of a distribution frame, wherein the device includes:

               a first pair of contacts for connecting to a first pair of terminals for a
   telecommunication line of the second set of telecommunication lines; and
               a processing system configured to:
                         monitor the first pair of contacts by decoding a signal received
 5 at the first pair of contacts to detect whether the signal is from a requesting
   device connected to a telecommunication line of the first set of
   telecommunication lines;
                         in the event that the processing system detects that the signal
   is from a requesting device, output a first response signal onto the first pair of
 0 contacts, the first response signal including identification data for identifying the
   first pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the second set of
   telecommunication lines.
   In some embodiments of the preceding two aspects , wherein the first response
 5 signal is a modulated carrier wave that encodes the identification data.
   Preferably the modulated carrier wave is an FM modulated carrier wave.
   In some embodiments of the preceding two aspects the first signal can be in a
 o frequency band that is greater than a fundamental frequency, or a top of a
   frequency band, for a ring signal on the telecommunications network and less
   than at least one of (i) a bottom frequency of a telecommunications voice band or
   (ii) a bottom frequency of a signalling band in the telecommunications voice
   band. Preferably the first signal is in a frequency band between (i) a fundamental
?5 frequency of a mains supply to the telecommunications network and (ii) at least
   one of 300Hz and 425Hz.
   In some embodiments, the first signal is in a frequency band that does not
   intersect with at least one of:
30             an odd harmonic of the fundamental frequency of a mains supply;
               an third harmonic of the fundamental frequency of the mains supply;
               an third and fifth harmonic of the fundamental frequency of the mains
   supply;
                                              911

              an odd harmonic of a ring signal used on the telecommunications
   network;
              a third harmonic of a ring signal used on the telecommunications
   network;
 5            a third and fifth harmonic of a ring signal used on the
   telecommunications network; and
              a third, fifth and seventh harmonic of a ring signal used on the
   telecommunications network.
 o The first signal may have a carrier frequency of about 216 Hz, such as 215.625
   Hz.
   The first signal mayhave a data rate of between 5 and 50 baud.
 5 In some embodiments of the preceding two aspects the processing system is
   configured to monitor for the first signal and output the response signal using a
   half-duplex mode of communication over the first pair of contacts and/or over the
   same frequency band.
 0 3 In some embodiments of the preceding two aspects the processing system
   monitors the first pair of contacts for a first monitoring period, wherein in the
   event that the processing detects a signal representing part of the first signal, the
   processing system extends the first monitoring period to detect an entirety of the
   first signal.
?5
   In some embodiments of the preceding two aspects the device also includes a
   second pair of contacts for connecting to a second pair of terminals for a
   telecommunication line of the second set of telecommunication lines; wherein
   processing system is configured to monitor the second pair of contacts for the
30 first signal in the event of a first predefined condition being met.Optionally, the
   processing system monitors the first pair of contacts for a first monitoring period
   and wherein the first predefined condition is met if at least one of the following
   conditions is satisfied:

                that the first monitoring period has finished and the processing system
   did not detect the first signal in the monitoring period; and
                at least that (i) the processing system has detected the first signal and
   (ii) the processing system has outputted a reply signal onto the first pair of
 5 contacts.
   Alternatively, in the event that the first predefined condition has been met, then in
   the event the processing system detects the first signal via the second pair of
   contacts, the processing system outputs a reply signal onto the second pair of
 0 contacts. Preferably,:
              in the event that a second predefined condition is not met, the reply
   signal is a second response signal, wherein the second response does not
   include identification data for identifying the second pair of terminals for a
   telecommunication line; and
 5            in the event that the second predefined condition is met, the reply signal
   is a third response signal that includes identification data for identifying the
   second pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the second set of
   telecommunication line, wherein the second response signal has a shorter
   duration than the third response signal.
 0
   In some embodiments, the second predefined condition is met if at least one of
   the following conditions is satisfied::
              that the processing system did not detect a first signal from the first pair
   of contacts; and
?5            that processing system has determined that a total time required to both
   transmit identification data and monitor each of a plurality of further pairs of
   contacts is less than a maximum time allowance.
   In a further aspect there is disclosed a system for mapping a first set of
30 telecommunication lines to a second set of telecommunication lines in a
   telecommunications network, the first and second sets of telecommunication
   lines being on opposite sides of a distribution frame, wherein the system
   includes:

   a requesting device, being a device that includes:
                a first pair of contacts for connecting to a first pair of terminals for a
           telecommunication line of the first set of telecommunication lines; and
                a processing system configured to:
 5                    output a first signal onto the first pair of contacts;
                      monitor the first pair of contacts for a first response signal;
                in the event that the processing system detects a first response signal,
           determine, from identification data in the first response signal, which pair
           of terminals for a telecommunication line of the second set of
 0         telecommunication lines is in communication with the first pair of terminals
           for a telecommunication line of the first set of telecommunication lines; and
   a responding device being a device that includes:
           a first pair of contacts for connecting to a first pair of terminals for a
 5 telecommunication line of the second set of telecommunication lines; and
           a processing system configured to:
                  monitor the first pair of contacts for the first signal; and
                  in the event that the processing system detects the first signal:
                         output a first response signal onto the first pair of contacts, the
 o first response signal including identification data for identifying the first pair of
   terminals for a telecommunication line of the second set of telecommunication
   lines; and
           wherein the device has an impedance between the first pair of contacts
   that has:
?5                a first impedance while the device outputs the first response signal;
   and
                  a second impedance while the device monitors the first pair of
   contacts for the first signal;
                  wherein the second impedance is larger than the first impedance.
30
   In a further aspect there is disclosed a system for mapping a first set of
   telecommunication lines to a second set of telecommunication lines in a
   telecommunications network, the first and second sets of telecommunication
                                              97

   lines being on opposite sides of a distribution frame, wherein the system
   includes:
   a requesting device, being a device that includes:
 5                 a first pair of contacts for connecting to a pair of terminals for a first
            telecommunication line of the first set of telecommunication lines; and
                   a processing system configured to:
                            output a first signal onto the first pair of contacts;
                            monitor the first pair of contacts for a first response signal;
 o                 in the event that the processing system detects a first response
            signal, determine, from identification data in the first response signal,
            which pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the second set of
            telecommunication lines is in communication with the first pair of terminals
            for a telecommunication line of the first set of telecommunication lines; and
 5
   a responding device being a device that includes:
       a first pair of contacts for connecting to a first pair of terminals for a
   telecommunication line of the second set of telecommunication lines; and
       a processing system configured to:
 0             monitor the first pair of contacts for the first signal; and
               in the event that the processing system detects the first signal:
                          output a first response signal onto the first pair of contacts, the
   first response signal including identification data for identifying the first pair of
   terminals for a telecommunication line of the second set of telecommunication
?5 lines;
   wherein at least one of the first signal and the first response signal is in a
   frequency band that is greater than a fundamental frequency of a mains supply to
   the telecommunications network and less than at least one of (i) a bottom
30 frequency of a telecommunications voice band or (ii) a bottom frequency of a
   signalling band in the telecommunications voice band.

   In some embodiments of the preceding two aspects the requesting device can be
   a device in accordance with either of first two aspects, and the responding device
   is a device in accordance either of the third and fourth aspects described above.
 5 In a further aspect there is disclosed a system for mapping a first set of
   telecommunication lines to a second set of telecommunication lines in a
   telecommunications network, the first and second sets of telecommunication
   lines being on opposite sides of a distribution frame, wherein the system
   includes:
 0 a requesting device, being a device that includes:
           a first pair of contacts for connecting to a first pair of terminals for a
           telecommunication line of the first set of telecommunication lines; and
              a processing system configured to:
                               output a first signal onto the first pair of contacts; and
 5                             monitor the first pair of contacts for a first response signal;
                               and
                        in the event that the processing system detects a first response
                   signal, determine, from the first response signal, which pair of
                   terminals for a telecommunication line of the second set of
 0                 telecommunication lines is in communication with the first pair of
                   terminals for a telecommunication line of the first set of
                   telecommunication lines, wherein the first signal encodes a symbol;
                   and
?5         a responding device being a device that includes:
              a first pair of contacts for connecting to a first pair of terminals for a
           telecommunication line of the second set of telecommunication lines; and
              a processing system configured to:
                        monitor the first pair of contacts for the first signal; and
30                      in the event that the processing system detects the first signal:
                                 output a first response signal onto the first pair of
           contacts.
                                              9Q

   In some embodiments of the preceding two aspects communication between the
   first requesting device and the first responding device is by a full duplex mode of
   communication.
 5 In some embodiments of the preceding two aspects wherein communication
   between the first signal and/or the first response signal are transmitted with
   carrier frequencies that are different to each other.
   In some embodiments of the preceding three aspects, further including at least
 0 one of:
   a second requesting device, being a device that includes:
                      a first pair of contacts for connecting to a pair of terminals for a
            further telecommunication line of the first set of telecommunication lines;
            and
 5                    a processing system configured to:
                          output a first signal onto the first pair of contacts; and
                          monitor the first pair of contacts for a first response signal;
                      in the event that the processing system detects a first response
            signal, determine, from identification data in the first response signal,
 0          which pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the second set of
            telecommunication lines is in communication with the pair of terminals for
            a further telecommunication line of the first set of telecommunication lines;
            and
?5 a second responding device being a device that includes:
         a first pair of contacts for connecting to a pair of terminals for a further
   telecommunication line of the second set of telecommunication lines; and
         a processing system configured to:
                monitor the first pair of contacts for the first signal; and
30              in the event that the processing system detects the first signal:
                          output a first response signal onto the first pair of contacts, the
   first response signal including identification data for identifying the pair of
   terminals for a further telecommunication line of the second set of
   telecommunication lines.

   In a further aspect there is provided a method of mapping a first set of
   telecommunication lines to a second set of telecommunication lines in a
   telecommunications network, the first and second sets of telecommunication
 5 lines being on opposite sides of a distribution frame, wherein the method
   includes:
                    (a) outputting a first signal onto the first pair of contacts, the first
                        pair of contacts being for connecting to a first pair of terminals
                        for a telecommunication line of the first set of telecommunication
 0                      lines;
                    (b) monitoring the first pair of contacts for a first response signal;
                        and
               in the event that the monitoring detects a first response signal,
           determining, from the first response signal, which pair of terminals for a
 5         telecommunication line of the second set of telecommunication lines is in
           communication with the first pair of terminals for a telecommunication line
           of the first set of telecommunication lines.
   The method may include: attaching multiple devices in accordance with an
 0 embodiment of either of the first two aspects to a plurality of pairs of terminals for
   a respective plurality telecommunication lines of the first set of
   telecommunication lines; and simultaneously operating a plurality of said devices.
   The method may include: the multiple devices fully populate one side of the
?5 distribution frame.
   In some embodiments of the present aspect, the first set of telecommunication
   lines can be on a customer side of the distribution frame.
30 In a further aspect there is provided a method of mapping a first set of
   telecommunication lines to a second set of telecommunication lines in a
   telecommunications network, the first and second sets of telecommunication
   lines being on opposite sides of a distribution frame, wherein the method
   includes the following sequence of steps:

              monitoring a first pair of contacts for a first signal, the first pair of
   contacts being for connecting to a first pair of terminals for a telecommunication
   line of the second set of telecommunication lines; and
              in the event that the monitoring detects the first signal:
 5                     outputting a first response signal onto the first pair of contacts,
   the first response signal for identifying the first pair of terminals for a
   telecommunication line of the second set of telecommunication lines.
   The method may include: attaching multiple devices in accordance with an
 0 embodiment of either of the third or fourth aspects to a plurality of pairs of
   terminals for a respective plurality of telecommunication lines of the first set of
   telecommunication lines; and simultaneously operating a plurality of said devices.
   The method may include: the multiple devices fully populate one side of the
 5 distribution frame.
   In some embodiments of this aspect, the first set of telecommunication lines is on
   a customer side of the distribution frame.
 o In a further aspect the present invention provides a method of mapping a first set
   of telecommunication lines to a second set of telecommunication lines in a
   telecommunications network, the first and second sets of telecommunication
   lines being on opposite sides of a distribution frame, wherein the method
   includes an embodiment of both the method of the sixth aspect and the method
?5 of the seventh aspect.
   In some embodiments of the preceding three aspects at least one
   telecommunication line of the first and second sets of telecommunication may be
   connected to an optic fibre, the method can include identifying an optic fibre- to
30 wire pillar from which the first response signal was transmitted or received.
   Preferably the optic fibre-to-wire pillar is identified by identification data in the first
   response signal.

           It will be understood that the invention disclosed and defined in this specification
  extends to all alternative combinations of two or more of the individual features
5 mentioned or evident from the text or drawings. All of these different combinations
  constitute various alternative aspects of the invention.

                                          CLAIMS
   1.         A device for mapping a first set of telecommunication lines to a second
   set of telecommunication lines in a telecommunications network, the first and
   second sets of telecommunication lines being on opposite sides of a distribution
 5 frame, wherein the device includes:
              a first pair of contacts for connecting to a first pair of terminals for a
   telecommunication line of the first set of telecommunication lines; and
              a processing system configured to sequentially perform the following
   steps:
 0                  (e) output a first signal onto the first pair of contacts between a
                        beginning time and an ending time;
                    (f) after the ending time, monitor the first pair of contacts for a first
                        response signal; and
                    in the event that the processing system detects a first response
 5         signal, determine, from identification data in the first response signal,
           which pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the second set of
           telecommunication lines is in communication with the first pair of terminals
           for a telecommunication line of the first set of telecommunication lines.
 0
   2.         A device for mapping a first set of telecommunication lines to a second
   set of telecommunication lines in a telecommunications network, the first and
   second sets of telecommunication lines being on opposite sides of a distribution
   frame, wherein the device includes:
?5            a first pair of contacts for connecting to a first pair of terminals for a
   telecommunication line of the first set of telecommunication lines; and
              a processing system configured to:
                    output a first signal onto the first pair of contacts; and
                    monitor the first pair of contacts for a first response signal; and
30             in the event that the processing system detects a first response signal,
   determine, from the first response signal, which pair of terminals for a
   telecommunication line of the second set of telecommunication lines is in
   communication with the first pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the
   first set of telecommunication lines, wherein the first signal encodes a symbol.
                                              34

   3.         A device for mapping a first set of telecommunication lines to a second
   set of telecommunication lines in a telecommunications network, the first and
   second sets of telecommunication lines being on opposite sides of a distribution
   frame, wherein the device includes:
 5            a first pair of contacts for connecting to a first pair of terminals for a
   telecommunication line of the second set of telecommunication lines; and
              a processing system configured to:
                        monitor the first pair of contacts for a first signal;
                        in the event that the processing system detects the first signal:
 0                           output a first response signal onto the first pair of contacts,
   the first response signal including identification data for identifying the first pair of
   terminals for a telecommunication line of the second set of telecommunication
   lines; and
              wherein the device has an impedance between the first pair of contacts
 5 that has:
                        a first impedance while the device outputs the first response
   signal; and
                        a second impedance while the device monitors the first pair of
   contacts for the first signal;
 o                     wherein the second impedance is larger than the first
   impedance.
   4.         A device for mapping a first set of telecommunication lines to a second
   set of telecommunication lines in a telecommunications network, the first and
   second sets of telecommunication lines being on opposite sides of a distribution
?5 frame, wherein the device includes:
              a first pair of contacts for connecting to a first pair of terminals for a
   telecommunication line of the second set of telecommunication lines; and
              a processing system configured to:
                        monitor the first pair of contacts by decoding a signal received
30 at the first pair of contacts to detect whether the signal is from a requesting
   device connected to a telecommunication line of the first set of
   telecommunication lines;
                        in the event that the processing system detects that the signal
   is from a requesting device, output a first response signal onto the first pair of
                                              35

  contacts, the first response signal including identification data for identifying the
  first pair of terminals for a telecommunication line of the second set of
  telecommunication lines.
  5.         A system for mapping a first set of telecommunication lines to a second
5 set of telecommunication lines in a telecommunications network, the first and
  second sets of telecommunication lines being on opposite sides of a distribution
  frame, wherein the system includes:
  A requesting device is a device in accordance with any one of claims 1 or 2; and
  A responding device is a device in accordance with any one of claims 3 or 4.
0
                                        36

<removed-date>
                                                                            1/3
                                                                                                                      100                 10
                    2nd                        1st                                            1st                      2nd
              responding device         responding device                              requesting device         requesting device
                    118                       116                                            110                        112
<removed-apn>
                                         1' 2' 3' 4'   ...   N'                        1' 2' 3' 4'   ...   N'    1' 2' 3' 4'   ...   N'
                                                                          20
                                                                  1               1                                                             14a
                                                                  2               2                                                             14b
                       16                                                 22       3
                                                                      3
                                                                                   4
                                                                  4
                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                          Customers
                                                                  N                N
                                                                                                                                                14c
                                                                  N+1            N+1
                                                                  N+2
                                                                       24
                                                                  2N              2N
                                                                      Distribution
                                             17                          Frame                   15                                            14
                                                                            12
                                                                      m
                                                                                  M
                          18                           120                                             114
                     Exchange /
                                                     rth
                        MDF /                                                                      Rth
                                              responding device
                   Optic Fibre Pillar                                                        requesting device
                                                                           FIG. 1

<removed-date>
                                                 2/3
                                                                                          200
                                                   226
<removed-apn>
                                                               I/O    230
                                MicroProcessor
                                                                            Memory System
                                                         216
                                       214                                         222
                                                 Hi Impedance Input
                                                                                  224
                               Low impedance                         212
                                  Modem                                                 228
                                                                             GUI
                                      218               Switch 220
                                                 MUX/DEMUX                  210
              205
                    2'                             3'         203                                   203
               1'                                       205                                   205
                                                              4'                                    N'
                                                                                                          12
                202
                    1      2      3         4                                 N
                204      204   204     204                                  204
                                                    FIG. 2

                                                 3/3
<removed-date>
                                   Responding            Requesting    Requesting
                                    Device 1              Device 1      Device 2
                                      (116)                (110)         (112)
                  Switch to                                      302   1st 1st signal,
                contact pair 1' 306                                    contact pair 1'
                                  T2
                                                                 308
                 Switch to      307                             T1
<removed-apn>
              contact pair 2'     T2                             310 2nd 1st signal,
                               314
                                                                     contact pair 1'
                                   T4
                                 316                            T1
                  1st response                                   318
              signal, 2nd terminal                               320
              pair (sends ID data)
                                                                                   304    1st 1st signal,
                                                                                          contact pair 1'
                                                                                  309
                                                                                  T1
                                                                T3                312 2nd 1st signal,
                                                                                      contact pair 1'
                                 325                                              T1 321
                                                                                   324 3rd 1st signal,
                 Switch to 326
                                                                322                    contact pair 1'
               contact pair 3' T2
                                                                                      1st 2nd signal,
                    2nd resp. 328                                                     contact pair 2'
                                                                                  330   4th 1st signal,
               sig., 3rd terminal
              pair (sends wait sig.)                            323                     contact pair 1'
                                                                                         2nd 2nd signal,
                   Switch to     T2                                                      contact pair 2'
                 contact pair 4'
                  Switch to     331                                                Repeat of 1st signal,
               contact pair 3', 332                                                  contact pair 1'
                (N+3)th cycle
                                334
                 3rd response                                                     336
              signal, 3rd terminal
              pair (sends ID data)
                 Switch to
               contact pair 4'    T2                                              338    1st 2nd signal,
                                                                                         contact pair 2'
                 Switch to
               contact pair 5'
                                                FIG. 3

