ABSTRACT
A head for a pool broom includes a microfibre cloth for catching dirt instead of
dispersing it through the water. The backing of the microfibre cloth includes pockets for
fitting to a base with a hinged end allowing it to be easily fitted or removed to be
washed.

                                 Microfibre Pool Broom Head
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]      The present invention relates to swimming pool cleaning equipment, in
particular a microfibre pool broom head.
BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
[0002]      Conventional pool brooms comprise a nylon brush rigidly attached to the end
of an extendible pole. The brushes act to dislodge dirt, algae and the like from the walls
and floor of the pool to be collected by the filtration system or to be vacuumed up after
resettling on the pool floor. Whilst this may ultimately achieve a clean pool, it comes at
the expense of gradually clogging the pool filtration system and often the need to
vacuum the pool.
[0003]      The known brushes, usually nylon, are usually very wide laterally but narrow
in the direction of sweeping and being rigidly attached to the pole they are difficult to
manoeuvre, particularly in corners, on walls and on the steps of a pool. This limits their
effectiveness, particularly in modern pools which may have many contours.
 [0004]      The object of this invention is to provide pool broom head to alleviate the
above problems, or at least provide the public with a useful alternative.
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 [0005]      In a first aspect of the invention there is provided a device for cleaning a
 swimming pool. The device preferably comprising a base member, the base member
 having a first base portion and a second base portion and a socket disposed on the
 base member. The first base portion the and second base portion may each
 respectively having a hinge end and a distal end. The second base portion hinge end
 may be attached to the first base portion hinge end forming a hinge of the base
 member. A microfibre cloth may be removably mountable to the base member.
 Wherein the second base portion may be configured to move between a first position
 and a second position, in which the first position may be an operating position and the
 second position may be a cloth removal position and the distal end of the first base
 portion and the distal end of second base portion are curved upwardly relative to a

contact surface of the base member, and the first base portion comprises an array of
apertures between the first base portion distal end and the hinge.
[0006]       Preferably, the hinge ends are offset relative to the socket. Preferably, the
microfibre cloth may be releasably secured to the base member via a tab passing
between the socket and the base. Preferably, the tab further comprises at least one of;
a buckle and hook and loop fasteners. Preferably, the second base portion may be
restricted to rotating from the first position to the second position in a direction toward
the contact surface of the base member. Preferably, the at least one distal end curved
 upwardly fits the contours of a swimming pool. Preferably, the base may comprise a
 locking means to retain the base in the first position.
 [0007]      Preferably, the microfibre cloth comprises a plurality of microfibre tufts.
 Preferably, the microfibre cloth may comprise a pocket adapted to receive a distal end
 of the base member. Preferably, a handle is disposed on the second base portion to
 actuate the hinge. Preferably, the socket is adapted to receive a pole. Preferably, the
 socket may be pivotally attached to the base member pole. Preferably, the socket may
 be attached to the first base portion.
 [0008]       It should be noted that any one of the aspects mentioned above may include
 any of the features of any of the other aspects mentioned above and may include any
  of the features of any of the embodiments described below as appropriate.
  BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
  [0009]      Preferred features, embodiments and variations of the invention may be
  discerned from the following Detailed Description which provides sufficient information
  for those skilled in the art to perform the invention. The Detailed Description is not to
  be regarded as limiting the scope of the preceding Summary of the Invention in any
  way. The Detailed Description will make reference to a number of drawings as follows.
  [0010]       Figure 1 shows a microfibre pool broom head of the present invention.
   [0011]      Figure 2 shows a base of the pool broom head in a deployed configuration.
   [0012]      Figure 3 shows the base in a fitting configuration.
   [0013]      Figures 4A and 4B show the top and bottom sides of a cover of the pool
   broom head.

[0014]       Figure 5 shows the cover being fitted to the base.
DRAWING COMPONENTS
[0015]       The drawings include the following integers.
20           broom head
30           socket
40           base
41           fixed end
42           hinged end
46           snap lock
50           lock handle
60           cover
61, 62       pockets
 64           micro-fibre cloth
 65           backing
 66           mounting tabs
 68           hook and loop tab
 69           buckle
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
 [0016]       The following detailed description of the invention refers to the
 accompanying drawings. Wherever possible, the same reference numbers will be used
 throughout the drawings and the following description to refer to the same and like
 parts. Dimensions of certain parts shown in the drawings may have been modified
 and/or exaggerated for the purposes of clarity or illustration.
  [0017]      The present invention provides an improved pool broom head incorporating
  a microfibre cloth. Dirt is trapped by the cloth instead of being dispersed into the pool
 water. The head is flexibly attached to a conventional pole to allow for greater
  manoeuvrability and thus easier cleaning than with traditional brushes.
  [0018]      A broom head of the present invention is shown generally as 20 in Figure 1.
  The broom head 20 comprises a base 40 pivotally attached to a socket 30 which can
  accept conventional swimming pool broom poles (not shown) as is well known in the
  art. The base 40 is fitted with a cover 60 engaged by pockets 61, 62 and secured with

hook and loop tabs 68 which pass between the base 40 and socket 30. The cover
comprises a microfibre cloth 64 that achieves the primary cleaning function.
[0019]        Figure 2 shows the base 40 of the broom head with the cover removed. The
base is roughly rectangular with ends that are rounded and turned up slightly fit the
contours of a swimming pool. The base has a fixed end 41, and a hinged end 42 that
can be rotated with respect to the rest of the base to facilitate fitting of the cover.
Figure 2 shows the hinged end in the non-rotated or operating position. Handle 50 is
provided to both aid in manipulation of the hinged end and to limit the rotational
movement of the hinged end so that it cannot rotate upwards. The base includes snap
locks 46 (obscured by the handle in Figure 2) to hold the handle in the operating
position.
[0020]        In Figure 3 the base 40 is shown with the hinged end 42 in the rotated or
fitting position ready to be fitted with a cover 60. In this position the snap locks 46
which engage the handle 50 are revealed
[0021]        A cover 60 is shown in isolation in Figure 4A in which the top side of the
cover can be seen and Figure 4B in which the bottom side of the cover can be seen.
The bottom side comprises tufts of microfibre cloth 64 for trapping dirt. The top side
 comprises a backing 65 for the microfibre cloth, pockets 61,62 for holding the cover
to the base 40 and a hook and loop tab 68 working in conjunction with buckle 69 to
 secure the cover. The buckle 69 and hook and loop tab 68 are attached to the cover
 via mounting tabs 66 for extra strength.
 [0022]        Figure 5 shows a cover 60 being fitted to the base 40. The fixed end 41
 (obscured in Figure 5) is first inserted into the first pocket 61. With the hinged end 42
 in the fitting position the tip of the hinged end is inserted into the second pocket 62 and
 then the hinged end is returned to the operating position and in doing so fully enters
 the pocket. Finally the hook and loop tab 68 is passed between the base and the
 socket 30 and then secured as seen in Figure 1.
 [0023]        The base 40 is preferably made from injection moulded ABS components,
 providing suitable resilience to allow the various components to snap together and
 produce functioning hinges as used to attach the socket 30 and hinged end 42 as well
 as providing functional snap locks 46.

[0024]      The reader will now appreciate the present invention which provides an
improved broom head for pool cleaning.       Preferably the invention is implemented in
accordance with the preferred embodiment discussed above. Various other
embodiments of the invention in which the microfibre cloth is present, but the other
features are absent are readily envisaged.
[0025]      Further advantages and improvements may very well be made to the present
invention without deviating from its scope. Although the invention has been shown and
described in what is conceived to be the most practical and preferred embodiment, it is
recognized that departures may be made therefrom within the scope of the invention,
which is not to be limited to the details disclosed herein but is to be accorded the full
scope of the claims so as to embrace any and all equivalent devices and apparatus.
Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of the
common general knowledge in this field.
 [0026]      In the present specification and claims (if any), the word "comprising" and its
 derivatives including "comprises" and "comprise" include each of the stated integers
 but does not exclude the inclusion of one or more further integers.

                                                  6
CLAIMS
1.       A device for cleaning a swimming pool, the device comprising;
         a base member, the base member having a first base portion and a second base
portion;
         a socket disposed on the base member;
         the first base portion the and second base portion each respectively having a hinge
end and a distal end;
         the second base portion hinge end is attached to the first base portion hinge end
forming a hinge of the base member;
         a microfibre cloth removably mountable to the base member;
         wherein the second base portion is configured to move between a first position and
a second position, in which the first position is an operating position and the second
position is a cloth removal position; and
         the distal end of the first base portion and the distal end of second base portion are
curved upwardly relative to a contact surface of the base member, and the first base portion
comprises an array of apertures between the first base portion distal end and the hinge.
2.       The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the hinge ends are offset relative to the
socket.
3.        The device as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the microfibre cloth can be
releasably secured to the base member via a tab passing between the socket and the base.
4.        The device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the tab further
comprises at least one of; a buckle and hook and loop fasteners.
5.        The device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the second base
 portion is restricted to rotating from the first position to the second position in a direction
toward the contact surface of the base member.
 7.       The device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one
 distal end curved upwardly fits the contours of a swimming pool.
 8.       The device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the base
 comprises a locking means to retain the base in the first position.
 9.       The device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the microfibre
 cloth comprises a plurality of microfibre tufts.
 10.      The device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the microfibre
 cloth comprises a pocket adapted to receive a distal end of the base member.
 11.      The device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein a handle is
 disposed on the second base portion to actuate the hinge.

                                              7
12.     The device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the socket is
adapted to receive a pole.
13.     The device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the socket is
pivotally attached to the base member pole.
14.     The device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the socket is
attached to the first base portion.

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
          62
               60
                            20
     64
68
                     30
               40
     61

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
              42
                                40
         50
                                           2/5
Fig. 2
                   41

                            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
             42
                                  40
                  50
                       46
        46
                                                3/5
Fig.3
                       41

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
               60
                                  62
                                            65
           68
                                   69
                                       66
          66
64
                                   61
     60

<removed-date>
                                   5/5
                                                61
                   20
<removed-apn>
                                   69
                        60
                                                          40
                                                     30
                             42
              62                           68
                                  Fig. 5

