ABSTRACT
A mounting block system for securing items to corrugations of a corrugated surface; the
system comprising a sheet of cuttable material having a first planar sheet surface and a
second opposite corrugated sheet surface; corrugations of the second opposite corrugated
sheet surface corresponding to corrugations of the corrugated surface; said system including
providing the sheet of cuttable material on-site for subsequent apportioning on-site whereby a
portion of the sheet of cuttable material is cut to fit a specific on-site requirement.

       2/3
24   L      18
   20S
            26
               22
       Fig. 2

                                                       1
MOUNTING BLOCK STOCK AND SYSTEM FOR USE
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]        The present invention relates to built structures and, more particularly although not
exclusively, to structures of corrugated sheet metal.
BACKGROUND
[0002]        In recent times, architectural innovation has seen the use of corrugated iron sheeting
promoted from the farm shed to elegant structures for both commercial and domestic use. One
problem that presents itself in the use of corrugated sheeting for external and internal walls is that of
affixing fittings and other objects to the vertical or horizontally corrugated surfaces.
[0003]        A specific solution to the problem of attaching an electrical switch fitting was addressed
by AU1998077429 which disclosed a support device of an electrically insulating material,
comprising an adaptor block, one surface of which was contoured to fit against the corrugations of a
corrugated iron wall and the opposite surface planar. But these adaptor blocks were pre
manufactured items specifically configured to the dimensions and shape of the switch to be
mounted, and not adapted to any of the large variety of fittings and items which may require
mounting to the corrugated wall of a building.
[0004]        It is an object of the present invention to address or at least ameliorate some of the
above disadvantages.
Notes
[0005]        The term "comprising" (and grammatical variations thereof) is used in this specification
in the inclusive sense of "having" or "including", and not in the exclusive sense of "consisting only
of'.
[0006]        The above discussion of the prior art in the Background of the invention, is not an
admission that any information discussed therein is citable prior art or part of the common general
knowledge of persons skilled in the art in any country.
[0007]        Definition: in this specification the term "standard sheet of corrugated metal" refers to
standard sized sheets of corrugated metal adapted to use in built structures.

                                                     2
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0008]      Accordingly in one broad form of the invention there is provided a mounting block
system for securing items to corrugations of a corrugated surface; the system comprising a sheet of
cuttable material having a first planar sheet surface and a second opposite corrugated sheet surface;
corrugations of the second opposite corrugated sheet surface corresponding to corrugations of the
corrugated surface.
[0009]      Preferably, the corrugated surface is a corrugated wall surface.
[00010]     Preferably, the corrugated surface is a corrugated roof surface.
[00011]     Preferably, the corrugated surface is a standard corrugated metal surface.
[00012]     Preferably, the sheet of cuttable material is coextensive with at least a major portion of
the standard corrugated surface.
[00013]     Preferably, the standard corrugated metal surface is a surface of a standard sheet of
corrugated metal.
 [00014]    Preferably, a portion of the sheet of cuttable material is cut from the sheet; the portion
coextensive with a planar surface of an item to be secured to the corrugated metal surface.
 [00015]    Preferably, an outline of the item to be secured to the corrugated wall surface is
transcribed to the first planar surface of the sheet of cuttable material.
 [00016]    Preferably, the outline is positioned on the planar surface relative to the opposite
corrugated surface to conform to a predetermined position of the item relative the corrugations of
the corrugated wall surface.
 [00017]    Preferably, thickness of the sheet of cuttable material between the first planar surface
 and troughs of the second opposite corrugated surface is in the range of 3 to 10mm.

                                                     3
[00018]     Preferably, the cuttable material is a composite material.
[00019]     Preferably, the cuttable material is a homogenous material.
[00020]     In a further broad form of the invention there is provided a method of preparing a
mounting block from a sheet of cuttable material; the sheet of cuttable material having a first planar
surface and a corrugated opposite surface; the corrugated opposite surface conforming to surface
corrugations of a corrugated mounting surface; the mounting block adapted for securing an item
having a rearward planar surface to the corrugated mounting surface; the method including the steps
of:
    -   determining and marking a preferred position of the item relative to corrugations of the
        corrugated surface,
    -   placing the item with its rearward planar surface on the first planar surface of a cuttable
        sheet of material so that the preferred position is aligned with corrugations of the corrugated
        opposite surface.
[00021]     Preferably, the outline of the item is traced onto the first planar surface of the cutting
sheet of material.
[00022]     Preferably, the traced outline is cut from the mounting block.
[00023]     Preferably, the corrugated surface is a corrugated wall surface.
[00024]     Preferably, the corrugated surface is a corrugated roof surface.
[00025]     Preferably, the corrugated surface is a standard corrugated metal surface.
[00026]     In a further broad form of the invention there is provided a method of preparing a
mounting block from a sheet of cuttable material; the sheet of cuttable material having a first planar
surface and a corrugated opposite surface; the corrugated opposite surface conforming to surface
corrugations of a corrugated mounting surface wherein the cuttable material is cut to a desired size
by a user thereby to form the mounting block for mounting an item thereon.

                                                      4
[00027]       Preferably, the item is applied to the planar surface of the mounting block.
[00028]       Preferably, the corrugated opposite surface of the mounting block is mounted onto the
corrugated mounting surface.
[00029]       Preferably, the corrugated mounting surface is a corrugated wall surface.
[00030]       Preferably, the corrugated mounting surface is a corrugated roof surface.
[00031]       Preferably, the corrugated mounting surface is a standard corrugated metal surface.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[00032]       Embodiments of the present invention will now be described with reference to the
accompanying drawings wherein:
[00033]       Figure 1 is a perspective view of a sheet of cuttable material for the provision of
mounting blocks;
[00034]       Figure 2 shows a method of determining the position and size of a mounting block to be
cut from the sheet of cuttable material;
[00035]       Figure 3 shows a light fitting mounted to the corrugated surface of a sheet of corrugated
metal by means of a mounting block cut from the sheet of cuttable material.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[00036]        Many items and fittings are attached to the walls of built structures, such as outside
light fittings, motions sensors, light switches, vent outlets and taps for example. Attaching the wide
variety of shapes of these items which typically have a planar mounting base, to the corrugations of
a structure built from corrugated metal sheeting presents a problem if the item is to be properly
supported and aesthetically acceptable.
 [00037]      In the present system, referring firstly to Figure 1, a sheet of cuttable material 10 is
provided having a first planar surface 12 and a second opposite corrugated surface 14.

                                                      5
[00038]       Corrugations 16 of the second opposite corrugated surface 14 corresponding to
corrugations of a standard corrugated metal surface, that is the corrugations of standard sheets of
corrugated metal used in the building industry.
[00039]       In the present system, the sheet of cuttable material 12 may be of similar or identical
size to the size of standard sheets of corrugated metal, but is at least coextensive with at least a
major portion of the standard sheet of corrugated metal. Thus the sheet of cuttable material may
provided for a considerable number of mounting blocks.
In use
Example 1
[00040]       In use, a portion of the sheet of cuttable material is cut from the sheet; the portion being
coextensive with a planar surface of an item to be secured to the corrugated metal surface. For
example, as shown in Figure 2, it is desired to provide a surface for the mounting of a fitting 18
surrounding a conduit 20 emerging from the wall 22 at a particular position relative the corrugations
24 of the wall sheeting. In this example, the location of the conduit 20 is fixed so that to provide for
a centralised mounting block 26, the block must be cut from the sheet of cuttable material
positioned relative the corrugations in that sheet to suit the position of the conduit.
[00041]       To this end a tradesperson would note the desired position of the fitting 18 and position
it on a section of the planar surface 12 of the cuttable sheet aligned to match the position of the
fitting relative the corrugations in the cuttable sheet with those of the wall. The outline of the fitting
is then traced and the mounting block 26 cut from the sheet.
[00042]       A mounting block 26 may customised by filleting or chamfering of its edges and
painted to match the wall to which it is to be attached. It may readily be affixed in position on the
corrugated metal of the wall by any conventional means, such as with self-tapping screws or a
suitable adhesive. The fitting, for example a light fitting 30 as shown in Figure 3, may then be
neatly mounted on the mounting block 26.
[00043]       It will be understood that by providing the cuttable sheets in substantially large sizes, up
to the size of a standard sheet of corrugated metal, mounting blocks can be prepared for almost any
conceivable item or fitting which may require attachment to a corrugated wall.

                                                      6
[00044]      The sheet of cuttable material may be moulded or extruded from a composite or
homogenoous material such as for example a plastic material, fibreglass material, composite
material e.g a composite timber or composite plastic material.
[00045]      Preferably, the thickness of the sheet of cuttable material, between the first planar
surface 12 and troughs of the second opposite corrugated surface 14 is in the range of 3 to 10mm.
Example 2
[00046]      In this example, a portion of the sheet of cuttable material is cut to a desired shape or
size by the user thereby to fonn a mounting block. The desired shape or size of the portion of the
sheet may correspond to the size of the mounting surface of an item. The item may be a clothes line
unit, air vent unit, light unit, plumbing or electrical unit. However, a person skilled in the art would
understand that the item is not limited to those outlined above and may be any item attachable onto
a surface.
[00047]      Once the cuttable material is cut to the desired shape and size, the user may attach the
item onto the planar surface of the mounting block. The user can then mount the mounting block
(with attached item) by aligning the corrugated surface of the mounting block to the corrugated
surface (e.g. corrugated wall surface or corrugated roof surface) and affixing it by way of nail,
adhesive or other attaching means.

                                                       7
 CLAIMS
 1.    A mounting block system for securing items to corrugations of a corrugated surface; the
 system comprising a sheet of cuttable material having a first planar sheet surface and a second
 opposite corrugated sheet surface; corrugations of the second opposite corrugated sheet surface
 corresponding to corrugations of the corrugated surface; said system including providing the sheet
 of cuttable material on-site for subsequent apportioning on-site whereby a portion of the sheet of
 cuttable material is cut to fit a specific on-site requirement.
 2.    The system of claim 1 wherein the corrugated surface is a corrugated wall surface.
 3.    The system of claim 1 wherein the corrugated surface is a corrugated roof surface.
 4.    The system of any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the corrugated surface is a standard
 corrugated metal surface.
 5.    The system of any previous claim wherein the sheet of cuttable material is coextensive with at
least a major portion of the standard corrugated surface.
 6.    The system of claim 5 wherein the standard corrugated metal surface is a surface of a standard
sheet of corrugated metal.
7.     The system of claim 6 wherein a portion of the sheet of cuttable material is cut from the sheet;
the portion coextensive with a planar surface of an item to be secured to the corrugated metal
surface.
8.     The system of claim 7 wherein an outline of the item to be secured to the corrugated wall
surface is transcribed to the first planar surface of the sheet of cuttable material.
9.     The system of claim 8 wherein the outline is positioned on the planar surface relative to the
opposite corrugated surface to conform to a predetermined position of the item relative the
corrugations of the corrugated wall surface.
 10.   The system of any previous claim wherein thickness of the sheet of cuttable material between
the first planar surface and troughs of the second opposite corrugated surface is in the range of 3 to

                                                      8
 10mm.
 11.   The system of any one of claims 1 to 10 wherein the cuttable material is a composite material.
 12.   The system of any one of claims 1 to 10 wherein the cuttable material is a homogenous
material.
 13.   A method of preparing a mounting block from a sheet of cuttable material; the sheet of
cuttable material having a first planar surface and a corrugated opposite surface; the corrugated
opposite surface conforming to surface corrugations of a corrugated mounting surface; the
mounting block adapted for securing an item having a rearward planar surface to the corrugated
mounting surface; the method including the steps of:
     -   transporting the sheet of cuttable material to site
     -   determining and marking on-site a preferred position of the item relative to corrugations of
         the corrugated surface,
     -   placing the item on-site with its rearward planar surface on the first planar surface of a
         cuttable sheet of material so that the preferred position is aligned with corrugations of the
         corrugated opposite surface.
14.    The method of claim 13 wherein the outline of the item is traced onto the first planar surface
of the cutting sheet of material.
15.    The method of claim 14 wherein the traced outline is cut from the mounting block.
16.    The method of any one of claims 13 to 15 wherein the corrugated surface is a corrugated wall
surface.
17.    The method of any one of claims 13 to 15 wherein the corrugated surface is a corrugated roof
surface.
18.    The method of any one of claims 13 to 17 wherein the corrugated surface is a standard
corrugated metal surface.

                                                     9
19.   A method of preparing a mounting block from a sheet of cuttable material; the sheet of
cuttable material having a first planar surface and a corrugated opposite surface; the corrugated
opposite surface conforming to surface corrugations of a corrugated mounting surface wherein the
cuttable material is cut to a desired size on-site by a user thereby to form the mounting block for
mounting an item thereon.
20.   The method of claim 19 wherein the item is applied to the planar surface of the mounting
block.
21.   The method of claim 20 wherein the corrugated opposite surface of the mounting block is
mounted onto the corrugated mounting surface.
22.   The method of any one of claim 19 to 21 wherein the corrugated mounting surface is a
corrugated wall surface.
23.   The method of any one of claims 19 to 21 wherein the corrugated mounting surface is a
corrugated roof surface.
24.   The method of any one of claims 19 to 23 wherein the corrugated mounting surface is a
standard corrugated metal surface.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
