                         A B S T R A C T
   A METHOD OF VERIFYING DATA IN A DATABASE RELATING TO
   PEOPLE
 5
        The invention provides a method of automatically
   verifying certain items in a database relating to a set
   of people, and including for each person a plurality of
   data items such as age,  firstname, gender, a portrait,
10 fingerprint images, or other biometric data items, the
   method incorporating:
         - determining for each person a plurality of
   correlations associating certain data items of that
   person with one another;
15       - for each data item being verified, calculating a
   confidence score depending at least on a first
   correlation of the data item being verified with a first
   other data item for the same person and on a second
   correlation of the data item being verified with a second
20 other data item for the same person;  and
         - a step of comparing the score with a threshold
   value in order to determine whether the data item being
   verified is or is not valid.
25

                                           1/3
0.60
0 .5 5 --------            - -                         - -- ----      - ---------     -.-.--
                                  A    A
0.45
0 .3 5 ---- - --        -      .. -.           A~
                                         .....-------. ...      -- - - --.. .-- -.-.-- - - .----
                                                                                                   00
0 .2 50 -- -     -- - - -       - - - -.......-- - --........... .- ---------- - - --.... - - - - - - -
                                                                                                           -.O=
0.20
       0         10        20         30        40           50        60         70          80
                                            FIG. 1
    0.60
                                                                           A         0
    0 .50   -.....-    ..-----..    -                                     -.----    -- --... .. . -....
                          A
    0.45      -.. ...--- -             --      .........----..                     --.--- -- -- --
                                          2 0      0            0        0
    0.40      -                   -       .-    -     2
                                                     -.-.-.-.--            .--. -.-
    0 .35                 -.-. -.          ----..   -....       ------      -  --.... . . .. . . - ..--..-
    0.30             --.-..         -.-..-.-.-                       ----.--   --..-.
    0 .25          -. ------.. . . ...... .... ---.-------.-.----- ---- .------- .-.-- .
    0.:.0
          0         10        20        30        40          50        60        70         80
                                            FIG. 2.

                                 1
   METHOD FOR CHECKING THE DATA OF A DATABASE RELATING TO
   PERSONS
        The invention relates to verifying the content of a
   database storing data relating to people, such as
 5 firstname, age, date of birth, sex, portrait,
   fingerprints, and/or other biometric data, for the
   purpose of identifying inputting errors and/or attempts
   at fraud in the data stored in the database.
10 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
        To this end, the invention provides a method of
   automatically verifying certain items  in a database
   relating to a set of people, and including for each
   person a plurality of data items  such as age, firstname,
15 gender, the method incorporating:
         - determining for each person a plurality of
   correlations associating certain data items of that
   person with one another;
         - for each data item being verified, calculating a
20 confidence score depending at least on a first
   correlation of the data item being verified with a first
   other data item for the same person and on a second
   correlation of the data item being verified with a second
   other data item for the same person;  and
25       - a step of comparing the score with a threshold
   value in order to determine whether the data item being
   verified is or is not valid.
        The invention also provides a method as defined
   above, wherein the data stored for each person includes
30 firstly gender together with date of birth, and secondly
   a portrait and a fingerprint, and wherein the method
   establishes, for each person, correlations between gender
   and age with the portrait and with the fingerprint.
        The invention also provides a method as defined
35 above, wherein the data stored for each person includes
   firstname, and wherein the method establishes, for each
   person, a correlation corresponding to statistics

                                 2
   obtained from national data and representing the
   frequency of that person's firstname for that person's
   year of birth.
        The invention also provides a method as defined
 5 above, enabling a correlation value to be obtained
   corresponding to statistics derived from national data
   representing the frequency of the firstname of the person
   under consideration for that person's year of birth and
   gender.
10
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
         - Figure 1 is a graph with a cloud of points
   representing a population of men represented by triangles
   and women represented by circles, with age  in years being
15 plotted along the abscissa axis and with the breadth of
   fingerprint ridges in millimeters being plotted up the
   ordinate axis for each individual;
         - Figure 2 is the graph of Figure 1 showing a middle
   region and a bottom region that constitute respectively a
20 zone of confidence and a zone of  suspicion for the male
   gender;
         - Figure 3 is the graph of Figure 1 showing a top
   region and a middle region that constitute respectively a
   zone of suspicion and a zone of confidence for the female
25 gender;
         - Figure 4 is the graph of Figure 1 showing a middle
   region that constitutes a zone of confidence for age,
   together with a top zone and a bottom zone that
   constitute zones of suspicion for age;  and
30       - Figure 5 is a graph showing the yearly frequency
   of the firstname Jacob for boys born in the United
   States, with year of birth plotted along the abscissa
   axis and with frequency per thousand individuals plotted
   up the ordinate axis.
35
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
        The idea on which the invention is based is to

                                     3
   determine for each person a plurality of correlations,
   each associating certain items of data about that person,
   and to combine these correlations in order to identify
   individually and directly each data item that appears to
 5 be inconsistent, instead of doing no more than
   identifying each person for whom the data appears to be
   inconsistent.
        This is done by evaluating for each data item being
   verified   (firstname, date of birth, or gender) its
10 consistency with at least two other distinct data items
   relating to the same person.        The confidence score for a
   data item is thus determined by performing a calculation
   that combines the correlation value for that data item
   with a first other data item, and the correlation value
15 of that data item with a second other data item.
        The score for each data item being verified is then
   compared with a threshold value in order to determine
   whether the verified item should be considered as being
   valid or as being doubtful,      in order to generate an alert
20 message in the event of an item being doubtful.
         In the example below, the invention is used to
   verify the sex, the age, and the firstname of a set of
   people or individuals stored in a database together with
   additional data including in particular a fingerprint and
25 a portrait for each of the people.
         Specifically, there exists a correlation between the
   breadth of the ridges in an individual's fingerprint and
   that individual's sex, and there exists another
   correlation between the breadth of those ridges and the
30 age of the individual in question.         This is described in
   detail in the article entitled "Epidermal ridge breadth,
   an indicator of age and sex in paleodermatoglyphics" by
   Miroslav Kralik and Vladimir Novotny, which article is
   available at the following address:
35    http://www.staff.amu.edu.pl/-anthro/pdf/ve/vololl/olkralik.pdf
         In analogous manner, there is a correlation
   associating the portrait of an individual and that

                                     4
   individual's sex, and another correlation associating the
   portrait of that individual with age.         This is described
   in detail in particular in the article entitled
   "Estimating age, gender, and identity using firstname
 5 priors" by Andrew Gallagher and Tsuhan Chen, accessible
   from the following address:
     http://chenlab.ece.cornell.edu/people/Andy/projectpagenames.html
         As shown in Figure 1, the breadth of fingerprint
   ridges in a population is generally speaking greater for
10 men than for women, and it also increases with an
   individual's age in that population.
         It is thus possible in this graph to define a middle
   region that corresponds to a zone of confidence for the
   male gender, and a bottom region that corresponds to a
15 zone of suspicion for the male gender.
         As shown in Figure 2, the zone of confidence for the
   male gender corresponds to a strip covering most men
   (represented by triangles),      and the zone of suspicion for
   the male gender is a region situated under the male
20 gender zone of confidence and that includes practically
   no male individuals.
         The zone of confidence for the male gender is
   identified in Figure 2 by the male symbol in a ring, and
   it may be specified by defining firstly a mean curve for
25 values for the male gender, corresponding to the high
   curve in Figure 1, and by defining on either side of the
   mean curve two envelope      curves serving to contain e.g.
   95%  of the male population.
         In analogous manner, the zone of       suspicion for the
30 male gender, as identified in Figure 2 by the male symbol
   crossed out, can be determined by defining an upper bound
   curve situated under the mean curve for the male gender,
   but above only 2% of the male individuals.          The zone of
   suspicion for the male gender is then constituted by any
35 region situated under the curve as defined in this way.
         It is thus possible to determine a correlation,
   written Cge, between the gender of a person recorded in

                                5
   the database as being a man and that person's
   fingerprint: one possibility consists in determining
   whether the point defined by that person's age and by the
   ridge breadth of that person's fingerprint is situated in
 5 the zone of confidence for the male gender, or on the
   contrary in the zone of suspicion.
        A value of 1 may then be given to Cge  if the point
   lies within the zone of confidence for the male gender,
   and a value of 0 may be given to the correlation if the
10 point lies in the zone of suspicion.  An intermediate
   value, e.g. 0.5, may be given if the point  is situated
   outside the zone of confidence and outside the zone of
   suspicion.
        Another solution may consist in calculating the
15 distance between the point defined by age and fingerprint
   ridge breadth from the mean curve for the male gender
   (high curve in Figure 1), and to give Cge a value lying
   in the range 0 to 1 that increases with decreasing value
   for this distance.
20      It is possible in analogous manner to define a zone
   of confidence and a zone of suspicion for the female
   gender.
        As shown diagrammatically in Figure 3,  the zone of
   confidence for the female gender, which is identified by
25 a female symbol in a ring, is a strip situated in a
   middle position of the graph, and that surrounds the mean
   curve for women, i.e. the low curve in Figure 1,  so as to
   cover a large proportion, such as 95% of female
   individuals.
30      The zone of suspicion for the female gender,
   identified by the female symbol crossed out,  is a top
   region situated above the zone of confidence, so as to
   cover a very small proportion of female individuals, such
   as 2%, for example.
35      As for the male gender, it is possible to give Cge a
   value of 1 for all of the individuals stated to be female
   that come within the zone of confidence for the female

                                 6
   gender, and the value  0 for individuals recorded as being
   women but lying in the zone of suspicion for the female
   gender.   An intermediate value, e.g. 0.5, is given to Cge
   if the point  lies outside the zone of confidence and
 5 outside the zone of suspicion.
        Once more, another possibility may consist in
   determining for a given individual recorded as a woman
   the distance between the point corresponding to that
   woman's age and fingerprint ridge breadth, and the mean
10 curve for women, which is the low curve in Figure 1.     The
   value in the range 0 to 1 that is given to Cge then
   increases with decreasing value for the distance   in
   question.
        As mentioned above, there is also a correlation,
15 written Cae, between the fingerprint ridge breadth and
   the age of the individuals under consideration.    This
   correlation makes  it possible to define on the graph of
   Figure 1 a zone of confidence together with two zones of
   suspicion concerning age.
20      The zone of confidence for age, identified by the
   letter A  in a ring in Figure 4, is a middle strip
   covering the majority of individuals   (men and women) in
   the population under consideration.   This middle strip
   may be defined by calculating initially the mean curve
25 for all of the individuals, which corresponds to the mean
   between the high and low curves in Figure 1, and then by
   determining two envelope curves situated above and below
   the mean curve in order to cover e.g. 95%   of the
   individuals.
30      The two zones of suspicion relating to age,
   identified by the letter A crossed out   in Figure 4,
   correspond to two regions situated respectively above and
   below the middle zone of confidence for age,   these two
   zones of suspicion covering a very small proportion of
35 the individuals in the population, e.g. corresponding to
   2% of the population.

                                7
        Determining the value for the correlation Cae
   between age and fingerprint for a given individual can
   likewise be performed by determining whether the point
   corresponding to the individual in question lies in the
 5 zone of confidence or in a zone of suspicion for age,   in
   order to give Cae the value 1 or the value  0.  Another
   solution likewise consists in determining the distance
   between the point representing the individual under
   consideration from the mean curve for all of the
10 individuals, so as to give the correlation Cae a value
   lying in the range 0 to 1, which value increases with
   decreasing value for the distance.
        It can thus be understood that the graph of
   Figures 1 to 4, showing data that results for example
15 from taking statistics on a given population sample makes
   it possible, for each of the people recorded in the
   database, to determine a correlation Cge between that
   person's gender and fingerprint, and a correlation Cae
   between that person's age and fingerprint.
20      The portrait of each person recorded in the database
   serves to establish two other correlations relating to
   that person's age and gender.
        A correlation between age and portrait, written Cap,
   may be established by initially providing a system with a
25 series of portraits each associated with a real age.
   Thereafter, when the system is provided with an unknown
   portrait, it compares it with the series of portraits
   that it has available and that constitutes its reference
   database for determining the portraits that are most
30 alike, possibly by calculating a degree of resemblance.
   Age is then determined by calculating an average,
   weighted by degrees of resemblance, for the ages of
   portraits that look alike.  A  correlation written Cgp
   between gender and portrait is established in analogous
35 manner.

                                8
        In addition, external statistics may be used for
   establishing one or more additional correlations for each
   person stored in the database.
        In particular, there usually exist national
 5 statistics that make it possible to determine the
   proportion of births of a given gender that are
   represented by a given firstname, year by year.
        Such statistics make it possible to draw up a graph
   such as the graph of Figure 5, which gives the proportion
10 of boy births represented by the firstname Jacob born in
   the United States since 1830, year by year.
        This graph makes it possible to establish a
   correlation, written Cpa, relating the firstname and the
   age of a given individual.  The value of the correlation
15 in question may be determined by considering that it is
   small, and for example is equal to 0, if the proportion
   of births for the firstname under consideration and for
   the year of birth under consideration is less than a
   threshold value, which threshold value may for example be
20 one or two per thousand births.
        Under such circumstances, the correlation Cpa for
   firstname with age is low for a person having the
   firstname Jacob and born in 1956 in the United States,
   which means that there might be an input error, e.g.
25 concerning that person's date of birth, insofar as the
   firstname in question, namely Jacob, for boys born in
   1976 in the United States represents more than one or two
   boy births per thousand.
        Another way of determining the correlation value Cpa
30 may consist in calculating a numerical value that
   decreases with decreasing frequency of the firstname in
   question for the year under consideration.
        In analogous manner, and as will readily be
   understood, these statistics about firstnames also make
35 it possible to determine a correlation value between
   firstname and gender, written Cpg, given that these

                                  9
   statistics are generally available for boys and for girls
   for each year of birth.
         Finally, for each person appearing in the database,
   the following six correlations are established:    Cap =
 5 age-portrait;  Cae = age-fingerprint;  Cgp =
   gender-portrait;  Cge = gender-fingerprint;  Cpa =
   firstname-age;  Cpg = firstname-gender, with all of these
   correlations having values lying in the range 0 to 1.
         These correlations are then combined to determine
10 for each person a score relating to their gender, a score
   relating to their age, and a score relating to their
   firstname.
         The correlations may be combined directly to define
   each score, on the basis of which it is then possible to
15 define for each score a confidence threshold and a
   suspicion threshold.   The data is then considered as
   being valid if its score is greater than the confidence
   threshold, and doubtful   if its score is less than the
   suspicion threshold, which then leads to an alert being
20 established.   It is possible to decide that data having a
   score lying between those two thresholds is either
   doubtful or valid.
         A score associated with a particular data item may
   merely by the sum of the correlations involving that data
25 item, possibly divided by the number of correlations that
   have been added together in order to ensure that the
   result has a value that necessarily lies in the range 0
   to 1.   The suspicion threshold and the confidence
   threshold may be determined empirically.
30       Another possibility may consist in calculating the
   scores for each of the data items after converting
   correlation value  into a  "suspicion" value that may be
   equal either to 0, or to 1, or to 2, depending on whether
   the correlation in question has a score that is
35 respectively greater than a confidence threshold, lying
   between a confidence threshold and a suspicion threshold,
   or is less than the suspicion threshold.

                                  10
        This solution makes it possible to define thresholds
   not relative to the scores that themselves result from
   combining a plurality of correlations, but directly
   relative to the correlations for which performance and/or
 5 reliability levels are generally known, thus necessarily
   making it easier to determine the threshold.
        Under such circumstances, the score given to the age
   item may then be:
                     1 -   (Sap + Saf + Sna)/3
10 the score given to the gender item then being equal to:
                   1 -   (SSgp + SSgf + SSng)/3
   and the score given to the firstname item is equal to:
                       1 -   (SSng + Ssna)/2
        It is possible to decide to issue an alert for each
15 data item having a score that is negative, and to
   consider that an item is valid if its score is equal to
   1.  It is possible to consider that data items having a
   score lying in the range 0 to 1 are either doubtful, or
   valid, or indeed that they could give rise to an alert of
20 lesser importance.
        As can be understood, the invention is performed in
   a computer system having processor, memory, etc.     type
   means for running a computer program in order to process
   the content of a database.     The program then analyses  the
25 content of the database    that is submitted to the program
   in order to process the database and return a list of
   data items that appear doubtful.     Once the correlation
   statistics have been established on a representative
   sample, the invention also makes    it possible to evaluate
30 in real time the confidence to be given to identity data
   being input manually.
        Furthermore, concerning the age of individuals in a
   database, this is generally determined on the basis of a
   date of birth stored for each individual.
35 Advantageously, the database    includes the date of
   acquisition of a portrait and/or of the fingerprint of
   each person, and the age that is taken into account is

                                        11
   then the age of the person at the acquisition date of the
   portrait and/or the fingerprint.
         In     this    specification,          the       terms         "comprise",
   "comprises",      "comprising"     or   similar        terms       are    intended
 5 to  mean   a   non-exclusive     inclusion,         such      that     a    system,
   method   or    apparatus   that     comprises        a    list      of    elements
   does   not    include   those    elements        solely,         but     may    well
   include other elements not listed.
         The reference     to any prior art           in this        specification
10 is not, and should not be taken as,                an acknowledgement or
   any  form of     suggestion   that     the   prior       art     forms     part   of
   the common general knowledge.
         This    application    is    a   divisional          application          from
   Australian     Application    2013258296.           The      full     disclosure
15 of AU 2013258296is incorporated herein by reference.
20

                                       12
 5      CLAIMS
        1. A method of automatically verifying certain items in a
        database relating to a set of people, and including for each
       person a plurality of data items such as age, firstname,
        gender, a portrait, fingerprints, or other biometric data
10      items, the method incorporating for each person:
             - determining a plurality of correlations associating
        certain data items of that person with one another;
             - for each data item being verified, calculating a
        confidence score depending at least on a first correlation
15      of the data item being verified with a first other data item
        for the person and on a second correlation of the data item
       being verified with a second other data item for the person,
            wherein a value of the first correlation is determined
        dependent on a distance of a point defined by the data item
20     being verified and the first other data item for the person
       with respect to a mean curve defined based on the data item
       being verified and the first other data item for the set of
       people, and a value of the second correlation is determined
        dependent on a distance of the point defined by the data
25      item being verified and the second other data item for the
       person with respect to the mean curve defined based on the
        data item being verified and the second other data item for
        the set of people;
             - and a step of comparing the score with a threshold
30     value in order to determine whether the data item being
       verified is or is not valid.
        2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the data stored
        for each person includes firstly gender together with date
35      of birth, and secondly a portrait and a fingerprint, and
       wherein the method establishes, for each person,
        correlations between gender and age with the portrait and
       with the fingerprint.
40      3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the data stored
        for each person includes first name, and wherein the method
        established, for each person, a correlation corresponding to
        statistics obtained from national data and representing the
        frequency of that person's first name for that person's year
45      of birth.
   3722521v4

                                    13
        4. The method according to claim 3, enabling a correlation
        value to be obtained corresponding to statistics derived
        from national data representing the frequency of the first
so      name of the person under consideration for that person's
        year of birth and gender
   3722521v4

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
