                           A SYSTEM OF BATTERY ASSEMBLIES
                                                ABSTRACT
         There is provided a system comprising a plurality of battery assemblies. Each battery
assembly comprises power storage that can be charged and control electronics and
communication means. Each battery assembly is configured to act as a local hub for local DC
power demand monitoring; and a local DC power supply for DC loads. A method is provided for
installing the system by co-locating a battery assembly near an energy meter and consumer unit
and connecting the battery assembly to re-use existing lighting circuit wiring. A battery assembly
for use in a distributed battery system of further battery assemblies is also provided. The battery
system can receive electrical power from a power source and comprises electrical power storage,
power electronics, control electronics and communication means. The control and
communication means is configured to receive data and charge the electrical power storage. A
method for installing the battery assembly is also provided.

                                                  1
                            A SYSTEM OF BATTERY ASSEMBLIES
This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2013353807, a
National Phase Entry of International Patent Application No. PCT/GB2013/000527, filed on 4
December 2013. International Patent Application No. PCT/GB2013/000527 claims priority
from British Patent Application No. 1221819.4, filed 4 December 2012. Australian Patent
Application No. 2013353807 is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
The present invention relates generally to distributed smart battery systems co-located with end
user demand, to provide optimized local electricity supply and demand management services for
network participants, and specifically for a smart battery management system and assembly
comprising electrical storage, smart control and local DC (Direct current) supply to local DC
lighting and DC electronics demand, charging intelligently from grid resources, on demand or
leveraging local renewable DC supplies. And where networks of said distributed systems provide
in aggregate a large battery resource capable of supporting grid storage services or providing
smart demand management services for network or local network needs.
Various prior technologies have been deployed centrally or in bulk, for grid management and
balancing, such as long established pumped hydro - storing excess energy, peak shaving or use
on demand, and various technologies are emerging from electrochemical storage to air pressure
or thermal differential storage systems. However, few edge of network, battery or chemical
storage technologies and approaches have been deployed for balancing grid requirements, other
than heat storage systems for consumer heating demands. A major limiting factor is the costs and
life-cycle limits on electrochemical storage, the lack of overall smart systems to manage their
aggregated deployment, the lack of optimal reasons for locating such storage in customer
premises, and lack of suitably designed or low cost apparatus, devices and approaches for
deploying such systems.
In an earlier patent application by MOIXA inventors, e.g. US20100076615, various innovations
on power electronics, energy use data, DC-DC micro-grids and integrating micro-renewables and
smart variable DC sockets were disclosed, which this application builds open in more detail in
relation to smart battery systems, detailed assemblies and systems used in aggregate for network
services.
A critical problem and opportunity, is therefore in distributed battery system innovations, such as
integration and design of suitable apparatus capable of mass market deployment, suitable
methods and approaches for leveraging local battery storage for optimal charge and discharge
algorithms for daily power needs, optimal electronics and power delivery mechanisms that

                                                   la
facilitate efficient electrical power delivery, smart control and data support for local electricity
demand side monitoring, suitable control to optimize use, commercial deployment and
partnership approaches, and systems and services to provide such resources and facilitate
aggregate demand side management and grid balancing opportunities.

   According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a system comprising a plurality
   of battery assemblies, wherein each battery assembly: comprises power storage and control
   electronics and communication means; and, is configured to: act as: a local hub for local DC power
   demand monitoring; and, a local DC power supply for DC loads; charge the power storage; wherein
 5 the plurality of battery assemblies are configured to be managed as a collective resource in
   aggregate via the said communication means.
   The system may be configured such that the plurality of battery assemblies is a network of battery
   assemblies providing an aggregate battery or as clusters capable of supporting grid storage services
   or providing demand management services.
10 The system may be configured such that the control means comprises an algorithm for charging
   and/or DC power demand management.
   The system may be configured such that at least one battery assembly is capable of receiving a
   demand management signal or demand request.
   The system may be configured to receive the demand management signal from a smart meter,
15 where said smart meter is connected remotely to a third party service.
   The system may be configured to schedule the charging of the batteries assemblies in accordance
   with a demand from local end users.
   The system may be configured to schedule the charging of the battery assemblies based on power
   usage measurements.
20 The system may be configured such that the charging is further scheduled dependent upon the
   availabilty of power generation resources.
   The system may be configured such that the charging is further scheduled dependent upon the
   export of power from power generation resources.
   The system may be configured such that the said power generation resources comprise any of:
25 I)       photovoltaic resources;
   II)      wind generation
   lil)    fuel cells;
                                                       2

   IV)      combined heat power electrical generation;
   V)       building fabric technology capable of generating DC power
   VI)      DC scavenging technologies.
   The system may be configured such that the power storage charging and supply of DC power is
 5 scheduled based on a demand from a third party service.
   The system may be configured to only supply power to a subset of connected DC loads.
   The system may be configured to:
   1)       determine the profile and type of end device power usage; and,
   11)      manage the said end device.
10 The system may be configured such that determining the profile and type of end power usage
   comprises using USB power delivery via a DC socket.
   The system may be configured such that managing the said end device comprises any of:
   1)       report maximum and minimum power load, or
   II)      switch off or put the end device into standby when not used, or
15 111)     defer the charging of a battery on said end device.
   The system may be configured to detect a cluster of end power use and correlate power supply
   activities across associated power sockets.
   The system may be configured to:
   1)       be connected to a series of DC sockets;
20 11)      receive power usage data from the series of DC sockets
   111)     determine when an end device and a connected peripheral device are in use;
   IV)      switch off the DC power or switch to standby the peripheral device when the end device is
   not in use
                                                       3

   The system may be configured to supply DC power to any one or more of:
   1)       a DC socket;
   II)      a lighting circuit;
    l11)    a micro-inverter AC resource.
 5 The system may be configured to control the power export of a connected Photovoltaic resource.
   The system may be configured such that the battery assemblies collectively form a shared DC bus or
   spine to power multiple DC ciruits.
   According to a second aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of installing a
   system as described in the first aspect of the invention, in any of the configurations described above,
10 the method comprising the steps of: co-locating a battery assembly near an energy meter and
   consumer unit; connecting the battery assembly to re-use existing lighting circuit wiring.
   The method may further comprise the step of disconnecting an existing sub circuit.
   The method may further comprise the step of connecting an additional sub circuit to the said battery
   assembly.
15 The method may further comprise the step of connecting a DC socket to the said battery assembly.
   The method may further comprise the step of connecting the said battery assembly to a local DC
   power supply.
   According to a third aspect of the present invention there is provided a battery assembly configured:
   for use in a distributed battery system comprising a plurality of further battery assemblies; and, to
20 receive electrical power from a power source; the battery assembly comprising: electrical power
   storage to store power from the power source; power electronics for delivering electrical DC power
   to a sub circuit; control electronics and communication means configured to: receive data associated
   with: energy usage and/or, a management signal from a remote third party; and, charge the
   electrical power storage and/or optimise DC power delivery, based on the said received data.
25 The battery assembly may be configured to receive a demand management signal or demand
   request from a smart meter, where said smart meter is connected remotely to a third party service.
                                                       4

   The battery assembly may be configured such that the communication means is configured to
   connect to a third party service.
   The battery assembly may comprise an expansion interface board for receiving sensor data.
   The battery assembly may be configured such that the communication means and control
 5 electronics are configured to manage local thermal and heating sources.
   The battery assembly may be configured such that the storage and control electronics are separable
   into front and rear frame units respecively.
   The battery assembly may be configured to be modular in nature to allow any of:
   adaption or extension with additional communication or control boards, or
10 increasing the capacity of a battery pack, or,
   replacing batteries; or,
   connecting alternate battery packs.
   According to a fourth aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of installing a
   battery assembly as described in the third aspect, in any of the configurations described above,
15 comprising the step of connecting existing lighting circuit wiring to the battery assembly.
   According to a fifth aspect of the present invention there is provided an electrical power socket for
   providing DC power, the socket comprising: power circuitry for receiving DC power from a supply
   circuit; and, means for recognising power delivery requirements; wherein said power circuitry is
   configured to performn DC-DC power conversion in accordance with the recognised power
20 requirement.
   The electrical power socket may be configured such that the socket is configured to support USB
   power delivery.
   A general object of the preferred embodiments is to provide a smart battery system assembly, for
   installation in customer premises, such as by a consumer unit or smart meter, to directly power
25 various DC circuits in the building for lighting and DC appliance or computing loads, where said smart
   battery assembly, typically comprises of; electrical power storage via electrochemical battery or
   other means; smart control electronics and connectivity; power electronics for integrating local
                                                        5

   power supplies, such as AC mains, local generation e.g. petrol or diesel fuel based, or local DC
   supplies, typically being some of solar PV supplies, fuel-cells or CHP (Combined Heat Power)
   electrical generation or energy scavenging and building fabric technology capable of generating DC
   power; power electronics for providing suitable voltages onto a DC bus and connected DC circuits
 5 and sub-circuits; mechanical frames and assemblies suitable to enable attachment to walls and
   mounting of a variety of different types and sizes of battery unit; local displays and control panels
   such as LED units and displays; local switchgear or fuse mechanisms;
   In a preferred embodiment said assembly provides storage co-located with the meter, or meter
   attached storage (MAS), and said connectivity is capable of receiving a demand management signal
10 or demand request from a smart meter, where said smart meter is itself connected remotely to third
   party services. In an alternate preferred embodiment said assembly supports its own
   communication means, such as a 3GSM card and mobile connectivity, to enable some of remote
   management, status 'pulse' or health check data, basic data exchange, receiving a demand
   management signal, acknowledging and responding to a demand management signal, software
15 maintenance and software upgrades, mechanical and systems maintenance such as reporting end of
   life or degradation of battery performance. In a preferred embodiment a local wired connection
   such as an RS232 port or Ethernet could be used to connect to local smart hubs, routers, wireless
   hubs or custom supplier interfaces, which themselves provide connection and services triggered
   remotely. In a preferred embodiment said apparatus could support local wireless communication
20 over wi-fi or zigbee, to receive status, alerts, or energy use data from appliances, switches or third
   party installed devices, or provide smart control triggers or demand reduction, or simply to help
   automate and allow scheduled or real-time user control and energy displays and feedback on
   consumer devices such as web pages, smartphones or digital televisions or other household energy
   displays. In preferred embodiments local clamps could be connected to smart meters, circuits, or
25 export meters from renewable generation, to measure usage and determine when circuits are in use
   or energy is in surplus and exported back to the grid.
   In a preferred embodiment said connectivity enables the smart control to receive data and track
   detailed DC usage at the system level, at the light-circuit level e.g. via local smart control units
   connected in the light circuit, or DC usage at the smart DC socket level, and to optionally track end
30 appliance details via enumeration and other reporting means, to enable smart decision logic in
   charging the battery resources based on such actual usage measurements. Similarly said data could
   be used to optimize the overall power delivery, or for safety and limiting appliance use above certain
   ranges or detecting anomalies. In a preferred embodiment said smart battery assembly can support
                                                         6

   an expansion Interface board for more advanced monitoring of other electrical appliances and
   sensor data such as C02, temperature, gas and water meter usage, sensors across building.
   In a preferred embodiment said connectivity and smart control could be used to manage local
   thermal and heating resources, such as heat storage, or directly manage and shift demand in smart
 5 appliances, or on retrofit apparatus devices attached to appliances to make them accessible for
   smart management.
   Taken together said smart control could be used to manage both the optimal storage of electrical
   power in the battery, to specific tariff plans that optimize or minimize certain parameters, such as
   minimizing peak period energy consumption by pre-charging to provide power to DC loads during
10 peak period, or used to shift high load device running on the AC ring mains, such as white goods or
   appliances to off peak times. Similarly charging and device running could be scheduled or aligned
   based on export of local renewable sources, or moved on demand from third party services, such as
   at times of grid supply issue, or to take advantage of low carbon resources, or online renewable
   resources such as wind.
15 In a preferred embodiment, networks of such smart battery assemblies, could be installed in a local
   cluster on distribution network, or feeder, or substation network, and be managed as a collective
   resource in aggregate to provide local LV or network benefits. An example deployment could for
   example charge all batteries at an off-peak time, in accordance with expected demands by local end
   users for corresponding peak periods (typically an evening 5-10pm or 7-8pm period). An example
20 preferred deployment could couple this scheduled demand requirement with local distributed
   generation resources such as wind, to either charge at off peak time or on availability of such low
   carbon intensity power supply, or to maximize using such power generated off peak for powering
   peak load demand. At the edge level, such renewable resources could be on-site PV panels or other
   DC generation or scavenging technologies, and use a local DC-DC network rather than inverters thus
25 avoiding certain power conversion losses, though for some deployments it may be easier on wiring
   and installation or for regulatory means and access to tariffs to use inverted AC energy for metering
   purposes. When coupled with larger generators such as neighbourhood resources, waste to energy,
   PV arrays or wind, such a method allows end users to directly benefit from such resources, by using
   power at more appropriate times. In a similar way emergency generators or back-up generators
30 could be used to provide energy at specific times to power a network of batteries. At a large site
   such as apartment block, hotel, or leisure park or temporal military base, such a combination of local
   generators and distributed storage, allows maximizing local resources. Similarly said resources could
   be aggregated across different parts of a network.
                                                        7

   A further preferred object of the preferred embodiments is to allow more complicated twinning or
   coupling of larger distributed energy resources such as wind farms, whereby the network of
   potential storage is allocated preferentially to leverage wind supply, to overall allow a coupled
   demand in charging batteries to reduce the portion of time when wind might need to be curtailed,
 5 or to make it easier upfront to gain a connection onto the Low voltage distribution network, by such
   linkage and managed coupled demand. This has particular benefits on networks with a larger
   proportion of weather dependent or metrological generation sources, as reduces volatility and
   improves security of supply, by enabling greater time shifting of supply with evening or other day
   time demand.
10 It is a preferred object of the preferred embodiments that such an overall system can act to provide
   energy security and resilience in the event of power cuts or network failure, since the stored battery
   power could still be used on a local DC-DC network, as would be isolated from the grid, to enable
   continuity of essential LOW power DC circuits for lighting, electronics, media, audio-visual,
   communication, security. Hence such systems act as a MAS-LOW meeting key energy needs, from
15 meter attached storage powering low power electronics and lighting demands, and enabling security
   as well as grid-shift resources.
   In a major disaster, such as flooding (as occurred following hurricanes in US) or excess rain and
   storms in Europe, or in grid infrastructure failings in India, large numbers of deployed systems could
   both help avoid grid failure, by reducing peak demand systemically, as well as provide continuity of
20 service from stored energy, or continuously with suitably installed local renewable resources, or on
   emergency connection of local generation sources, such as fuel based generators. Similarly such
   systems could reduce demand by only enabling power to a subset of connected DC loads by smart
   control or priority releases.
   In a further preferred embodiment, said control systems and data connectivity, could determine the
25 profile and type of end device power usage, through measurement, historic monitoring, or through
   direct enumeration of end appliances using emergent standards such as USB Power Delivery, and
   also to manage suitable device and system level policies and preferences, such as the ability to
   report up maximum and minimum power load, ability to switch off or put devices into standby when
   not used, or to defer battery charging of end consumer or computing devices with inherent storage,
30 either through device, user, building, or system level policies and permissions, including how data
   and privacy is managed. Some smart control approaches could be inferred, e.g. detecting clusters of
   end power use and correlating activities across nearby power sockets. For example a series of DC
   sockets could report their usage, and enable a central system to notice when a laptop and
                                                         8

   connected peripherals are in use (e.g. monitors, printers, gadgets), and switch off the power or
   switch to standby those devices when the laptop or computer is not in use. Similarly said usage
   enables a central system to optimize other systems, such as thermostats and heating, or lighting use.
   In aggregate networks of smart battery systems, may aggregate overall DC demands and be able to
 5 manage building or network level demand requirements, by shifting when DC devices are charged
   where charging could be deferred, this together with the actual battery resources installed in the
   system, enables a larger aggregate storage network to be managed and provide demand shiftable
   inventory for network participants.
   It is a further object of the preferred embodiments that said smart battery systems are coupled with
10 DC-DC networks, typically by means of DIN rail mounting suitable connectors and switchgear - and
   where said circuits use lighting or other dedicated circuits in a property to power DC lighting units,
   which could be DC LEDs or DC CFLs or other DC light devices, or local micro-inverter AC resources
   where required (e.g. shaver socket) and provide smart DC sockets, capable of performing DC-DC
   power conversion in response to a smart plug. In a preferred embodiment said DC sockets is a
15 universal power socket such as supporting USB Power Delivery standard, where a wider range of
   voltages can be requested, typically through enumeration of the end device and the socket acting as
   a host, or via chips and circuitry in the cable or connector plug itself, to draw the appropriate
   voltage, and be able to report and exchange data on end device type, power requirement and policy
   for energy management or other related demand side availability or privacy permissions.
20 Said DC sockets typically forming separate units, wall sockets or hubs for mounting in work-areas,
   media areas, or embedded in suitable furniture. Where said DC sockets in a preferred embodiment
   use USB power delivery to identify and supply suitable voltage requirements for end user loads, and
   enable measurement and reporting of such requirements upstream. Said DC sockets in preferred
   embodiments being capable of receiving power from a local AC/DC supply or a local DC-DC supply,
25 such as a renewable resource or network DC supply over a circuit. Said DC sockets in preferred
   embodiments supporting communication means such as Zigbee or wireless of over wire high
   frequency signals.
   In such preferred embodiments, said overall smart battery assembly therefore provides a key
   network node, or user hub for aggregating in building DC demands at the device level from a
30 plurality of sensors or DC sockets, and optimizing there overall use, optimally providing power
   delivery through a DC-DC network and DC socket, and managing the overall demand in line with
   power supply from the batteries or from grid or other renewable resources.
                                                        9

   Said overall systems together with smart tariffs enable households to reduce overall energy user
   through a combination of energy reduction opportunities, such as using DC LED lighting rather than
   mains AC incandescent, or using low power DC appliances, avoiding AC/DC and inverter losses, and
   using power for such DC demands at the lowest price or carbon times. Said overall systems enabling
 5 utility providers to establish smart tariffs that trigger suitable battery storage, and reduce overall
   peak period consumption , whilst reducing bill increases to consumers, where said utilities benefit by
   reduced wholesale peak period energy consumption and purchase, together with reduced volatility
   in demand and improved forecasting.
   Said overall systems, enabling local networks to leverage battery resources on demand for local
10 infrastructure or upgrade mitigation, such as reducing or shifting demand, or balancing EV or heat
   pump demand, or leveraging excess local clustering and supply of PV export. Said overall systems
   enabling local and larger scale distributed energy resources to mitigate excess production, gain
   reliable energy connection, and ensure energy supply is better balanced with demand. Said overall
   systems enabling novel and unique smart tariffs, optimizing time of use, time of supply, carbon or
15 other objectives. Said overall systems enabling optimizing energy resilience at times of network
   failure, by keeping online or prioritizing essential DC demand requirements in line with stored
   energy or knowledge of availability of local DC generation supplies. Said overall system taken
   collectively enabling an assured peak reduction at peak period to reduce overall investment or
   infrastructure upgrade requirements of national network or national generation requirements.
20 Said overall system collectively reducing power factor and other AC/DC power losses, as well as
   reducing harmonic noise by negating the need for numerous power conversion and power adaptors
   throughout the system. Said overall system being better at accommodating the rising electricity
   demand profiles by end users which are increasingly locally DC based in ICT, computing,
   communication, gaming, LED lighting, battery operated devices, Electric Vehicles.
25 Said overall system providing an optimal blend of leveraging local DC resources and building fabric
   for local DC demands.
   Said overall system also providing suitable control and management services for wirelessly
   connected high load AC devices such as smart appliances or retrofit appliances.
   Said overall system being capable in aggregate of dimming or turning off large networks of LED
30 lighting distributed across the system, or shifting demand from DC devices that are partly charged
   over a minimal required threshold or permission.
                                                         10

   Said overall system being capable of rapid deployment by retrofit and electrical installer, co-locating
   near meter and consumer unit and disconnecting certain existing sub-circuits used currently lighting
   and connecting extra sub-circuits where required, together with changing existing lighting on said
   circuits to DC lighting devices or drivers, and adding in suitable DC sockets where required, or
 5 connecting to local DC supplies where available.
   Said system learning through operation, to further identify opportunities for additional circuits to be
   converted to DC, or appliances changed, by correlating current DC demand detail with inferred AC
   Demand detail, or heating parameters of the building, and targeting suitable advice and messaging
   to operators or end users
10 Said overall system and assembly being modular in nature to allow adaption or extension with
   additional communication or control boards, or increasing the capacity of battery packs, replacing
   batteries with new or alternate chemistries or connecting alternate battery packs.
   Said systems being configurable in parallel enabling multiple systems to collectively form a shared
   DC bus or spine, to power multiple circuits in larger premises.
15 Said systems supporting electronic control means for monitoring safety, circuit breaks, fusing, short
   circuits and other fault modes, at the component or central layer, and switching off power as
   required. Said overall system being isolated from grid to enable on-going operation in compliance
   with local rules and disconnection of any power supplied back to the grid.
   Said systems being deployable in isolation with renewables to provide DC power systems for lighting
20 and electronics, or enabling small scale solar installations in urban areas, where a few panels are
   used to power battery packs, for local DC lighting and electronics.
   The accompanying drawings illustrate presently preferred embodiments together with the detailed
   description serve to explain principles of embodiments:
   FIG 1 - illustrates a high-level schematic of elements of the system, comprising a smart battery
25 assembly providing power local DC circuits, illustrated as lighting for LED and smart DC sockets for
   consumer devices, and receiving power from local DC supplies, such as PV panels, or from AC mains,
   and in communication with local household or building devices such as meters, heating systems,
   smart appliances or appliances made smart through retrofit means, or in connection with local smart
   hubs or other control networks, and where said smart battery assembly is in communication means
                                                       11

   with remote services to support making smart control decisions, or triggering demand reduction
   requirements.
   FIG 2- provides a 3D axonometric view of a preferred embodiment of a smart battery assembly
   formed of a rear assembly supporting electronics, power delivery and smart control systems, and a
 5 front unit comprising battery storage, suitable for mounting on a wall, together with side and plan
   views.
   FIG 3 - provides a 3D axonometric explosion view of a preferred embodiment of a smart battery
   assembly showing the various layers, from rear assembly; supporting aerial, connection means for
   local DC circuits, DC supplies, AC mains supply, control/display board, slots for data connectivity,
10 DIN rail for mounting internal connectors, switchgear, place for affixing an efficient AC/DC power
   supply, and smart control electronics; together with front mechanical assembly for supporting a
   plurality of battery units together with local safety circuitry, with front assembly cover, where said
   overall unit could be placed, mounted onto a suitable surface, rack or wall.
   FIG 4 - provides a more detailed plan view of the rear assembly of a preferred embodiment of a
15 smart battery assembly, showing the mains supply and AC/DC power supply, Smart control board,
   and internal connectors on DIN Rail, together with side view.
   FIG 5 - provides an axonometric view of the rear assembly showing in more detail the structure of
   connectors, DIN rail and connector blocks, power supply internal wiring, smart control board, sub
   board supporting additional control functionality, external connectors such as USB, RS232 and
20 Ethernet connectors, Data card slot, and display board with LED indicators and switches.
   FIG 6 - provides a 3D axonometric view of an example DC Socket enclosure supporting an internal
   PCB control circuit for power delivery via USB Socket, together with example front face plate.
   FIG 7 - provides an overall indicative schematic showing how such a smart battery assembly could
   be installed in a household providing a series of DC circuits using lighting circuit to provide DC
25 lighting in various rooms, together with DC sockets in rooms for powering local DC appliances via
   smart sockets. The schematic also shows an example DC supply being solar panels connected into an
   inverter. FIG 7B shows an indicative schematic of a grid-shift where a normal energy demand profile
   is reduced through a combination of energy reductions, such as LED lighting, and shifting demand to
   batteries charged off peak or from renewables, or directly to supply from local PV resources.
                                                       12

   Preferred embodiments will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying
   drawings.
   Referring to FIG 1, which shows a high level schematic of elements of distributed battery system to
   provide efficient local electricity supply and demand management services for network participants,
 5 comprising a smart battery assembly (1) where a mechanical frame assembly (2) contains electrical
   storage means (3), smart control (4), connectivity means(5), capable of delivering electrical DC
   power to a plurality of sub-circuits indicated here as lighting (6) and DC circuits (7), or optionally to a
   micro-inverter, and is capable of receiving power from a range of sources, indicated here as localDC
   supplies (8) being solar Photovoltaic panel (9) in this instance, which may provide power prior to
10 inversion, or alternatively from local grid supply (10) via a consumer unit circuit (11) and smart
   meter (12) connected to a grid supply (13), where said consumer unit (11) is shown here also
   powering AC circuits such as AC sockets (14) and AC lighting circuits (15), and said meter or
   consumer unit may also be in connectivity with local smart power systems (16) such as smart hubs,
   sensors, home area networks, and further connected to remote third party services (17) where a
15 series of cloud base applications (18) or brokerage or ender services (19) and network participant
   demand needs (20) are accessible, where said connectivity on the smart battery assembly, is also in
   preferred connectivity with said services 17 and resources 18, 19, 20, and is in preferred connectivity
   locally with smart meter 12, or via measurement sensors 21 and may be in local connectivity to
   heating systems in the household 22 such as heat storage, thermostats or boiler controls, and may
20 be in local connectivity to smart appliances 23 in the household or retrofit appliance controls 24, as
   well as to smart control sensors on lighting circuits 25 or on smart light drivers or bulbs 27, or smart
   socket hubs 26 or smart sockets such as USB Power delivery sockets 28, where consumer devices
   illustrated here as a smart phone 29 and laptop 30 maybe connected to receive DC power at the
   appropriate voltage, and may also be used as consumer displays to access web pages or data
25 provided by said smart battery assembly (1) or view services and data provided by third party
   services 17. Wherein said overall system of selected parts forms a local node of a smart battery
   assembly, acting as a local hub for local demand monitoring and control, and local power supply for
   DC loads, and can provide storage charging or demand shift or demand control services in aggregate
   when coupled with a plurality of such systems deployed across a distribution network for the benefit
30 of network management and service demand needs 20.
   Referring now to Figure 2 which shows in axonometric views, front, sides and rear views of a
   preferred embodiment of a smart battery assembly (1) showing a preferred mechanical frame
   assembly (2) comprising a front battery assembly casing (31) with cover (32) and battery frame
                                                       13

   casing (33) and rear assembly frame (34), where in a series of connectors are shown for DC power
   delivery (35), inbound DC power supply (36), inbound AC mains supply (41), communications aerial
   (37), data connectivity (38), control panel display and switches (39). Where said smart battery
   assembly (1) could be mounted onto a surface or a wall by means of brackets or bolt positions (40).
 5  Referring now to Figure 3 which shows an axonometric vertical exploded view of the sub-elements
   of the preferred mechanical frame assembly (2) showing the battery frame cover (32), battery frame
   casing (33), containing electrical storage (3) shown here as an example battery pack comprised of
   multiple cylinders (42) made of individual sub-cell battery units (43), but could be formed by a range
   of alternate pack formats such as prismatic forms, across a variety of chemistries, such as NimH,
10 LiFEPO4, Lithium Ion, Sodium based or other chemical packs. And where said rear frame assembly
   (34) is shown with similar DC power connectors or wire sealers 35, aerial 37, AC inbound connector
   41 and display indicator sub board 39, and where said rear frame is shown to support a DIN Rail 49
   which indicatively shows a series of connector blocks 50, and where an example efficient AC/DC sub
   unit (44) is shown along with a smart control unit 4 is shown comprised in an example embodiment
15 of a PCB 45 supporting power electronics controls and communication means 5 together with power
   connector points 48 for internal wiring indicated by 51 to DIN rail, DC Connector points, aerials , and
   supporting a modular sub-board 46 shown in this instance as a Raspberry PI unit, supporting data
   storage means 47 and other local data connectivity 38, and other communication means 5, where
   additional smart control or modular boards could be mounted in side said rear mechanical frame, or
20 connected in proximity to the unit. Said overall smart battery assembly 2 being generally separable
   into the rear and front frame units for assembly, mounting on wall, maintenance or upgrading and
   replacing sub-units (e.g. replacing the entire front assembly battery pack module)
   Referring now to Figure 4 which shows a more detailed plan and side view of the typical elements
   comprising the rear frame showing example fixtures 52 to secure the front battery assembly and
25 fastening points 40 to secure the rear frame to a surface or wall.
   Referring now to Figure 5 which shows an enlarged detailed axonometric view of the rear frame
   assembly shown in Figure 4.
   Referring now to Figure 6, which shows an example axonometric view of a DC Socket hub.26,
   supporting DC sockets 28, and a more compact face plate 53 together with DC sockets 28 shown in
30 corresponding side views, where said DC socket hub 54 typically contains power circuitry for
   receiving power from a preferred local DC supply circuit 7, or from a local AC/DC supply, and
   preferably implements a USB Power Delivery host or enumeration means for recognizing power
                                                       14

   delivery requirements, and suitable power circuitry to provide such as power requirement, where
   said DC socket hubs may be connected on DC supply circuits 7 or optionally on circuits connected to
   light circuits 6.
   Referring now to Figure 7 where an indicative schematic of how a smart battery assembly (1) might
 5 be deployed in a household context 55, where a series of indicative lighting circuits are shown 6
   supporting local branches 7 for DC sockets 26, powering a plurality of example DC loads, such as
   laptops 30, smart phones 29, audio-visual equipment 57, DC LED televisions 58, as well as DC Light
   fittings 27 and also supporting smart lighting control units 25 that might measure or allow local light
   controls, where a local DC supply 8 is shown from solar panels 9 via an inverter and meter unit 56
10 which might itself be accessible to said battery assembly (1) DC outputs to provide a local inversion
   to allow AC demands in the household to use battery storage (3). In a preferred implementation the
   smart battery assembly might be installed as a retrofit re-using existing household wiring for lighting
   circuits 6 without by changing and swapping out corresponding downstream devices, lighting, and
   local addition of wiring for specific DC socket locations. Figure 7 also shows an indicated energy
15 display 58 showing real-time energy use on both the AC meter and on the DC network, together with
   indicative links 59 for energy advice or savings recommendation or other smart controls and data
   pages.
   Referring now to Figure 7b which shows an indicative schematic graph of a typical household energy
   demand profile 60 and an indicated reduced and shifted profile 61 enabled by the smart battery
20 assembly or MAS-LOW system, of meter attached storage and Low power delivery, whereby said
   electrical storage may be charged on an algorithm at off-peak times such as at night 63, and provide
   power with a bias during peak period 62 to enable an assured energy reduction, as a combination of
   actioned energy efficiency changes (such as installing DC LED lighting or DC appliances) and
   powering such demand at the peak time from energy stored in the batteries, where in if the
25 household also has solar, said solar resources could be used to further charge the batteries during
   times of excess solar production 64, or to provide solar power directly over a DC network to base DC
   lighting and electronics load during the day. Said overall smart battery assembly and power delivery
   system thereby providing a technical approach to enable users to continue to use DC load when
   they want to, but be powered automatically from time shifted resources, and enabling new smart
30 tariff models that aid such a system, such as peak price increases and off-peak reductions combined
   with automation to ensure that net peak price is offset by reduced peak demand from the AC grid by
   power from the local DC grid enabled by said batteries. Said networks of smart batteries systems
   would aggregate to provide a similar demand shift and peak reduction profile across multiple
                                                       15

   systems, and provide alternative charging modes than off peak 63 dynamically based on grid
   requirements 20, brokerage models 19, and applications 18. For example similar to charging from
   local renewable resources 64, said overall systems could be configured on demand to charge at
   times of peak wind production.
 5 It will be appreciated that whilst the description and figures of preferred embodiments describes in
   detail a preferred mechanical assembly, and series of approaches and systems, said mechanical
   frames could be varied, and said control systems could support alternate models of charging or
   demand side management, shifts, or algorithms for intelligent charging and demand reduction.
   Similarly while the innovations have been described with reference to household deployment, such
10 systems could be deployed into commercial spaces, to power lighting and ICT load, and enable a
   similar leverage of onsite renewables or grid shifted resources, as well as supporting detailed
   demand side monitoring and control. It will be further appreciated that whilst innovations have been
   described leveraging grid networks as a power supply, such systems could be deployed, and would
   be very advantageous in areas of poor or intermittent grid networks, to provide a security of supply
15 or a balancing system to use and store energy when available for later power supply over DC loads,
   and similarly such systems could deployed totally off grid in homes and cabins or in self-contained
   sites like military basis, tents or vehicles, transport devices, and leisure units such as caravans,
   boats. It will also be appreciated that said deployments could be made into apartment blocks of
   hotel rooms, providing local DC networks for powering rooms, or flats, which can have a much
20 higher proportion of DC devices and fewer needs for local AC networks or sockets.
   Embodiments of the present invention have been described with particular reference to the
   examples illustrated. However, it will be appreciated that variations and modifications may be made
   to the examples described within the scope of the present invention.
                                                         16

   Claims
   1.     A system comprising a plurality of battery assemblies, wherein each battery
          assembly:
          A)      comprises power storage and control electronics and communication means;
 5                and,
          B)       is configured to:
                   1)      act as:
                           a local hub for local DC power demand monitoring; and,
                           a local DC power supply for DC loads;
10                 ll)     charge the power storage;
          wherein the plurality of battery assemblies are configured to be managed as a
          collective resource in aggregate via the said communication means.
   2.     A system as claimed in claim I wherein the plurality of battery assemblies is a
          network of battery assemblies providing an aggregate battery or as clusters capable
15        of supporting grid storage services or providing demand management services.
   3.     A system as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the control means comprises an
          algorithm for charging and/or DC power demand management.
   4.     A system as claimed in any preceding claim wherein at least one battery assembly is
          capable of receiving a demand management signal or demand request.
20 5      A system as claimed in claim 4 configured to receive the demand management
          signal from a smart meter, where said smart meter is connected remotely to a third
          party service.
   6.     A system as claimed in any preceding claim configured to schedule the charging of
          the batteries assemblies in accordance with a demand from local end users.
25 7.     A system as claimed in claim 6 configured to schedule the charging of the battery
          assemblies based on power usage measurements.
   8.     A system as claimed in claims 6 or 7 wherein the charging is further scheduled
          dependent upon the availabilty of power generation resources.
                                                   17

   9.  A system as claimed in claim 8 wherein the charging is further scheduled dependent
       upon the export of power from power generation resources.
   10. A system as claimed in claims 8 or 9 wherein the said power generation resources
       comprise any of:
 5     I)     photovoltaic resources;
       II)    wind generation
       Ill)   fuel cells;
       IV)    combined heat power electrical generation;
       V)     building fabric technology capable of generating DC power
10     VI)    DC scavenging technologies.
   11. A system as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the power storage charging and
       supply of DC power is scheduled based on a demand from a third party service.
   12. A system as claimed in any preceding claim configured to only supply power to a
       subset of connected DC loads.
15 13. A system as claimed in any preceding claim configured to:
       1)     determine the profile and type of end device power usage; and,
       11)    manage the said end device.
   14. A system as claimed in claim 13 wherein determining the profile and type of end
       power usage comprises using USB power delivery via a DC socket.
20 15. A system as claimed in claim 13 or 14 wherein managing the said end device
       comprises any of:
       1)     report maximum and minimum power load, or
       ll)    switch off or put the end device into standby when not used, or
       1ll)   defer the charging of a battery on said end device.
25
   16. A system as claimed in any preceding claim configured to detect a cluster of end
       power use and correlate power supply activities across associated power sockets.
                                              18

   17. A system as claimed in claim 16 configured to:
       1)      be connected to a series of DC sockets;
       II)     receive power usage data from the series of DC sockets
       111)    determine when an end device and a connected peripheral device are in use;
 5     IV)     switch off the DC power or switch to standby the peripheral device when the
               end device is not in use
   18. A system as claimed in any preceding claim configured to supply DC power to any
       one or more of:
       1)      a DC socket;
10     II)     a lighting circuit;
       111)    a micro-inverter AC resource.
   19.  A system as claimed in any preceding claim configured to control the power export
       of a connected Photovoltaic resource.
   20. A system as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the battery assemblies
15     collectively form a shared DC bus or spine to power multiple DC ciruits.
   21. A method of installing a system as claimed in any of claims 1- 20 comprising the
       steps of:
       I)      co-locating a battery assembly near an energy meter and consumer unit;
       1l)     connecting the battery assembly to re-use existing lighting circuit wiring.
20 22. A method as claimed in claim 21 further comprising the step of disconnecting an
       existing sub circuit.
   23. A method as claimed in claims 21 or 22 further comprising the step of connecting an
       additional sub circuit to the said battery assembly.
   24. A method as claimed in any of claims 21 to 23 further comprising the step of
25     connecting a DC socket to the said battery assembly.
   25. A method as claimed in any of claims 21 to 24 further comprising the step of
       connecting the said battery assembly to a local DC power supply.
                                                19

   26. A battery assembly configured:
       i)      for use in a distributed battery system comprising a plurality of further battery
               assemblies; and,
       ii)     to receive electrical power from a power source;
 5     the battery assembly comprising:
       1)      electrical power storage to store power from the power source;
       II)     power electronics for delivering electrical DC power to a sub circuit;
       111)    control electronics and communication means configured to:
               A)      receive data associated with:
10                     a. energy usage and/or,
                       b. a management signal from a remote third party; and,
               B)      charge the electrical power storage and/or optimise DC power
                       delivery, based on the said received data.
   27. A battery assembly as claimed in claim 26 configured to receive a demand
15     management signal or demand request from a smart meter, where said smart meter
       is connected remotely to a third party service.
   28. A battery assembly as claimed in any of claims 26-27 wherein the communication
       means is configured to connect to a third party service.
   29. A battery assembly as claimed in any of claims 26-28 comprising an expansion
20     interface board for receiving sensor data.
   30. A battery assembly as claimed in any of claims 26-29 wherein the communication
       means and control electronics are configured to manage local thermal and heating
       sources.
   31. A battery assembly as claimed in any of claims 26-30 configured such that the
25     storage and control electronics are separable into front and rear frame units
       respecively.
   32. A battery assembly as claimed in any of claims 26-31 configured to be modular in
       nature to allow any of:
       adaption or extension with additional communication or control boards, or
                                                20

       increasing the capacity of a battery pack, or,
       replacing batteries; or,
       connecting alternate battery packs.
   33. A method of installing a battery assembly as claimed in any of claims 26-32
 5     comprising the step of connecting existing lighting circuit wiring to the battery
       assembly.
   34. An electrical power socket for providing DC power, the socket comprising:
       1)      power circuitry for receiving DC power from a supply circuit; and
       II)     means for recognising power delivery requirements;
10     wherein said power circuitry is configured to performn DC-DC power conversion in
       accordance with the recognised power requirement.
   35. An electrical power socket as claimed in claim 34 wherein the socket is configured to
       support USB power delivery.
   36. A system substantially as shown and/or described herein with reference to any one
15     or more of Figures 1 and 7 of the accompanying drawings.
   37. A battery assembly substantially as shown and/or described herein with reference to
       any one or more of Figures 2, 3, 4, 5 of the accompanying drawings.
   38. An electrical power socket substantially as shown and/or described herein with
       reference to Figures 6 of the accompanying drawings.
20
                             Moixa Energy Holdings Limited
                             Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                 SPRUSON & FERGUSON
25
                                               21

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
             5/8

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
