          CONTENT COMPOSER FOR THIRD-PARTY APPLICATIONS
ABSTRACT
         In one embodiment, a method includes presenting a comment icon in connection with
a third-party application, the comment icon being associated with a first party and enabling a
user to compose comment concerning the third-party application; and while the user is
interacting with the third-party application, in response to the user activating the comment
icon, creating a comment post concerning the third-party application; enabling the user to
input comment inside the comment post; and enabling the user to submit the comment post to
the first party for publication.

  xx1             MEN
                               ~~INN
                    x.    01
\     rl lk              MR
         gx
                     :n/
         \g'Efiffi(
         %\N     M
~10
                             -----------------

                                                  1
          CONTENT COMPOSER FOR THIRD-PARTY APPLICATIONS
RELATED APPLICATIONS
         [1]     The present application is related to United States Patent Application Serial
No.      13/677,269,     filed   on     14    November       2012,      International Application
No. PCT/US2013/067925, entitled "Content composer for third-party applications" and filed
on 1 November 2013 in the name of Facebook, Inc., Australian Patent Application
No. 2013345177, entitled "Content composer for third-party applications" and filed on
1 November 2013 in the name of Facebook, Inc., and United States Patent Application Serial
No. 15/627,004, filed on 19 June 2017, the entire content of each of which is incorporated
herein by reference as if fully set forth herewith.
TECHNICAL FIELD
         [2]     This disclosure generally relates to a user interface.
BACKGROUND
         131     A user interface (UT),     in the industrial design field of human-machine
interaction, is the space where interactions between humans and machines occur. The goal of
the interactions between a human, often referred to as a "user", and a machine at the user
interface is the user's control of the machine and its operations (e.g., through user input) and
machine feedback (e.g., through program output). A graphical user interface (GUI) is a type
of user interface that allows users to interact with software applications executing on
electronic or computing devices through multimedia objects (e.g., images, videos, audios,
etc.) rather than purely text commands.
SUMMARY OF PARTICULAR EMBODIMENTS
         14]     In a first aspect, the present disclosure provides a computer-implemented
method comprising:
         by a computing device of a first-party system, presenting to a user an interactive
comment icon in connection with third-party content on a first user interface, the interactive
comment icon being associated with the first-party system and enabling the user to compose a
comment concerning the third-party content; and

                                                   2
        by the computing device, in response to the user activating the interactive comment
icon, transitioning from the third-party content on the first user interface to a comment-post
interface on a second user interface comprising a content icon representative of the third
party content and a comment-post interface by displaying a first animation sequence showing
the third-party content being replaced with the content icon and a second animation sequence
showing the comment-post interface appearing on the first user interface.
         [51     In a second aspect, the present disclosure provides one or more computer
readable non-transitory storage media embodying software that is operable when executed to:
        present to a user an interactive comment icon in connection with third-party content
on a first user interface, the interactive comment icon being associated with a first-party
system and enabling the user to compose a comment concerning the third-party content; and
        in response to the user activating the interactive comment icon, transition from the
third-party content on the first user interface to a comment-post interface on a second user
interface comprising a content icon representative of the third-party content and a comment
post interface by displaying a first animation sequence showing the third-party content being
replaced with the content icon and a second animation sequence showing the comment-post
interface appearing on the first user interface.
         [6]     In a third aspect, the present disclosure provides a system comprising:
        one or more processors; and
        a memory coupled to the processors comprising instructions executable by the
processors, the processors operable when executing the instructions to:
                present to a user an interactive comment icon in connection with third-party
        content on a first user interface, the interactive comment icon being associated with a
        first-party system and enabling the user to compose a comment concerning the third
        party content; and
                in response to the user activating the interactive comment icon, transition from
        the third-party content on the first user interface to a comment-post interface on a
        second user interface comprising a content icon representative of the third-party
        content and a comment-post interface by displaying a first animation sequence
        showing the third-party content being replaced with the content icon and a second
        animation sequence showing the comment-post interface appearing on the first user
        interface.

                                                  3
         [71     In particular embodiments, a user interface for presenting content to users may
have a hierarchical structure. The user interface may have any number of content sections,
and each content section may have any number of content items. The content items may be of
any type or format. A user may consume or interact with some of the content items. In
particular embodiments, each content item may correspond to a user-interface element.
         [81     In particular embodiments, while interacting with a third-party application
through a first party (e.g., a social-networking system), a user may post comment about the
third-party application through the first-party system (e.g., at the social-networking website).
A first-party comment icon may be associated with the third-party application.
         191     The user may select and activate the first-party comment icon included with
the third-party application at any time (e.g.,           while interacting with the third-party
application). This causes the third-party application to stop or pause its execution and a
composer screen to appear (e.g., next to the third-party application). The user may compose
the comment using the composer screen. The user may preview how the comment would
look like once it is posted by the first party. When done, the user may submit the comment to
the first party to be published or posted (e.g., at the social-networking website).
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         [10]    FIG. 1 illustrates an example network environment associated with a social
networking system.
         111]    FIGS. 2A and 2B illustrate two example mobile electronic devices.
         [12]    FIG. 3 illustrates an example social graph.
         113]    FIG. 4 illustrates an example object hierarchy.
         [14]    FIG. 5 illustrates an example third-party application.
         [15]    FIG. 6 illustrates an example first-party comment icon included with a third
party application.
         116]    FIGS. 7A-7E illustrate an animation sequence.
         117]    FIGS. 8A-8B illustrate an animation sequence.
         118]    FIG. 9 illustrates an example comment composer.
         119]    FIG. 10 illustrates an example comment composer.
         [20]    FIG. I illustrates an example comment post.
         1211    FIG. 12 illustrates an example computer system.

                                                  4
DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS
         1221    A user interface (UI) may be incorporated into any type of software
applications, including, for example, desktop applications, mobile applications, or web-based
applications, to enable users to interact with and control the applications. A graphical user
interface (GUI) is a type of user interface that enables users to interact with software
applications through multi-media objects, including, for example, icons, buttons, menus,
images, video, or audios.
         1231    In particular embodiments, a software application may be associated with a
social-networking system. FIG. I illustrates an example network environment 100 associated
with a social-networking system. Network environment 100 includes a user 101, a client
system 130, a social-networking system 160, and a third-party system 170 connected to each
other by a network 110. Although FIG. 1 illustrates a particular arrangement of user 101,
client system 130, social-networking system 160, third-party system 170, and network 110,
this disclosure contemplates any suitable arrangement of user 101, client system 130, social
networking system 160, third-party system 170, and network 110. As an example and not by
way of limitation, two or more of client system 130, social-networking system 160, and third
party system 170 may be connected to each other directly, bypassing network 110. As
another example, two or more of client system 130, social-networking system 160, and third
party system 170 may be physically or logically co-located with each other in whole or in
part. Moreover, although FIG. 1 illustrates a particular number of users 101, client systems
130, social-networking systems 160, third-party systems 170, and networks 110, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable number of users 101, client systems 130, social
networking systems 160, third-party systems 170, and networks 110. As an example and not
by way of limitation, network environment 100 may include multiple users 101, client system
 130, social-networking systems 160, third-party systems 170, and networks 110.
         124]    In particular embodiments, user 101 may be an individual (human user), an
entity (e.g., an enterprise, business, or third-party application), or a group (e.g., of individuals
or entities) that interacts or communicates with or over social-networking system 160. In
particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may be a network-addressable
computing system hosting an online social network. Social-networking system 160 may
generate, store, receive, and transmit social-networking data, such as, for example, user-

                                                 5
profile data, concept-profile data, social-graph information, or other suitable data related to
the online social network. Social-networking system 160 may be accessed by the other
components of network environment 100 either directly or via network 110. In particular
embodiments, social-networking system 160 may include an authorization server that allows
users 101 to opt in or opt out of having their actions logged by social-networking system 160
or shared with other systems (e.g., third-party systems 170), such as, for example, by setting
appropriate privacy settings. In particular embodiments, third-party system 170 may be a
network-addressable      computing     system  that  can host    various  third-party software
applications (e.g., web-based applications). Third-party system 170 may generate, store,
receive, and transmit various types of data, such as, for example, texts, images, videos, or
audios. Third-party system 170 may be accessed by the other components of network
environment 100 either directly or via network 110. In particular embodiments, one or more
users 101 may use one or more client systems 130 to access, send data to, and receive data
from social-networking system 160 or third-party system 170. Client system 130 may access
social-networking system 160 or third-party system 170 directly, via network 110, or via a
third-party system. As an example and not by way of limitation, client system 130 may
access third-party system 170 via social-networking system 160. Client system 130 may be
any suitable computing device, such as, for example, a personal computer, a laptop computer,
a cellular telephone, a smartphone, or a tablet computer.
         125]   This disclosure contemplates any suitable network 110. As an example and not
by way of limitation, one or more portions of network 110 may include an ad hoc network, an
intranet, an extranet, a virtual private network (VPN), a local area network (LAN), a wireless
LAN (WLAN), a wide area network (WAN), a wireless WAN (WWAN), a metropolitan area
network (MAN), a portion of the Internet, a portion of the Public Switched Telephone
Network (PSTN), a cellular telephone network, or a combination of two or more of these.
Network 110 may include one or more networks 110.
         126]   Links 150 may connect client system 130, social-networking system 160, and
third-party system 170 to communication network 110 or to each other. This disclosure
contemplates any suitable links 150. In particular embodiments, one or more links 150
include one or more wireline (such as for example Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) or Data
Over Cable Service Interface Specification (DOCSIS)), wireless (such as for example Wi-Fi
or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX)), or optical (such as for

                                                6
example Synchronous Optical Network (SONET) or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy (SDH))
links. In particular embodiments, one or more links 150 each include an ad hoc network, an
intranet, an extranet, a VPN, a LAN, a WLAN, a WAN, a WWAN, a MAN, a portion of the
Internet,   a portion   of the PSTN, a cellular technology-based           network, a satellite
communications technology-based network, another link 150, or a combination of two or
more such links 150. Links 150 need not necessarily be the same throughout network
environment 100. One or more first links 150 may differ in one or more respects from one or
more second links 150.
         1271   In particular embodiments, data (e.g., data representing various types of
information or content) may be sent between servers associated with social-networking
system 160 and individual client systems 130 via network 110. When two electronic devices
(e.g., a server and a client) are connected to a network (e.g., a computer or communications
network, such as network 110), data may be transmitted between the two devices over the
network using one or more suitable network protocols. A network may include any number
of sub-networks. By transmitting data between the two devices, the two devices may
communicate with each other.
         1281   In network communications, there are two ways to send a communication (i.e.,
data) from one device to another device: push and pull. With push technology, the request for
the communication transaction is initiated by the sending device. That is, the sending device
"pushes" the communication, so to speak, to the receiving device. In this case, the sending
device may be considered the active party and the receiving device may be considered the
passive party in the transaction. In contrast, with pull technology, the request for the
communication transaction is initiated by the receiving device. That is, the receiving device
"pulls" the communication, so to speak, from the sending device. In this case, the sending
device may be considered the passive party and the receiving device may be considered the
active party in the transaction. In particular embodiments, a server associated with social
networking system 160 may push data to a client system 130. A communication pushed from
a server to a client may be referred to as a "push notification". Similarly, a client system 130
may push data to a server associated with social-networking system 160.
         129]   In particular embodiments, a client system 130 may be a mobile electronic or
computing device. A mobile electronic device - such as a Smartphone, tablet computer, or
laptop computer - may include functionality for determining its location, direction, or

                                                 7
orientation, such as a GPS receiver, compass, or gyroscope. Such a mobile device may also
include functionality for wireless communication, such as BLUETOOTH communication,
near-field communication (NFC), or infrared (IR) communication or communication with a
wireless local area networks (WLANs) or cellular-telephone network. Such a mobile device
may also include one or more cameras, scanners, touchscreens, microphones, or speakers.
Mobile electronic devices may also execute software applications, such as games, web
browsers, or social-networking applications. With social-networking applications, users may
connect, communicate, and share information with other users in their social networks.
         1301   In particular embodiments, a mobile electronic device (e.g., Smartphone or
tablet computer) may include a touchscreen capable of receiving touch input. FIG. 2A
illustrates an example mobile electronic device 210 (e.g.,           a Smartphone) having a
touchscreen 215. Touchscreen 215 may incorporate one or more touch sensors and a touch
sensor controller for detecting the presence and location of a touch (e.g., from a user's finger)
or the proximity of an object (e.g., a stylus). In particular embodiments, a specific touch
detected via touchscreen 215 may result in a touch input event.
         [31]   Different mobile electronic devices may have different designs. As a result,
the size, shape, or aspect ration of the touchscreens of different mobile devices may differ.
FIG. 2B illustrates another example mobile electronic device 220 (e.g., a tablet computer)
having a touchscreen 225. Similarly, touchscreen 225 may incorporate one or more touch
sensors and a touch-sensor controller for detecting the presence and location of a touch (e.g.,
from a user's finger) or the proximity of an object (e.g., a stylus). A specific touch detected
via touchscreen 225 may result in a touch input event. However, since mobile electronic
devices 210 and 220 are two different types of devices, their respective touchscreen 215 and
225 have different sizes and aspect ratios.
         [32]   There may be various types of touches or gestures, such as single tap, double
tap, short press, long press, slide, swipe, flip, pinch open, or pinch close, corresponding to
various types of touch input events. Different touch input events may result in different
responses and this disclosure contemplates any applicable gesture.
         133]   Social-networking system 160 may store various types of data including, for
example, user data, application data, or social data. In particular embodiments, such data may
be stored in a graph having any number of nodes and edges, where each edge connects two
nodes. The graph is often referred to as a "social graph" or "open graph" as it contains,

                                                8
among others, social information.
        134]    FIG. 3 illustrates example social graph 300. In particular embodiments, social
networking system 160 may store one or more social graphs 300 in one or more data stores.
In particular embodiments, social graph 300 may include multiple nodes-which may include
multiple user nodes 302 or multiple concept nodes 304-and multiple edges 306 connecting
the nodes. Example social graph 300 illustrated in FIG. 3 is shown, for didactic purposes, in a
two-dimensional visual map representation. In particular embodiments, a social-networking
system 160, client system 130, or third-party system 170 may access social graph 300 and
related social-graph information for suitable applications. The nodes and edges of social
graph 300 may be stored as data objects, for example, in a data store (such as a social-graph
database). Such a data store may include one or more searchable or queryable indexes of
nodes or edges of social graph 300.
        135]    In particular embodiments, a user node 302 may correspond to a user of
social-networking system 160. As an example and not by way of limitation, a user may be an
individual (human user), an entity (e.g., an enterprise, business, or third-party application), or
a group (e.g., of individuals or entities) that interacts or communicates with or over social
networking system 160. In particular embodiments, when a user registers for an account with
social-networking system 160, social-networking system 160 may create a user node 302
corresponding to the user, and store the user node 302 in one or more data stores. Users and
user nodes 302 described herein may, where appropriate, refer to registered users and user
nodes 302 associated with registered users. In addition or as an alternative, users and user
nodes 302 described herein may, where appropriate, refer to users that have not registered
with social-networking system 160. In particular embodiments, a user node 302 may be
associated with information provided by a user or information gathered by various systems,
including social-networking system 160. As an example and not by way of limitation, a user
may provide his or her name, profile picture, contact information, birth date, sex, marital
status, family status, employment, education background, preferences, interests, or other
demographic information. In particular embodiments, a user node 302 may be associated with
one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with a user. In particular
embodiments, a user node 302 may correspond to one or more webpages.
        [36]    In particular embodiments, a concept node 304 may correspond to a concept.
As an example and not by way of limitation, a concept may correspond to a place (such as,

                                                9
for example, a movie theater, restaurant, landmark, or city); a website (such as, for example,
a website associated with social-network system 160 or a third-party website associated with
a web-application server); an entity (such as, for example, a person, business, group, sports
team, or celebrity); a resource (such as, for example, an audio file, video file, digital photo,
text file, structured document, or application) which may be located within social-networking
system 160 or on an external server, such as a web-application server; real or intellectual
property (such as, for example, a sculpture, painting, movie, game, song, idea, photograph, or
written work); a game; an activity; an idea or theory; another suitable concept; or two or more
such concepts. A concept node 304 may be associated with information of a concept provided
by a user or information gathered by various systems, including social-networking system
160. As an example and not by way of limitation, information of a concept may include a
name or a title; one or more images (e.g., an image of the cover page of a book); a location
(e.g., an address or a geographical location); a website (which may be associated with a
URL); contact information (e.g., a phone number or an email address); other suitable concept
information; or any suitable combination of such information. In particular embodiments, a
concept node 304 may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to
information associated with concept node 304. In particular embodiments, a concept node
304 may correspond to one or more webpages.
         [37]     In particular embodiments, a node in social graph 300 may represent or be
represented by a webpage (which may be referred to as a "profile page"). Profile pages may
be hosted by or accessible to social-networking system 160. Profile pages may also be hosted
on third-party websites associated with a third-party server 170. As an example and not by
way of limitation, a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the
particular external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node
304. Profile pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example
and not by way of limitation, a user node 302 may have a corresponding user-profile page in
which the corresponding user may add content, make declarations, or otherwise express
himself or herself As another example and not by way of limitation, a concept node 304 may
have a corresponding concept-profile page in which one or more users may add content,
make     declarations,    or express  themselves,  particularly  in relation to the concept
corresponding to concept node 304.

                                                10
        [38]    In particular embodiments, a concept node 304 may represent a third-party
webpage or resource hosted by a third-party system 170. The third-party webpage or resource
may include, among other elements, content, a selectable or other icon, or other inter-actable
object (which may be implemented, for example, in JavaScript, AJAX, or PHP codes)
representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation, a third-party
webpage may include a selectable icon such as "like," "check in," "eat," "recommend," or
another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third-party webpage may perform an
action by selecting one of the icons (e.g., "eat"), causing a client system 130 to transmit to
social-networking system 160 a message indicating the user's action. In response to the
message, social-networking system 160 may create an edge (e.g., an "eat" edge) between a
user node 302 corresponding to the user and a concept node 304 corresponding to the third
party webpage or resource and store edge 306 in one or more data stores.
        139]    In particular embodiments, a pair of nodes in social graph 300 may be
connected to each other by one or more edges 306. An edge 306 connecting a pair of nodes
may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments, an edge
306 may include or represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the
relationship between a pair of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation, a first user
may indicate that a second user is a "friend" of the first user. In response to this indication,
social-networking system 160 may transmit a "friend request" to the second user. If the
second user confirms the "friend request," social-networking system 160 may create an edge
306 connecting the first user's user node 302 to the second user's user node 302 in social
graph 300 and store edge 306 as social-graph information in one or more of data stores (e.g.,
data stores associated with social-networking system 160). In the example of FIG. 3, social
graph 300 includes an edge 306 indicating a friend relation between user nodes 302 of user
"A" and user "B" and an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes 302 of user "C"
and user "B." Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular edges 306 with
particular attributes connecting particular user nodes 302, this disclosure contemplates any
suitable edges 306 with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes 302. As an example and
not by way of limitation, an edge 306 may represent a friendship, family relationship,
business or employment relationship,         fan relationship, follower      relationship, visitor
relationship,    subscriber   relationship,    superior/subordinate    relationship,    reciprocal
relationship, non-reciprocal relationship, another suitable type of relationship, or two or more

                                               11
such relationships. Moreover, although this disclosure generally describes nodes as being
connected, this disclosure also describes users or concepts as being connected. Herein,
references to users or concepts being connected may, where appropriate, refer to the nodes
corresponding to those users or concepts being connected in social graph 300 by one or more
edges 306.
         [401   In particular embodiments, an edge 306 between a user node 302 and a
concept node 304 may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated
with user node 302 toward a concept associated with a concept node 304. As an example and
not by way of limitation, as illustrated in FIG. 3, a user may "like," "attended," "played,"
"listened," "cooked," "worked at," or "watched" a concept, each of which may correspond to
a edge type or subtype. A concept-profile page corresponding to a concept node 304 may
include, for example, a selectable "check in" icon (such as, for example, a clickable "check
in" icon) or a selectable "add to favorites" icon. Similarly, after a user clicks these icons,
social-networking system 160 may create a "favorite" edge or a "check in" edge in response
to a user's action corresponding to a respective action. As another example and not by way of
limitation, a user (user "C") may listen to a particular song ("Ramble On") using a particular
application (SPOTIFY, which is an online music application). In this case, social-networking
system 160 may create a "listened" edge 306 and a "used" edge (as illustrated in FIG. 3)
between user nodes 302 corresponding to the user and concept nodes 304 corresponding to
the song and application to indicate that the user listened to the song and used the application.
Moreover, social-networking system 160 may create a "played" edge 306 (as illustrated in
FIG. 3) between concept nodes 304 corresponding to the song and the application to indicate
that the particular song was played by the particular application. In this case, "played" edge
306 corresponds to an action performed by an external application (SPOTIFY) on an external
audio file (the song "Imagine"). Although this disclosure describes particular edges 306 with
particular attributes connecting user nodes 302 and concept nodes 304, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable edges 306 with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes 302
and concept nodes 304. Moreover, although this disclosure describes edges between a user
node 302 and a concept node 304 representing a single relationship, this disclosure
contemplates edges between a user node 302 and a concept node 304 representing one or
more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation, an edge 306 may represent
both that a user likes and has used at a particular concept. Alternatively, another edge 306

                                                 12
may represent each type of relationship (or multiples of a single relationship) between a user
node 302 and a concept node 304 (as illustrated in FIG. 3 between user node 302 for user "E"
and concept node 304 for "SPOTIFY").
         141]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may create an edge
306 between a user node 302 and a concept node 304 in social graph 300. As an example and
not by way of limitation, a user viewing a concept-profile page (such as, for example, by
using a web browser or a special-purpose application hosted by the user's client system 130)
may indicate that he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node 304 by clicking
or selecting a "Like" icon, which may cause the user's client system 130 to transmit to social
networking system 160 a message indicating the user's liking of the concept associated with
the concept-profile page. In response to the message, social-networking system 160 may
create an edge 306 between user node 302 associated with the user and concept node 304, as
illustrated by "like" edge 306 between the user and concept node 304. In particular
embodiments, social-networking system 160 may store an edge 306 in one or more data
stores. In particular embodiments, an edge 306 may be automatically formed by social
networking system 160 in response to a particular user action. As an example and not by way
of limitation, if a first user uploads a picture, watches a movie, or listens to a song, an edge
306 may be formed between user node 302 corresponding to the first user and concept nodes
304 corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure describes forming particular
edges 306 in particular manners, this disclosure contemplates forming any suitable edges 306
in any suitable manner.
         [42]   In particular embodiments, a set of objects may be organized into a hierarchy
based on, for example, how the individual objects are related to each other. An object
hierarchy may have any number of levels, and at each level, there may be any number of
objects. Parent-child or sibling relationships may exist between specific objects in the
hierarchy. Within an object hierarchy, a parent object is one level above the level of its child
objects. Two sibling objects are at the same level and share the same parent object. In
addition, any portion of the hierarchy may also be considered a hierarchy in itself.
         143]   FIG. 4 illustrates a portion of an example object hierarchy 400 that includes a
number of objects 410. FIG. 4 is in fact a visual representation of an object hierarchy. Each
node represents a specific object in the hierarchy, and each edge connecting two nodes
represents a parent-child relationship between the two corresponding objects.

                                                13
         [44]   In particular embodiments, an object in a hierarchy may or may not have a
parent. If an object does not have a parent, it may be referred to as a "root" object (e.g., object
410A). Typically, the root object is positioned at the first or topmost level of the hierarchy. In
particular embodiments, an object in a hierarchy may or may not have any children. If an
object does not have any children, it may be referred to as a "leaf' or "terminal" object (e.g.,
object 410B). If an object does have children (e.g., object 410C), it may have any number of
children. In addition, objects sharing the same parent may be referred to as each other's
"siblings". For example, in FIG. 4, object 410C is the parent of objects 410D and 410B.
Objects 410D and 410B are the children of object 410C and are siblings to each other. Thus,
a hierarchy of objects (e.g., object hierarchy 400) not only includes the individual objects
(e.g., objects 410) themselves but also indicates the relationships among the specific objects.
Moreover, the position of a specific object within the hierarchy may indicate its relationships
with other objects in the hierarchy.
         [451   Objects 410 may be of various types, and this disclosure contemplates any
applicable object types. For example and without limitation, the term "object" may refer to
any type of content, including but not limited to images, videos, captions, text blocks or
boxes, user-interface elements, clickable links, newsfeed stories, references to other objects,
advertisements, calendar events, units for displaying open graph analysis that may be
graphically rendered, applications, websites, web pages, books, chapters. In particular
embodiments, given a hierarchy of objects, which may be a portion of another, larger
hierarchy of objects, the hierarchical relationships (e.g., parent-child or sibling relationships,
positions of the objects within the hierarchy) between specific objects may direct some
aspects of how these objects behave in the context of a user interface or how the objects are
presented to a user.
         [46]   As an example, in the context of the desktop of a computing device, the
desktop may be a parent object, and sometimes the root object of a hierarchy, whose child
objects are the individual software applications available on the desktop. A software
application, while itself being one of the child objects of the desktop, is also the parent object
of the individual components of that software application. Different software applications
may include different components. For example, for a software application that manages
digital books (e.g., a book reader application), its components may include the digital books
available, the individual chapters of each book, the pages of each chapter, and the texts,

                                                14
images, videos, audios, or other content or media elements on each page. Each of these also
corresponds to an object (e.g., user-interface component) in the hierarchy. More specifically,
within the hierarchy, the digital book application may be the parent object of the digital
books. A digital book may be the parent object of the individual chapters of that book. A
chapter, while itself being one of the child objects of the book, is also the parent object of the
pages in that chapter. A page is the parent object of the texts, images, videos, audios, or other
content or media elements on that page. A text block, image, video, audio, or other content or
media element is one of the child objects of the page to which it belongs. Similarly, for a
software application that manages news feeds, its components may include the individual
news channels and the news stories within each channel. Each of these may correspond to an
object. Within the hierarchy, the news-feed application, while itself being one of the child
objects of the desktop, is also the parent object of the news channels. A news channel in turn
is the parent object of the news stories included in that channel.
        [471    As another example, in the context of the Internet or the World Wide Web, the
Internet may be a parent object whose child objects are the individual websites. A website,
while itself being one of the child objects of the Internet, is also the parent object of the
individual web pages of that website. A web page, while itself being one of the child objects
of the website to which it belongs, is the parent object of the texts, images, videos, audios, or
links (e.g., Uniform Resource Locators (URLs)) included in the web page. Each text block,
image, video, audio, or link may also correspond to a specific object in the hierarchy.
        148]    As a third example,       a website, such as a social-networking website
implemented by social-networking system 160, may also be arranged in a hierarchical
structure for navigating the content of the social-networking website. In this context, the
social-networking website may be a parent object whose child objects are the components
(e.g., photo albums, user profile pages, etc.) of the website. For example, a photo album,
while itself being a child object of the social-networking website, may in turn be a parent
object, and the individual photos within the album may be the child objects of the photo
album. A user's profile page may be structured in such a hierarchical fashion as well. The
profile page itself may be considered a parent object, and the individual objects on the profile
page may be the child objects of the profile page. In particular embodiments, a profile page
may be considered and rendered (e.g., for presentation to a user) as a linear timeline of
objects, such as, for example and without limitation, photos, photo albums, check-ins,

                                                15
comments from other users, attended events, tags, applications the user has added to the
profile page, stories, songs the user has listened to, playlists. These various types of objects
may all be children of the profile page, or may be further arranged into multiple levels. With
some implementations, a user's profile page may include any number of sections, such as the
user's education and employment information, the user's public "wall", or the user's social
connections. Then the various types of objects above may be divided into specific sections.
         [49]    In particular embodiments, an object 410 may be a component of a user
interface. In this case, object hierarchy 400 may correspond to the user interface, and each
object 410 may correspond to a specific component of the user-interface. A user interface
may have various types of components, and this disclosure contemplates any applicable user
interface component types. For example, a user-interface component (i.e., an object 410) may
be a window, a section, a tab, an image, a video, an audio, a text block, a menu, an icon, a
button, a checkbox, a website, a web page, a frame, a clickable link, a message, a post, or an
input field. In particular embodiments, an object 410 may be consumed by a user if the user is
able to, for example and without limitation, interact with, view, read, listen to, manipulate, or
handle the object 410. For example, some user-consumable objects 410 may be texts, images,
videos, audios, feeds, executables (e.g., application programs or games), websites, web pages,
digital books, photo albums, posts, or messages.
         [50]    In particular embodiments, when the user interface corresponding to object
hierarchy 400 is displayed (e.g., on a client system 130), the structure of the corresponding
object hierarchy 400 may reflect the structure of the user interface. The relationships among
the individual components in the user interface, as reflected in object hierarchy 400, may
influence how these components are organized and presented to users. The user interface may
have any number of layers, respectively corresponding to the individual levels of object
hierarchy 400. Objects 410 (e.g., user-interface components) at a specific level of object
hierarchy 400 are displayed in the corresponding layer of the user interface. With some
implementations, the lowest or bottommost layer of the user interface corresponds to the first
or topmost level of object hierarchy 400. Thus, root object 410A is displayed in the lowest
layer of the user interface. Furthermore, in the user interface, each object 410 (e.g., user
interface component) is displayed in a layer immediately above the layer where its parent, if
one exists, is displayed and immediately below the layer where its children, if any, are
displayed. Sibling objects 410 are displayed at the same layer. Thus, the position of a

                                                16
component in the user interface indicates its relationships (e.g., parent-child or sibling) with
other components in the user interface.
         1511   In particular embodiments, a user-interface component (e.g., an image, a
video, a folder, etc.) may be displayed in various display modes. As an example, the user
interface component may be displayed in a "full-screen" mode, where the user-interface
component occupies the entire or nearly the entire display area (e.g., the screen of an
electronic device). As another example, the user-interface component may be displayed in an
"on-page" mode, where the user-interface component is included in another user-interface
component and displayed as a part of that other user-interface component (e.g., an image is
displayed as a part of a web page). As a third example, the user-interface component may be
displayed in an "index" mode, where the user-interface component is a part of a series of
user-interface components (e.g., an image is displayed together with other images from the
same album, or a chapter of a book is displayed in the table of content of the book together
with other chapters from the same book).
         152]   In particular embodiments, a hierarchical user interface may be used to present
content to a user. Such a user interface may be referred to as a "content feed" or "news feed"
user interface. The content may be of any type and format, such as, for example and without
limitation, text, icon, image, video, audio, web page, post, or message. This disclosure
contemplates any applicable content type and format. In particular embodiments, the
individual content items (e.g., text, image, video, audio, web page, post, message, news piece,
etc.) may be organized into various categories, referred to as content sections. For example,
related content items may be categorized into the same content section. The user interface
may include any number of content sections, and each content section may include any
number of content items. Hierarchically, a content section may be the parent of the content
items belonging to that section. For example, various photos taken during a holiday trip may
be organized into the same album, and various photo albums may be organized into the photo
section of the user interface.
         153]   In particular embodiments, a user may consume or interact with a specific
content item. For example, a user consumes a content item when the user scrolls, opens up,
views, listens to, selects, reviews, or comments on the content item. A user interacts with a
content item when the user selects, clicks on, taps, reviews, or comments on the content item.
This disclosure contemplates any applicable means for a user to consume or interact with a

                                                17
content item.
          154]   In particular embodiments, a first-party system, such as a social-networking
system (e.g., social-networking system 160), may enable its users to interact with third-party
applications through the first-party system. There may be some business agreement between
the first party and a third party such that a third-party application is made available through
the first-party system to its users. For example, the third-party application may be included at
the website of the first party (e.g., a social-networking website associated with social
networking system 160) or in a user interface provided by the first party (e.g., a user interface
of the first party's mobile application). Users of the first-party system may then access and
interact with the third-party application from the first party's website or user interface,
instead of having to go to the third party directly.
          [551   FIG. 5 illustrates an example third-party application, in this case a movie
trailer, included in the user interface of a mobile application provided by a social-networking
system (i.e., the first-party system). Here, the first-party mobile application is executed on a
tablet computer. A user may watch the movie trailer (i.e., interact with the third-party
application) from the first-party mobile application, instead of having to go to the third-party
system (e.g., the source of the third-party application).
          [561   Suppose that the user has chosen to watch the movie trailer. In FIG. 6, the
movie trailer is now playing on the user's tablet computer (e.g., through the first-party mobile
application). In addition, several control icons are provided so that the user can control the
video playback process. For example, icon 620 enables the user to fast reverse the video; icon
630 enables the user to play the video; icon 640 enables the user to fast forward the video;
and icon 650 enables the user to play the video in full-screen mode.
          [57]   In addition, there is a comment icon 610, which is associated with the first
party system. First-party comment icon 610 is presented in connection with the third-party
application (e.g., the movie trailer) and enables the user to compose and post a user comment
concerning the third-party application. For example, a social-networking system enables its
users to post comments concerning various subject matters at its website. A user may post
comments on the user's wall or on the walls of the user's friends (e.g., with permissions from
the friends) or in other suitable spaces at the social-networking website. Thus, the user may
post a comment concerning the third-party application at the first-party website.
          1581   Suppose that the user wishes to compose and post a comment about the movie

                                                  18
trailer. The user may select and activate first-party comment icon 610 (e.g., by tapping on
first-party comment icon 610). This causes the third-party application to pause or stop its
execution. For example, the movie trailer is paused from playback.
         159]   With some implementations, after the execution of the third-party application
is paused or stopped, the third-party application is then represented as an application icon. An
animation sequence is displayed to show that the third-party application is transitioned from
its execution state to its iconic representation. FIGS. 7A-7E illustrate an example animation
sequence. In FIG. 7A, after the user has activated first-party comment icon 610, the video
playback pauses and the movie trailer screen begins to fold in half In FIG. 7B, the movie
trailer screen folds further (e.g., similar to an image folding in half). In FIG. 7C, the movie
trailer screen folds still further and at this point, an image (e.g., a movie poster) representing
the movie begins to appear (e.g., on the back of the folding movie trailer screen). In FIG. 7D,
the movie poster now shows more while the movie trailer screen is almost folded in half. In
FIG. 7E, the movie trailer screen completely folds away, now replaced by the movie poster.
         160]   In particular embodiments, a comment composer is then presented to the user,
through which the user can compose and post a comment about the movie trailer (i.e., the
third-party application). Another animation sequence may be displayed to show the comment
composer appearing on the screen of the user's device (e.g., the tablet computer). FIGS. 8A
8B illustrate an example animation sequence. In FIG. 8A, comment composer 810 appears
from the bottom of the screen and gradually moves upward. In FIG. 8B, comment composer
810 is now displayed in its entirety, occupying the whole screen of the user's tablet computer.
         [61]   In particular embodiments, comment composer 810 simulates what the user
comment would look like once it is posted by the first-party system (e.g., at the first-party
website), as illustrated in FIG. 9. This enables the user to preview the comment. With some
implementations, there may be some default content automatically included in comment
composer 810. For example, comment composer 810 may automatically include a profile
image 911 of the user, the name 913 of the user, and the current day and time 915. Profile
image 911 and name 913 of the user may be retrieved from the user's profile with the first
party system.
         162]   Comment composer 810 may include a text area 923, where the user can type
comments. Initially, text area 923 may display some instruction text (e.g., "Write something
about this movie trailer."), which is replaced by the user's actual comment once the user

                                                 19
inputs the comment. There may be a "Post" button 921, which enables the user to submit the
comment to the first-party system for publication or posting once the user has finished
composing the comment. An application icon 931 (e.g., in this case, the movie poster)
representing the third-party application is displayed next to comment composer 810, which
indicates to the user which third-party application the user is commenting on.
         [631    With some implementations, there may be a predefined layout used for
comment composer 810. For example, the layout may provide that the user's profile image
911 should appear at the top-left corner of the comment and have a specific size; the user's
name 913 should appear below profile image 911 and have a specific font and color; the
current date and time 915 should appear below user name 913 and have a specific font and
color; and text area 923 for the user comment should appear below date and time 915.
         [641    The user may type text comment concerning the third-party application into
text area 923 using a keyboard or keypad provided with the user's device. In some cases, a
user device may not include a physical keyboard or keypad. In such cases, an on-screen
keyboard 1010 may appear when the user is typing the comment, as illustrated in FIG. 10,
which enables the user to input comment into text area 923.
         1651    In FIG. 11, suppose that the user has finished inputting comment concerning
the third-party application (e.g., the movie trailer) into text area 923. Comment composer 810
now resembles what the user comment would look like once it is published or posted. The
user can preview the comment and make modifications to the comment if desired. When
finished composing the comment, the user may select and activate "Post" button 921 to
submit the comment to the first-party system (e.g., social-networking system 160). The first
party system then posts the user comment in connection with the third-party application (e.g.,
at the first-party website).
         [66]    The functionalities of a third-party comment composer may be implemented
as computer software and executed on a computing system. FIG. 12 illustrates an example
computer system 1200. In particular embodiments, one or more computer systems 1200
perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In
particular embodiments, one or more computer systems 1200 provide functionality described
or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments, software running on one or more computer
systems 1200 performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated
herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein. Particular embodiments

                                              20
include one or more portions of one or more computer systems 1200. Herein, reference to a
computer system may encompass a computing device, and vice versa, where appropriate.
Moreover, reference to a computer system may encompass one or more computer systems,
where appropriate.
         167]   This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems 1200.
This disclosure contemplates computer system 1200 taking any suitable physical form. As
example and not by way of limitation, computer system 1200 may be an embedded computer
system, a system-on-chip (SOC), a single-board computer system (SBC) (such as, for
example, a computer-on-module (COM) or system-on-module (SOM)), a desktop computer
system, a laptop or notebook computer system, an interactive kiosk, a mainframe, a mesh of
computer systems, a mobile telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a server, a tablet
computer system, or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate, computer
system 1200 may include one or more computer systems 1200; be unitary or distributed; span
multiple locations; span multiple machines; span multiple data centers; or reside in a cloud,
which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where
appropriate, one or more computer systems 1200 may perform without substantial spatial or
temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein.
As an example and not by way of limitation, one or more computer systems 1200 may
perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or
illustrated herein. One or more computer systems 1200 may perform at different times or at
different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein,
where appropriate.
         168]   In particular embodiments, computer system 1200 includes a processor 1202,
memory 1204, storage 1206, an input/output (1/0) interface 1208, a communication interface
1210, and a bus 1212. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer
system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any
suitable components in any suitable arrangement.
         169]   In particular embodiments, processor 1202 includes hardware for executing
instructions, such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of
limitation, to execute instructions, processor 1202 may retrieve (or fetch) the instructions
from an internal register, an internal cache, memory 1204, or storage 1206; decode and

                                                21
execute them; and then write one or more results to an internal register, an internal cache,
memory 1204, or storage 1206. In particular embodiments, processor 1202 may include one
or more internal caches for data, instructions, or addresses. This disclosure contemplates
processor 1202 including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches, where
appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation, processor 1202 may include one or
more instruction caches, one or more data caches, and one or more translation lookaside
buffers (TLBs). Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in
memory 1204 or storage 1206, and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those
instructions by processor 1202. Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory
1204 or storage 1206 for instructions executing at processor 1202 to operate on; the results of
previous instructions executed at processor 1202 for access by subsequent instructions
executing at processor 1202 or for writing to memory 1204 or storage 1206; or other suitable
data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor 1202. The TLBs
may speed up virtual-address translation for processor 1202. In particular embodiments,
processor 1202 may include one or more internal registers for data, instructions, or addresses.
This disclosure contemplates processor 1202 including any suitable number of any suitable
internal registers, where appropriate. Where appropriate, processor 1202 may include one or
more arithmetic logic units (ALUs); be a multi-core processor; or include one or more
processors 1202. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.
         170]   In particular embodiments, memory 1204 includes main memory for storing
instructions for processor 1202 to execute or data for processor 1202 to operate on. As an
example and not by way of limitation, computer system 1200 may load instructions from
storage 1206 or another source (such as, for example, another computer system 1200) to
memory 1204. Processor 1202 may then load the instructions from memory 1204 to an
internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions, processor 1202 may retrieve
the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after
execution of the instructions, processor 1202 may write one or more results (which may be
intermediate or final results) to the internal register or internal cache. Processor 1202 may
then write one or more of those results to memory 1204. In particular embodiments,
processor 1202 executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches
or in memory 1204 (as opposed to storage 1206 or elsewhere) and operates only on data in

                                              22
one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory 1204 (as opposed to storage
1206 or elsewhere). One or more memory buses (which may each include an address bus and
a data bus) may couple processor 1202 to memory 1204. Bus 1212 may include one or more
memory buses, as described below. In particular embodiments, one or more memory
management units (MMUs) reside between processor 1202 and memory 1204 and facilitate
accesses to memory 1204 requested by processor 1202. In particular embodiments, memory
1204 includes random access memory (RAM). This RAM may be volatile memory, where
appropriate Where appropriate, this RAM may be dynamic RAM (DRAM) or static RAM
(SRAM). Moreover, where appropriate, this RAM may be single-ported or multi-ported
RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory 1204 may include one or
more memories 1204, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates
particular memory, this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.
         171]   In particular embodiments, storage 1206 includes mass storage for data or
instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation, storage 1206 may include a hard
disk drive (HDD), a floppy disk drive, flash memory, an optical disc, a magneto-optical disc,
magnetic tape, or a Universal Serial Bus (USB) drive or a combination of two or more of
these. Storage 1206 may include removable or non-removable (or fixed) media, where
appropriate. Storage 1206 may be internal or external to computer system 1200, where
appropriate. In particular embodiments, storage 1206 is non-volatile, solid-state memory. In
particular    embodiments,    storage 1206   includes   read-only  memory    (ROM).   Where
appropriate, this ROM may be mask-programmed ROM, programmable ROM (PROM),
erasable PROM (EPROM), electrically erasable PROM (EEPROM), electrically alterable
ROM (EAROM), or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure
contemplates mass storage 1206 taking any suitable physical form. Storage 1206 may include
one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor 1202 and
storage 1206, where appropriate. Where appropriate, storage 1206 may include one or more
storages 1206. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.
         172]   In particular embodiments, I/O interface 1208 includes hardware, software, or
both, providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system 1200
and one or more I/O devices. Computer system 1200 may include one or more of these I/O
devices, where appropriate. One or more of these 1/0 devices may enable communication

                                                 23
between a person and computer system 1200. As an example and not by way of limitation, an
1/0 device may include a keyboard, keypad, microphone, monitor, mouse, printer, scanner,
speaker, still camera, stylus, tablet, touch screen, trackball, video camera, another suitable 1/0
device or a combination of two or more of these. An I/O device may include one or more
sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable 1/O devices and any suitable I/O interfaces
1208 for them. Where appropriate, I/O interface 1208 may include one or more device or
software drivers enabling processor 1202 to drive one or more of these 1/0 devices. 1/0
interface 1208 may include one or more I/O interfaces 1208, where appropriate. Although
this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular 1/0 interface, this disclosure contemplates
any suitable I/O interface.
         [731    In particular embodiments, communication interface 1210 includes hardware,
software, or both providing one or more interfaces for communication (such as, for example,
packet-based communication) between computer system 1200 and one or more other
computer systems 1200 or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of
limitation, communication interface 1210 may include a network interface controller (NIC) or
network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire-based network or a
wireless NIC (WNIC) or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network, such
as a WI-FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable
communication interface 1210 for it. As an example and not by way of limitation, computer
system 1200 may communicate with an ad hoc network, a personal area network (PAN), a
local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN),
or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more
portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example,
computer system 1200 may communicate with a wireless PAN (WPAN) (such as, for
example, a BLUETOOTH WPAN), a WI-Fl network, a WI-MAX network, a cellular
telephone network (such as, for example, a Global System for Mobile Communications
(GSM) network), or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of
these. Computer system 1200 may include any suitable communication interface 1210 for
any of these networks, where appropriate. Communication interface 1210 may include one or
more communication interfaces 1210, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes
and illustrates a particular communication interface, this disclosure contemplates any suitable
communication interface.

                                               24
        [74]    In particular embodiments, bus 1212 includes hardware, software, or both
coupling components of computer system 1200 to each other. As an example and not by way
of limitation, bus 1212 may include an Accelerated Graphics Port (AGP) or other graphics
bus, an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture (EISA) bus, a front-side bus (FSB), a
HYPERTRANSPORT (HT) interconnect, an Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, an
INFINIBAND interconnect, a low-pin-count (LPC) bus, a memory bus, a Micro Channel
Architecture (MCA) bus, a Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus, a PCI-Express
(PCIe) bus, a serial advanced technology attachment (SATA) bus, a Video Electronics
Standards Association local (VLB) bus, or another suitable bus or a combination of two or
more of these. Bus 1212 may include one or more buses 1212, where appropriate. Although
this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus, this disclosure contemplates any
suitable bus or interconnect.
        175]    Herein, a computer-readable non-transitory storage medium or media may
include one or more semiconductor-based or other integrated circuits (ICs) (such, as for
example, field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) or application-specific ICs (ASICs)), hard
disk drives (HDDs), hybrid hard drives (HHDs), optical discs, optical disc drives (ODDs),
magneto-optical discs, magneto-optical drives, floppy diskettes, floppy disk drives (FDDs),
magnetic tapes, solid-state drives (SSDs), RAM-drives, SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives,
any other suitable computer-readable         non-transitory storage media, or any suitable
combination of two or more of these, where appropriate. A computer-readable non-transitory
storage medium may be volatile, non-volatile, or a combination of volatile and non-volatile,
where appropriate.
Further Embodiments
        [76]    One embodiment provides a computer-implemented method comprising:
        presenting a comment icon in connection with a third-party application, the comment
icon being associated with a first party and enabling a user to compose comment concerning
the third-party application; and
        while the user is interacting with the third-party application, in response to the user
activating the comment icon,
                creating a comment post concerning the third-party application;
                enabling the user to input comment inside the comment post; and
                enabling the user to submit the comment post to the first party for publication.

                                                  25
          [77]    In one arrangement:
         the first party is a social-networking system;
         the user is a member of the social-networking system;
         the user interacts with the third-party application through the social-networking
system.
          [781    In one arrangement, the method further comprises:
         while the user is interacting with the third-party application, in response to the user
activating the comment icon,
                  pausing execution of the third-party application; and
                  presenting the third-party application as an application icon next to the
         comment post while the user is inputting comment inside the comment post.
          [791    In one arrangement, the method further comprises:
         enabling the user to preview the comment post as it would appear when published by
the first party.
          180]    In one arrangement, the method further comprises:
         publishing, by the first party, the comment post as a user comment concerning the
third-party application.
          [811    Another embodiment provides one or more computer-readable non-transitory
storage media embodying software that is operable when executed to:
         present a comment icon in connection with a third-party application, the comment
icon being associated with a first party and enabling a user to compose comment concerning
the third-party application; and
         while the user is interacting with the third-party application, in response to the user
activating the comment icon,
                  create a comment post concerning the third-party application;
                  enable the user to input comment inside the comment post; and
                  enable the user to submit the comment post to the first party for publication.
          182]    In one arrangement:
         the first party is a social-networking system;
         the user is a member of the social-networking system;
         the user interacts with the third-party application through the social-networking
system.

                                                  26
         [83]     In one arrangement, the software is further operable when executed to:
         while the user is interacting with the third-party application, in response to the user
activating the comment icon,
                  pause execution of the third-party application; and
                  present the third-paity application as an application icon next to the comment
         post while the user is inputting comment inside the comment post.
         [84]     In one arrangement, the software is further operable when executed to:
         enable the user to preview the comment post as it would appear when published by
the first party.
         185]     In one arrangement, the software is further operable when executed to:
         publish, by the first party, the comment post as a user comment concerning the third
party application.
         186]     A further embodiment provides a system comprising:
         one or more processors; and
         a memory coupled to the processors comprising instructions executable by the
processors, the processors operable when executing the instructions to:
                  present a comment icon in connection with a third-party application, the
         comment icon being associated with a first party and enabling a user to compose
         comment concerning the third-party application; and
                  while the user is interacting with the third-party application, in response to the
         user activating the comment icon,
                          create a comment post concerning the third-party application;
                          enable the user to input comment inside the comment post; and
                          enable the user to submit the comment post to the first party for
                  publication.
         [87]     In one arrangement:
         the first party is a social-networking system;
         the user is a member of the social-networking system;
         the user interacts with the third-party application through the social-networking
system.
         [88]     In one arrangement, the processors are further operable when executing the
instructions to:

                                                 27
         while the user is interacting with the third-party application, in response to the user
activating the comment icon,
                 pause execution of the third-party application; and
                 present the third-party application as an application icon next to the comment
         post while the user is inputting comment inside the comment post.
         [891    In one arrangement, the processors are further operable when executing the
instructions to:
         enable the user to preview the comment post as it would appear when published by
the first party.
         190]    In one arrangement, the processors are further operable when executing the
instructions to:
         publish, by the first party, the comment post as a user comment concerning the third
party application.
Miscellaneous
         191]    Herein, "or" is inclusive and not exclusive, unless expressly indicated
otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore, herein, "A or B" means "A, B, or
both," unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover,
"and" is both joint and several, unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by
context. Therefore, herein, "A and B" means "A and B, jointly or severally," unless expressly
indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.
         192]    The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes, substitutions, variations,
alterations, and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that
a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is
not limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover, although
this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular
components, elements, functions, operations, or steps, any of these embodiments may include
any combination or permutation of any of the components, elements, functions, operations, or
steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art
would comprehend. Furthermore, reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system
or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to, arranged to, capable of,
configured to, enabled to, operable to, or operative to perform a particular function
encompasses that apparatus, system, component, whether or not it or that particular function

                                              28
is activated, turned on, or unlocked, as long as that apparatus, system, or component is so
adapted, arranged, capable, configured, enabled, operable, or operative.

                                                29
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
I.       A computer-implemented method comprising:
         by a computing device of a first-party system, presenting to a user an interactive
comment icon in connection with third-party content on a first user interface, the interactive
comment icon being associated with the first-party system and enabling the user to compose a
comment concerning the third-party content; and
         by the computing device, in response to the user activating the interactive comment
icon, transitioning from the third-party content on the first user interface to a comment-post
interface on a second user interface comprising a content icon representative of the third
party content and a comment-post interface by displaying a first animation sequence showing
the third-party content being replaced with the content icon and a second animation sequence
showing the comment-post interface appearing on the first user interface.
2.       The method of Claim 1, wherein the comment-post interface enables the user to input
a user comment inside the comment post and to submit the user comment to the first party for
publication.
3.       The method of either one of Claim I and Claim 2, wherein the first animation
sequence comprises simulating an animation of an image of the third-party content folding in
half until closed and replaced by the content icon representative of the third-party content, the
comment-post interface being displayed on the second user interface associated with the first
party system, and the second user interface configured to replace the first user interface on
the display after the transition.
4.       The method of Claim 3, wherein the content icon representative of the third-party
content is displayed on a portion of the second user interface.
5.       The method of Claim 4, wherein the second animation sequence comprises simulating
an animation of the comment-post interface appearing from a location on the user interface
and gradually moving to fill the user interface until the comment-post interface is displayed
in its entirety.

                                                  30
6.       The method of Claim 5, wherein, following the first and second animation sequences,
the content icon representative of the third-party content is displayed on a first layer of the
second user interface, the comment-post interface is displayed on a second layer of the
second user interface, and the content icon representative of the third-party content overlays a
portion of the comment-post interface.
7.       The method of Claim 6, wherein the comment-post interface appears from a bottom
location and gradually moves upward to occupy the entirety of the second user interface.
8.       The method of any one of Claims 1 to 7, wherein:
         the first party is a social-networking system;
         the user is a member of the social-networking system; and
         the user interacts with the third-party application through the social-networking
system.
9.       The method of any one of Claims 1 to 8, further comprising enabling the user to
preview the comment post as it would appear when published by the first-party system.
10.      The method of any one of Claims 1 to 9, further comprising publishing, by the first
party system, the comment post as a user comment concerning the third-party application.
11.      One or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying software
that is operable when executed to:
         present to a user an interactive comment icon in connection with third-party content
on a first user interface, the interactive comment icon being associated with a first-party
system and enabling the user to compose a comment concerning the third-party content; and
         in response to the user activating the interactive comment icon, transition from the
third-party content on the first user interface to a comment-post interface on a second user
interface comprising a content icon representative of the third-party content and a comment
post interface by displaying a first animation sequence showing the third-party content being

                                                 31
replaced with the content icon and a second animation sequence showing the comment-post
interface appearing on the first user interface.
12.      The media of Claim 11, wherein the first animation sequence comprises simulating an
animation of an image of the third-party content folding in half until closed and replaced by
the content icon representative of the third-party content, the comment-post interface being
displayed on the second user interface associated with the first-party system, and the second
user interface configured to replace the first user interface on the display after the transition.
13.      The media of Claim 12, wherein the content icon representative of the third-party
content is displayed on a portion of the second user interface.
14.      The media of Claim 13, wherein the second animation sequence comprises simulating
an animation of the comment-post interface appearing from a location on the user interface
and gradually moving to fill the user interface until the comment-post interface is displayed
in its entirety.
15.      The media of Claim 14, wherein, following the first and second animation sequences,
the content icon representative of the third-party content is displayed on a first layer of the
second user interface, the comment-post interface is displayed on a second layer of the
second user interface, and the content icon representative of the third-party content overlays a
portion of the comment-post interface.
16.      A system comprising:
         one or more processors; and
         a memory coupled to the processors comprising instructions executable by the
processors, the processors operable when executing the instructions to:
         present to a user an interactive comment icon in connection with third-party content
on a first user interface, the interactive comment icon being associated with a first-party
system and enabling the user to compose a comment concerning the third-party content; and
         in response to the user activating the interactive comment icon, transition from the
third-party content on the first user interface to a comment-post interface on a second user

                                                 32
interface comprising a content icon representative of the third-party content and a comment
post interface by displaying a first animation sequence showing the third-party content being
replaced with the content icon and a second animation sequence showing the comment-post
interface appearing on the first user interface.
17.      The system of Claim 16, wherein the first animation sequence comprises simulating
an animation of an image of the third-party content folding in half until closed and replaced
by the content icon representative of the third-party content, the comment-post interface
being displayed on the second user interface associated with the first-party system, and the
second user interface configured to replace the first user interface on the display after the
transition.
18.      The system of Claim 17, wherein the content icon representative of the third-party
content is displayed on a portion of the second user interface.
19.      The system of Claim 18, wherein the second animation sequence comprises
simulating an animation of the comment-post interface appearing from a location on the user
interface and gradually moving to fill the user interface until the comment-post interface is
displayed in its entirety.
20.      The system of Claim 19, wherein, following the first and second animation sequences,
the content icon representative of the third-party content is displayed on a first layer of the
second user interface, the comment-post interface is displayed on a second layer of the
second user interface, and the content icon representative of the third-party content overlays a
portion of the comment-post interface.
                                      Facebook, Inc.
                             By Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                   KCOTTERS
                                 Patent & Trade Mark Attorneys

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
