   ABSTRACT
   A porous separator having directly coated thereon a dried coating composition
   comprising:
            a) from     2 to 150 parts fluoropolymer particles having a weight average
 5              particle size of less than 500 nm;
            b) from 0 to 10 parts of one or more additives selected from the group
                consisting of anti-settling agents and surfactants;
            c)  100 parts water;
   all parts being parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of water, and wherein the
10 composition contains no fluorosurfactant.

             AQUEOUS POLYVINYLIDENE FLUORIDE COMPOSITION
            The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent
   application number 2013222505, which claims priority to United States Provisional
 5 Patent Application Serial No. 61/601,278, filed 21 February 2012, which is hereby
   incorporated by reference in its entirety.
   Field of the Invention
            The invention relates to a separator for non-aqueous-type electrochemical
10 device that has been coated with an aqueous fluoropolymer coating. The
   fluoropolymer is preferably polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF), and more preferably a
   copolymer of polyvinylidene fluoride. The fluoropolymer coating provides a porous
   coating on porous substrate used in non-aqueous-type electrochemical devices, such
   as batteries and electric double layer capacitors. The fluoropolymer coating improves
15 the thermal resistance and mechanical integrity, and lowers the interfacial electrical
   impedance of the porous separator. In one embodiment, porous separator is coated
   with an aqueous fluoropolymer-based composition. In another embodiment, the
   starting fluoropolymer dispersion is free of fluorinated surfactant.
   Background of the Invention
20          Lithium batteries, including lithium metal batteries, lithium ion batteries,
   lithium polymer batteries, and lithium ion polymer batteries are finding increased
   usage due to drive voltages and higher energy densities than those of conventional
   batteries using aqueous electrolytes (such as Ni-MH batteries). However, most lithium
   secondary batteries have different safety characteristics depending on several factors.
25 The safety of these batteries is strictly restricted in terms of ignition and combustion.
   Currently available lithium ion batteries and lithium ion polymer batteries use
   polyolefin-based separators in order to prevent a short circuit between a cathode and
   an anode. However, because such polyolefin-based separators have a melting point of
   140 C or less, they can be shrink melted to cause a change in volume when the
30 temperature of a battery is increased by internal and/or external factors, and that may
   cause a short-circuit. The short circuit can result in accidents such as explosion or fire
   in a battery caused by emission of electric energy. As a result, it is necessary to
   provide a separator that does not cause heat shrinking at high temperature.
            Polyvinylidene fluoride, because of its excellent electro-chemical resistance
35 and superb adhesion among fluoropolymers, has been found to be a useful for
                                                  1

separator coating to be used in non-aqueous electrolytic devices. US 7,662,517 and
US 7,704,641, and US 2010/0330268, incorporated herein by reference, describe a
PVDF copolymer solution in organic solvents which is used in conjunction with a
powdery metal oxide materials in the coating of a polyolefin separator to be used in a
                                          la

   WO 2013/126490                                                            PCT/US2013/026996
   non-aqueous-type battery. The separator forms a barrier between the anode and the
   cathode in the battery. It was found that the bound inorganic particles on the porous
   organic separator increased the volume of space that a liquid electrolyte infiltrates,
   resulting in improved ionic conductivity
 5         The role of the organic solvent is generally to dissolve PVDF copolymer in
   order to provide good adhesion (non-reversible adhesion) between PVDF copolymer
   and porous separator and also optionally added the powdery particles and porous
   separator which upon evaporation of the organic solvent is leaving behind a porous
   coating on the polyolefin separator.
10         Unfortunately, there are several issues with these organic-solvent based binder
   compositions. A large amount of solvent is required for traditional coating separator
   coating process because the solution / slurry exhibits an abnormally high viscosity at
   higher concentration levels of PVDF (above 10-20 wt %), making the preparation of
   coating solution / slurry difficult and the suppression of gelation or reducing viscosity
15 of the solution / slurry composition is difficult as well.
           Further, the organic-solvent-based solution / slurry presents safety, health and
   environmental dangers that are not present in an aqueous system. Organic solvents
   are generally toxic and flammable, volatile in nature, and involve special
   manufacturing controls to mitigate risk and reduce environmental pollution from the
20 organic solvent. In addition, a large carbon footprint is associated with use of organic
   solvents that is not environmentally desirable. Further, extra manufacturing steps,
   costing time, money, and energy are involved to isolate PVDF copolymers formed in
   an aqueous media, drying the PVDF based polymer to a powder, then dissolving the
   powder in a solvent.
25         There is an environmentally-driven, and safety-driven desire to be able to
   produce an excellent, interconnective well-adhered PVDF-based separator coating,
   without the massive use of organic solvents.
           To effectively employ waterborne slurries in separator coating, it is important
   to develop proper formulation that are compatible with current manufacturing
30 practices and provide desired properties of the intermediate and final products.     Some
   common criteria include: a) stability of the waterborne fluoropolymer dispersion,
   having sufficient shelf-life, b) stability of the slurry after formulation and admixing
   optionally the powdery material, c) appropriate viscosity of the slurry to facilitate
                                                  2

   good aqueous casting, and d) sufficient adhesion to the separator which is non-reversible after
   drying, e) and foaming porous coating on polyolefin separator upon drying. Additionally,
   from a regulatory view, fluoropolymers made without fluorosurfactants are preferred.
            Surprisingly, a stable, aqueous fluoropolymer coating composition has been developed,
 5 that is useful in coating of porous separators in non-aqueous electrochemical devices. The
   coating composition contains fluoropolymer and optionally inorganic particles or organic
   fibers. The separator coated with the aqueous composition of the invention provides many
   performance, manufacturing and environmental advantages over solvent-based PVDF
   compositions and solvent:
10          a) Aqueous PVDF-based compositions are safer to use and process, less hazardous to
                health, and more environmentally friendly than solvent-based PVDF compositions.
            b) Aqueous PVDF dispersions are advantageously synthesized using non-fluorinated
                surfactant.
            c) Aqueous PVDF dispersions can be used as synthesized, without the need for
15              isolating and drying to a powder, or concentration of the latex - saving time and
                energy.
            d) Aqueous PVDF dispersions contain PVDF copolymer particles that can be softened
                to adhere to metal oxide particles and a polyolefin separator by using fugitive
                adhesion promoters - resulting in a porous coating on a separator upon drying.
20          e) The PVDF-based copolymers have advantageously low melting temperature or low
                to zero crystalline content so that they can have lower film forming temperature
                and/or require less fugitive solvents.
            Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are used in
   this specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying the presence of
25 the stated features, integers, steps or components, but not precluding the presence of one or
   more other features, integers, steps or components, or group thereof.
            The discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles and the like is included
   in this specification solely for the purpose of providing a context for the present invention. It
   is not suggested or represented that any or all of these matters formed part of the prior art base
30 or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present invention as it existed
   before the priority date of each claim of this application.
                                                     3

  Summary of the Invention
        The invention relates to a porous separator having directly coated thereon a
  composition comprising:
        a) from 2 to 150 parts fluoropolymer particles having a weight average particle size of
5           less than 500 nm;
        b) optionally from 10 to 500 parts of one or more powdery particles;
        c) optionally from 0 to 10 parts of one or more thickeners;
                                               3a

   WO 2013/126490                                                          PCT/US2013/026996
           d) optionally, one or more pH adjusting agents;
           e) from 0 to 10 parts of one or more additives selected from the group
               consisting of anti-settling agents and surfactants;
           f) optionally from 0 to 5 parts of one or more wetting agents;
 5         g) optionally from       0 to 150 parts of one or more fugitive adhesion
               promoters;
           h) 100 parts water;
           all parts being parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of water, and
           wherein the composition contains no fluorosurfactant.
10         Preferably the fluoropolymer is a polyvinylidene fluoride-based polymer.
           The invention further relates to a method for coating the separator.
           The invention further relates to a non-aqueous electrochemical device having
   the separator of the invention as a barrier between the anode and the cathode.
15 Brief Description of the Drawings
           Figures 1 and 2 are FTIR spectra of coated and non-coated separators,
   showing the durability of the separator coatings of the invention.
   Detailed Description of the Invention
20         The invention relates to a porous separator coated with an aqueous
   fluoropolymer-based composition and optionally containing particles, and in
   particular to a polyvinylidene fluoride-based composition.
           By "fluorosurfactant free" is meant that all surfactants used in making the
   aqueous fluoropolymer dispersion do not contain a fluorine atom (i.e. they are "non
25 fluorinated surfactants"). The term refers to all surfactants used in making and
   processing the aqueous fluoropolymer dispersion, and preferably to all the surfactants
   in the composition of the invention, including: all surfactants used during the
   polymerization process - whether added up-front, fed continuously during the
   polymerization, fed partly before and then during polymerization, or fed after the
30 polymerization has started and progressed for a time; and preferably all surfactants
   added post-polymerization to improve latex stability.
           By "irreversible" as used herein in relation to a separator coated by the
   polymer of the aqueous composition, is meant that following the drying of the
   aqueous composition in which the polymer adheres to the porous substrate, the
                                                4

   WO 2013/126490                                                           PCT/US2013/026996
   polymer coating is not soluble or redispersible in electrolyte solutions, such as
   carbonates. The irreversibility is due to the fact that the polymer particles flow and
   adhere to each other, and adhere to the separator and act as a binder for optional
   powdery inorganic materials, and organic fibers , providing interconnectivity and
 5 adhesion.
           The manner of practicing the invention will now be generally described with
   respect to a specific embodiment thereof, namely polyvinylidene fluoride based
   polymer prepared in aqueous emulsion polymerization using non-fluorinated
   emulsifier as the principle emulsifier and used in preparation of separators. Although
10 the process of the invention has been generally illustrated with respect to PVDF based
   polymers and VDF-HPF copolymers, one of skill in the art will recognize that
   analogous polymerization techniques can be applied to the preparation of other
   homopolymers and copolymers of fluorinated monomers and their formulation for the
   coating of separators in general, and more specifically to copolymers of vinylidene
15 fluoride (VDF), tetrafluoroethylene (TFE), and/or chlorotrifluoroethylene (CTFE)
   with co-reactive monomers (fluorinated or non-fluorinated) such as
   hexafluoropropylene, perfluorovinyl ether, propane, vinyl acetate, and the like. While
   non-fluorinated surfactants are preferred, the use of fluorosurfactants is also
   anticipated by this invention.
20
   PVDF
           The term "vinylidene fluoride polymer" (PVDF) used herein includes both
   normally high molecular weight homopolymers, copolymers, and terpolymers within
   its meaning.    Copolymers of PVDF are particularly preferred, as they are softer
25 having a lower Tm, melting point and a reduced crystalline structure.                  Such
   copolymers include those containing at least 50 mole percent, preferably at least 75
   mole %, more preferably at least 80 mole %, and even more preferably at least 85
   mole % of vinylidene fluoride copolymerized with at least one comonomer selected
   from      the    group     consisting    of     tetrafluoroethylene,     trifluoroethylene,
30 chlorotrifluoroethylene,    hexafluoropropene,     vinyl   fluoride,  pentafluoropropene,
   tetrafluoropropene, perfluoromethyl vinyl ether, perfluoropropyl vinyl ether and any
   other   monomer      that  would readily    copolymerize      with   vinylidene    fluoride.
   Particularly preferred are copolymers composed of from at least about 70 and up to 90
   mole percent vinylidene fluoride, and correspondingly from 10 to 30 mole percent
                                               5

   hexafluoropropene.          Terpolymers    of  vinylidene     fluoride,  hexafluoropropene    and
   tetrafluoroethylene are also representatives of the class of vinylidene fluoride copolymers,
   embodied herein.
            In one embodiment, up to 20%, and preferably up to                 15%, by weight of
 5 hexafluoropropene (HFP) units and 80%, preferably 85%, by weight or more of VDF units are
   present in the vinylidene fluoride polymer. It is desired that the HFP units be distributed as
   homogeneously as possible to provide PVDF-HFP copolymer with excellent dimensional
   stability in an end-use environment - such as in a battery.
            The copolymer of PVDF for use in the separator coating composition preferably has a
10 high molecular weight. By high molecular weight, as used herein, is meant PVDF having a
   melt viscosity of greater than 1.0 kilopoise according to ASTM method D-3835 measured at
   450 'F and 100 sec .
            The copolymer of PVDF used in the invention is preferably prepared by aqueous free
   radical emulsion polymerization - although suspension, solution and supercritical CO 2
15 polymerization processes may also be used. In a general emulsion polymerization process, a
   reactor is charged with deionized water, water-soluble surfactant capable of emulsifying the
   reactant mass during polymerization and optional paraffin wax antifoulant. The mixture is
   stirred and deoxygenated. A predetermined amount of chain transfer agent (CTA), is then
   introduced into the reactor, the reactor temperature raised to the desired level and vinylidene
20 fluoride and one or more comonomers is fed into the reactor. Once the initial charge of
   monomers are introduced and the pressure in the reactor has reached the desired level, an
   initiator emulsion or solution is introduced to start the polymerization reaction. The
   temperature of the reaction can vary depending on the characteristics of the initiator used and
   one of skill in the art will know how to do so. Typically the temperature will be from about
25 30' to 150'C, preferably from about 60' to 1 10 C. Once the desired amount of polymer has
   been reached in the reactor, the monomer feed will be stopped, but initiator feed is optionally
   continued to consume residual monomer. Residual gases (containing unreacted monomers)
   are vented and the latex recovered from the reactor.
            The surfactant used in the polymerization can be any surfactant described previously in
30 the art to be useful in PVDF emulsion polymerization, including perfluorinated, partially
   fluorinated, and non-fluorinated surfactants. Preferably, for regulatory reasons, the
                                                    6

   WO 2013/126490                                                           PCT/US2013/026996
   PVDF emulsion of the invention is made without fluorinated surfactants. Non
   fluorinated surfactants useful in the PVDF polymerization could be both ionic and
   non-ionic in nature including, but are not limited to, 3-allyloxy-2-hydroxy-1-propane
   sulfonic acid salts, polyvinylphosphonic acid, polyacrylic acids, polyvinyl sulfonic
 5 acid, and salts thereof, polyethylene glycol and/or polypropylene glycol and the block
   copolymers thereof, alkyl phosphonates and siloxane-based surfactants.
            The PVDF polymerization results in a latex generally having a solids level of
   10 to 60 percent by weight, preferably 10 to 50 percent, and having a weight average
   particle size of less than 500 nm, preferably less than 400 nm, and more preferably
10 less than 300 nm. The weight average particle size is generally at least 20 nm and
   preferably at least 50 nm. The composition of the invention contains 2 to 150 parts
   by weight of PVDF copolymer binder particles per 100 parts of water, preferably 1 to
   25 parts by weight. Additional adhesion promoters may also be added to improve the
   binding characteristics and provide connectivity and adhesion that is non-reversible.
15 A minor amount of one or more other water-miscible solvents, such as ethylene
   glycol, may be mixed into the PVDF latex to improve freeze-thaw stability.
            In the present invention, PVDF based-polymer binder is generally used in the
   coating composition, however a blend of several different polymer binders, preferably
   all fluoropolymer binders, and most preferably all PVDF binders may also be used.
20 In one embodiment, only thermoplastic fluoropolymers that can be softened by
   fugitive adhesion promoters are used as the polymeric coating / binder.
   Powdery particles
            The powdery particular materials, or powdery particle in the coating
   composition permit an interstitial volume to be formed among them, thereby serving
25 to form micropores and to maintain the physical shape as spacer. Additionally,
   because the powdery particles are characterized in that their physical properties are
   not changed even at a high temperature of 200    0 C. or higher, the coated separator
   using the inorganic particles can have excellent heat resistance. The powdery particles
   may be inorganic, organic, and may be in the form of particles or fibers. Mixtures of
30 these are also anticipated.
            The powdery particular materials, must be electrochemically stable (not
   subjected to oxidation and/or reduction at the range of drive voltages). Moreover, the
                                                7

   powdery materials preferably have a high ion conductivity. Materials of low density are
   preferred over higher density materials, as the weight of the battery produced can be reduced.
   The dielectric constant is preferably 5 or greater. Useful inorganic powdery materials in the
   invention include, but are not limited to BaTiO 3, Pb(Zr,Ti)0 3, Pb 1-x LaxZryO 3 (O<x<1, O<y<1),
 5 Pb(Mgi 3Nb 2/3) 3-PbTiO 3 , HfO, HfO2 , SrTiO 3 , SnO 2 , CeO 2 , MgO, NiO, CaO, ZnO, Y 2 0 3 ,
   A12 0 3 , TiO 2 , SiC, ZrO 2 , boron silicate, BaSO 4 , nano-clays, ceramics, or mixtures thereof.
   Useful organic fibers, include, but are not limited to aramid fillers and fibers, polyetherether
   ketone and polyetherketone ketone fibers, PTFE fibers, and nanofibers.
             In one embodiment, the particles or fibers may be surface treated, chemically (such as
10 by etching or functionalization), mechanically, or by irradiation (such as by plasma treatment).
             The separator of the invention can form pores having a size from several nanometers
   up to several micrometers by controlling the size of the powdery materials, content of
   inorganic materials and the mixing ratio of inorganic materials and binder polymer. It is also
   possible to control the pore size and porosity.
15           The powdery materials preferably have an average diameter of 0.001-10 microns.
   Preferably fibers have diameters below 1 micron, and fiber overlap does not amount to more
   than about 4-5 microns in thickness. When the size is less than 0.00 1 micron the particles have
   poor dispersibility. When the size is greater than 10 micron the coating has an increased
   thickness under the same solid content, resulting in degradation in mechanical properties.
20 Furthermore, such excessively large pores may increase a possibility of internal short circuit
   being generated during repeated charge/discharge cycles.
   The powdery materials are present in coating composition at 50 to 99 weight percent,
   preferably 60 - 95 weight percent, based on the total of polymer solids and powdery material.
   When the content of the inorganic materials is less than 50 weight percent, the PVDF binder
25 polymer is present in such a large amount as to decrease the interstitial volume formed among
   the powdery particles and thus to decrease the pore size and porosity, resulting in degradation
   in the quality of a battery. In order to address the issue, the total solid content of aqueous
   dispersion can be adjusted to a lower level. When the content of the powdery materials is
   greater than 99 weight percent, the polymer content is too low to provide sufficient adhesion
30 among the particles,
                                                          8

   WO 2013/126490                                                           PCT/US2013/026996
   resulting in degradation in mechanical properties of a finally formed coated separator.
   Surfactant/anti-settlin2 a2ent
           The coating composition of the invention contains 0 to 10 parts, preferably
 5 from 0.1 to 10 parts, and more preferably 0.5 to 5 parts of one or more anti-settling
   agents and/or surfactants per 100 parts of water. In one embodiment the level of anti
   settling agent or surfactant is from 2.7 to 10 parts per 100 parts of water. These anti
   settling agents or surfactants are added to the PVDF dispersion post-polymerization,
   generally to improve the shelf stability, and provide additional stabilization during
10 slurry preparation.      Also during the polymerization process, the surfactant/anti
   settling agent used in this invention could be              added all upfront prior to
   polymerization, fed continuously during the polymerization, fed partly before and
   then during polymerization, or fed after polymerization started and progressed for a
   while.
15         Useful anti-settling agents include, but are not limited to, ionic substances,
   such as salts of alkyl sulfates, sulfonates, phosphates, phophonates (such as sodium
   lauryl sulfate and ammonium lauryl sulfate) and salts of partially fluorinated alkyl
   sulfates, carboxylates, phosphates, phosphonates (such as those sold under the
   CAPSTONE brandname by DuPont), and non-ionic surfactants such as the TRITON
20 X series (from Dow) and PLURONIC series (from BASF). In one embodiment, only
   anionic surfactants are used. It is preferred that no fluorinated surfactants are present
   in the composition, either residual surfactant from the polymerization process, or
   added post-polymerization in forming or concentrating an aqueous dispersion.
   Wettin2 a2ent
25         The coating composition of the invention optionally contains 0 to 5 parts,
   preferably from 0 to 3 parts of one or more wetting agents per 100 parts of water.
   Surfactants can serve as wetting agents, but wetting agents may also include non
   surfactants. In some embodiments, the wetting agent can be an organic solvent. The
   presence of optional wetting agents permits uniform dispersion of powdery
30 material(s) into aqueous dispersion of vinylidene fluoride polymer. Useful wetting
   agents include, but are not limited to, ionic and non-ionic surfactants such as the
   TRITON series (from Dow) and the PLURONIC series (from BASF), BYK-346
   (from BYK Additives)and organic liquids that are compatible with the aqueous
   dispersion, including but not limited to NMP, DMSO, and acetone.
                                                 9

   WO 2013/126490                                                           PCT/US2013/026996
   Thickener/rheolo2y modifier
            The coating composition of the invention may contain 0 to 10 parts, preferably
   from 0 to 5 parts of one or more thickeners or rheology modifiers per 100 parts of
   water. Addition of water-soluble thickener or rheology modifier to the above
 5 dispersion prevents or slows down the settling of powdery materials while providing
   appropriate slurry viscosity for a casting process. Useful thickeners include, but are
   not limited to the ACRYSOL series (from Dow Chemical); partially neutralized poly
   (acrylic acid) or poly (methacrylic acid) such as CARBOPOL from Lubrizol; and
   carboxylated alkyl cellulose, such as carboxylated methyl cellulose (CMC).
10 Adjustment of the formulation pH can improve the effectiveness of some of the
   thickeners. In addition to organic rheology modifiers, inorganic rheology modifiers
   can also be used alone or in combination. Useful inorganic rheology modifiers
   include, but are not limited to, inorganic rheology modifiers including but not limited
   to natural clays such as montmorillonite and bentonite, manmade clays such as
15 laponite, and others such as silica, and talc.
            The thickeners are used in the aqueous composition containing the PVDF and
   powdery material, and are not used in pure form as a second coating composition as
   has been described in the JP 2000357505 reference.
   Fugitive adhesion promoter
20          A fugitive adhesion promoter is preferably present to produce the adhesion
   needed in coatings formed from the composition of the invention. By "fugitive
   adhesion promoter", as used herein, is meant an agent that increases the adhesion of
   the composition after coating on the porous substrate. The fugitive adhesion promoter
   is then capable of being removed from the formed substrate generally by evaporation
25 (for a chemical) or by dissipation (for added energy).
            The fugitive adhesion promoter can be a chemical material, an energy source
   combined with pressure, or a combination, used at an effective amount to cause
   interconnectivity of the components of the aqueous composition during coating
   formation. For chemical fugitive adhesion promoters, the composition contains 0 to
30 150 parts, preferably 1 to 100 parts, and more preferably from 2 to 30 parts, of one or
   more fugitive adhesion promoters per 100 parts of water. Preferably this is an organic
   liquid, that is soluble or miscible in water. This organic liquid acts as a plasticizer for
   PVDF particles, making them tacky and capable of acting as discrete adhesion points
   during the drying step. The PVDF polymer particles are able to soften, flow and
                                                10

   adhere to separator and optionally the powdery materials during manufacture, resulting in
   separator coatings with high adhesion and connectivity that are non-reversible. In one
   embodiment the organic liquid is a latent solvent, which is a solvent that does not dissolve or
   substantially swell PVDF resin at room temperature, but will solvate the PVDF resin at
 5 elevated temperatures.    In one embodiment a useful organic solvent is N-methyl-2
   pyrrolidone. Other useful fugitive adhesion promoter agents include, but are not limited to,
   dimethylformamide, N,N-dimethylacetamide, dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO),
   hexamethylphosphoramide, dioxane, tetrahydrofuran, tetramethylurea, triethyl phosphate,
   trimethyl phosphate, dimethyl succinate, diethyl succinate and tetraethyl urea.
10         In the case of energy as the fugitive adhesion promoter, useful energy sources include,
   but are not limited to, heat, IR radiation, and radio frequency (RF).         For heat alone, the
   temperature during the processing of the PVDF copolymer composition on an electrode should
   be close to the melting point of the polymer.
   Other additives.
15         The coating composition of the invention may further contain effective amounts of
   other additives, including but not limited to fillers, leveling agents, anti-foaming agents, pH
   buffers, and other adjutants typically used in waterborne formulation while meeting desired
   electrode requirements.
           The aqueous coating composition of the invention can be obtained in many different
20 ways.
                    In one embodiment, a PVDF formulation is formed (preferably without any
   fluorosurfactant) and a predetermined amount of any anti-settling agent(s) or surfactant(s), is
   diluted in water and post-added to the PVDF dispersion latex with stirring, in order to provide
   adequate storage stability for the latex. To this PVDF dispersion/anti-settling mixture is added,
25 with stirring, optional wetting agent(s), followed by adding any thickener(s), fugitive adhesion
   promoter(s), and then bringing the pH up to the appropriate range for the thickener to be
   effective, if necessary. Some thickeners such as CMC are effective in a wide range of pH, i.e.
   from 3 to 9 pH for CMC. The powdery material(s) and other ingredients are then added to the
   mixture. It may be advantageous to disperse the powdery material(s) in the fugitive adhesion
30 promoter, the latent solvent or wetting agent to provide wetting of the materials prior to
   admixing with the aqueous PVDF binder formulation.
                                                    11

           There is no particular limitation in choosing the substrate that is coated with the
   aqueous coating composition of the invention, as long as it is a porous substrate having pores.
   Preferably the substrate is a heat resistant porous substrate having a melting point of greater
   than 200C. Such heat resistant porous substrates can improve the thermal safety of the coated
 5 separator under external and/or internal thermal impacts.
           Examples of porous substrates useful in the invention as the separator include, but are
   not limited to: polyolefins, polyethylene terephthalate, polybutylene terephthalate, polyester,
   polyacetal, polyamide, polycarbonate, polyimide, polyetherether ketone, polyether sulfone,
   polyphenylene oxide, polyphenylene sulfide, polyethylene naphthalene or mixtures thereof.
10 However, other heat resistant engineering plastics may be used with no particular limitation.
   Non-woven materials of natural and synthetic materials may also be used as the substrate of
   the separator.
           The porous substrate generally has a thickness of from 1 micron to 50 microns, and are
   typically cast membranes or non-woven membranes. The porous substrate preferably has a
15 porosity of between 5% and 95%. The pore size (diameter) preferably ranges from 0.001
   micron to 50 micron, more preferably from 0.01 micron to 10 micron. When the pore size and
   porosity are less than 0.01 micron and 5%, respectively, the porous substrate may function as
   resistance layer. When the pore size and porosity are greater than 50 micron and 95%,
   respectively, it is difficult to maintain mechanical properties.
20         The porous substrate may take the form of a membrane, or fibrous web. When the
   porous substrate is fibrous, it may be a non-woven web forming a porous web, such as a
   spunbond or melt blown web.
           An alternative method is to use a fluoropolymer powder, that is redispersed in water to
   form a fluoropolymer dispersion. In this case the particles will have been agglomerated, and
25 the agglomerated particle size will be greater than 500 nm.
           The aqueous coating composition is applied onto at least one surface, and preferably
   both face surfaces, of a porous substrate by means described previously in the art, such as by
   brush, roller, ink jet, squeegee, foam applicator, curtain coating, vacuum coating, or spraying.
   The coating is then dried onto the separator. The final dry coating thickness is from 0.5 to 15
30 microns, preferably from 1 to 8 microns, and more preferably from 2 to 4 microns in
   thickness.
                                                    12

            In one embodiment, the fluoropolymer coating may further be cross-linked to control
   swelling and dissolution. Useful crosslinking mechanisms include chemical crosslinking, and
   crosslinking by irradiation, and in particular by e-beam, UV radiation, LED radiation, and
   gamma irradiation.
 5          The separators of the invention can be used to form an electrochemical device, such as
   a battery, capacitor, electric double layer capacitor, membrane electrode assembly (MEA) or
   fuel cell, by means previously described in the art. A non-aqueous-type battery can be formed
   by placing a negative electrode and positive electrode on either side of the coated separator.
10 Examples
   General:
            The latexes of the invention are prepared by a typical process for making
   fluoropolymers using emulsifiers. The emulsifiers may be ionic or non-ionic, such as those
   containing blocks of polyethylene glycol, polypropylene glycol and/or polytetramethylene
15 glycol. Preferably, the process and fluoropolymer produced contain no fluorinated or partially
   fluorinated surfactant.    The fluoropolymer dispersions produced have good latex stability and
   shelf-life, and are coagulum-free. These preferred dispersions are absolutely free of
   fluorinated or partially fluorinated surfactant, with no fluorinated surfactant being used in
   either the synthesis or in a post-addition.
20          In the polymerization process, the emulsifier may be added all upfront prior to
   polymerization, fed continuously during the polymerization, fed partly before and then during
   polymerization, or fed after polymerization started and progressed for a while.
   Example 1
25 Into an 80-gallon stainless steel reactor was charged, 345 lbs of deionized water, 250 grams of
   PLURONIC 3 1RI (non-fluorinated non-ionic surfactant from BASF), and 0.3 lbs of propane.
   Following evacuation, agitation was begun at 23 rpm and the reactor was heated. After reactor
   temperature reached the desired set point of
                                                    13

   WO 2013/126490                                                        PCT/US2013/026996
   100 'C, the VDF charge was started. Reactor pressure was then raised to 650 psi by
   charging approximately 35 lbs VDF into the reactor. After reactor pressure was
   stabilized, 4.5 lbs of initiator solution made of 1.0 wt% potassium persulfate and 1.0
   wt % sodium acetate was added to the reactor to initiate polymerization. The rate of
 5 further addition of the initiator solution was adjusted to obtain and maintain a final
   VDF      polymerization     rate  of   roughly  70    pounds  per   hour.  The    VDF
   homopolymerization was continued until approximately 150 pounds VDF was
   introduced in the reaction mass.        The VDF feed was stopped and the batch was
   allowed to react-out at the reaction temperature to consume residual monomer at
10 decreasing pressure. After 25 minutes, the agitation was stopped and the reactor was
   cooled, vented and the latex recovered. Solids in the recovered latex were determined
   by gravimetric technique and were about 27 weight% and melt viscosity of about 27
   kp according to ASTM method D-3835 measured at 450 'F and 100 sec-.                The
   melting temperature of resin was measured in accordance with ASTM method D
15 3418 and was found to be about 162 'C. The weight average particle size was
   measured by NICOMP laser light scattering instrument and was found to be about
   150 nm.
   Examples 2
20          Into an 80-gallon stainless steel reactor was charged, 345 lbs of deionized
   water, 250 grams of PLURONIC 31R1 (non- fluorinated non-ionic surfactant from
   BASF), and 0.6 lbs of ethyl acetate. Following evacuation, agitation was begun at 23
   rpm and the reactor was heated. After reactor temperature reached the desired set
   point of 100 'C, the VDF and HFP monomer were introduced to reactor with HFP
25 ratio of 40 wt% of total monomers. Reactor pressure was then raised to 650 psi by
   charging approximately 35 lbs total monomers into the reactor. After reactor pressure
   was stabilized, 5.0 lbs of initiator solution made of 1.0 wt% potassium persulfate and
   1.0 wt % sodium acetate were added to the reactor to initiate polymerization. Upon
   initiation, the ratio of HFP to VDF was so adjusted to arrive at 16.5% HFP to total
30 monomers in the feed. The rate of further addition of the initiator solution was also
   adjusted to obtain and maintain a final combined VDF and HFP polymerization rate
   of roughly 70 pounds per hour. The VDF and HPF copolymerization was continued
   until approximately 160 pounds monomers were introduced in the reaction mass. The
                                                14

   WO 2013/126490                                                        PCT/US2013/026996
   HFP feed was stopped but VDF feed continued till approximately 180 lbs of total
   monomers were fed to the reactor. The VDF feed was stopped and the batch was
   allowed to react-out at the reaction temperature to consume residual monomer at
   decreasing pressure. After 40 minutes, the initiator feed and agitation were stopped
 5 and the reactor was cooled, vented and the latex recovered. Solids in the recovered
   latex were determined by gravimetric technique and were about 32 weight% and melt
   viscosity of about 28 kp according to ASTM method D-3835 measured at 450 'F and
   100 sec-1 . The melting temperature of resin was measured in accordance with
   ASTMD3418 and was found to be about 120 'C.            The weight average particle size
10 was measured by NICOMP laser light scattering instrument and was found to be
   about 160 nm.
   Examples 3
            Into an 80-gallon stainless steel reactor was charged, 345 lbs of deionized
15 water, 250 grams of PLURONIC 31R1 (non- fluorinated non-ionic surfactant from
   BASF), and 0.35 lbs of ethyl acetate. Following evacuation, agitation was begun at
   23 rpm and the reactor was heated. After reactor temperature reached the desired set
   point of 100 'C, the VDF and HFP monomer were introduced to reactor with HFP
   ratio of 13.2 wt% of total monomers. Reactor pressure was then raised to 650 psi by
20 charging approximately 35 lbs total monomers into the reactor. After reactor pressure
   was stabilized, 3.5 lbs of initiator solution made of 1.0 wt% potassium persulfate and
   1.0 wt % sodium acetate were added to the reactor to initiate polymerization. Upon
   initiation, the ratio of HFP to VDF was so adjusted to arrive at 4.4% HFP to total
   monomers in the feed. The rate of further addition of the initiator solution was also
25 adjusted to obtain and maintain a final combined VDF and HFP polymerization rate
   of roughly 90 pounds per hour. The VDF and HPF copolymerization was continued
   until approximately 160 pounds monomers were introduced in the reaction mass. The
   HFP feed was stopped but VDF feed continued till approximately 180 lbs of total
   monomers were fed to the reactor. The VDF feed was stopped and the batch was
30 allowed to react-out at the reaction temperature to consume residual monomer at
   decreasing pressure. After 40 minutes, the initiator feed and agitation were stopped
   and the reactor was cooled, vented and the latex recovered. Solids in the recovered
   latex were determined by gravimetric technique and were about 32 weight% and melt
                                                15

   WO 2013/126490                                                      PCT/US2013/026996
   viscosity of about 38 kp according to ASTM method D-3835 measured at 450 'F and
   100 sec-1 . The melting temperature of resin was measured in accordance with ASTM
   method D-3418 and was found to be about 152 'C.       The weight average particle size
   was measured by NICOMP laser light scattering instrument and was found to be
 5 about 160 nm.
           The above PVDF based latexes of example 1-3 were then formulated into an
   aqueous separator coating composition and applied to a separator and dried.
   Example 4-6
10         Aqueous separator coating compositions were prepared by making first, stock
   solution of A comprised 1.5% BYK-346        (from BYK-Chemie) in DI water; second
   stock solution B comprised of 50-50 mixture of tri-ethyl-phosphate (TEP) and stock
   solution A. Then stock solutions A and B were added to 50 g plus 0.5 g BYK-346
   latex of Example-3 as tabulated in Table-1.
15
   Table-1: Aqueous separator coating compositions
                    Solution A    Solution B      BYK-346
       Sample           (g)           (g)g
          4             85            20            0.5
          5             80            25            0.5
          6             55            50            0.5
   Example 7-9
           Aqueous separator coating compositions were prepared by using stock
20 solutions and BYK-346 provided above and adding them to 50 g latex of Example-2
   as shown in Table-2.
   Table-2: Aqueous separator coating compositions
                    Solution A    Solution B      BYK-346
       Sample           (g)           (g)
          7             90            15            0.5
          8             80            25            0.5
          9             55            50            0.5
                                              16

   WO 2013/126490                                                       PCT/US2013/026996
   Example 10-11
            Aqueous separator coating compositions were prepared by using stock
   solutions provided above and adding them to 50 g latex of Example-i according to
   Table-3.
 5
   Table-3: Aqueous separator coating compositions
                     Solution A     Solution B     BYK-346
       Sample            (g)            (g)          (g)
          10             80             25           0.5
          11             55             50           0.5
   Film Forming Evaluation:
            The quality of film formation was evaluated by placing 10 g of each of
10 aqueous separator coating compositions and comparative examples in a convection
   oven for 4 hrs at 80 'C.    The dried resins from examples 4 to 11 were well fused and
   made nice continuous film without any cracks.
            Furthermore, samples of polyolefin separator, M 2400 by CELGARD (25
   micrometer thick polypropylene film with 43nm average pore diameter) were
15 submerge into aqueous separator coating compositions of examples 4-11 and dried in
   convection oven at 80 'C.       FTIR analysis of sample surfaces indicated that good
   uniform film of at least 3 micron thick of PVDF-based polymer of examples 1-3 were
   deposited onto polyolefin separator.
            Coated samples      of 7-9 were soaked in carbonate solution comprised
20 EC/DMC/DEC of equal ratios for 4 hr at room temperature and dried in an oven for 8
   hr.   FTIR analysis indicated that the PVDF-based film on separators of sample 7-9
   did not washed off after soaking in carbonate solvents.
                                               17

   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1. A porous separator having directly coated thereon a dried coating composition comprising:
           a) from 2 to 150 parts fluoropolymer particles having a weight average particle size
                of less than 500 nm;
 5         b) from 0 to 10 parts of one or more additives selected from the group consisting of
                anti-settling agents and surfactants;
           c)   100 parts water;
           all parts being parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of water, and wherein the
           composition contains no fluorosurfactant.
10
   2. The porous separator of claim 1, wherein the dried coating composition comprises from 10
   to 500 parts of one or more powdery particles.
   3.   The porous separator of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the dried coating composition
15 comprises from 0 to 10 parts of one or more thickeners.
   4. The porous separator of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the dried coating composition
   comprises one or more pH adjusting agents.
20 5. The porous separator of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the dried coating composition
   comprises from 0 to 5 parts of one or more wetting agents.
   6. The porous separator of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the dried coating composition
   comprises from 0 to 150 parts of one or more fugitive adhesion promoters.
25
   7. The porous separator of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein said fluoropolymer is a
   polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) copolymer comprising at least 70 mole percent of vinylidene
   fluoride units.
30 8. The porous separator of any one of claims I to 7, wherein the fluoropolymer particles have
   a weight average particle size less than 400 microns.
                                                      18

   9. The porous separator of claim 2, wherein said powdery particles comprises one or more
   materials selected from the group consisting of BaTiO 3 , Pb(Zr,Ti)0 3, Pb 1-x LaZryO 3 (O<x<1,
   O<y<l), Pb(Mgi 3Nb 2/3)0 3-PbTiO 3 , HfO, HfO2 , SrTiO 3 , SnO 2 , CeO 2 , MgO, NiO, CaO, ZnO,
   Y2 0 3 , A12 0 3 , TiO 2 , SiC, ZrO 2 , boron silicate, BaSO 4, nano-clays, ceramics, aramid fillers and
 5 fibers, polyetherether ketone fibers, polyetherketone ketone fibers, PTFE fibers and nanofibers
   or mixtures thereof.
   10. The porous separator of claim 6, wherein said fugitive adhesion promoter is selected from
   the group consisting of N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone, dimethylformamide, N,N-dimethylacetamide,
10 dimethylsulfoxide, hexamethylphosphoramide, dioxane, tetrahydrofuran, tetramethylurea,
   triethyl phosphate, trimethyl phosphate, dimethyl succinate, diethyl succinate and tetraethyl
   urea and mixtures thereof.
   11. The porous separator of any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein said dry coating composition
15 has a thickness in the range of from 1 to 8 microns.
   12. The porous separator of any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein said porous separator is a
   membrane, or fibrous web selected from the group consisting of polyolefins,
   polytetrafluoroethylene, polyethylene terephthalate, polybutylene terephthalate, polyester,
20 polyacetal, polyamide, polycarbonate, polyimide, polyetherether ketone, polyether sulfone,
   polyphenylene oxide, polyphenylene sulfide, and polyethylene naphthalene.
   13. The porous separator of any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein said porous separator is a cast
   membrane formed by a cast process, or a non-woven membrane.
25
   14. An electrochemical device comprising the coated separator of any one of claims I to 13.
   15. The electrochemical device of claim 14, wherein said device is selected from the group
   consisting of a non-aqueous-type battery, a capacitor, and a membrane electrode assembly.
                                                           19

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
