ABSTRACT
A method of managing a mobile network provides cellular telecommunications services to a
subscriber in a plurality of countries. The method comprises providing a first set of said cellular
telecommunications services from a central node covering all of the plurality of countries and
providing a second set of said cellular telecommunications services from a plurality of regional
nodes, each regional node providing the second set of cellular communications services to a
subset of the plurality of countries.
FIG. 2

                                               2/26
                   C, 0
                                             7
                                >JtNN
                                                oa.                      '4
                                                E~?~      I
                         N  *~&~)
                      '~                ~1                      I
                        cx        p                                       'C
                                  'V
                                                                                  N
     ~jN    ~1i~~;
             N
                                 V
                                     ~                     /        ~
                                                                         N
                                                                                      MA.
                               N:
                                           N
                                     ~          0)~
                                                8
                                                ~sLb
                                                08
                                               at<
                                     a
        Lb
        0                              Lb
                                      C
        0z~                            0)AaLb
                                      '-.'                      'Lb
   Lb                                                               8
             N                                                                0)'
~ZLb                                 '~-                    2  'Lb~
             CLb                                           5~
   ~0)C          -                                          Lb  ~fl
             Lb~                                            Lb                      Ca"-"
             >N~LbLb                                        Lb      >,~
                           Lb          >~>          Lb~4~           ~   Lb          '5  C
                                                                              8
t~L2~        S~S &9Lb                 c0@ 8 Th~v ~                  ~
                                                                        C~
                                                                                     ~
                                                                           ~<

                                                 -1
                    INTERNATIONAL CONVERGED MOBILE SERVICES
RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]     This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2014255459 the
entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]     The invention relates to telecommunications, and specifically to the provision of a
mobile phone network architecture and associated network elements and services.
BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
[0003]     Traditional mobile phone networks are built country-by-country. Each country
therefore has a full set of equipment for all services located within that country. Thus not only
are the radio towers and microwave backhauls - elements that must be located in the physical
area they serve - located in the service country, but also all the signalling and ancillary
customer care and billing equipment are located in each country. This approach lacks
efficiency in a global network, and can be disadvantageous to operators and consumers. Some
benefits can be provided by approaches that allow a consumer preferential access to a
number of national networks. Such a system is disclosed in the applicant's earlier WO 201
1/036484. This discloses a system in which a central service - an "IMSI Broker" - is adapted to
provision the SIM of a mobile handset with new identities as required.
[0004]     It would be desirable to reduce costs further by further addressing geographical
limitations of this kind. This is challenging, because traditional mobile phone networks are built
in this way. Networks performing other business models do not have such geographical
limitations. For example, Internet companies such as Amazon or Google are able to locate
infrastructure that serves the world in a few large data centres. Such centralization of
infrastructure is not practical for a mobile phone network. It would not be desirable for calls
from, for example, an Australian customer to an Australian customer to transit via a major data
centre in a different geography entirely. This would increase latency on a call to unacceptable
levels.

                                                -2
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0005]     The present inventors have appreciated that it is possible to allocate resources in a
split between local, regional and central data centres to optimize the cost and quality of the
network without causing unacceptable latency in individual geographies.
[0006]     It is the object of this invention to provide a new form of mobile architecture that
splits the network elements, operational support systems (OSS) and business support systems
(BSS) amongst local, regional and central data centres. In one broad aspect, such a system
has business support systems and operational support systems which are at least partially
comprised in regional or central data centres, whereas network elements comprise local or
regional data centres. Local data centres support a single country, regional data centres
support multiple countries, whereas a central data centre supports the worldwide network. In a
further aspect, a system for providing worldwide mobile services may comprise a central
server adapted to perform OSS and BSS functions, and one or more regional servers and/or
more one or more local (national) servers adapted to provide audio and data services.
[0007]     In a first aspect, the invention provides a method of managing a mobile network to
provide cellular telecommunications services to a subscriber in a plurality of countries, the
method comprising: providing a first set of said cellular telecommunications services from a
central node covering all of the plurality of countries; and providing a second set of said cellular
telecommunications services from a plurality of regional nodes, each regional node providing
the second set of cellular communications services to a subset of the plurality of countries.
[0008]     This approach makes it possible to optimize the cost and quality of the network.
Using this architecture makes it possible to for fewer components to be used to provide the
overall network. Moreover, because fewer components are required each can be larger, of
better quality and increased redundancy. Because components may serve the world or groups
of countries rather than a single country, load balancing of the network can follow the sun. For
example, the signalling servers might be unused by London customers when Tokyo customers
are using the resource extensively.
[0009]     Latency problems can be avoided as the network actions necessary to support an
actual communication between two parties - in particular to support a voice call between two
parties - may be carried out by a local data centre supporting both parties, or by relevant local
data centres for each party. Actions related to the call that do not affect latency (such as other
operational or business support functions handled by the OSS or BSS) may be handled by a

                                                -3
regional data centre or a central data centre.
[0010]      In a further broad aspect, the network may be arranged for redundancy such that a
data centre associated with one geography may support another geography in the case of
failure. In some arrangements, networks are provided by local operators, with interaction with
local networks and BSS and OSS functions provided at the data centres. The data centres
may be connected by a dedicated communications backbone.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0011]      Specific embodiments of the invention will be described below, by way of example,
with reference to the accompanying drawings, of which:
[0012]      Figure 1 shows an exemplary arrangement of a mobile phone network which
extends across a number of countries;
[0013]      Figure 2 shows a logical distribution of network assets adapted to support a
worldwide mobile network according to an embodiment of the invention;
[0014]      Figure 3 shows an example of the functions provide in a regional data centre
according to an embodiment of the invention;
[0015]      Figure    4 shows   the   connectivity between  network   elements according      to
embodiment of the invention;
[0016]      Figure 5 shows an embodiment of the invention showing physical connections;
[0017]      Figure 6 shows an embodiment of the invention showing SS7 architecture;
[0018]      Figure 7 shows an embodiment of the invention showing a signalling approach for
ISUP signalling;
[0019]      Figure 8 shows an embodiment of the invention showing a signalling approach for
SCCP signalling;
[0020]      Figure 9 shows an embodiment of the invention showing IP peering and data traffic;

                                           -4
[0021] Figure 10 shows an embodiment of a regional data centre;
[0022] Figure 11 shows an arrangement for direct interconnect with an MNO;
[0023] Figure 12 shows an architecture with multiple GRX provision;
[0024] Figure 13 shows an arrangement for service interconnect;
[0025] Figures 14 to 16 show reference call flows;
[0026] Figure 17 shows further aspects of signalling design;
[0027] Figure 18 shows an arrangement for SIP connectivity;
[0028] Figure 19 shows a generalised flow for mobile number portability;
[0029] Figure 20 shows a message model for mobile number portability;
[0030] Figure 21 shows a generalised process flow for mobile number portability;
[0031] Figure 22 shows a reuse template for mobile number portability;
[0032] Figure 23 shows a number classification table;
[0033] Figure 24 shows a schema for number classification;
[0034] Figure 25 depicts modification of a schema for number classification; and
[0035] Figures 26 to 28 show different models for defining a GGSN for an AP.

                                                 -5
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0036]       Figure 1 shows an exemplary arrangement of a mobile phone network which
extends across a number of countries, together with data centres associated with the network.
Data centres are present in London, Amsterdam, Hong Kong, Sydney, New York and Los
Angeles - these data centres in the embodiment described have regional and/or global
functions (purely national data centres are not shown). These support national networks in a
plurality of countries, typically by interaction with local operators in those countries. As will be
described below, different data centres may provide different functionality, with some data
centres acting as local data centres supporting only one national network (or possibly a
plurality of national networks for one country), some data centres acting as local data centres
supporting national networks in more than one country, and at least one data centre acting as
a global data centre to support all networks for at least some services. A single data centre
may have multiple roles - it may for example act as a local data centre for some purposes, a
regional data centre for other purposes, and a global data centre for other purposes.
[0037]       This division of tasks is shown in more detail in Figure 2, which shows a logical
distribution of network assets to support a worldwide mobile network. As can be seen from
Figure 2, in this embodiment the London and Amsterdam data centres act as global data
centres, supporting OSS and BSS functions that do not affect latency for individual
communications. These functions may include centralized billing, customer management, fault
management and performance management. All six data centres act as regional data centres,
providing the basis for a globally decentralized and globally resilient network. This allows
functions to be localized to a region where this is appropriate, and also allows scalability and
flexibility to the network by allowing new data centres to be added at the regional level when
demand becomes sufficiently high and by allowing support to be switched between one
regional data centre and another when this supports the demand most effectively.
[0038]       As is shown in Figure 2, these regional data centres may be used to support roaming
in different geographical regions. In this case, the Los Angeles and New York data centres
support roaming in the Americas, the London and Amsterdam data centres support roaming in
EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and the Hong Kong and Sydney data centres support
roaming in Asia Pacific. These data centres interact with national operators - these may be
different national operators in each geography, and may include multiple operators in single
geographies. While the global and regional data centres (and preferably a dedicated backbone
between them) will typically be under common control, the national operator networks will
typically not be. A subscriber SIM (preferably provisioned according to the approach described

                                               -6
in the applicant's earlier WO 2011/036484) may be provided with IMSIs to access these
multiple national networks, all these IMSIs being associated with a user account associated
with the global network comprising the global and regional data centres.
[0039]     Figure 3 provides an indication of the functions provided by the global and regional
data centres. A full range of OSS and BSS functions are provided at the two global data
centres in London and Amsterdam, including network functions such as provision of a Home
Location Register (HLR). The provision of these functions at each global data centre provides
redundancy in the event of failure. The regional data centres in this embodiment are provided
only with a more limited set of functions to support regional communications traffic - these are
a GGSN (Gateway GPRS Support Node) to enable switching between GPRS networks and
packet switched networks such as the Internet and a MGW (Media Gateway) to convert digital
media streams between different network types. Provision of these functions regionally rather
than globally avoids latency issues that would arise if these functions were provided globally.
The main signalling control nodes are located at the global data centres, but the media
processing nodes are located close to national networks and local exits to the Internet.
[0040]     In the specific arrangement shown, policy and charging control nodes (PCRF and
OCS) are located in the global data centres. It is logical to collocate these with BSS and CRM
(Customer Relationship Management) systems as these are deeply connected. Other backend
interfaces may most conveniently be provided in the global data centres. In addition to media
processing nodes, certain other control nodes that are relevant to geographical location may
be located at the regional data centres.
[0041]     Control and signalling traffic exchanged between the global and regional data
centres (for example Gx and Gy interfaces) is transported by a common backbone - an
exemplary backbone arrangement linking data centres is shown in Figure 4. Figure 4 also
shows the connectivity between network elements that provides the redundancy and scaling
service for the network. OAM (Operations, Administration and Management) traffic is sent to a
global data centre, where OAM platforms are located. All required traffic connectivity is realised
through the common backbone. This may be provided as a virtual private network, such as a
VPLS. In the arrangement shown, two main carriers provide actual physical connectivity in
each data centre for redundancy. All types of traffic requiring inter-data centre crossing are
linked except for key database synchronisations (HLR, online charging systems), which are
provided with dedicated connections. External interconnects are provided in a hub and spoke
model at each data centre. Traffic may be segregated inside the backbone using different VRF

                                               -7
(virtual routing and forwarding).
[0042]     Figure 10 shows a typical composition for a regional data centre, which can also be
considered a remote Mobile Packet Core. Centrally provided services such as policy and
charging are provided over the backbone from a central (or possibly another regional) data
centre. The data centre itself comprises a GGSN and other network elements appropriate to
provide in a regional geography rather than centrally. The regional data centre then provides
local Internet, roaming via global roaming (GRX) and direct operator connections (MNO
Direct).
[0043]     Figure 5 shows one connection arrangement for voice - this is a direct connection
between a regional data centre and an MNO (mobile network operator). As can be seen,
different regional data centres can connect into the MNO through appropriate switching and
transmission networks, so that the MNO can be supported by more than one regional data
centre if necessary. Figures 6 to 8 show alternative interconnection arrangements for voice.
Figure 6 shows an SS7 link architecture showing connection between the global data centres
and individual SS7 STPs (Signal Transfer Points). Associated ISUP (ISDN User Part) signalling
is shown in Figure 7 and SCCP (Signalling Connection Control Part) signalling is shown in
Figure 8. Figure 9 shows a connection arrangement for data.
[0044]     Aspects of an exemplary network arrangement          and of exemplary signalling
arrangements will now be described in more detail.
[0045]     A number of different access interconnects may be provided. A preferred approach is
for a direct interconnect with an MNO, as shown in Figure 1 1. In the arrangement shown, all
data exchanged between the CNO (Core Network Operator - responsible for global and
regional data centres) and the MNO, be it Control Plane or User Plane related, goes over the
direct interconnect links. The links, for redundancy purposes, may be from different third party
providers, and may implement a BGP/IP peering between the operators. Preferably each MNO
is connected to two different CNO data centres for redundancy, as described above.
[0046]     Other arrangements available may include sponsored roaming (which may be
operated by an MVNO - Mobile Virtual Network Operator - without its own numbering range but
using an IMSI sub-range provided by a sponsor), or roaming using a GRX hub provider. GRX
has been specified by GSMA as the regular way of interconnecting GSM operators, for
standard international roaming. Operators announce their identifiers and numbering plans to

                                                -8
other operators through documents called IR21's. The actual infrastructure for this "many-to
many" interconnect is provided by carriers, working as hubs. Figure 12 shows a high level
architecture with multiple GRX provision.
[0047]     Service interconnect is relevant to Interconnect connectivity and also to private data
networks such as the BlackBerry network. Interconnect connectivity is provided by the Mobile
Packet Core - it is made available to mobile users by the GGSN, but is implemented by the
core backbone.
[0048]     The arrangement for this is shown in Figure 13. Each data centre has its own
connection to the Internet, usually provided by two local ISP (for redundancy purposes). This
means there need not be any Gi interface transport over the backbone between data centre
sites. This reduces latency of access and backbone bandwidth requirements, and simplifies
topology.
[0049]     Connection to the local       ISPs    is  implemented    over direct       interconnections
implemented by the core backbone. The CNO public IP address space is utilized in these
connections. NAT/PAT for mobile user access is also performed, if required by the core
backbone, before traffic exits to the Internet. Internet DNS service is performed by the local
ISPs, so the CNO does not require internal DNS for internet address resolution.
[0050]     With this topology, the CNO provides local internet access where GGSNs are
present. To support local internet access expectations, measures may need to be taken to
provide services based on indication of locality. For example, a Polish user might expect when
accessing the Internet to have Google (or other web site providers) to automatically re-direct
its access to Polish language. This will typically be done based on the IP address of the user.
[0051]     For BlackBerry connectivity, it is necessary to achieve peering with BlackBerry POIs.
This may be done in a number of ways, such as by direct interconnect, by IPX interconnect, or
by GRE tunnelling.
[0052]     Individual network elements will now be described. The GGSN may have a built-in
Policy and Charging Enforcement Function (PCEF) according to 3GPP TS 23.203 and 29.212,
for which the main functionality is to support event triggers, report traffic statistics (for example,
volume, time) and to apply QoS and as instructed by the Policy Control Server (the Policy and
Charging Rules Function, PCRF). Local rules may also be configured, and a Service

                                              -9
Awareness capability used to detect which service is being used so that policy and charging
can be applied at data flow level. Policy enforcement such as dynamic bearer QoS
management, service and data flow gating and traffic redirection on both L3 and HTTP level
may be provided. Full internal hardware redundancy may be used to support resilience, for
example by switchover between multiple service blades using an active/standby redundancy
model. This may be based on recovery groups that contain an active/standby recovery unit
pair. Recovery groups are used to control resources (for example, disk file systems or IP
addresses) that can be linked to recovery groups. When, for example, an IP address is linked
to a recovery group, it becomes a movable resource that the high availability services (HAS)
functionality controls and allocates to the recovery units. The currently active recovery unit
within the recovery group owns the movable resource, and if the active recovery unit fails, the
functionality of the movable resource is switched over to the standby recovery unit. In order to
ensure redundancy and traffic continuity, each type of traffic will be placed in two VLANs,
configured on separate ports.
[0053]     Other network functions, such as APN resolution and AAA services, may be provided
by servers located at the regional data centres. Redundancy may be supported by hardware or
at the service level.
[0054]     Policy control and charging are provided at the central data centre(s) and preferably
also use fall hardware redundancy (OCS is more complex,                involving a network of
interconnected systems which may use multiple strategies). Other services such as network
backup may be provided centrally.
[0055]     Service redundancy is also important, and is achieved by planning for failover
scenarios including network element failure, interconnect link failure and site failure. Typically,
service failover will involve a change of data centre in provision of the service. This is
achievable with this architecture as Mobile Packet Data Service is realized, for session/bearer
establishment independently, in each GGSN location.
[0056]     Redundancy at the Gp interface is also desirable - this is the interconnect interface
between the Core Networks (PS Domain) of two different Operators. It interconnects the
Visited network (SGSN) and the Home network (GGSN for the CNO discussed). It involves a
DNS interface, used by the Visited SGSN and/or DNS, to query the Home DNS for APN
resolution (basically the choice of GGSN that will provide the service). This query is either
routed through GRX or through the direct interconnect links to the MNOs - APN resolution will

                                               - 10
be different in both scenarios. Because of this, each of the two DNS servers in each data
centre belongs to a different DNS cluster. After the APN resolution, a GGSN is selected to
handle that particular PDP. The selection of GGSN depends on the DNS that is interrogated,
and the call scenario in question. Redundancy is achieved through configuration based on
user I MSI, access type and DNS configuration.
[0057]     Redundancy over the Gi interface is realised for data services. Internal redundancy
is provided at the GGSN level, with connectivity with local ISPs assured by the core backbone
at the connectivity level using redundant geographical endpoints and different link providers.
For Internet DNS service, the ISPs DNS servers are reused, configured in service APN. Each
ISP provides two DNS servers for redundancy. Internet access is preferably always provided
co-located with the serving GGSN, even in failover scenario - this means that there need be no
internet traffic transferred between data centres through the backbone.
[0058]     Redundancy is provided at the Gy interface (for online charging of Mobile Packet
Data services) and at the Gx interface (for policy control of Mobile Packet Data services) using
active/active or active/standby configurations in the two global data centres.
[0059]     Provision of network services will now be described. Mobile Data Service is realized
over service Action Points (APs). These are identified by its name, hence Access Point Name
(or APN). The APN defines the GGSN processing the service, as well as the service
characteristics being provided. These characteristics include: routing instance selection; IP
address allocation to user equipment (IP Pools); authentication; accounting and charging;
policy enforcement; bandwidth and QoS control; and access control.
[0060]     The APN is configured in the subscriber profile in the HLR, and delivered to the
SGSN on successful PS Attach. It is then used by the user equipment to request a data
session (PDP context), validated by the SGSN according to the profile received from the HLR,
resolved via Gn/Gp DNS, and thru GTP signalling passed to the GGSN, who then processes
the request together with other Core Network elements, like OCS and PCRF.
[0061]     Figures 26 to 28 show different models for determining a GGSN for an APN.
[0062]     In the Figure 26 arrangement, when the mobile station (MS) registers on the SGSN,
the HLR provides it with the APN allowed for it. The TE (trusted element) of the mobile station
selects the APN for the MS to request PDP (Packet Data Protocol). The SGSN resolves the

                                               - 11
APN from the HPLMN DNS (indicated as 3) to know to which GGSN the PDP session should
be established. Here, this is automatically resolved to GGSN 1 , the GGSN accepts the PDP
and access to the internet is established. This approach does not allow for intelligent selection
of the GGSN (for example, based on MS location).
[0063]       In the Figure 27 arrangement, when the mobile station (MS) registers on the SGSN,
the HLR again provides it with the APN allowed for it. The TE (trusted element) of the mobile
station selects the APN for the MS to request PDP (Packet Data Protocol). The SGSN resolves
the APN from the HPLMN DNS (indicated as 3) to know to which GGSN the PDP session
should be established. This is not automatically resolved to GGSN 1 - it uses DNS Views and
zones to select a GGSN according to the SGSN from which the request originates. The chosen
GGSN accepts the PDP and access to the internet is established. This approach does allow
for greater flexibility and a more appropriate choice of GGSN based on the requesting SGSN.
[0064]       In the Figure 28 arrangement, when the mobile station (MS) registers on the SGSN,
the HLR provides it with a group of allowed APNs, here shown as APN1 to APNx associated
with a trusted element APN. The TE reports and checks with the SIM if a data session with the
original APN can be established, and the SIM is programmed to map the original APN to any of
APN 1 to APNx depending on configuration criteria, such as the network on which the MS is
registered. The MS then submits the PDP request with the translated APN, the SGSN resolves
the correct APN from the HPLMN DNS to identify the correct GGSN, and access to the internet
is established as before. This model is preferred, as it allows selection of GGSN from any
suitable parameters derivable from the SIM or in the mobile equipment. It also gives the
HPLMN more control when there are specific roaming preferences or agreements in operation
- this can allow, for example, regionalisation of data traffic by using a US GGSN for all data
traffic in the North American region.
[0065]       The APNs name is chosen to indicate a particular service the user has subscribed to,
and needs to be known by different platforms involved in the authentication, authorization,
accounting and charging, and session control.
[0066]       The GGSN may support Service Awareness functionality allowing for both SPI
(Shallow Packet Inspection) and DPI (Deep Packet Inspection) as applicable under PCC rules.
Mobile Packet Data service may provide the bearer for MMS. Lawful Interception may be
provided for data services at the GGSN if required. Policy control and charging are handled at
the GGSN with external servers using the Gx and Gy interfaces respectively.

                                              - 12
[0067]    The architecture described above can readily be modified for a network using LTE.
LTE uses a Home Subscriber Server instead of an HLR - the HLR can be replaced by an HSS
or the two may be implemented in parallel. The architecture may also be readily updated to
support the LTE data roaming paradigms of Home Routing and Local Breakout. Similarly, this
architecture may be readily adapted to support IPv6.
[0068]     Reference call flows are shown in Figures 14 to 16.
[0069]     Further aspects of the signalling design are described further below. Two types of
network nodes are response for signalling: MSS (MSC Server System) and STP (Signal
Transfer Point) - these are shown in Figure 17. These are responsible for Voice ISUP and
mobility signalling (SCCP). The SCCP routing is required for Location Update response from
the HLR of the CNO towards the MSS of interconnect partners' network where the CNO
subscribers will perform Location Update. The control plane between MSS and MGW consists
of H.248/MEGACO and M3UA/SIGTRAN. The H.248 interface is used for resource control and
other management functions between MSS and MGW where MSS has the MGW control
function. The SIGTRAN interface is used for routing the signalling messages between MSS
and MGW where MGW acts as a Signalling Gateway between MSS and any external network
element.
[0070]     ISUP protocol is used for connection to different networks. Signalling routing to
National and International Interconnects will be on Global Title for SCCP traffic and on SPC for
ISUP traffic.
[0071]     Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) may be used to create and manage multimedia
sessions between two or more participants. The general aim of SIP is to support Voice over IP
(VoIP) and to ensure that future VoIP services be fully Internet-based. This may operate with
other MSC Server (MSS) features and implements the Media Gateway Control Function
(MGCF) in the MSS. SIP connectivity is shown in Figure 18.
[0072]     SCTP (Stream Control Transmission Protocol) is the layer above the Physical IP
layer which will be carrying both the M3UA and H.248 traffic. The MSS and STPs acts as a
SCCP gateway in most of mobility related events. The SCCP traffic originating from MNOs will
be forwarded to internal service platform elements based on Global Title (GT) translated to a
Destination Point Code (DPC) and Sub-System Number (SSN).

                                               - 13
[0073]     Thus, two main tasks need to be carried out to create a proper SCTP layer between
MSS and MGW. These are creation of SCTP parameter sets for H.248 and M3UA with similar
parameter values in MSS and MGW, and creation of SCTP multi-homing for the signalling units
in MSS and MGW. Multi-homing will be used in all SCTP associations. A host is multi-homed
when it can be addressed by multiple IP addresses. The SCTP can use both interfaces in such
a way that one is working as primary and the other as the secondary path. Usually the
signalling traffic goes via the primary path, and if failure occurs, the SCTP will start resending
the unacknowledged messages via the secondary path. This ensures that no messages are
lost if one of the paths is broken.
[0074]     The interconnect strategy for following is as follows.
[0075]      For an MNO connected over IP interconnects, IP Interconnects are connected to the
MSS for control plane by SIP and to the MGW for user plane by RTP, with Mobility SCCP
routing traffic based crated to SS7 over an IP "SIGTRAN" link between CNO and partners'
network.
[0076]      For an MNO connected over TDM interconnect, TDM Interconnects will be
connected to the MSS control plane using ISUP signalling. El connections over STM-1 will be
established in the MGW for user plane functions. TDM Interconnects will have signalling
connectivity to MSS through the MGW which acts as a signalling gateway. Mobility SCCP
routing based on Global Title will be created towards the interconnect partners' network. SCCP
routing is required for Location Update response from the CNO HLR towards the MSS of
interconnect partners' network where the CNO subscribers will perform Location Update.
Signalling in the MGW is controlled by the MSS over SIGTRAN. It is provided over Interface
Signalling Units called (ISU) configured in MGW. TDM Interconnects will have signalling
connections to the MSS using the MGW as signalling gateway.
[0077]     The signalling interface between MSS and MGW is Mc interface. It has two main
signalling functions such as H.248 and SIGTRAN. In Truphone, the Mc interface is designed in
such a way that both MSS have H.248 and SIGTRAN interfaces to all six MGWs connected
through the core backbone. H.248 is carried over the Stream Control Transmission Protocol
(SCTP) which provides "Multihomed" connection between MSS and MGW. This 'Multihoming'
provides two discrete paths via the use of two IP addresses in two IP Subnets at each end of
the connection. It is employed to provide resilience on the Mc interface and is carried over IP.
SIGTRAN associations will be created between MSS and MGW for NAO, NA1 and INO for the

                                                - 14
purpose of TDM Interconnect. There will be two SCTP associations for every IP signalling
linkset with the MSS acting as server and the MGW acting as client.
[0078]     Nc interface is the interface between MSS elements. It works on SIP-1 and BICC and
it is based on control part. No user plane is involved in this interface. Network- to- Network
based call control signalling is performed over the Nc Interface between the MSS. An
alternative call control protocol in IP-based network that can be used in NSN MSS is Session
Initiation Protocol with encapsulated ISUP (SIP-1). It provides similar trunk-like signalling
capability as provided with BICC. In MSS, SIP-1 is used as a tunnelling method for ISUP
messages.
[0079]     The user plane interface between the MGWs is the Nb interface. All MGWs in
regional data centres are connected over IP interfaces through the core backbone by RTP
which is used for user plane data transfer. Nb interface relates only to user plane information
between MGWs and does not have any control part attached to it.
[0080]     The SS7 network is provided with IP Transfer Points which are nodes are
responsible for signalling gateway functions and implementation of hierarchical and centralized
routing in order to give complete MTP2 and MTP3 signalling solutions. The STPs have fully
redundant solution with dual site full mesh configuration till network elements in order to
ensure failover. The network plane used for the SIGTRAN links between each MSS and all the
STPs in NAO.
[0081]     SIGTRAN links between MSS and STP pairs is based on the SCTP associations
between signalling units in MSS and signalling units at STP end. There will be two SCTP
associations between each MSS and an STP within an STP pair. The M3UA role of MSS will
be client and that of STP will be server.
[0082]     The MSS are connected to STP pairs located at the global data centres. The
signalling between MSS and STP is based on SIGTRAN using the CNO IP network. MSS do
not have direct physical signalling connectivity to service platform elements. SIGTRAN
interface from MSS to STP pairs will be used mainly for the MSS nodes to communicate with
service platform elements and vice-versa. The signalling route between MSS and STP is the
Layer-3 functionality of the signalling interface between them. The signalling route between the
MSS and STP may remain the baseline for the signalling route between MSS and service
platform elements. The configuration of signalling route between MSS and STP may be similar

                                                -15
to signalling route configuration of any internal network element.
[0083]     The Charging Sentinel is a platform to realize the SCP functions - in this embodiment
it is based on the Opencloud Rhino Telecom Application Server (TAS) and is used to realize
the IN-SCP functions. The CS is used to implement CNO services such as the Smart Dialling
and Smart CLI service, as well intelligent call routing functions. The interface to the Core
Network is 3GPP CAP and to OCS uses diameter and HTTP. Subscriber profiles are stored in
the OCS database and retrieved as needed during the call setup.
[0084]     The Rhino TAS has a SIP/ICS interface with Core Network, used to support USSD
callback functions. The failover strategy deployed by the CNO is similar to that used for the
MSSs with a full mesh inter-site configuration without a single point of failure. In an exemplary
arrangement, the CNO is using ta CAP2 protocol for termination and TSANned voice calls and
SIP/ISC for the purpose of USSD callback service call setup.
[0085]     An external partner's IVR will be directly connected to the MSS using SIP and at the
same time connected directly to MGW using RTP.
[0086]     The MSSs are connected to HLRs in the global data centres via STPs. Each node
will have SIGTRAN associations to a pair of network STPs. Each HLR has signalling point
code and global title in order to ensure the correct routing. The HLR will have a SIGTRAN
signalling stack, and each HLR will be physically connected to the STP pairs in the network.
The CNO MSS routes the signalling towards the HLR via the STP. To ensure full mesh
connectivity, the STPs will work as load share for any message sent to HLR . The inter-site
mesh links can ensure if an outage occurs in a specific site and can reroute the signalling
toward second and keep the service live.
[0087]     The SMSC (SMS centres) are connected to MSS via the STP pairs. The signalling
routing used between MSS and the SMSC is SCCP routing based on point code and sub
system number. Full mesh connectivity may again be provided for failover.
[0088]     MSS to MFS signalling is provided via ITP. The Multi-Function Services (MFS) is a
network element responsible for 3 services: MAP SRI Gateway; MAP PRN Fix; and MNP
(Mobile Number Portability) DIPS. CNO mobile number portability may be provided in each
global data centre.
[0089]     Different default signalling carriers may be provided in different geographic areas.

                                               -  16
SIGTRAN may be used as the signalling protocol for interconnection. In order to increase
resiliency, the CNO may have full meshed SS7 links over private IP peerings. These links may
be created by M2PA over SCTP and the routing method would be GT in both calling and called
party. The signalling carrier can be responsible for ANSI to ITU and ITU to ANSI conversion for
relevant towards/from CNO ITPs.
[0090]     An example of a service provided across such an architecture is mobile number
portability (MNP). Mobile number portability between network operators is known, but different
countries have different regulatory approaches, and different process flows. The present
architecture lends itself to a structured layered approach with a common core process and
regional adaptation. This allows for great flexibility and effective code reuse. As discussed
below, this basic model is applicable to other services which have core elements common to
all geographies but specific elements that are country-specific.
[0091]     Figure 19 shows a multi-layered service architecture that allows MNP processing to
be isolated while applying common processes where possible. Complex integration issues
specific to local geographies can be isolated to those geographies (and so, for example,
carried out at a relevant regional or local node rather than at the central node).
[0092]     The first layer (Facade Layer) is a service fascia or API that exposes MNP
functionality to other systems and processes. This layer isolates MNP functionality and
complexity inside the 'MNP system'. This in turn ensures that other systems can treat MNP
simply and consistently, only having to understand that there exists a system that will deal with
all MNP processing regardless of what approach may be require for a given country. The MNP
system need not have any knowledge of what external systems or processes may use its
services - as long as a request is authorized and well formed the MNP systems will attempt to
process it. By achieving the isolation of the MNP system it is ensured that the system is re
usable across any set of systems consuming MNP services and functionality.
[0093]     The   second layer (Generalisation        Layer) contains common        or generalised
functionality -functionality that is common to all MNP approaches. To reduce complexity and
maintenance overhead this common functionality should be implemented only once. This
implementation should be considered 'central'. This layer interacts with the Facade Layer (in
fact it may implement this layer) and            the Realisation Layer described      below. The
Generalisation Layer integrates with the Realisation Layer through a single integration
structure. While the Generalisation Layer handles all functionality in some sense, where a

                                                - 17
particular area of functionality varies due to approach specific or country specific handling then
the functionality presented in this layer is simply a wrapper for functionality achieved in
subsequent layers - a standard information set is used to represent the function but it is
passed through to the other layers for processing. For example: Overall state management
(e.g. where in the process of performing a Port is a particular request) is common to all
approaches to MNP (although the state values themselves may differ). It would therefore be
handled in the Generalisation Layer.
[0094]     The third layer (Realisation Layer) contains functionality that is specific to the small
number of generalized approaches to MNP. Each generalized approach has its own
'component' implementing functionality specific to the approach. The Realisation Layer
integrates with the Generalisation Layer through a single interface structure. Each approach
specific component in the Realisation Layer integrates to the Connection Layer (discussed
below) with an interface structure specific to that component. The components within
Realisation Layer do not understand the specifics of how any given country that uses the
generic approach associated to the component implements that approach. It is possible that
for some approaches no specific processing or functionality must be achieved in addition to
that in the Generalisation and Connection Layers. For example: The United Kingdom
implements MNP using a 'Authority Code Approach' where an authorizing code is passed
between network operators. This 'code approach' is also used in a small number of other
countries worldwide. A component would exist in the Realisation Layer that provides the
functionality and processing required to implement an 'authority code approach' to MNP
Processing. This component would be used wherever a country implements a 'code approach'
style MNP.
[0095]     The fourth layer (Connection Layer) contains functionality that is specific to the
country for which MNP processing must be performed. This includes integration to whatever
external services and/or processes are required in that country in the data formats required for
that country. The Connection Layer integrates to the Generalisation Layer through an interface
specific to the MNP approach that the country implements. The components within the
Connection Layer are entirely specific to the country that they service. For example: the United
Kingdom specific interface handling and information content would be managed by a UK
service call-out. This UK service call-out would be utilized by the 'authority code approach'
component (because the UK implements an 'authority code approach' style MNP) and would
achieve integration with a clearing house (the central communication point for UK MNP
handling).

                                            -18
[0096]     This approach will now be described in more detail with reference to a specific
message model and process flow.
[0097]     A hierarchical message model is shown in Figure 20. This message model (MNP
Framework) defines a hierarchical tree of canonical message models. This provides a
polymorphic approach to dynamically dispatching messages to country specific service
providers as follows:
[0098]     The Base Types (101) are defined in the Facade Layer. This defines an abstract and
clean layer of Types to support the Facade Layer. The Core Message model (102) is inherited
from the Base Type. The interface defined in the Generalisation Layer will use this type. The
Core Message Model provides the knowledge (103) of domain models used in the
Generalisation Layer.
[0099]     The knowledge (104) of each specific business domain in the Realisation Layer
inherits the knowledge defined in the Generalisation. The inheritance provides a knowledge
transfer path (105) so that we support both separation of domain knowledge concerns and
avoid duplication of common concerns. The specific business domains in the Realisation Layer
are in a polymorphism of knowledge regions - these business domains in the Realisation Layer
are loosely coupled with each other and may be treated independently (the Port Authority
Code domain - PAC Domain - is shown as one specific example) - however, they all inherit the
knowledge from the Generalisation Layer. There may be more than one level of inheritance
(108) in the Realisation Layer.
[00100]    Country specific domains (110) are in the Connection Layer, and inherit knowledge
from the business domains from the Realisation Layer. The knowledge in the Country specific
domains are in an appropriate canonical format. There is an interface sitting in this Connection
Layer to provide transformation between the actual Country MNO data format and a canonical
country format. Proprietary knowledge may thus be shielded and decoupled from the outside
world.
[00101]    A generalised MNP process flow is shown in Figure 21. The Facade interface
provides a clean and unified interface (201) to support MNP requests from multichannel
clients. Internet access may be through a web browser (202), a rich client using a desktop
application (203), mobile access through mobile devices (204) or through channel partners
(205). The Facade Layer will distribute (206) the request messages to the corresponding

                                              -19
interfaces defined for the General Gateway in the Generalisation Layer. The General Gateway
defines a general interface to accept a hierarchical tree of message payloads in divergent
formats. The use of the General Gateway interface in the Facade Layer minimises the impact
of internal changes to the Facade clients. This can be demonstrated in the following two
examples: 1) changing of the interface or process flow of an existing Country MNO would have
no impact to the clients invocation of the Facade Layer; and 2) adding a new Country MNO will
not impact the existing client code but will give the client new capability to submit additional
requests.
[00102]    The MNP generalised service (209) uses the Realisation Knowledge [210] to handle
the requests submitted through the General Gateway [208]. The Realisation Knowledge knows
the next layer of business domain (but not the implementation details), and thus can
dynamically dispatch the requests to the next realisation domain. The Realisation Layer
contains 1 to n steps of realisation flows between the Realisation Domains. Each Realisation
layer contains specific business domains, each of them has its own domain knowledge that
contains domain models and provide the corresponding business process to do the domain
logic. As indicated previously, an example of a domain is PAC (Port Authority Code) domain.
Each Domain in the Realisation Layer has its Realisation Knowledge and can use it to
dynamically dispatch the flow to the next step, which is either another level of specific domain
or the Connector in the Connection Layer.
[00103]    The Connection Layer contains a number of Connectors, each of them provide
implementation details to connect to a specific Country MNO. The connection may be
bidirectional. The flow from a specific domain to a Connector could be bi-directional as well,
depending on the domain specific process flow. Each Connector contains a Transformation
that transform a proprietary country canonical data model to/from the actual Country MNO data
model. Therefore, internal proprietary knowledge is shielded and decoupled from outside
world. Each Connector contains an Adapter to handle the connection implementation details.
There is inheritance/extension relationship in the horizontal direction, thus the horizontal
direction provides functions from common to more specific. The Horizontal direction provides a
whole function flows to realise the Country Specific MNP function from end to end. The
Realisation Domains are vertically decoupled from each other, thus can be pluggable with
minimum impact to the whole framework. The domains have polymorphism vertically. The
Country Connectors can be flexibly pluggable with minimum impact on the layers above. The
connection between the Domains in the Realisation Layer to Connectors in the Connection
Layer to the Country MNOs could be bi-directional.

                                                - 20
[00104]     Figure 22 shows how this approach implements inheritance and re-use. The four
layer based framework offers great reusability with little knowledge dependency so that the
implementation or modification of any Country specific MNO number portability can be plugged
or unplugged in the most flexible fashion with minimum impact to the consumers of this
framework.
[00105]    The horizontal direction of this framework offers service inheritance and extension. A
hierarchical tree of canonical message models for horizontal service contracts can be defined.
A clean, simple general interface has been defined for the Facade Laywer which allows
message data flows to be dynamically dispatched and enriched horizontally. The service
business logical is continued and extended horizontally to handle the message flows. A typical
example is the horizontal service flow for implementing the Authority Code Approach for a UK
MNO. The MNP requests are dynamically dispatched and flow in the MNP PAC (Port Authority
Code) Domain, which implements the Authority Code Approach logic, and then passed to the
UK Service Connector, which transforms the canonical model to UK MNO data model and
handles the low level transport details to do a HTTP post out to the UK MNO. After that, in
order to implement another Authority Code Approach based Country MNO, for example India,
it is only necessary to plug in a Country Specific Connector to handle the Transformation and
Transport details. The updating and modification of the UK Connector would have no impact
on the India MNO Connector, and vice versa. This provides horizontal polymorphism.
[00106]    Vertically, the framework supports maximum reuse of common class components.
The common functionality between the Realisation Domains or between the County Service
Connector can be abstracted as a template. The an object oriented template design approach
may be used. The template used vertically may offers the Capability of General Responsibility
Assignment for common functionality. A typical example is the Session Management we
implemented for the UK Connector. Instead of open/close session in each connection, a HTTP
security session is cached and maintained for a number of HTTP Posts to improve the systems
integration performance between a proprietary system and external systems. The Template
design of the session management offers the vertically transparency to all the Country MNO
Connectors suing the HTTP protocol underneath, for example, SOAP/HTTP, plain HTTP, or
REST, etc. This provides polymorphism vertically.
[00107]    Another service model using the same general approach is for Directory and Number
Services. There is a similar challenge to address where numbers (MSISDN) requested are
from multiple countries that have disparate approaches to Directory and Number Services.

                                                 - 21
This allows the requesting entity to be unaware of the specifics of each country's regulatory
approach to Directory and Number Services. The approach shown above allows the requesting
entity to be unaware of the specifics of each country's regulatory approach to Directory and
Number Services.
[00108]     Every country has its own regulatory approach for Directory and Number Services,
comprising the rules in that country for how MSISDN should be searched and local law relating
to the right of individuals to present or not present their number on directory services or to
have their number fully or partially hidden on bills and other output. As for MNP, while the
generalised scope of Directory and Number Services across countries is largely common the
specific implementation varies for each country.
[00109]     For example:
     *   In the Netherlands a consumer may request that their MSISDN be masked where it
        appears on the bills or other records of other consumers. This masking takes the form
        of hashing out the last three digits of the MSISDN on such output.
     *   In Germany certain MSISDN must not ever be shown on a bill or other output.
     *   In Australia a consumer may opt in or out (default in) to their number being available to
        directory services organisations
     *   In Poland the regulator must be informed of sold MSISDN immediately on
        activation
[00110]     Such variation can be handled without complex central handling by using the same
architectural approach as described above for MNP. The service logic will obviously be
different, but will implement the same principles. The physical interaction with regulators and/or
directory service operators is abstracted away from the logical processing to enable it to vary
with each country. Common functions are grouped into domains that can vary in their
implementation according to the needs of each specific realisation - these realisations can
have an n-deep structure dependent on the specific complexity of the realisation. For example:
     *  opt-in / opt-out logic for directory services may be largely common even though the
        actual integration to regulators is specific to the country;

                                                - 22
      *  number shielding approaches vary greatly across countries but fall into three or four
         generalised approaches (e.g. shield special numbers, shield your number on others
         output, shield numbers on consumers own output, etc.)
[00111]      Another issue which can be managed scalably with this architectural model is
classification of numbers. Numbers have associated data and metadata. The data tells us
information about specific numbers. The metadata gives us information about the data itself
and enables us to do many things; for example when a sale is made we can use the metadata
to dynamically build a UI to ask the relevant questions about the kind of number we want to
buy. Described below is a system for defining hierarchical metadata associated with classes of
numbers.
[00112]      A challenge for building a number managements system for a global mobile network
operator is that not all data items associated with a number will be relevant in all cases,
relevance can change over time, and new items may be needed with expansion into new
countries. A conventional tabular classification of a number with metadata is shown in Figure
23. This creates difficulty if new fields are needed.
[00113]      A better model is shown in Figure 24, which uses a schema rather than a table. Now
it is possible to add a new data item without changing the schema. To add a new item we;
      *  add a new row to the Category table eg. 'Country'
      *  add all its possible values to the CategoryValue table eg. 'Afghanistan', 'Albania',
         'Algeria'...
      *  add link entries to the NumberCategory table to associate one or more
      *  CategoryValues to a specific number eg. 'Country = Algeria' and 'Utilization = Primary'
[00114]      Further rules not present in this model may be represented as metadata. Examples
are as follows:
      *  If a number is a US number, State must also be supplied
      *  If a number is US the utilization category must be defined
      .  If a number is an Algerian number the Special category must be supplied

                                              - 23
     *  In future we may change utilization category so that it only applies to 'Alabama' and
        'Virginia' numbers
[00115]    This may be addressed by adding a dependency table. This defines a hierarchy of
inter-dependent CategoryValue records to hold these rules. An example configuration is:
Category Value table
   0            Country        Afghanistan
   1            Country        Albania
  2             Country        Algeria
  250           Country         United States
   251          Country        Venezuela
   252          Country         Zimbabwe
       3 111 S       eilp-VN   old            61
      1b Stat                25
Dependency table
   3         Special         255
   4         Utilization     250
[00116]    There may be a need to interpret the dependencies table in three scenarios;

                                                - 24
     *   When we load new numbers into the system, each number needs to be classified
         accordingly;
     *   When we buy a number questions need to be asked about the kind of number we are
         interested in (this is the dynamic sales UI);
     *   If the classification rules change and we need to re-analyse all numbers to see which
         we need to provide more information on.
[00117]      When a number or a range of numbers is categorised the dependency table is
interpreted. Only the first row in this table doesn't contain a 'dependent on' value. This means
the first row is applicable to all numbers. This record also references the countries category
meaning all numbers must define the country they belong to. If we were dynamically building a
UI to select a type of number to buy; this would result in a single list box displaying all the
related CategoryValues (ie. All the countries of the world). One must be selected. Once a
selection is made the dependency table is analysed again in light of the decision made. If US
is selected from the list box, then rows 1 and 4 from the dependency table come into effect
since they are 'dependent on' category value 250 (Country = 'US'). Row 1 says that a list box
for the 52 US State Category values must be displayed. Row 4 similarly results in a list box
being displayed from which we can select Utilization; 'Primary' or 'Secondary'. If we select
'California' for the State, then an additional classification for the Special category; Gold, Silver
or Standard is required. It can also be seen that the Special category also applies to 'Algerian'
numbers (dependency table row 2). This is illustrated in Figure 25.
[00118]      This system is extremely flexible. It can be seen, for example, that it is trivial to
replace a dependency table row to apply a utilization category to some US states only rather
than all US states. The logic depicted would typically be encapsulated in a re-usable software
component and embedded for various use cases. It would also be possible to dynamically
update the dependencies table in response to changes in the number pool, for instance by
removing the reference to the 'New York' category value when no New York numbers are
available.
[00119]      As indicated above, this architectural approach, and approach to providing services,
is extremely powerful. It enables configuration of a mobile network for a multicountry network
operator by implementing common elements in one or more central nodes while distributing
time and       volume critical elements to       regional   nodes. This supports configuring a
telecommunications stack for the provision of mobile services to customers in multiple regions

                                             - 25
by abstracting the general elements into a central core of functionality and implementing
framework adaptors to cope with regional variation. Where a regional variation needs to be
implemented in a regional node, necessary functionality can be distributed to that node. Some
regional nodes may also provide copies of central nodes, and can step in to provide
redundancy.
[00120]   This approach may be used to avoid previous geographical limitations while
maintaining localisation for the subscriber. For example, origin IP packet translation may be
provided so that a customer appears to be local to a geography, say Germany, when their
packet traffic is being routed from Amsterdam. APN manipulation may take place initially based
on a comparison of the subscriber's IMSI and the MNC/MCC combination provided by the
SGSN.
[00121]   Mapping may be made by the IP Backbone to a "national" IP address. For a
subscriber to keep their own preferred country experience, then customer preferences could
be used to override location information.
[00122]   As described above, a localized APN may be provided to enable packet traffic to
most efficiently route to the nearest GGSN or packet gateway. This supports optimisation of
routing. For example, the network and user equipment may be dynamically configured for
better routing of voice or data services and to set connection preferences for the user
equipment to enable fast attachment. Similarly, the routing of voice and data for a given
customer based on the source destination locations of the transaction destination and
available routing resources across a partially distributed mobile telecommunications network
such that signaling is centrally matched to enable billing and call control. Modifying the routing
behaviour of a communication to a preferred delivery path may be based based on the
technology (Wi-Fi/GSM/LTE) at the origin, destination bearer and location. Efficient routing
may also be chosen to enable forwarding of SMS and Voice calls in a distributed network
without requiring tromboning of media and SMS via third party networks.
[00123]   Multiple mobile numbers from multiple countries or from one country may be
provided which map to services intelligently such that all services are available for all numbers
modified by the source location and destination number and or location.
[00124]   Common services may be provided across different international identifiers. For
example, a single bill, customer service and voicemail may be provided for a subscriber

                                                - 26
despite the subscriber having multiple international identifiers. Similarly lawful intercept and
emergency services may be provided across multiple international identifiers. A particular
benefit of using this approach with a system for provisioning a subscriber with multiple
identifiers as in WO 201 1/036484 is that it is easier to reconcile these subscriber identities for
common service provision. User experience can be chosen to allow the customer to dial home
country destinations in national format even when roaming, for example, and caller line
identification and restriction may be provided consistently for a subscriber across multiple
geographies, to the extent permitted by law.
[00125]     This model has further consequences for network management. For example, active
network probes may be distributed throughout the network so as to operate as one logical
node, allowing the probe system as a whole to be quality assured. The network probes may
each have their own identifier, and may communicate accordingly, but at a high level they will
interact with other elements and services as a single logical node.
[00126]     As described above, a service model using a hierarchical service description with a
centrally implemented general model and regionally implemented regional variation may be
employed. For mobile number portability, this may involve porting numbers concurrently in
multiple countries despite the presence of different porting models in those countries. This
allows for integration to multiple international models of MNP using a standardized framework
such that only the smallest number of elements must be adapted at each layer of the protocol.
For directory and number services, this may involve providing a multi country number and
short-code mapping service such that commonly known numbers such as Directory services
(UK 118, US 555 etc.) and paid services are resolved to each countries local numbering
scheme or home number system according to rules based on home, location and previous
history. Numbering laws may be mapped multi-nationally so that numbers are shown correctly
in each local jurisdiction according to local practice.
[00127]     This approach also supports number management by reserving preferred numbers
across multiple geographies. This may involve, for example, reserving similar numbers in
multiple countries once a customer has purchased a number in one country.
[00128]     Other country-independent packaging of services is possible using this model. For
example, it is possible to enable a group of individuals can share a common pool of minutes
across geographical boundaries while being optionally legally contracted to and billed in
differing currencies.

                                                  - 27
CLAIMS
1.        A method of managing a mobile network to provide cellular telecommunications
services to a subscriber in a plurality of countries, the method comprising:
           providing a first set of said cellular telecommunications services from a central node
covering all of the plurality of countries; and
           providing a second set of said cellular telecommunications services from a plurality
of regional nodes, each regional node providing the second set of cellular communications
services to a subset of the plurality of countries.
2.        A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the second set of services comprise time or
volume critical services.
3.        A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the time or volume critical services
comprise voice and data services.
4.        A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the first set of services
comprise business support services and operational support services.
5.        A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the regional nodes comprise
multicountry nodes and local nodes supporting a single country.
6.        A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein there is a plurality of nodes
adapted to act as the central node.
7.        A method as claimed in claim 6, wherein one or more of the regional nodes is
adapted to act as a central node in the event of failure of the central node.
8.        A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein a dedicated communications
backbone is provided between the central node and the regional nodes.
9.        A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein there is a plurality of nodes
adapted to act as a, or the, regional node for one of the plurality of countries.
10.       A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein a regional node is adapted to provide load
balancing between countries of a plurality of countries supported by that regional node.

                                                - 28
11.        A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein a regional node supporting a first plurality of
countries is adapted to support a second plurality of countries supported by a further regional
node in the event of failure of the further regional node.
12.        A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the central node provides at
least one operational support service as a region-independent core service, and a regional
adaptation service is also provided.
13.        A method as claimed in claim 12, wherein the regional adaptation service is provided
at a regional node.
14.        A method as claimed in any preceding claim, comprising providing an indication of a
subscriber's local country independent of the node providing services to the subscriber.
15.        A method as claimed in claim 14, comprising providing origin IP packet translation.
16.        A method as claimed in any preceding claim, comprising providing a choice of
access points at regional nodes to allow for efficient routing of mobile packets to a gateway.
17.        A method as claimed in any preceding claim, comprising optimising routing of voice
or data services with signalling to the central node for provision of business support services
and operational support services.
18.        A method as claimed in any preceding claim, where services are mapped from
common numbers or a group of common numbers according to source location, destination
number or location.
19.        A method as claimed in claim 18, wherein said numbers comprise directory services.
20.        A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein a subscriber has multiple
international identifiers.
21.        A method as claimed in claim 20, wherein customer support services are provided
consistently to the subscriber across the multiple international identifiers.
22.        A method as claimed in claim 20 or claim 21, wherein lawful intercept is provided
consistently for the subscriber across the multiple international identifiers.

                                              - 29
23.        A method as claimed in any of claims 20 to 22, wherein emergency services are
provided consistently for the subscriber across the multiple international identifiers.
24.        A method as claimed in any preceding claim, providing mobile number portability
between countries.
25.        A method as claimed in claim 24 where dependent on claim 12, wherein different
porting models for different countries are provided by one or more regional adaptation
services.
26.        A method as claimed in any preceding claim, comprising reserving related numbers
across multiple countries when a subscriber has obtained a number in one country.
27.        A method as claimed in any preceding claim, comprising mapping numbers for
display according to local mapping rules for each country.
28.        A method as claimed in any preceding claim, comprising grouping for business
support services specific network services for multiple subscribers.
29.        A method as claimed in claim 28, wherein the multiple subscribers are local to
different countries.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
