  ABSTRACT:
           A housing (2) for an electrical fitting for installation in a sliding door unit having a
  cavity, the housing including a first face (4) and a second face (6) connected to said first face (4),
  said second face (6) substantially parallel and spaced apart from said first face (4) to define a
5 space (7) therebetween, at least one aperture (18, 20) in either the first face (4) or the second face
  (6) for receiving wiring from said electrical fitting, wherein the electrical fitting wiring is
  retained in said space (7) such that no wiring is able to protrude into the cavity.
                                                     10

I I I
            HOUSING FOR AN ELECTRICAL FITTING IN A SLIDING DOOR UNIT
   Field of the Invention
            This invention relates to a housing for an electrical fitting to be installed in a sliding door
 5 unit.
   Background of the Invention
            Typically it is not possible to house electrical fittings in a cavity of a sliding door unit
   that is designed to store a sliding door in the open position. An impediment to installing
10 electrical fittings, such as switches and sockets, is that wires that come from the electrical fitting
   can be unprotected wires that obstruct the door sliding back and forth within the sliding door
   cavity. Furthermore the continuous sliding backwards and forwards can dislodge or disconnect
   wires from their mountings at the switch or socket, which presents the obvious hazard of
   electrocution.
15          The present invention seeks to overcome these disadvantages by providing an electrical
   fitting housing for a sliding door unit to enable the installation of electrical fittings on plaster
   board wall that forms part of the structure around a sliding door cavity.
   Summary of the Invention
20          According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a housing for an electrical
   fitting for installation in a sliding door unit having a cavity, the housing including:
            a first face and a second face connected to said first face, said second face substantially
   parallel and spaced apart from said first face to define a space therebetween;
            at least one aperture in either the first face or the second face for receiving wiring from
25 said electrical fitting;
                                                         1

           Preferably the electrical fitting wiring is retained in said space such that no wiring is able
   to protrude into the cavity. The housing may further include a first end and a second end, said
   second end blocked by a panel to prevent any wiring of the electrical fitting from extending
   through said second end. The first end may have an opening through which the wiring is able to
 5 protrude.
           The housing preferably includes a first support member extending along the length of the
   housing between said first and second faces and defining one side of said space. The housing
   preferably includes a second support member extending throughout the housing between said
   first and second faces and defining a second side of said space such that said first and second
10 support members are substantially parallel and spaced apart. Preferably at said second end said
   panel bridges respective ends of the first and second support members so that said space is
   entirely enclosed apart from said opening at said first end.
           In a preferred embodiment, the housing includes a first channel defined by said first
   support member and part of each of said first and second faces. In a further embodiment, the
15 housing further includes a second channel defined by said second support member and part of
   each of said first and second faces. Preferably either said first channel or said second channel is
   affixed to a part of said sliding door unit. Preferably the at least one aperture has a frangible
   panel covering said aperture prior to installation of the housing, said frangible panel being
   removable to enable said wiring to protrude into said space, wherein further said electrical fitting
20 is adapted to be secured to said face having said at least one aperture.
           The at least one aperture may be shaped for either a vertically oriented fitting or a
   horizontally oriented fitting. The housing may further include at least one aperture and
   corresponding frangible panel on said first face and at least one aperture and corresponding
   frangible panel on said second face. Preferably the at least one aperture and coiTesponding
25 frangible panel on said first face is/are horizontally oriented to fit at least one respective
   horizontally oriented electrical fitting and said at least one aperture and corresponding frangible
   panel on said second face is/are vertically oriented to fit at least one respective vertically oriented
   electrical fitting, or vice-versa.
            The housing preferably enables a user to choose between vertically or horizontally
30 oriented apertures to fit an electrical fitting that is either horizontal or vertical in orientation.
   Preferably the at least one aperture on either said first face or said second face is located closer to
                                                         2

   said second end blocked by said panel than said first end. The housing preferably is able to be
   cut to size to fit a particular sliding door unit. The electrical fitting is preferably a switch or a
   socket for receiving an electrical plug.
            According to a second aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of installing an
 5 electrical fitting housing in a sliding door unit having a cavity, said housing having a first face
   and a second face connected to said first face, said second face substantially parallel and spaced
   apart from said first face to define a space therebetween, the method including:
            positioning and securing the housing against a part of said sliding door unit and selecting
   an aperture from at least one aperture in either the first face or the second face to fit an electrical
10 fitting such that wiring from said electrical fitting extends through said selected aperture;
            retaining the electrical fitting wiring in said space such that no wiring protrudes into said
   cavity.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
15          A preferred embodiment of the invention will hereinafter be described, by way of
   example only, with reference to the drawings in which:
            Figure 1 is a perspective view from above of an electrical fitting housing that is adapted
   to fit within a cavity of a sliding door unit, showing two alternative views of the housing;
            Figure 1A is a perspective view of the housing of Figure Ifrom two different angles;
20          Figure 2A is an exploded perspective view of forward and reverse orientations of the
   housing of Figures 1 and 1A;
            Figure 2B is a pair of views showing the housing with one face having options for
   vertically orientated electrical fittings;
            Figure 2C is a front view of a face of the housing of Figures 1 and 1A having vertically
25 arranged apertures;
            Figure 2D shows a view of a part of the housing with one face having options to fit
   electrical fittings that are generally horizontal, such as electrical sockets;
                                                        3

            Figure 2E is a front view of another face of the housing of Figures 1 and 1A having
   horizontally arranged apertures;
            Figure 3 is a view from above of the housing showing vertically orientated cut out
   portions to receive electrical fittings;
 5          Figure 4 is a view similar to Figure 3 except it has horizontal shaped cut outs to receive
   electrical fittings in that orientation;
            Figure 5 is a view from a first side and above the housing;
            Figure 6 is a view from above of the housing of Figure 5 but from the opposite end;
            Figure 7 is a view from above showing the front face of the housing; and
10          Figure 8 is a view similar to Figure 7 showing the top side of the housing.
   Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiment
            Referring to Figures 1 and 1A there is shown a housing 2 to house and support electrical
   fittings and corresponding wiring, for use in a cavity of a sliding door unit. It has a first elongate
15 face 4 and a second elongate face 6 substantially parallel to first face 4, so that a space 7 is
   defined therebetween. It also has a first end 8 which is open and a second 10 which is partially
   blocked by a panel 12. On first face 4 there are a series of apertures 18 that have frangible
   panels 19 that can easily detach from the respective aperture 18. The apertures 18 are horizontal
   in shape in that their length is longer than their width and this suits the fitting of electrical fittings
20 that are also horizontal in shape which, for example, could be a light switch or a power socket
   for receiving an electrical plug. The housing 2 is generally made from suitable plastics material.
            On second face 6 there are a series of apertures 20, similar to apertures 18 but vertically
   oriented, which each have a panel 21 that are frangible or loosely connected to the apertures 20.
   In use, these can be detached or punched out in order to fit vertically oriented electrical fittings,
25 such as switches or electrical sockets. Thus the installer has a choice of which orientation of
   apertures to use, to fit the electrical fittings, by aligning the faces 4 or 6 such that it is closest to
   the plaster board to which the electrical fitting is to be attached. The housing 2 can be cut or
   snapped off to a particular size, using score lines that are identifiable at various distances from
                                                         4

   one or both ends 8 or 10. A series of rivets, in particular nut rivets 22 are formed in each of the
   faces 4 and 6 to enable the fixing of the housing 2 to the plaster board or building structure to
   which the electrical fitting is attached. A number of score lines 25 are present on both faces 4
   and 6 to enable a user to easily cut the housing to the desired length.
 5          Referring to Figures 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D and 2E there is shown the second face 6 which has a
   top edge 24, a bottom edge 26 and side edges 28 and 30. In the upper part of the Figure,
   measurements of a particular embodiment of the second face 6 are provided. Generally the
   housing 2 can be made to fit any size cavity in a sliding door unit ranging from 620mm to
    1200mm. Shown in Figure 2A is a unit that is used to fit a 920mm sliding door unit. It is
10 82n0mm in length, 175mm in height and 18.6mm in width, however it can be cut to a shorter
   length. Rivets 23 or any other fastening means are used to affix the electrical fitting to the
   plaster board and are about 5mm in diameter. The dimensions of each aperture 20 are 77 mm by
   52 mm and the dimensions of each panel 21 are 67 mi by 42 mm, leaving a gap of around 5 mm
   between aperture 20 and panel 21.
15          Referring to Figures 2A to 2E, there is shown first face 4 on its own, which has
   connected thereto the panel 12 which closes the end 10 when both faces 4 and 6 are connected to
   one another through support members or channels 14 and 16. The face 4 has a top edge 32, a
   bottom edge 34 and first and second side edges 36 and 38. Shown in the upper part of Figure 2A
   is a unit that is used to fit a 920mm cavity. It is 820mm in length, 175mm in height and 18.6mm
20 in width, however it can be cut to a shorter length. The apertures 18, which are horizontally
   aligned, have similar dimensions to the vertical apertures in Figure 2A except that they are on a
   900 orientation from the vertical apertures. Their dimensions are 52 mm x 77 mm. Each of the
   rivets 22 and 23 have a diameter of about 5 mm. The spacing around the panels 19 and 21
   compared to the respective aperture 18 and 20 is about 5 mm. Other dimensions are available to
25 fit differently sized cavities, such as 870mm, 820mm, 770mm, 720mm and 620mm.
            Referring to Figures 3 and 4 there is shown the respective first and second faces 4 and 6
   when positioned on a flat surface. Also referring to Figures 5 and 6 it is seen that each end 8 and
   10, when the faces 4 and 6 are affixed to one another, form an H-shaped arrangement. At second
   end 10 the panel 12 extends between first support member 14 and second support member 16. In
30 Figure 6 at first end 8 there is an opening 13 between support member 14 and support member
   16 to define the space 7 for wires to exit from the electrical fitting and into the space formed in
                                                       5

    the cavity support wall or between crossbars of the sliding door unit. To enable easier mounting
    of the housing 2, a space 27 exists above the support member 14 and similarly a space 29 exists
    below support member 16. Both spaces 27 and 29 extend along the whole length of the housing
    2. This is to assist in creating an opening through which the housing 2 can rest on (in either
 5  orientation up or down) and be supported by the support framework of the sliding door unit so
   that none of the housing 2 protrudes into the space or the cavity of the sliding door unit, nor
    create a bulge in the plaster or other substrate on the wall. The second end 10 that is mostly
   blocked by the panel 12 is required for safety purposes. For example if the sliding door unit is
   removed for painting or other maintenance, the end of the housing 2 nearest the apertures 18 and
10 20 may be exposed to the cavity of the sliding door unit. With such an end blocked off by panel
    12, any electrical wires would not be so exposed. The first end 8 is open to enable wiring to
   travel to and from the electrical fitting and the building frame around the cavity.
            Referring to Figures 7 and 8 there is shown the housing 2 from an above view. Both of
   the support members 14 and 16 are positioned such that the panels 19, 21 extend between those
15 two support members on the respective faces 4 and 6. For safety reasons the apertures 18 and 20
   are located nearer end 10 so that the panel 12 is nearest to any electrical fittings that are fitted
   through faces 4 or 6, depending on the vertical or horizontal orientation. More clearly seen in
   Figures 7 and 8 is the extension of the support member 14 that goes along the whole length of
   the unit 2.
20          When installing the housing 2 it is cut to length as required using the score lines
   displayed or marked on either face 4 or 6 or both. Adhesive or fastening means, particularly in
   the form of silicon or glue is then applied in a bead to the middle of the channels 27 or 29
   (whichever is to be adhered to the sliding door unit crossbars) created by the support members
    14 and 16. Then the housing 2 is affixed into position. After allowing time to set and form a
25 solid installation between the housing 2 and the sliding door unit, wiring can be fed from the
   framework around the sliding door unit through the open end 8 and then fed through the
   apertures 18 or 20 once the panels 19 or 21 are pushed out or detached. The switches, sockets or
   other electrical fittings may then be installed as per normal through the plaster board wall and
   then screws are fastened at rivet points 22 to affix the housing to the building structure, in this
30 case the plaster board. Other screws extend through points 23 to affix the electrical fitting to the
   plaster wall and then through the housing 2 which strengthens the whole structure.
                                                       6

    CLAIMS:
    1.      A housing for an electrical fitting for installation in a sliding door unit having a cavity,
    the housing including:
            a first face and a second face connected to said first face, said second face substantially
 5  parallel and spaced apart from said first face to define a space therebetween;
            at least one aperture in either the first face or the second face for receiving wiring from
    said electrical fitting;
    wherein the electrical fitting wiring is retained in said space such that no wiring is able to
   protrude into the cavity.
10 2.       A housing according to claim 1 further including a first end and a second end, said
    second end blocked by a panel to prevent any wiring of the electrical fitting from extending
   through said second end.
   3.       A housing according to claim 2 wherein said first end has an opening through which the
   wiring is able to protrude.
15 4.       A housing according to claim 2 or claim 3 further including a first support member
   extending along the length of the housing between said first and second faces and defining one
   side of said space.
   5.       A housing according to claim 4 further including a second support member extending
   throughout the housing between said first and second faces and defining a second side of said
20 space such that said first and second support members are substantially parallel and spaced apart.
   6.       A housing according to claim 5 wherein at said second end said panel bridges respective
   ends of the first and second support members so that said space is entirely enclosed apart from
   said opening at said first end.
   7.       A housing according to claim 6 further including a first channel defined by said first
25 support member and part of each of said first and second faces.
   8.       A housing according to claim 6 or claim 7 further including a second channel defined by
   said second support member and part of each of said first and second faces.
                                                         7

   9.       A housing according to claim 8 wherein either said first channel or said second channel is
   affixed to a part of said sliding door unit.
    10.    A housing according to any one of the previous claims wherein said at least one aperture
   has a frangible panel covering said aperture prior to installation of the housing, said frangible
 5 panel being removable to enable said wiring to protrude into said space, wherein further said
   electrical fitting is adapted to be secured to said face having said at least one aperture.
    11.    A housing according to claim 10 wherein said at least one aperture is shaped for either a
   vertically oriented fitting or a horizontally oriented fitting.
    12.    A housing according to claim 11 further including at least one aperture and
                                                   A
10 corresponding frangible panel on said first face and at least one aperture and corresponding
   frangible panel on said second face.
   13.     A housing according to claim 12 wherein said at least one aperture and corresponding
   frangible panel on said first face is/are horizontally oriented to fit at least one respective
   horizontally oriented electrical fitting and said at least one aperture and corresponding frangible
15 panel on said second face is/are vertically oriented to fit at least one respective vertically oriented
   electrical fitting, or vice-versa.
   14.     A housing according to claim 13 that enables a user to choose between vertically or
   horizontally oriented apertures to fit an electrical fitting that is either horizontal or vertical in
   orientation.
20 15.     A housing according to claim 14 wherein said at least one aperture on either said first
   face or said second face is located closer to said second end blocked by said panel than said first
   end.
   16.     A housing according to any one of the previous claims that is able to be cut to size to fit a
   particular sliding door unit.
25 17.     A housing according to any one of the previous claims wherein said electrical fitting is a
   switch or a socket for receiving an electrical plug.
   18.     A method of installing an electrical fitting housing in a sliding door unit having a cavity,
   said housing having a first face and a second face connected to said first face, said second face
                                                       8

  substantially parallel and spaced apart from said first face to define a space therebetween, the
  method including:
           Positioning and securing the housing against a part of said sliding door unit and selecting
  an aperture from at least one aperture in either the first face or the second face to fit an electrical
5 fitting such that wiring from said electrical fitting extends through said selected aperture;
           retaining the electrical fitting wiring in said space such that no wiring protrudes into said
  cavity.
                                                       9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           10/10

