                                             ABSTRACT
        Markers useful for the identification, characterization and, optionally, the enrichment or
isolation of tumorigenic cells or cell subpopulations are disclosed.

          IDENTIFICATION AND ENRICHMENT OF CELL SUBPOPULATIONS
                                 CROSS REFERENCED APPLICATIONS
The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No. <removed-apn>,
which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
[001] This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application
Nos. 61/380,181 filed September 3, 2010, and 61/510,413 filed July 21, 2011, each of which are
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                      FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[002] The present invention relates generally to the identification, characterization and,
optionally the isolation or enrichment of cells or cell subpopulations, particularly tumor initiating
cells derived from various neoplasia. In selected aspects the invention also relates to methods of
isolating tumor initiating cells and the resulting preparations, as well as various methods for
using tumor initiating cells and cell populations for drug research and development and in
diagnostic, therapeutic and other clinical and non-clinical applications.
                                  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[003] Stem and progenitor cell differentiation and cell proliferation are normal ongoing processes
that act in concert to support tissue growth during organogenesis, and cell replacement and repair
of most tissues during the lifetime of all living organisms. Differentiation and proliferation
decisions are often controlled by numerous factors and signals that are balanced to maintain cell
fate decisions and tissue architecture. Normal tissue architecture is maintained as a result of cells
responding to microenvironmental cues that regulate cell division and tissue maturation.
Accordingly, cell proliferation and differentiation normally occurs only as necessary for the
replacement of damaged or dying cells or for growth. Unfortunately, disruption of cell
proliferation and/or differentiation can result from a myriad of factors including, for example, the
under- or overabundance of various signaling chemicals, the presence of altered
microenvironments, genetic mutations or some combination thereof. When normal cellular
proliferation and/or differentiation is disturbed or somehow disrupted it can lead to various
diseases or disorders including cancer.
[004] Conventional treatments for cancer include chemotherapy, radiotherapy, surgery,
immunotherapy (e.g., biological response modifiers, vaccines or targeted therapeutics) or
combinations thereof. Sadly, far too many cancers are non-responsive or minimally responsive
to such conventional treatments leaving few options for patients. Moreover, depending on the

type of cancer some available treatments, such as surgery, may not be viable alternatives.
Limitations inherent in current standard of care therapeutics are particularly evident when
                                                 1iq

attempting to care for patients who have undergone previous treatments and have subsequently
relapsed. In such cases the failed therapeutic regimens and resulting patient deterioration may
contribute to refractory tumors often manifest themselves as a more aggressive disease that
ultimately proves to be incurable. Although there have been great improvements in the diagnosis
and treatment of cancer over the years, overall survival rates for many solid tumors have
remained largely unchanged due to the failure of existing therapies to prevent relapse, tumor
recurrence and metastases. Thus, it remains a challenge to develop more targeted and potent
therapies.
[005] One promising area of research involves the use of targeted therapeutics to go after the
tumorigenic "seed" cells that appear to underlie many cancers. To that end most solid tissues are
now known to contain adult, tissue-resident stem cell populations that generate differentiated cell
types that comprise the majority of that tissue. Tumors arising in these tissues similarly consist
of heterogeneous populations of cells that also arise from stem cells, but differ markedly in their
overall proliferation and organization. While it is increasingly recognized that the majority of
tumor cells have a limited ability to proliferate, a minority population of cancer cells (commonly
known as cancer stem cells or CSC) have the exclusive ability to extensively self-renew thereby
enabling them with tumor reinitiating capacity. More specifically, the cancer stem cell
hypothesis proposes that there is a distinct subset of cells (i.e. CSC) within each tumor
(approximately 0.1- 10%) that is capable of indefinite self-renewal and of generating tumor cells
progressively limited in their replication capacity as a result of their differentiation to tumor
progenitor cells, and subsequently to terminally differentiated tumor cells.
[006] In recent years it has become more evident these CSC (also known as tumor perpetuating
cells or TPC) might be more resistant to traditional chemotherapeutic agents or radiation and thus
persist after standard of care clinical therapies to later fuel the growth of relapsing tumors,
secondary tumors and metastases. Moreover, there is growing evidence suggests that pathways
that regulate organogenesis and/or the self-renewal of normal tissue-resident stem cells are
deregulated or altered in CSC, resulting in the continuous expansion of self-renewing cancer cells
and tumor formation. See generally Al-Hajj et al., 2004, PMID: 15378087; and Dalerba et al.,
2007, PMID: 17548814; each of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. Thus,
the effectiveness of traditional, as well as more recent targeted treatment methods, has apparently
been limited by the existence and/or emergence of resistant cancer cells that are capable of
perpetuating the cancer even in face of these diverse treatment methods. Huff et al., European
Journal of Cancer 42: 1293-1297 (2006) and Zhou et al., Nature Reviews Drug Discovery 8: 806
823 (2009) each of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. Such observations

are confirmed by the consistent inability of traditional debulking agents to substantially increase
patient survival when suffering from solid tumors, and through the development of an
increasingly sophisticated understanding as to how tumors grow, recur and metastasize.
Accordingly, recent strategies for treating neoplastic disorders have recognized the importance of
eliminating, depleting, silencing or promoting the differentiation of tumor perpetuating cells so as
to diminish the possibility of tumor recurrence, metastasis or patient relapse.
[007] Efforts to develop such strategies have incorporated recent work involving non-traditional
xenograft (NTX) models, wherein primary human solid tumor specimens are implanted and
passaged exclusively in immunocompromised mice. Such techniques confirm the existence of a
subpopulation of cells with the unique ability to generate heterogeneous tumors and fuel their
growth indefinitely. As previously hypothesized, work in NTX models has confirmed that
identified CSC subpopulations of tumor cells appear more resistant to debulking regimens such
as chemotherapy and radiation, potentially explaining the disparity between clinical response
rates and overall survival. Further, employment of NTX models in CSC research has sparked a
fundamental change in drug discovery and preclinical evaluation of drug candidates that may
lead to CSC-targeted therapies having a major impact on tumor recurrence and metastasis
thereby improving patient survival rates.
[008] Unfortunately, such techniques and related methodology are largely dependent on the
ability to efficiently and reliably identify, characterize and/or partition, isolate or enrich tumor
perpetuating cell subpopulations that may then be effectively analyzed. To ultimately carry out
such work the identification and association of tumor cell markers that allow for dissection and
organization of cellular hierarchy is critical. Identification of reliable markers associated with
tumor perpetuating cells (i.e. CSC) therefore provides valuable information that is useful for a
variety of applications in both clinical and basic research settings. The identification and
subsequent isolation of tumor perpetuating cells from a particular tumor or metastatic lesion is
useful, for example, in diagnosing the pathological basis for the disorder and/or developing a
rational therapeutic treatment. In other instances, identification, characterization, isolation,
partition or enrichment of TPC is necessary for conducting in vitro experiments on physiological
and molecular mechanisms or for implantation into animals for in vivo studies of tumor
generation, progression and/or treatment.
[009] The present invention addresses several of these issues and, by providing novel
compositions, models and methods to facilitate the understanding, treatment, prevention and/or
management of hyperproliferative disorders.

                                    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0010]       These and other objectives are provided for by the present invention which, in a
broad sense, is directed to methods, compounds, compositions and articles of manufacture that
may be used to identify or characterize, and, optionally, to isolate, partition, separate or enrich
certain tumorigenic cells or cell subpopulations associated with hyperproliferative or neoplastic
disorders. In preferred embodiments the subject cell or cell subpopulation will comprise tumor
initiating cells and/or tumor perpetuating cells and/or tumor progenitor cells.
[0011]       More specifically, in accordance with the teachings herein the inventors have
discovered a series of markers that may be used independently or collectively to accurately
identify, sort enrich and/or and characterize cancer stem cells from a wide variety of tumors.
Using selected biochemical techniques, the novel association of the disclosed markers with
specific, self-renewing malignant cells in the tumor architecture provides for enrichment,
isolation, or purification of phenotypically distinct cells or tumor cell subpopulations that are
capable of perpetual self-renewal and tumor recapitulation. In contrast to the prior art, and as
evidenced by the Examples below, the disclosed markers are capable of recognizing or
identifying tumor initiating cells from a variety of tumors. The enrichment or isolation of these
marker-defined, relatively homogeneous cell populations in turn allows for the extensive
characterization of the constituent cancer stem cells, including the elucidation of potential
therapeutic targets and screening of pharmaceutical compounds. In other embodiments the cells
and compositions of the instant invention may be used in conjunction with animal models such as
non-traditional xenograft models to facilitate research and drug development efforts. Moreover,
the disclosed markers may further be used in clinical and non-clinical settings for the diagnosis,
classification, monitoring and management of hyperproliferative disorders as well as providing
associated kits or other articles of manufacture.
[0012]       In particularly preferred embodiments the present invention provides for the
identification, characterization, enrichment and/or isolation of, respectively, tumor initiating cells
(TIC), tumor perpetuating cells (TPC) and tumor progenitor cells (TProg) through the novel use
of selected marker or marker combinations as set forth herein. With respect to the cancer stem
cell paradigm, each of the aforementioned cell subpopulations are tumorigenic to a greater or
lesser extent and, as such, are responsible for tumor growth, maintenance, metastasis and
recurrence. Significantly, the instant invention allows such cell subpopulations to be identified
and optionally derived from a variety of different tumor types and stages of cancer. That is,
through the identification of specific cancer stem cell markers, including tumor initiating cell
associated markers (TICAM), tumor perpetuating cell associated markers (TPCAM) and tumor

progenitor cell associated markers (TProgAM), the present invention provides, among other
aspects, for the uniform and reproducible recognition, characterization and sorting or isolation of
highly pure tumorigenic cell subpopulations that, in turn, allow for the identification of cancer
stem cell specific therapeutic targets and proteins of prospective diagnostic utility. In this regard
these cells or enriched cell subpopulations, as defined by the disclosed markers alone or in
combination, can be effectively employed in pharmaceutical research and development activities
to identify novel therapeutic targets optimized for the suppression or depletion of tumor feeding
cancer stem cells.
[0013]       Accordingly, in a preferred embodiments the present invention provides an isolated
tumorigenic cell population enriched for expression of at least one TICAM. In a related method
the present invention will comprise a method for enriching a tumorigenic cell population
comprising the steps of:
       contacting a tumor cell population with a binding agent which preferably associates with at
least one TICAM; and
       sorting said cells associated with said at least one TICAM to provide an enriched
tumorigenic cell population.
[0014]       In particularly preferred embodiments the sorting step comprises fluorescence
activated cell sorting, magnetic-assisted cell sorting, substrate-assisted cell sorting, laser
mediated sectioning, fluorometry, flow cytometry or microscopy techniques. In other preferred
embodiments the sorting step will comprise contacting the tumor cell population with a plurality
of binding agents.
[0015]       Also provided by the invention are enriched tumorigenic cell populations derived
from a heterogeneous tumor mass as well as tumor initiating cells derived from these tumors. It
will be appreciated that the disclosed methods of tumor initiating cell sorting along with in vivo
cell passaging and in vitro culture techniques and the resultant populations of purified cells
provide for a wide variety of uses, as further described below.
[0016]       Another aspect of the invention comprises a personalized method of treatment of a
subject with a tumor, which is made possible by the ready availability and manipulability of
tumorigenic cells derived from the subject's own tumor using methods in accordance with the
invention.
[0017]       In this respect another embodiment of the invention comprises a method of treating
or diagnosing a subject in need thereof comprising the steps of;
       obtaining a tumor sample from the subject; and

       contacting the tumor sample with at least one binding agent that preferably associates with
a TICAM.
[0018]        In preferred embodiments the tumor sample will comprise a solid tumor sample. In
other preferred embodiments the method will further comprise the step of characterizing or
assessing tumorigenic cells associated with said tumor sample.
[0019]        Yet another aspect of the instant invention will comprise method of determining if a
cell obtained from a tumor sample is tumorigenic comprising the step of contacting the tumor
cell with at least one TICAM.
[0020]        Yet another aspect of the present invention provides methods of treating a subject
suffering from cancer wherein the method comprises assessing the TICAM positive cells in a
sample obtained from the subject. Optionally the assessment may occur following treatment of
the subject and, in other embodiments, the assessment will occur after the subject has been
treated with one or more anti-cancer agents. In yet other embodiments the assessment will be
undertaken prior to the patient being treated.
[0021]        Another embodiment of the present invention relates to methods to determine if a
subject is at risk of recurrence wherein the method comprising assessing the presence of TICAM
positive cells through the introduction of a binding agent that preferably associates TICAM,
wherein the detection of tumor initiating cells is indicative that the subject is at risk of metastasis
or recurrent cancer. In such embodiments, the subject can be administered an anti-cancer agent
or therapy as known by a person of ordinary skill in the art.
[0022]        In a similar vein the present invention also provides kits that are useful in the
diagnosis and monitoring of tumor initiating cell associated disorders such as cancer. To this end
the present invention preferably provides an article of manufacture useful for diagnosing or
treating such disorders comprising a receptacle or receptacles comprising one or more binding
agents that preferably associate with a tumor initiating cell associated marker and instructional
materials for using the same.
[0023]        Still another embodiment of the instant invention comprises a method of conducting
genotypic or phenotypic analysis comprising the steps of:
       providing a tumorigenic cell or enriched tumorigenic cell population comprising one or
more TICAM;
       treating said cell or cell population to provide genetic or proteomic material; and
       analyzing said genetic or proteomic material.
[0024]        In preferred embodiments the analysis will comprise Next-Gen sequencing of at least
a portion of the transcriptome. In other embodiments the invention will comprise mass
                                                    I;

spectrometric analysis.
[0025]        In yet another embodiment the present invention will comprise a method of screening
potential pharmaceutical compounds comprising the steps of:
       exposing a tumorigenic cell or tumorigenic cell population to a candidate compound; and
       contacting the tumorigenic cell or tumorigenic cell population with at least one TICAM.
[0026]        In selected embodiments the exposing step will be conducted in vivo. In other
preferred embodiments the exposing step will be conducted in vitro. In yet other preferred
embodiments the method will further comprise characterizing the tumorigenic cell or
tumorigenic cell population.
[0027]        In another embodiment, the instant invention provides a method of inducing cancer
comprising the steps of:
       providing a tumorigenic cell population enriched for one or more TICAM; and
       introducing the tumorigenic cell population into a subject.
[0028]        In yet another preferred embodiment the instant invention comprises a method of
inducing cancer comprising the steps of:
       isolating a tumorigenic cell exhibiting one or more TICAM; and
       introducing isolated tumorigenic cell into a subject.
[0029]        Preferably the cell is isolated by contacting said cell with one or more binding agents
that preferably associate with one or more TICAM.
[0030]        The instant invention further provides a method of generating tumor samples
comprising the steps of :
       providing a tumorigenic cell or enriched tumorigenic cell population comprising one or
more TICAM;
       introducing the tumorigenic cell or enriched tumorigenic cell population into a subject;
       waiting for the tumorigenic cell or cell population to generate a heterogeneous tumor; and
       harvesting said heterogeneous tumor.
[0031]        In preferred embodiments the harvested tumor will be frozen and banked using
standard techniques. In yet other preferred embodiments cells derived from the harvested tumors
will be implanted in a subject. Still other preferred embodiments of the instant invention will
comprise a tumor bank comprising such harvested tumors.
[0032]        In still another particularly preferred embodiment the present invention provides an
animal model for the analysis of pharmaceutical compounds comprising a subject implanted with
a tumorigenic cell or cell population purified or enriched for one or more TICAM. In
particularly preferred embodiments the subject will comprise an immunocompromised mouse. A
                                                     7

related preferred embodiment comprises a method of producing an animal model for the analysis
of pharmaceutical compounds comprising the step of introducing a tumorigenic cell or cell
population purified or enriched for one or more TICAM.
[0033]       Besides the aforementioned aspects selected embodiments of the invention provide a
method of analyzing cancer progression and/or pathogenesis in vivo, comprising the steps of:
       introducing one or more tumor initiating cells comprising one or more TICAM into a
subject; and
       analyzing cancer progression and/or pathogenesis in the subject.
[0034]       In preferred embodiments the animal will be treated with one or more anti-cancer
agents following the introduction of the one or more tumor initiating cells.
[0035]       Preferred TICAMs compatible with instant invention will comprise CD9, CD13,
CD15, CD24, CD26, CD29, CD46, CD49a, CD49b, CD49c, CD49f, CD51, CD54, CD55, CD58,
CD63, CD66a, CD66c, CD66e, CD71, CD73, CD81, CD82, CD91, CD98, CD99, CD104,
CD105, CD108, CD111, CD130, CD136, CD151, CD155, CD157, CD164, CD166, CD172a,
CD186, CD221, CD230, CD262, CD273, CD275, CD295, CD298, CD317, CD318, CD324,
CD340, CCR10, c-Met, Eph-B2, Eph-B4, FLORI, Glut-2, Glypican 5, HER3, IL-20Ra, Integrin
a9bl, Integrin b5, LDL-R, Mer, Semaphorin 4B, TROP-2 and Vb9. In particularly preferred
embodiments cells and cell populations enriched or isolated as set forth herein shall comprise a
marker phenotype comprising one or more TICAM. As discussed extensively below and
illustrated by the appended Examples, each of the aforementioned makers may be used in
accordance with the teachings herein to identify, characterize and, optionally separate or enrich
tumorigenic cell populations.
[0036]       With regard to all the aforementioned embodiments it will be appreciated that a
particularly preferred TICAM comprises a TICAM selected from the group consisting of CD46,
CD324 and CD66c. In this respect it will be appreciated that selected particularly preferred
tumorigenic cells or enriched cell populations will comprise a CD46hi phenotype. In other
preferred embodiments the disclosed cells or cell populations will comprise a CD324* phenotype.
In yet other especially preferred embodiments the cells or cell compositions of the instant
invention will comprise a CD46hi CD324* phenotype. In still other preferred embodiments the
disclosed cells will have a CD 46hi CD324+ CD66c phenotype while in yet other embodiments
the cells will exhibit a CD46hi CD324+ CD66c. Of course it will be appreciated that cell
populations comprising the aforementioned phenotypes may be derived using binding agents
reactive with each of the specified markers.
[0037]       The foregoing is a summary and thus contains, by necessity, simplifications,

generalizations, and omissions of detail; consequently, those skilled in the art will appreciate that
the summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. Other aspects,
features, and advantages of the methods, compositions and/or devices and/or other subject matter
described herein will become apparent by reference to the figures and in the teachings set forth
herein.
                                BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[0038]       FIGS. 1A and 1B depict flow cytometry-based protein expression data for individual
tumor cells displayed as histogram plots, wherein the background staining of isotype control
antibodies is shown in gray, filled histograms and CD46 expression is displayed by the bold,
black line;
[0039]       FIG. 2 shows graphical representations of flow cytometry-based protein expression
data for individual tumor cells displayed as histogram plots, wherein the background staining of
isotype control antibodies is shown in the gray, filled histograms and CD324 expression is
displayed by the bold, black line;
[0040]       FIGS. 3A and 3B depict flow cytometry-based expression data for individual tumor
cells displayed as histogram plots, wherein the background staining of isotype control antibodies
is shown in the gray, filled histograms and CD24 or CD34 expression are displayed by the bold,
black line;
[0041]       FIGS. 4A and 4B are scatter plots and a graphical representation demonstrating the
tumorigenicity of enriched CD46hi CD324+ cell populations from a representative colorectal
tumor;
[0042]       FIGS. 5A and 5B are scatter plots and a graphical representation demonstrating the
tumorigenicity of enriched CD46hi CD324+ cell populations from a representative pancreatic
tumor;
[0043]       FIGS. 6A and 6B are scatter plots and a graphical representation demonstrating the
tumorigenicity of enriched CD46hi CD324+ cell populations from a representative lung tumor;
[0044]       FIGS. 7A and 7B are scatter plots and a graphical representation demonstrating the
tumorigenicity of enriched ESA* (CD46 h) CD324+ cell populations from a representative triple
negative breast tumor;
[0045]       FIG. 8 is a tabular overview of representative colorectal, non-small cell lung,
pancreatic and triple-negative breast tumor cell transplant experiments utilizing isolated tumor
cell subpopulations expressing various combinations of CD46 and CD324;
[0046]       FIGS. 9A and 9B provide a tabular overview of markers observed to be co-expressed
                                                  Q

on CD46hi CD324* cells in the respective solid tumor types denoted;
[0047]       FIG. 10 shows graphical representations of flow cytometry-based protein expression
data for individual colorectal tumor cells displayed as scatter plots (above) or histogram plots
(below), wherein in the histogram plots the background staining of isotype control antibodies is
shown in the gray, filled histograms and the cell surface expression of the denoted protein
antigen is displayed by the bold, black line;
[0048]       FIG. 11 shows graphical representations of flow cytometry-based protein expression
data for individual pancreatic tumor cells displayed as contour plots (above) or histogram plots
(below), wherein in the histogram plots the background staining of isotype control antibodies is
shown in the gray, filled histograms and the cell surface expression of the denoted protein
antigen is displayed by the bold, black line;
[0049]       FIG. 12 shows graphical representations of flow cytometry-based protein expression
data for individual non-small cell lung tumor cells displayed as scatter plots (above) or histogram
plots (below), wherein in the histogram plots the background staining of isotype control
antibodies is shown in the gray, filled histograms and the cell surface expression of the denoted
protein antigen is displayed by the bold, black line;
[0050]       FIG. 13 A-C are graphical representations depicting the ability of colorectal tumor
derived CD46hi CD324+ CD66c enriched cell populations to reconstitute heterogeneous tumors
reflecting the parental tumor from which they were obtained;
[0051]       FIGS. 14A and 14B are histogram plots showing CD66c cell reconstitution by
distinct colorectal tumor cell subpopulations in primary transplants and a graphical representation
of tumorigenicity by the denoted tumor cell subpopulations in secondary transplants;
[0052]       FIGS. 15 A-C provide scatter plots and a tabular summary showing the robust
tumorigenicity demonstrated by CD46hi CD324+ CD66c enriched cell populations through serial
transplantation;
[0053]       FIGS. 16 A-D graphically illustrate the ability of distinct tumor cell subpopulations
expressing various levels of CD46, CD324 and CD66c to form colonies, differentiate and
produce soluble CD66c in vitro;
[0054]       FIGS. 17 A-D provides data demonstrating the impact of chemotherapeutic agents on
colorectal tumor cell subpopulations by showing the increase in relative frequency of CD46hi
CD324+ CD66 cells in treated tumors;
[0055]       FIGS. 18A and 18B provides data demonstrating the impact of chemotherapeutic
agents on pancreatic tumor cell subpopulations by showing the increase in relative frequency of
CD46hi cells in treated tumors;

[0056]        FIGS. 19A and 19B are schematic representations reflecting the cellular hierarchy as
delineated by the instant disclosure;
[0057]        FIGS. 20A - 20D represent graphical representations of representative gene
expression for the NOTUM (FIG. 20A), APCDD1 (FIG. 20B), exemplary pancreatic protein
(FIG. 20C) and MUC20 (FIG. 20D) associated with NTG cells, TProg cells and TPC,
respectively, within colorectal xenograft tumors.
                              DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
    I.       Introduction
[0058]        In the following detailed description, numerous specific details are set forth in order
to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However, it will be understood by those
skilled in the art that aspects of the present invention may be practiced without these specific
details. In other instances, well-known methods, procedures, and components have not been
described in detail so as not to obscure the present invention.
[0059]        Characterizing therapeutically significant aspects of tumor initiation and growth to
define treatment strategies and provide effective therapeutic targets has proven extremely
difficult. In the past the inability to develop successful therapeutic regimens for the treatment of
various cancers could, at least in part, be attributed to a lack of understanding of the underlying
forces driving tumor growth and recurrence and limitations in research techniques and tools. Yet
with the development and validation of the cancer stem cell paradigm over the past several years,
and an enhanced appreciation of the intricacies of tumor physiology brought about by
increasingly effective research methodology, substantial clinical advances as exhibited by patient
survival should be self-evident. Unfortunately, and with some notable exceptions, the expected
improvements have not been recognized, particularly in the case of certain solid tumors.
[0060]        In part, this relative lack of clinical success may be attributed to the misapplication of
generally accurate and illuminating research techniques to ill-conceived or improperly defined
cell populations that are commonly held to be tumorigenic. For example, while differential gene
expression has been widely used to identify cancer-associated gene activity and to identify
expressed proteins having potential therapeutic or diagnostic value, the technique has been of
limited value in improving patient survival. This is because such analysis has often been
conducted using genetic information obtained from a complex mixture of tumor cells or
subpopulations sorted using non-specific or inappropriate cancer stem cell markers.
[0061]        While these procedures may provide some insight as to general, homogeneously
expressed tumor associated gene products, they do little to identify specific, relevant markers of
                                                      11

cancer stem cells that can be exploited to develop targeted therapeutics for the prevention of
tumor recurrence and metastasis. That is, because of the poor quality of the starting material,
such differential expression studies often implicate irrelevant or relatively insignificant genes
and/or proteins (from a pathology standpoint) from phenotypically diverse differentiated cells
that prove generally ineffective as cancer stem cell markers upon further study. Conversely,
through the identification of specific cancer stem cell markers, including tumor initiating cell
associated markers (TICAM), tumor perpetuating cell associated markers (TPCAM) and tumor
progenitor cell associated markers (TProgAM), the present invention provides, among other
aspects, for the uniform and reproducible recognition, characterization and sorting or isolation of
highly pure tumorigenic cell subpopulations that, in turn, allow for the identification of cancer
stem cell specific therapeutic targets and proteins of prospective diagnostic utility.
[0062]        More generally, in accordance with the teachings herein the inventors have
discovered a series of markers that may be used independently or collectively to accurately
identify, sort enrich and/or and characterize cancer stem cells from a wide variety of tumors.
Using selected biochemical techniques, the novel association of the disclosed markers with
specific, self-renewing malignant cells in the tumor architecture provides for enrichment,
isolation, or purification of phenotypically distinct cells or tumor cell subpopulations that are
capable of perpetual self-renewal and tumor recapitulation. In contrast to the prior art, and as
evidenced by the Examples below, the disclosed markers are capable of recognizing or
identifying tumor initiating cells from a variety of tumors. The enrichment or isolation of these
marker-defined, relatively homogeneous cell populations in turn allows for the extensive
characterization of the constituent cancer stem cells, including the elucidation of potential
therapeutic targets and screening of pharmaceutical compounds. In other embodiments the cells
and compositions of the instant invention may be used in conjunction with animal models such as
non-traditional xenograft models to facilitate research and drug development efforts. Moreover,
the disclosed markers may further be used in clinical and non-clinical settings for the diagnosis,
classification, monitoring and management of hyperproliferative disorders as well as providing
associated kits or other articles of manufacture.
[0063]        While certain features of the invention have been illustrated and described, many
modifications, substitutions, changes, and equivalents will now occur to those of ordinary skill in
the art. It is, therefore, to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such
modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the invention.
    II.      Selected abbreviations

[0064]       CSC, cancer stem cells; ETP, early tumor progenitor cells; FACS, fluorescence
activated cell sorting; LTP, late tumor progenitor cells; MACS, magnetic-assisted cell sorting;
TIC, tumor initiating cells; TICAM, tumor initiating cell associated marker; TPC, tumor
perpetuating cells; TPCAM, tumor perpetuating cell associated marker; TProg, tumor progenitor
cells; TProgAM, highly proliferative tumor progenitor cell associated marker; NTX, non
traditional xenograft;
     III.   Definitions
[0065]       For convenience, certain terms employed in the entire application (including the
specification, examples, and appended claims) are collected here. Unless defined otherwise, all
technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by
one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs.
[0066]       As used herein the term "tumor initiating cells" (TIC) shall be held to mean
tumorigenic cells or populations thereof that are capable of at least significant proliferation
capacity and an ability to initiate tumors in immunocompromised mice when transplanted. In
this regard tumor initiating cell populations will comprise both tumor perpetuating cells and
highly proliferative tumor progenitor cells.
[0067]       For purposes of the instant disclosure, "tumor perpetuating cells" or "cancer stem
cells" (TPC or CSC) may be used interchangeably and are defined as cells that can undergo self
renewal as well as abnormal proliferation and differentiation to form a tumor. Functional
features of tumor perpetuating cells are that they are tumorigenic; they can give rise to additional
tumorigenic cells by self-renewal; and they can fully recapitulate a heterogeneous tumor mass by
giving rise to non-tumorigenic tumor cells.
[0068]       With respect to the instant invention the terms "tumor progenitor cells" (TProg) refer
to tumorigenic cells or populations thereof that are progeny of TPC and possess the capacity for
at least some tumor recapitulation and limited self-renewal when cultured in vitro or passaged
through a compatible animal host. Certain TProg cells or populations may be referred to as
highly proliferative herein. As discussed in more detail below, TProg cell populations comprise
both "early tumor progenitor cells" (ETP) and "late tumor progenitor cells" (LTP) that may be
distinguished by phenotype (e.g., cell surface markers) and different capacities to recapitulate
tumor cell architecture.
[0069]       In the instant application a "tumor initiating cell associated marker" (TICAM) shall
be held to comprise any marker that is associated with a tumor initiating cell or cell
subpopulation and allows for the identification, characterization and optional isolation or

enrichment thereof.
[0070]        As used herein a "tumor perpetuating cell associated marker" (TPCAM) shall be held
to comprise any marker that is associated with a tumor perpetuating cell or cell subpopulation
and allows for the identification, characterization and optional isolation or enrichment thereof. It
will be appreciated that TICAM and TPCAM are not mutually exclusive and that an individual
marker may comprise both simultaneously.
[0071]        For the purposes of the instant application a "tumor progenitor cell associated
marker" (TProgAM) comprises any marker that is associated with a tumor progenitor cell or cell
subpopulation and allows for the identification, characterization and optional isolation or
enrichment thereof. It will be appreciated that TICAM and TProgAM are not mutually exclusive
and that an individual marker may comprise both simultaneously.
[0072]        As used herein, particularly in reference to an isolated cell or isolated cell population,
the term "tumorigenic" refers to a cell derived from a tumor that is capable of forming a tumor,
when dissociated and transplanted into a suitable animal model such as an immunocompromised
mouse.
[0073]        In the instant application a "non-tumorigenic cell" (NTG) refers to a tumor cell that
arises from tumor initiating cells, but does not itself have the capacity to self-renew or generate
the heterogeneous lineages of tumor cells that comprise a tumor. Experimentally, NTG cells are
incapable of reproducibly forming tumors in immunocompromised mice, even when transplanted
in excess cell numbers.
[0074]        For the purposes of the instant application the terms "selecting," "sorting,"
"partitioning" "sectioning" or "isolating" selected cells, cell populations or cell subpopulations
may be used interchangeably and mean, unless otherwise dictated by context, that a selected cell
or defined subset of cells are removed from a tissue sample and separated from other cells and
contaminants that are not within the parameters defining the cell or cell population. An isolated
cancer stem cell will be generally free from contamination by other cell types and have the
capability of self-renewal and tumor recapitulation allowing the generation of differentiated
progeny. However, when the process or treatment results in a cell population it is understood
that it is impractical to provide compositions of absolute purity. In such cases the cell population
is "enriched" for the selected cells which then exist in the presence of various contaminants
(including other cell types) that do not materially interfere with the function or properties of the
selected cell subpopulation.
[0075]        As used herein and applied to cells or cell populations, the term "enriched" may be
construed broadly and held to mean any processed or treated cell population that contains a
                                                    1d

higher percentage of a selected cell type than is found in an untreated, otherwise equivalent cell
population or sample. In some preferred embodiments enriching a cell population refers to
increasing the percentage by about 10%, by about 2 0%, by about 3 0%, by about 4 0%, by about
50% or greater than 50% of one type of cell in a population of cells as compared to the starting
population of cells. In other preferred embodiments enriched cell populations of the instant
invention will comprise at least 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98%, or 99%
of the selected cell type. In yet other embodiments, an enriched preparation of tumor
perpetuating cells may be described as comprising about 1% or greater or about 0.5% to about
40% of the total cell population contained in a preparation. By way of comparison, a non
enriched preparation of exemplary tumor cells would include only about 0.2% to about 2.0% or
less of tumor perpetuating cells that are capable of giving rise to a secondary colony forming
sphere or perpetuating a heterogeneous tumor in vivo. In some embodiments, the enriched
preparations comprise a 100-fold, 200-fold, 500-fold, 1,000-fold, or up to a 2,000-fold or 10,000
fold to 20,000-fold enriched preparation of cancer stem cells capable of giving rise to secondary
colonies or perpetuating a heterogeneous tumor in vivo, starting with low cell numbers.
[0076]        In other aspects of the invention the term "substantially pure," with respect to a
particular cell population, refers to a population of cells that is at least about 75%, preferably at
least about 85%, more preferably at least about 90%, and most preferably at least about 95%
pure, with respect to the cells making up a total cell population. Recast, the terms "substantially
pure" or "essentially purified", with regard to a preparation of one or more partially and/or
terminally differentiated cell types, refer to a population of cells that contain fewer than about
20%, more preferably fewer than about 15%, 10%, 8 %, 7%, most preferably fewer than about
5%, 4 %, 3 %, 2 %, 1%, or less than 1%, of cells that are not tumor initiating cells.
[0077]        A "marker" or "cell marker" as used herein in the context of a cell or tissue, means
any trait or characteristic in the form of a chemical or biological entity that is identifiably
associated with, or specifically found in or on a particular cell, cell population or tissue including
those identified in or on a tissue or cell population affected by a disease or disorder. Markers
may be morphological, functional or biochemical in nature. In preferred embodiments the
marker is a cell surface antigen that is differentially or preferentially expressed (or is not) by
specific cell types (e.g., TPCs) or by cells under certain conditions (e.g., during specific points of
the cell life cycle or cells in a particular niche). Markers contemplated herein are specifically
held to be positive or negative and may denote a cell or cell subpopulation by its presence
(positive) or absence (negative).
[0078]        Similarly the term "marker phenotype" in the context of a tissue, cell or cell

population (e.g., a stable TPC phenotype) means any marker or combination of markers that may
be used to characterize, identify, quantify, separate, isolate, purify or enrich a particular cell or
cell population. In specific preferred embodiments, the marker phenotype is a cell surface
phenotype which may be determined by detecting or identifying the expression of a combination
of cell surface markers.
[0079]        "Positive," "low" and "negative" expression levels as they apply to markers or
marker phenotypes are defined as follows. Cells with negative expression (i.e."-") are herein
defined as those cells expressing less than, or equal to, the 95th percentile of expression observed
with an isotype control antibody in the channel of fluorescence in the presence of the complete
antibody staining cocktail labeling for other proteins of interest in additional channels of
fluorescence emission. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that this procedure for defining
negative events is referred to as "fluorescence minus one", or "FMO", staining. Cells with
expression greater than the 95th percentile of expression observed with an isotype control
antibody using the FMO staining procedure described above are herein defined as "positive"
(i.e."+"). As defined herein there are various populations of cells broadly defined as "positive."
First, cells with low expression (i.e. "lo") are generally defined as those cells with observed
expression above the 95th percentile determined using FMO staining with an isotype control
antibody and within one standard deviation of the 95th percentile of expression observed with an
isotype control antibody using the FMO staining procedure described above. Cells with "high"
expression (i.e. "hi") may be defined as those cells with observed expression above the 95th
percentile determined using FMO staining with an isotype control antibody and greater than one
standard deviation above the 95th percentile of expression observed with an isotype control
antibody using the FMO staining procedure described above. In other embodiments the 99th
percentile may preferably be used as a demarcation point between negative and positive FMO
staining and in particularly preferred embodiments the percentile may be greater than 99%.
[0080]        The term "lineage" as used herein describes cells with a common ancestry. For
example, cells that are derived from the same tumor initiating cell may be of the same lineage
though the progeny have differentiated into various classes of cells.
[0081]        For the purposes of the instant disclosure the terms "binding agent," "binding
molecule" and "binding entity" are synonymous unless otherwise dictated by circumstance and
may be used interchangeably. In the context of the instant invention the binding agent binds,
interacts, recognizes, reacts, or otherwise preferably associates with a selected marker on a
defined cell or cell subpopulation. Exemplary binding agents can include, but are not limited to,
an antibody or fragment thereof, an antigen, an aptamer, a nucleic acid (e.g. DNA and RNA), a

protein (e.g. receptor, enzyme, enzyme inhibitor, enzyme substrate, ligand), a peptide, a lectin, a
fatty acid or lipid and a polysaccharide. For example, in a selected embodiment a compatible
binding agent may comprise the hemagglutinin protein of measles virus or CD46 binding
fragment thereof. In other particularly preferred embodiments the binding agent or entity
comprises an antibody or fragment thereof.
[0082]       As set forth herein the term "antibody" is used in the broadest sense and specifically
covers synthetic antibodies, monoclonal antibodies, oligoclonal or polyclonal antibodies,
multiclonal antibodies, recombinantly produced antibodies, intrabodies, multispecific antibodies,
bispecific antibodies, monovalent antibodies, multivalent antibodies, human antibodies,
humanized antibodies, chimeric antibodies, primatized antibodies, Fab fragments, F(ab')
fragments, single-chain FvFcs (scFvFc), single-chain Fvs (scFv), anti-idiotypic (anti-Id)
antibodies and any other immunologically active antibody fragments so long as they exhibit the
desired biological activity (i.e., marker association or binding). In a broader sense, the antibodies
of the present invention include immunoglobulin molecules and immunologically active
fragments of immunoglobulin molecules, i.e., molecules that contain an antigen binding site,
where these fragments may or may not be fused to another immunoglobulin domain including,
but not limited to, an Fc region or fragment thereof. Further, as outlined in more detail herein,
the terms antibody and antibodies specifically include Fc variants, including full length
antibodies and variant Fc-Fusions comprising Fc regions, or fragments thereof, optionally
comprising at least one amino acid residue modification and fused to an immunologically active
fragment of an immunoglobulin.
[0083]       As used herein the term "epitope" refers to that portion of the target marker or
antigen capable of being recognized and specifically bound by a particular antibody. When the
marker is a polypeptide such as a cell surface receptor, epitopes can be formed both from
contiguous amino acids and noncontiguous amino acids juxtaposed by tertiary folding of a
protein. Epitopes formed from contiguous amino acids are typically retained upon protein
denaturing, whereas epitopes formed by tertiary folding are typically lost upon protein
denaturing. An epitope typically includes at least 3, and more usually, at least 5 or 8-10 amino
acids in a unique spatial conformation. More specifically, the skilled artisan will appreciate the
term epitope includes any protein determinant capable of specific binding to an immunoglobulin
or T-cell receptor or otherwise interacting with a molecule. Epitopic determinants generally
consist of chemically active surface groupings of molecules such as amino acids or carbohydrate
or sugar side chains and generally have specific three dimensional structural characteristics, as
well as specific charge characteristics. Additionally an epitope may be linear or conformational.
                                                   17

In a linear epitope, all of the points of interaction between the protein and the interacting
molecule (such as an antibody) occur linearly along the primary amino acid sequence of the
protein. In a conformational epitope, the points of interaction occur across amino acid residues
on the protein that are linearly separated from one another.
[0084]       The term "derivative" as used herein refers to molecules, including proteins and
nucleic acids which have been modified through standard molecular biology methodology or
chemically, for example but not limited to by techniques such as ubiquitination, labeling (a
flourophore), pegylation (derivatization with polyethylene glycol) or addition of other molecules.
[0085]       The term "functional derivative" and "mimetic" are used interchangeably, and refer
to compounds that possess a biological activity (either functional or structural) that is
substantially similar to a biological activity of the entity or molecule for which it's a functional
derivative. The term functional derivative is intended to include the fragments, variants,
analogues or chemical derivatives of a molecule.
[0086]       As used herein, "variant" with reference to a polynucleotide or polypeptide, refers to
a polynucleotide or polypeptide that can vary in primary, secondary, or tertiary structure, as
compared to a reference polynucleotide or polypeptide, respectively (e.g., as compared to a wild
type polynucleotide or polypeptide). A "variant" of an antibody for example, is meant to refer to
a molecule substantially similar in structure and function, e.g., where the variant retains the
ability to bind with a selected antigen or a fragment thereof yet has an altered biochemical effect.
[0087]       A molecule is said to be "substantially similar" to another molecule if both molecules
have substantially similar structures or if both molecules possess a similar biological activity.
Thus, provided that two molecules possess a similar activity, they are considered variants as that
term is used herein even if the structure of one of the molecules not found in the other, or if the
sequence of amino acid residues is not identical.
[0088]       A "fragment" of a molecule, is meant to refer to any contiguous polypeptide or
nucelotide subset of the molecule. Fragments of, for example, a transmembrane protein may
comprise constructs that only include the extracellular domains or some portion thereof. With
respect to the instant invention marker fragments or derivatives may include any immunoreactive
or immunologically active portion of a selected marker.
[0089]       An "analog" of a molecule such as a marker is meant to refer to a molecule similar in
function to either the entire molecule or to a fragment thereof. As used herein, a molecule is said
to be a "chemical derivative" of another molecule when it contains additional chemical moieties
not normally a part of the molecule. Such moieties can improve the molecule's solubility,
absorption, biological half life, etc. The moieties can alternatively decrease the toxicity of the

molecule, eliminate or attenuate any undesirable side effect of the molecule, etc. Moieties
capable of mediating such effects are disclosed in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 18th
edition, A. R. Gennaro, Ed., MackPubl., Easton, Pa. (1990).
[0090]        As used herein, "homologous", when used to describe a polynucleotide, indicates that
two polynucleotides, or designated sequences thereof, when optimally aligned and compared, are
identical, with appropriate nucleotide insertions or deletions, in at least 70% of the nucleotides,
usually from about   7 5 % to 99%, and more preferably at least about 98 to 99% of the nucleotides.
The term "homolog" or "homologous" as used herein also refers to homology with respect to
structure and/or function. With respect to sequence homology, sequences are homologs if they
are at least 50%, at least 60 at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 90%, at least 95% identical, at
least 97% identical, or at least 99% identical. The term "substantially homologous" refers to
sequences that are at least 90%, at least 95% identical, at least 97% identical or at least 99%
identical. Homologous sequences can be the same functional gene in different species.
[0091]        As used herein, the term "substantial similarity" in the context of polypeptide
sequences, indicates that the polypeptide comprises a sequence with at least 60% sequence
identity to a reference sequence, or 70%, or 80%, or 85% sequence identity to the reference
sequence, or most preferably 90% identity over a comparison window of about 10-100 amino
acid residues (e.g., a heavy or light chain variable region of an antibody). In the context of amino
acid sequences, "substantial similarity" further includes conservative substitutions of amino
acids. Thus, a polypeptide is substantially similar to a second polypeptide, for example, where
the two peptides differ by one or more conservative substitutions. The term "substantial identity"
means that two peptide sequences, when optimally aligned, such as by the programs GAP or
BESTFIT using default gap weights, share at least 65 percent sequence identity, preferably at
least 80 or 90 percent sequence identity, more preferably at least 95 percent sequence identity or
more (e.g., 99 percent sequence identity or higher). Preferably, residue positions which are not
identical differ by conservative amino acid substitutions.
[0092]        Determination of homologs of the genes or polypeptides of the present invention can
be easily ascertained by the skilled artisan. The terms "homology" or "identity" or "similarity"
are used interchangeably herein and refers to sequence similarity between two peptides or
between two nucleic acid molecules. Homology and identity can each be determined by
comparing a position in each sequence which can be aligned for purposes of comparison. When
an equivalent position in the compared sequences is occupied by the same base or amino acid,
then the molecules are identical at that position; when the equivalent site occupied by the same or
a similar amino acid residue (e.g., similar in steric and/or electronic nature), then the molecules
                                                    1Q

can be referred to as homologous (similar) at that position. Expression as a percentage of
homology/similarity or identity refers to a function of the number of identical or similar amino
acids at positions shared by the compared sequences. A sequence which is "unrelated" or "non
homologous" shares less than 40% identity, though preferably less than 25% identity with a
sequence of the present application.
[0093]       As used herein, the terms "subject" or "patient" may be used interchangeably and
refer to any living organism which can be administered any derived pharmaceutical compositions
of the present invention and in which cancer or a proliferative disorder can occur. The term
includes, but is not limited to, humans, non-human animals, for example non-human primates
such as chimpanzees and other apes and monkey species; farm animals such as cattle, sheep,
pigs, goats and horses, domestic subjects such as dogs and cats, laboratory animals including
rodents such as mice, rats and guinea pigs, and the like. The term does not denote a particular
age or sex. Thus, adult and newborn subjects, as well as fetuses, whether male or female, are
intended to be covered. The term "subject" also includes living organisms susceptible to
conditions or disease states as generally disclosed, but not limited to, throughout this
specification. Examples of subjects include humans, dogs, cats, cows, goats, and mice, including
transgenic species The term "non-human animals" and "non-human mammals" are used
interchangeably herein includes all vertebrates, e.g., mammals, such as non-human primates,
(particularly higher primates), sheep, dog, rodent (e.g. mouse or rat), guinea pig, goat, pig, cat,
rabbits, cows, and non-mammals such as chickens, amphibians, reptiles etc. In one embodiment,
the subject is human. In another embodiment, the subject is an experimental animal or animal
substitute as a disease model.
[0094]       The term "effective amount" as used herein refers to the amount of an agent and/or a
pharmaceutical composition required to retard, reduce or ameliorate at least one symptom of the
disease or disorder. For example, an effective amount of a potential drug compound is the
amount of required to reduce the rate of growth of tumor initiating cells implanted in a test
animal. Thus, an effective amount is also the amount sufficient to prevent the development of a
disease symptom, or to reduce a symptom or reduce the rate of symptom progression.
[0095]       The terms "malignancy," "neoplasia" and "cancer" are used interchangeably herein
and refer to diseases or disorders that are characterized by uncontrolled, hyperproliferative or
abnormal growth or metastasis of cells. In other aspects the term is also intended to include any
disease of an organ or tissue (e.g., colorectal, pancreatic, breast, etc.) in mammals characterized
by poorly controlled or uncontrolled multiplication of normal or abnormal cells in that tissue and
its effect on the body as a whole. Disorders within the scope of the definition comprise benign
                                                   2M

neoplasms, dysplasias, hyperplasias as well as neoplasms showing metastatic growth or any other
transformations like e.g. leukoplakias which often precede an episode or recurrence of cancer.
[0096]       As used herein, the term "refractory" is most often determined by failure to reach
clinical endpoint, e.g., response, extended duration of response, extended disease-free, survival,
relapse-free survival, progression-free survival and overall survival. Another way to define being
refractory to a therapy is that a patient has failed to achieve a response to a therapy such that the
therapy is determined to not be therapeutically effective.
[0097]       As used herein, the phrase "diagnostic agent" refers to any molecule, compound,
and/or substance used for the purpose of diagnosing a disease or disorder. In preferred
embodiments the diagnostic agent shall comprise a binding agent associated with a reporter.
Other non-limiting examples of diagnostic agents include antibodies, antibody fragments, or
other proteins, including those conjugated to a detectable agent. As used herein, the term
"detectable agent" or "reporter" refer to any molecule, compound and/or substance that is
detectable by any methodology available to one of skill in the art. Non-limiting examples of
detectable agents or reporter molecules include dyes, fluorescent tags, gases, metals, or
radioisotopes. As set forth herein, "diagnostic agent" "imaging agent" and "reporter" or "reporter
molecule" are equivalent and may be used interchangeably unless otherwise dictated by context.
[0098]       As used herein, the term "treating" includes preventing the progression and/or
reducing or reversing at least one adverse effect or symptom of a condition, disease or disorder
associated with inappropriate proliferation of cells such as in, for example, cancer.
[0099]       As used herein, the terms "administering" and "introducing" are used interchangeably
herein and refer to the placement of the pharmaceutical compositions as disclosed herein into a
subject by a method or route which results in at least partial localization of the pharmaceutical
compositions at a desired site. The compounds of the present invention can be administered by
any appropriate route which results in an effective treatment in the subject.
[00100]      The phrases "parenteral administration" and "administered parenterally" as used
herein means modes of administration other than enteral and topical administration, usually by
injection, and includes, without limitation, intravenous, intramuscular, intraarterial, intrathecal,
intraventricular, intracapsular, intraorbital, intracardiac, intradermal, intraperitoneal,
transtracheal, subcutaneous, subcuticular, intraarticular, subcapsular, subarachnoid, intraspinal,
intracerebrospinal, and intrasternal injection and infusion. The phrases "systemic
administration," "administered systemically", "peripheral administration" and "administered
peripherally" as used herein mean the administration of the pharmaceutical compositions of the
present invention comprising pyrazoloanthrones and optionally other agents or material other
                                                    I"1

than directly into the central nervous system, such that it enters the animal's system and, thus, is
subject to metabolism and other like processes, for example, subcutaneous administration.
[00101]       The phrase "pharmaceutically acceptable" is employed herein to refer to those
compounds, materials, compositions, and/or dosage forms which are, within the scope of sound
medical judgment, suitable for use in contact with the tissues of human beings and animals
without excessive toxicity, irritation, allergic response, or other problem or complication,
commensurate with a reasonable benefit/risk ratio.
[00102]       The phrase "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" as used herein means a
pharmaceutically acceptable material, composition or vehicle, such as a liquid or solid filler,
diluent, excipient, solvent or encapsulating material, involved in carrying or transporting the
subject agents from one organ, or portion of the body, to another organ, or portion of the body.
Each carrier must be "acceptable" in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of
the formulation, or be biologically inert.
    IV.      Tumorigenic cell and cell subpopulations
[00103]       In particularly preferred embodiments the present invention provides for the
identification, characterization, enrichment and/or isolation of, respectively, tumor initiating cells
(TIC), tumor perpetuating cells (TPC) and tumor progenitor cells (TProg) through the novel use
of selected marker or marker combinations as set forth herein. With respect to the cancer stem
cell paradigm, each of the aforementioned cell subpopulations are tumorigenic to a greater or
lesser extent and, as such, are responsible for tumor growth, maintenance, metastasis and
recurrence. Significantly, the instant invention allows such cell subpopulations to be identified
and optionally derived from a variety of different tumor types and stages of cancer. As such,
accounting for and eliminating these cells are likely critical for the effective management and
treatment of a variety of diverse neoplasia. In this regard these cells or enriched cell
subpopulations, alone or in combination, can be effectively employed in pharmaceutical research
and development activities to identify novel therapeutic targets optimized for the suppression or
depletion of tumor feeding cancer stem cells.
[00104]       As has been demonstrated for blood and hematopoietic diseases, a hierarchy of cells
likely exists within many solid tumors wherein distinct tumor cell subpopulations possess
different proliferation and differentiation potential. More specifically, as illustrated in FIG. 19,
cell populations isolated using the markers disclosed herein support the hypothesis that in tumors
where there exists significant differentiation capacity and the ability to engage these
differentiation programs, tumor perpetuating cells (i.e. CSC) lie at the top of the cellular

hierarchy in cancer. These cells exhibit the classical characteristics defining stem cells, whereas
tumor progenitor cells exhibit similar characteristics, minus the ability to self-renew as
demonstrated by serial transplantation of defined and highly purified cells.
[00105]       As previously alluded to, tumor initiating cell populations encompass both tumor
perpetuating cells and highly proliferative tumor progenitor cells, which together generally
comprise a unique subpopulation (i.e. 0.1- 4 0%) of a bulk tumor or mass. For the purposes of the
instant disclosure the terms tumor perpetuating cells and cancer stem cells are equivalent and
may be used interchangeably herein. Conversely, TPC differ from TProg in that they can
completely recapitulate the composition of tumor cells existing within a tumor and have
unlimited self-renewal capacity as demonstrated by serial transplantation (two or more passages
through mice) of low numbers of isolated cells. As will be discussed in more detail below
fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) using appropriate cell surface markers is a reliable
method to isolate highly enriched tumor cell subpopulations (> 99% purity) due, at least in part,
to its ability to discriminate between single cells and clumps of cells (i.e. doublets, etc.).
[00106]       Using such techniques it has been shown that when low cell numbers of highly
purified TProg cells are transplanted into immunocompromised mice they can fuel tumor growth
in a primary transplant. However, unlike purified TPC subpopulations the TProg generated
tumors do not completely reflect the parental tumor in phenotypic cell heterogeneity and/or are
demonstrably inefficient at reinitiating serial tumorigenesis in subsequent transplants. In
contrast, TPC (or CSC) subpopulations completely reconstitute the cellular heterogeneity of
parental tumors and can efficiently initiate tumors when serially isolated and transplanted. Thus,
those skilled in the art will recognize that a definitive difference between TPC and TProg, though
both may be tumor generating in primary transplants, is the unique ability of TPC to perpetually
fuel heterogeneous tumor growth upon serial transplantation at low cell numbers. Other common
approaches to characterize TPC involve morphology and examination of cell surface markers,
demonstration of differential proliferation/differentiation capacity in vitro using colony forming
cell assays, transcriptional profiling, and characterization of drug resistance, although marker
expression may change with culture conditions and with cell line passage in vitro.
[00107]       Accordingly, for the purposes of the instant invention tumor perpetuating cells, like
normal stem cells that support cellular hierarchies in normal tissue, are preferably defined by
their ability to self-renew indefinitely while maintaining the capacity for multilineage
differentiation. Tumor perpetuating cells are thus capable of generating both tumorigenic
progeny (i.e., tumor initiating cells: TPC and TProg) and non-tumorigenic (NTG) progeny. As
defined above a non-tumorigenic cell refers to a tumor cell that arises from tumor initiating cells,
                                                   ,)'

but does not itself have the capacity to self-renew or generate the heterogeneous lineages of
tumor cells that comprise a tumor. Experimentally, NTG cells are incapable of reproducibly
forming tumors in mice, even when transplanted in excess cell numbers.
[00108]       For purposes of the instant disclosure, TProg are also categorized as tumor initiating
cells due to their limited ability to generate tumors in mice. TProg are progeny of TPC and are
typically capable of a finite number of non-self-renewing cell divisions. Moreover, as will be
seen in the Examples below TProg cells may further be divided into early tumor progenitor cells
(ETP) and late tumor progenitor cells (LTP), each of which may be distinguished by phenotype
(e.g., cell surface markers) and different capacities to recapitulate tumor cell architecture. In
spite of such technical differences, both ETP and LTP differ functionally from TPC in that they
are generally less capable of serially reconstituting tumors when transplanted at low cell numbers
and typically do not reflect the heterogeneity of the parental tumor. Notwithstanding the
foregoing distinctions, it has also been shown that various TProg populations can, on rare
occasion, gain self-renewal capabilities normally attributed to stem cells and themselves become
TPC. In any event both types of tumor-initiating cells are likely represented in the typical tumor
mass of a single patient and, as will be shown in the Examples below, are subject to
identification, characterization, separation and/or enrichment or isolation as set forth herein.
[00109]       More generally, TPC are more tumorigenic, relatively more quiescent and often more
chemoresistant than the TProg (both ETP and LTP), NTG cells and the tumor-infiltrating non
TPC derived cells (e.g. fibroblasts/stroma, endothelial & hematopoietic cells) that comprise the
bulk of a tumor. Given that conventional therapies and regimens have, in large part, been
designed to both debulk tumors and attack rapidly proliferating cells, TPC are likely to be more
resistant to conventional therapies and regimens than the faster proliferating TProg and other
bulk tumor cell populations. Further, TPC often express other characteristics that make them
relatively chemoresistant to conventional therapies, such as increased expression of multi-drug
resistance transporters, enhanced DNA repair mechanisms and anti-apoptotic proteins. These
properties, each of which contribute to drug tolerance by TPC, constitute a key reason for the
failure of standard oncology treatment regimens to ensure long-term benefit for most patients
with advanced stage neoplasia; i.e. the failure to adequately target and eradicate those cells that
fuel continued tumor growth and recurrence (i.e. TPC or CSC). The ability to identify,
characterize and separate or enrich these distinct cell subpopulations as disclosed herein is
critical in understanding tumor etiology and subsequently identifying novel compounds or
modulators that may form the basis for more effective therapeutic treatments.
[00110]       As explained in more detail below, virtually all colorectal, pancreatic, non-small cell

lung cancer and triple-negative breast tumor cells are ESA* CD24+ CD34 and thus these markers
have little utility in identifying tumor cell subpopulations. Surprisingly, it has been discovered
that the disclosed TICAM, TPCAM and TProgAM are particularly effective markers for
identifying, characterizing and optionally isolating or enriching selected tumorigenic cell
populations. For example, in one particularly preferred embodiment comprising colorectal
cancer, it has been demonstrated that CD46h CD324+ CD66c cells are able to generate fully
heterogeneous tumors consisting, in part, of CD46hi CD324+ CD66c and CD66cJ cells. This is
significant because, although CD46hi CD324+ CD66cJ cells are tumorigenic, they do not have the
ability to generate CD46hi CD324+ CD66c cells and are unable to efficiently fuel tumor growth
through serial transplantation. These data, combined with the observations that the cells with the
a) ability to consistently generate heterogeneous tumors upon serial transplantation; b) most
colony forming cell potential; and c) potential to generate CD66c cells and protein in vitro are
CD46hi CD324+ CD66c cells supports the hypothesis that CD46hi CD324+ CD66cJ cells are
daughters of CD46hi CD324+ CD66c cells with restricted proliferation capacity and potential.
[00111]       The general, reduction in in vivo tumorigenicity and in vitro colony forming potential
along with a reduced ability to generate CD66c as cells lose expression of CD324 supports the
hypothesis that CD46hi CD324 CD66+ cells represent a late tumor progenitor (LTP) cell
population that has some residual proliferative ability, but generally has no capacity for self
renewal. Finally, in support of the cellular hierarchy laid out in FIG. 19A, CD46 cells are also
CD324 and are generally CD66c as well. These NTG cells likely represent the terminally
differentiated progeny, which in the colon include goblet cells (G) and enteroendocrine (eE) cells
of the secretory lineage or enterocytes (E) of the absorptive lineage. Gene expression of the
isolated cell subpopulations supports this hypothesis, as CD46 cells express many genes
attributed to terminally differentiated secretory and/or absorptive cell types typical of colorectal
tissue.
[00112]       Unlike many conventional prior art therapeutic agents, novel compounds and
compositions identified and developed in accordance with the present invention preferably
reduce the frequency of tumor initiating cells upon administration to a subject regardless of the
form or specific target (e.g., genetic material, cell surface protein, etc.) of the selected modulator.
It will be appreciated that the reduction in tumor initiating cell frequency may occur as a result of
a) elimination, depletion, sensitization, silencing or inhibition of tumor initiating cells; b)
controlling the growth, expansion or recurrence of tumor initiating cells; c) interrupting the
initiation, propagation, maintenance, or proliferation of tumor initiating cells; or d) by otherwise
hindering the survival, regeneration and/or metastasis of the tumorigenic cells. With selected

modulators the reduction in the frequency of tumor initiating cells occurs as a result of a change
in one or more physiological pathways. Pathway intervention or modulation, whether by
reduction or elimination of the tumor initiating cells or by modifying their potential (e.g., induced
differentiation, niche disruption) or otherwise interfering with their ability to exert affects on the
tumor environment or other cells, in turn allows for the more effective treatment of neoplastic
disorders by inhibiting tumorigenesis, tumor maintenance and/or metastasis and recurrence.
[00113]      As will be discussed in more detail below and shown in the Examples, preferred
methods used to assess such a reduction in the frequency of tumor initiating cells comprise
limiting dilution analysis, either in vitro or in vivo, using either bulk tumor cells or tumor cell
subpopulations characterized and isolated in accordance with the present invention. Preferably,
the assessment employs Poisson distribution statistical analysis or otherwise assesses the
frequency of measureable events such as the ability to generate tumors in vivo or not. While such
limiting dilution analysis comprise preferred methods of calculating a reduction of tumor
initiating cell frequency, other, less demanding methods may also be used to effectively
determine the desired values, albeit slightly less accurately, and are entirely compatible with the
teachings herein. It is also possible to determine reduction of frequency through well-known
flow cytometric or immunohistochemical means assessing the respective tumor cell
subpopulations based upon their profile of marker expression, as laid out in the instant invention.
As to all the aforementioned methods see, for example, Dylla et al. 2008, PMCID: PMC2413402
& Hoey et al. 2009, PMID: 19664991; each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its
entirety.
     V.      Sources of Tumor Initiating Cells
[00114]      Except where otherwise required, the invention can be practiced with tumor initiating
cells of any vertebrate species. Included are cancer stem cells from humans; as well as non
human primates, domestic animals including those typically used in research, livestock, and other
non-human mammals.
[00115]      Those skilled in art will appreciate that the aforementioned cells and cell
subpopulations may be obtained from a variety of tumors at different clinical or pathological
stages. Moreover, as will be illustrated in the Examples below the starting heterogeneous cell
populations may be obtained from a primary tumor sample or biopsy taken directly from the
patient or from secondary tumors that have been passaged in vivo or cultured in vitro. In
particularly preferred embodiments the tumor cell populations to be analyzed, characterized
and/or enriched are derived from tumors arising from either bulk tumor material that contain
                                                    26

TIC, or enriched TIC populations that have been implanted in immunocompromised mice. In
other embodiments the tumor sample will be obtained from a non-traditional xenograft (NTX)
tumor bank. Whichever tumor source is selected, the tumors are preferably handled in
accordance with good laboratory practices and may be dissociated into single cell suspensions
using art recognized mechanical and enzymatic dissociation techniques prior to being
characterized, separated and/or isolated.
[00116]      Exemplary tumors which may be used as a source of cells, either directly or
indirectly through in vitro or in vivo culturing or passaging, include, but are not limited to,
sarcomas and carcinomas such as, but not limited to: fibrosarcoma, myxosarcoma, liposarcoma,
chondrosarcoma, osteogenic sarcoma, chordoma, angiosarcoma, endotheliosarcoma,
lymphangiosarcoma, mesothelioma, Ewing's tumor, lymphangioendotheliosarcoma, synovioma,
leiomyosarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, colon carcinoma, pancreatic cancer, breast cancer, ovarian
cancer, prostate cancer, squamous cell carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, sweat
gland carcinoma, sebaceous gland carcinoma, papillary carcinoma, papillary adenocarcinomas,
cystadenocarcinoma, medullary carcinoma, bronchogenic carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma,
hepatoma, bile duct carcinoma, choriocarcinoma, seminoma, embryonal carcinoma, Wilms'
tumor, cervical cancer, testicular tumor, lung carcinoma, small cell lung carcinoma, bladder
carcinoma, epithelial carcinoma, astrocytic tumors (e.g., diffuse, infiltrating gliomas, anaplastic
astrocytoma, glioblastoma, gliosarcoma, pilocytic astrocytoma, pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma),
oligodendroglial tumors and mixed gliomas (e.g., oligodendroglioma, anaplastic
oligodendroglioma, oligoastrocytoma, anaplastic oligoastrocytoma), ependymal tumors (e.g.,
ependymoma, anaplastic ependymoma, myxopapillary ependymoma, subependymoma), choroid
plexus tumors, neuroepithelial tumors of uncertain origin (astroblastoma, chordoid glioma,
gliomatosis cerebri), neuronal and mixed-neuronal-glial tumors (e.g., ganglioglioma and
gangliocytoma, desmoplastic infantile astrocytoma and ganglioglioma, dysembryoplastic
neuroepithelial tumor, central neurocytoma, cerebellar liponeurocytoma, paraganglioglioma),
pineal parenchymal tumors, embryonal tumors (medulloepithelioma, ependymoblastoma,
medulloblastoma, primitive neuroectodemmal tumor, atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor),
peripheral neuroblastic tumors, tumors of cranial and peripheral nerves (e.g., schwannoma,
neurinofibroma, perineurioma, malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor), meningeal tumors (e.g.,
meningeomas, mesenchymal, non-meningothelial tumors, haemangiopericytomas, melanocytic
lesions), germ cell tumors, tumors of the sellar region (e.g., craniopharyngioma, granular cell
tumor of the neurohypophysis), hemangioblastoma, melanoma, and retinoblastoma.
[00117]      In particularly preferred embodiments the tumor sample will be obtained from a

human colorectal, breast, non-small cell lung, small cell lung, pancreatic, melanoma, ovarian or
head and neck tumor.
[00118]       Further, as alluded to above the enriched cell populations of the instant invention
may be derived from primary tumors obtained directly from subjects suffering from a neoplastic
disorder. However, in other embodiments isolated cell populations are obtained from patient
derived tumors that have been cultured in vitro or passaged through non-human animals. With
regard to the present invention, and as described in more detail and in the Examples below, a
NTX tumor bank was developed and maintained using art recognized techniques. The NTX
tumor bank, comprising a large number of discrete tumor cell lines, was propagated in
immunocompromised mice through multiple passages of heterogeneous tumor cells originally
obtained from numerous cancer patients afflicted by a variety of solid tumor malignancies. The
continued availability of a large number of discrete early passage NTX tumors having well
defined lineages greatly facilitate the identification and isolation of TPC as set forth herein as
they allow for the reproducible and repeated characterization of cells purified from the cell lines.
[00119]       More particularly, the existence of such models allows for consistent verification that
the identified or isolated cells or cell subpopulations (as defined by marker phenotype) are
actually TIC in that the TPC components are most accurately defined retrospectively according
to their ability to generate phenotypically and morphologically heterogeneous tumors in mice that
recapitulate the patient tumor sample from which the cells originated. That is, the ability to use
small populations of enriched or isolated cells to generate fully heterogeneous tumors in mice is
strongly indicative of the fact that the isolated cells comprise TPC and validates associated
markers and putative therapeutic targets. In such work the use of minimally passaged NTX cell
lines greatly simplifies in vivo experimentation and provides readily verifiable results.
Moreover, early passage NTX tumors also respond to conventional therapeutic agents such as
irinotecan, which provides clinically relevant insights into underlying mechanisms driving tumor
growth, resistance to current therapies and tumor recurrence.
    VI.      Defining tumorigenic cell populations
[00120]       In preferred embodiments the present invention provides for the identification,
characterization and, optionally, the enrichment or isolation of selected tumor initiating cells or
cell subpopulations. This analysis and/or physical enrichment of the cancer stem cell populations
is accomplished by differential cell analysis using one or more markers (i.e., TICAM, TPCAM
and TProgAM) that are phenotypically heterogeneous with regard to different cell populations.
As previously discussed it will be appreciated that any trait or discernable characteristic, or

combinations thereof, that allows for the differentiation of various cell populations constitutes a
marker that may be used in accordance with the teachings herein. Thus, while in preferred
embodiments such markers are cell surface proteins, other characteristics or traits may function
to differentiate the cell subpopulations and are expressly contemplated as be within the scope of
the invention. For example, in addition to cell surface phenotyping, it may be useful to quantitate
or characterize cell subpopulations based on certain tumor perpetuating cell characteristics.
These attributes can be determined, for instance, by measuring the ability of the cells to self
renew and proliferate in culture; or by determining the presence of particular activated pathway
in these cells. For example, in preferred embodiments a nucleic acid construct may be
introduced into a cell or population of cells, where the construct comprises sequences encoding a
detectable marker, and wherein the marker is operably linked to a transcriptional response
element regulated by or associated with the selected pathway (e.g., one that covers the expression
of a cell surface protein TICAM). As the pathway is activated the detectable marker is
expressed, and indicates that the cell or cell subpopulation comprises tumor perpetuating cells.
In some embodiments of the invention, the detectable marker is a fluorescent protein, e.g. green
fluorescent protein (GFP) and variants thereof. Viable cells expressing GFP can be sorted, in
order to isolate or enrich for the cell subpopulations of interest. In this aspect of the invention,
the disclosed methods may be used to enrich for tumor perpetuating cells.
[00121]       As disclosed herein, certain aspects of the present invention are directed to
identifying or characterizing and, optionally, enriching or isolating tumor initiating cells or cell
subpopulations thereof (e.g., TPC and/or TProg). In this respect the inventors have surprisingly
discovered selected markers and/or marker combinations that allow for the rapid and effective
identification, characterization and optionally, the enrichment or isolation of tumor initiating
cells or populations thereof. As discussed briefly above a "marker", as used herein in the context
of a cell or tissue, means any characteristic in the form of a chemical or biological entity that is
identifiably associated with, or specifically found in or on a particular cell, cell population or
tissue including those identified in or on a tissue or cell population affected by a disease or
disorder. As manifested, markers may be morphological, functional or biochemical in nature. In
preferred embodiments the marker is a cell surface antigen that is differentially or preferentially
expressed by specific cell types (e.g., TPCs) or by cells under certain conditions (e.g., during
specific points of the cell life cycle or cells in a particular niche).
[00122]       It will be appreciated that markers, marker combinations or marker phenotypes may
vary as to specific cells or cell subpopulations or with regard to cell lifecycles or hierarchy. In
some embodiments markers will comprise stable or transitory characteristics, whether

phenotypical, morphological, functional or biochemical (e.g., enzymatic) particular to a specific
cell type or population.
[00123]      In particularly preferred embodiments compatible markers are proteins or
polypeptides and, more preferably, possess one or more epitopes or active sites that allow for the
association of binding molecules including, but not limited to, antibodies or immunoreactive
fragments thereof, ligands, substrates or enzymes. However, for the purposes of the instant
application a marker may consist of any molecule or metabolite associated with a cell including,
but not limited to, proteins (peptides and polypeptides), lipids, polysaccharides, nucleic acids and
steroids. In particularly preferred embodiments the marker of interest will be located on the
surface of the cell at the appropriate time but in other embodiments the marker may be located or
positioned intercellularly or intracellularly (e.g., on the nucleus). Examples of morphological
marker characteristics or traits include, but are not limited to, shape, size, and nuclear to
cytoplasmic ratio. Examples of functional marker characteristics or traits include, but are not
limited to, the ability to adhere to particular substrates, ability to incorporate or exclude particular
dyes, for example but not limited to exclusions of lipophilic dyes, ability to migrate under
particular conditions, and the ability to differentiate along particular lineages. As discussed
herein it will be further appreciated that compatible markers may be detected by any method
available to one of ordinary skill in the art. Markers can also be a protein expressed from a
reporter gene, for example a reporter gene expressed by the cell as a result of introduction of the
nucleic acid sequence encoding the reporter gene into the cell and its transcription resulting in the
production of the reporter protein that can be used as a marker. Such reporter genes that can be
used as markers are, for example but not limited to, fluorescent proteins, enzymes, chromomeric
proteins, resistance genes and the like. Specific preferred markers will be discussed in more
detail below.
[00124]      The information thus derived from such markers is useful in prognosis and diagnosis,
including susceptibility to acceleration of disease, status of a diseased state and response to
changes in the environment, such as the passage of time, treatment with drugs or other
modalities. The cells can also be classified as to their ability to respond to therapeutic agents and
treatments, isolated for research purposes, screened for gene expression, and the like. Clinical
samples can be further characterized by genetic analysis, proteomics, cell surface staining, or
other means, in order to determine the presence of markers that are useful in classification. For
example, genetic abnormalities can be causative of disease susceptibility or drug responsiveness,
or can be linked to such phenotypes.
[00125]      Whichever markers are ultimately chosen to identify or characterize the selected cell

subpopulations, the actual monitoring or analysis may be conducted using any one of a number
of standard techniques well known to one of skill in the art. For example, cell surface marker
expression can be assayed by immunoassays including, but not limited to, western blots,
immunohistochemistry, radioimmunoassays, ELISA (enzyme linked immunosorbent assay),
"sandwich" immunoassays, immunoprecipitation assays, precipitin reactions, gel diffusion
precipitin reactions, immunodiffusion assays, agglutination assays, complement-fixation assays,
immunoradiometric assays, fluorescent immunoassays, immunofluorescence, protein A
immunoassays, laser capture microdissection, massively multiparametric mass cytometry, flow
cytometry, and FACS analysis. In certain embodiments the amount of cancer stem cells in a test
sample from a subject may be determined by comparing the results to the amount of cancer stem
cells in a reference sample (e.g., a sample from a subject who has no detectable cancer) or to a
predetermined reference range, or to the patient him/herself at an earlier time point (e.g., prior to,
or during therapy).
[00126]       In specific embodiments, the cancer stem cell population is obtained from a tumor
sample from a patient and is characterized by flow cytometry. As is well known in the art and
demonstrated in the appended Examples, this method exploits the differential expression of
certain surface markers on cancer stem cells relative to the bulk of the tumor. Labeled antibodies
(e.g., fluorescent antibodies) can be used to react with, or binding agents recognizing other
binding agents (i.e., secondary binding agents) that recognize, the markers on cells in the sample
for the purpose of enriching or isolating cells by any number of methods including magnetic
separation or FACS. In some embodiments, a combination of cell surface markers are utilized in
order to further define or quantify the cancer stem cells in the sample in situ (e.g. by
immunofluorescence or immunohistochemistry) or using methods analyzing single cells
following tumor dissociation (e.g. flow cytometry or massively multiparametric mass cytometry).
For example, both positive and negative cell sorting may be used to assess various TPC
subpopulations or quantify the amount of cancer stem cells in the sample. The number or
frequency of cancer stem cells in the sample might also be determined by transplanting un
enriched tumor cells in limiting dilution into immunocompromised mice, followed by the
analysis of the frequency of tumorigenesis, independent of rate, by the different dilutions using
Poisson distribution statistics. Moreover, as demonstrated in the Examples below specific tumor
types can be characterized by assessing the frequency and nature of cells expressing tumor
perpetuating cell and/or tumor progenitor cell markers. Preferably the tumors comprise tumor
initiating cells identified using the markers disclosed herein, including those markers
demonstrated to be co-expressed with respective TIC populations (i.e. TICAM), such as those
                                                  'A

described herein and whose presence may be confirmed through isolation and transplant in
immunocompromised mice.
[00127]       In other selected embodiments the identification and characterization of tumor
initiating cells in a sample, e.g., a tissue sample, such as a solid tumor biopsy, is determined
using immunohistochemistry or immunofluorescence techniques. As known in the art, these
methods exploit the differential expression of certain surface markers on tumor initiating cells
relative to the bulk of the tumor. Antibodies (e.g., antibodies conjugated to a fluorophore) can be
used to react with the cell subpopulation of interest. These antibodies may be directly labeled, or
detected with secondary binding agents that detect the primary antibody. In preferred
embodiments a combination of certain cell surface markers are used to further define and, if
desired, quantify cancer stem cells in the un-dissociated sample (i.e. in situ). Further, such
staining techniques allow for visualization of selected tumor cell subpopulations by assessing the
expression of certain markers that distinguish the cancer stem or progenitor cells of interest. Such
techniques facilitate the localization of cancer stem and/or progenitor cells within the context of
the tumor, allowing spatial characteristics such as the distance from blood vessels to be
established.
[00128]       Using the aforementioned art-recognized techniques for cell and cell population
recognition and characterization in conjunction with the teachings herein one can readily identify
the disclosed tumorigenic cell subpopulations. More particularly, as discussed extensively herein
the present invention is predicated upon, at least in part, the heretofore unknown association
between certain tumor initiating cell associated markers (TICAM) and tumor initiating cells or
cell subpopulations. These markers, whether by their absence or presence on the relevant cell
populations, allow for the effective identification or characterization of tumor initiating cells and
their respective TPC and TProg component subpopulations. Moreover, in preferred
embodiments such as those set forth in the Examples below, these same markers allow for the
rapid and efficient identification, separation, partitioning, sectioning, isolation or enrichment of
defined tumor initiating cell populations or their respective TPC and/or TProg cell
subpopulations. As set forth above and in accordance with the instant invention, TICAM shall be
held to mean any marker or marker phenotype that allows for the identification, characterization
and, optionally, isolation and enrichment of tumor initiating cells or cell populations. Similarly,
marker or marker phenotypes that, by their presence or absence, may be used to identify or
characterize and, optionally, isolate or enrich TPC or TProg or cell subpopulations comprise
TPCAM or TProgAM as defined previously. As explicitly noted above it will be understood that
three sets of markers are not mutually exclusive and that individual markers may be associated

with different cell subpopulations (e.g., a single marker may be a TICAM and a TPCAM).
Preferably such markers are proteins and even more preferably are cell surface proteins.
[00129]       For the purposes of the instant application particularly preferred TICAM comprise
CD9, CD13, CD15, CD24, CD26, CD29, CD46, CD49a, CD49b, CD49c, CD49f, CD51, CD54,
CD55, CD58, CD63, CD66a, CD66c, CD66e, CD71, CD73, CD81, CD82, CD91, CD98, CD99,
CD104, CD105, CD108, CD111, CD130, CD136, CD151, CD155, CD157, CD164, CD166,
CD172a, CD186, CD221, CD230, CD262, CD273, CD275, CD295, CD298, CD317, CD318,
CD324, CD340, CCR10, c-Met, Eph-B2, Eph-B4, FLORI, Glut-2, Glypican 5, HER3, IL-20Ra,
Integrin a9bl, Integrin b5, LDL-R, Mer, Semaphorin 4B, TROP-2 and Vb9. In particularly
preferred embodiments the marker will comprise CD46. In other preferred embodiments the
marker will comprise CD324. In yet other preferred embodiments the marker will comprise
CD66c. In still other preferred embodiments a combination of CD46 marker and CD324 marker
will be used to identify and, optionally, enrich or isolate tumorigenic cell subpopulations.
[00130]       With regard to the listed TICAM FIGS. 9A and B provide tumor expression
information in a tabular form while FIGS. 10-12 show expression data of the individual markers
as derived from defined tumor initiating cell populations. In this respect it will be appreciated
that, although the of tenets of the instant invention are most commonly exemplified or confirmed
using the TICAM markers CD46 and CD324, the compatibility of other listed markers with the
teachings herein is readily determined for specific tumors without undue experimentation. That
is, despite the different etiology of the cancers and biology of the respective tissues in which
these tumors arose, FIGS. 10-12 demonstrate that the compatibility and utility of a listed marker
may readily discerned using standard techniques. In view of these teachings and associated data
one skilled in the art would easily be able to determine the optimal TICAM or combinations of
TICAM to use to analyze or separate tumorigenic cell subpopulations from a particular type of
tumor. The unexpected finding that the disclosed markers are useful over a range of tumors is
merely underscores the novelty of the invention.
[00131]       Pursuant to the instant disclosure it will be appreciated that the aforementioned
TICAM may be used, alone or in combination, to identify, characterize or, optionally, purify,
separate, enrich or isolate defined tumorigenic cell populations using art-recognized techniques.
In preferred embodiments the cell populations will comprise tumor perpetuating cells. In other
preferred embodiments the cell populations identified or enriched using selected TICAM shall
comprise tumor perpetuating cells and tumor progenitor cells. With respect to these latter
embodiments, and as shown in the appended Examples, the TIC components may further be
characterized and/or separated by contacting the TICAM enriched population to TPCAM and/or

TProgAM that provide for the isolation of the respective tumorigenic cell subpopulations.
[00132]      For example, in particularly preferred embodiments it has been demonstrated that
TIC may be identified and characterized through a combination of CD46 and CD324 and exhibit
a CD46hi CD324+ marker phenotype. Accordingly, in other particularly preferred embodiments
the isolated or enriched tumor cell subpopulations are obtained by contacting the TIC with
binding agents for CD324 and CD46 wherein the binding agents may contacted with the TIC in
any order or simultaneously. Related preferred embodiments comprise isolated or enriched TIC
populations comprising a CD46hi CD324+ marker phenotype.
[00133]      In another selected embodiment comprising TIC in colorectal cancer, it has been
demonstrated that CD46hi CD324+ CD66c cells are able to generate fully heterogeneous tumors
consisting, in part, of CD46hi CD324+ CD66c and CD66cJ cells. This is significant because,
although CD46hi CD324+ CD66cJ cells are tumorigenic, they do not have the ability to generate
CD46hi CD324+ CD66c cells and are unable to efficiently fuel tumor growth through serial
transplantation. Accordingly, other preferred embodiments of the instant invention comprise
isolated or enriched TIC populations comprising a CD46hi CD324+ CD66c marker phenotype.
[00134]      As disclosed herein a particularly preferred marker associated with tumorigenic cells
is CD46 that has been found to act advantageously as a TICAM. As shown throughout the
Examples below, the CD46 marker may be used, alone or in combination with other markers, to
identify, characterize, interrogate, recognize or distinguish tumor initiating cells, tumor
perpetuating cells or discrete cell subpopulations thereof. Further, in other preferred
embodiments the CD46 marker may be used, alone or in combination with other markers, to
effectively section, partition, isolate, purify or enrich tumorigenic cells or subpopulations thereof.
Preferably the identification, characterization or isolation of the cancer stem cells or cell
subpopulation will be effected with a binding agent that immunospecifically reacts with full
length CD46 or a splice variant or isoform thereof. In other preferred embodiments the CD46
binding agent will comprise an antibody or immunoreactive fragment thereof. In other preferred
embodiments the CD46 binding agent will be associated with a detectable reporter entity.
[00135]      CD46 is also known as membrane cofactor protein or MCP. It is a type I
transmembrane protein that is widely expressed but has a number of isoforms as a result of
alternate exon splicing and glycosylation. Recently Karosi et al., Laryngoscope 118: 1669-1676
(Sept. 2008), which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety, reported detecting fourteen
isoforms of the molecule. The mRNA is transcribed from a single gene located at chromosome
1q32 and undergoes extensive alternative splicing to produce multiple transcripts encoding the
various protein isoforms. Of the 14 exons comprising the gene, it appears that exons 1-6 are

conserved in all CD46 protein isoforms, whereas exons 7 to 9 encode variably utilized serine
threonin-proline ("STP") rich regions, leading to the major hypervariability in the protein
isoforms. Exons 11 and 12 encode the transmembrane region of CD46, while exons 13 and 14
encode the cytoplasmic tail of the protein. The longest mRNA transcript, variant A
(NM_002389), contains sequences from all fourteen exons of the gene. Variable splicing of
exons 7, 8, 9, and 13 is believed to yield the majority of CD46's fourteen isoforms, with the
predominant observed protein isoforms of 66 and 56 kDa arising from alternative inclusion or
exclusion of exon 8. Alternate inclusion/exclusion of exon 13 leads to changes in the encoded
sequence of the cytoplasmic tail of the molecule, with the suggestion that these changes affect
subcellular trafficking, stability, and the signaling properties of the protein.
[00136]      As set forth in Karosi et al., CD46 mRNA isoform D comprises exons 1-6, 8-12 and
14 of the CD46 gene (equivalent to the sequence NM_153826, encoding the protein
NP_722548), isoform F comprises exons 1-6, 9-12, and 14 (equivalent to the sequence
NM_172353, encoding NP_758863), and isoform J comprises exons 1-6, 8, 10-12, and 14
(equivalent to the sequence NM_172356, encoding NP_758866). More specifically the CD46
molecule comprises four N-terminal short consensus repeat (SCR) modules ("Sushi" domains: 4
Cysteines in a 1-3, 2-4 linkage topology), where these SCR domains are encoded by the first six
exons of the gene. The SCR2, 3, and 4 modules have the C3b/C4b binding and regulatory
activity (discussed below), while the SCRI module and sequences distal of SCR4 are not
essential for complement regulatory function, The membrane-proximal extracellular sequence,
encoded by the alternatively utilized exons 7-9 as well as exon 10, is heavily glycosylated,
mainly via 0-linked carbohydrates.
[00137]      For the purposes of the instant disclosure the term "CD46" shall be held to mean any
protein as set forth immediately above including any splice variant or immunoreactive fragment
thereof as well as any nucleic acid sequence encoding such proteins, splice variants or fragments
unless otherwise contextually dictated. Thus, as discussed above a "CD46 marker" would
broadly include any detectible protein, peptide or nucleic acid sequence that constitutes or
encodes for the CD46 antigen. In preferred embodiments the CD46 marker will comprise the full
length glycoprotein (variant A) or reported splice variant or immunoreactive fragment thereof.
Even more preferably the CD46 protein marker will be present on the cell surface of the selected
tumorigenic cell population. In other preferred embodiments the CD46 marker will comprise a
nucleic acid sequence (e.g., DNA or mRNA) encoding full length CD46, a splice variant or
fragment thereof.
[00138]      Another preferred marker that may optionally be used to characterize selected tumor

initiating cell subpopulations in accordance with the teachings herein is human CD324 (hCD324)
which has an exemplary nucleic acid sequence corresponding to GenBank Accession No:
NM_004360 and an exemplary preproprotein amino acid sequence corresponding to GenBank
Accession No: NP_004351 each of which is incorporated herein by reference. CD324 (also
known as E-cadherin, uvomorulin, cadherin-1 or CAM 120/80) is a transmembrane protein that
mediates calcium-dependent cell adhesion. It is specifically expressed in epithelial cells, where it
is involved in maintaining their phenotype. The cytoplasmic domain of E-cadherin binds to p
catenin, which is itself bound to the actin filament networks of the cytoskeleton. This E-cadherin
/ p-catenin binding plays an essential role in stabilizing cell/cell adhesions of the epithelial tissue.
The loss of E-cadherin can therefore reduce cell adhesion and increase the invasive capacity of
cancer cells. A reduction in expression of E-cadherin or of 3-catenin is generally associated with
greater aggressiveness and dedifferentiation of the tumor, in particular with respect to
gastrointestinal cancers. It has also been shown that patients having colorectal cancer and
underexpressing E-cadherin have a more unfavorable prognosis than patients having a normal
expression level.
[00139]      Still another preferred marker that may be used in accordance with the present
invention is CD66c (also called or NCA-90 or CEACAM6). Human CD66c (hCD66c) nucleic
acid sequence corresponds to GenBank Accession No: NM_002483 while the amino acid
sequence of the protein precursor (344 aa) corresponds to GenBank Accession No: NP_002474
each of which is incorporated herein by reference. The CD66c glycoprotein belongs to the
immunoglobulin family, characterized by variable domains in the N-terminal part of the protein,
and constant domains containing disulfide bridges inducing the formation of loops
(Hammarstrom and Baranov 2001). CD66c is normally expressed at the surface of the
granulocytes, macrophages and polynuclear neutrophils, but also by the epithelial cells in the
colon, the lungs and the spleen (Audette et al., 1987; Kolbinger et al., 1989; von Kleist et al.,
1972; Jantscheff et al., 2003). CD66c is also expressed in proliferating cells of hyperplastic
colonic polyps and adenomas, compared with normal mucosa, as well as by many human cancers
(Scholzel et al., Am J Pathol 157:1051-52, 2000; Kuroki et al., Anticancer Res 19:5599-5606,
1999).
     VII.   Binding Agents
[00140]      As discussed throughout the instant application the disclosed markers are preferably
detected, recognized or interrogated by a binding agent as defined herein. Construed broadly for
the purposes of the present invention a compatible binding agent may essentially comprise any

entity or molecule that preferably associates with a marker and is detectible. In this regard the
binding agent may take on many forms including, but not limited to small molecules, peptides,
proteins and nucleic acids including DNA and RNA. More particularly the binding agents of the
present invention may comprise a receptor, enzyme, enzyme inhibitor, enzyme substrate, ligand,
lectin, fatty acid, aptamer, lipid or polysaccharide. For example, in a selected embodiment a
compatible binding agent may comprise the hemagglutinin protein of measles virus or CD46
binding fragment thereof. In other particularly preferred embodiments the binding agent or entity
comprises an antibody or fragment thereof. In yet other preferred embodiments the binding
agent may comprise a marker specific small molecule binding agents that could disrupt receptor
ligand interactions, receptor-activation or dimierization/multimerization, co-receptor binding, or
other myriad intracellular processes. In view of the instant disclosure the selection of compatible
binding agents is well within the purview of one skilled in the art without undue experimentation.
[00141]       As alluded to particularly preferred embodiments of the instant invention comprise
binding agents in the form of antibodies. The term antibody herein is used in the broadest sense
and specifically covers synthetic antibodies, monoclonal antibodies, oligoclonal or polyclonal
antibodies, multiclonal antibodies, recombinantly produced antibodies, intrabodies, multispecific
antibodies, bispecific antibodies, monovalent antibodies, multivalent antibodies, human
antibodies, humanized antibodies, chimeric antibodies, primatized antibodies, Fab fragments,
F(ab') fragments, single-chain FvFcs (scFvFc), single-chain Fvs (scFv), anti-idiotypic (anti-Id)
antibodies and any other immunologically active antibody fragments so long as they exhibit the
desired biological activity (i.e., marker association or binding). In a broader sense, the antibodies
of the present invention include immunoglobulin molecules and immunologically active
fragments of immunoglobulin molecules, i.e., molecules that contain an antigen binding site,
where these fragments may or may not be fused to another immunoglobulin domain including,
but not limited to, an Fc region or fragment thereof. Further, as outlined in more detail herein,
the terms "antibody" and "antibodies" specifically include Fc variants as described herein,
including full length antibodies and variant Fc-Fusions comprising Fc regions, or fragments
thereof, optionally comprising at least one amino acid residue modification and fused to an
immunologically active fragment of an immunoglobulin.
[00142]       Moreover, while all five classes of antibodies (i.e. IgA, IgD, IgE, IgG, and IgM) and
all isotypes (i.e., IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgAl, and IgA2), as well as variations thereof, are
within the scope of the present invention, preferred embodiments comprising the IgG class of
immunoglobulin will be discussed in some detail solely for the purposes of illustration. It will be
understood that such disclosure is, however, merely demonstrative of exemplary compositions

and methods of practicing the present invention and not in any way limiting of the scope of the
invention or the claims appended hereto.
[00143]       Within the context of the instant invention it will be appreciated that compatible
antibodies specific for the disclosed TICAM are often commercially available (e.g., from Life
Technologies or BioLegend, Inc.). In any event, antibodies or their derivatives and/or their
fragments can be provided by methods that are well known to the person skilled in the art and
include hybridoma technology in normal or transgenic mice or in rabbits, or phage display
antibody technology. In one embodiment, genetic immunization is used. This technique
comprises administration of a nucleic acid sequence, or a functional equivalent thereof, encoding
at least one antigen of interest, to a non-human animal. The encoded antigen(s) is/are produced
by the animal, which stimulates the animal's immune system against said antigen(s). In other
embodiments antigens in the form of proteins or peptides are injected directly with and without
adjuvants. However the immunogen is introduced an immune response against said antigen(s) is
elicited in the animal. Subsequently, T-cells, B-cells and/or antibodies specific for an antigen of
interest are preferably obtained from said animal. The T-cells, B-cells and/or antibodies are
optionally further processed. In one preferred embodiment, an obtained B-cell of interest is used
in hybridoma technology wherein said obtained B-cell is fused with a tumor cell in order to
produce a hybrid antibody producing cell.
[00144]       More particularly preferred embodiments of the invention employ monoclonal
antibodies as binding agents. In preferred embodiments, antibody-producing cell lines are
prepared from cells isolated from the immunized animal. After immunization, the animal is
sacrificed and lymph node and/or splenic B cells are immortalized by means well known in the
art. Methods of immortalizing cells include, but are not limited to, transfecting them with
oncogenes, infecting them with an oncogenic virus and cultivating them under conditions that
select for immortalized cells, subjecting them to carcinogenic or mutating compounds, fusing
them with an immortalized cell, e.g., a myeloma cell, and inactivating a tumor suppressor gene.
If fusion with myeloma cells is used, the myeloma cells preferably do not secrete
immunoglobulin polypeptides (a non-secretory cell line). Immortalized cells are screened using
CD46, or an immunoreactive portion thereof. In a preferred embodiment, the initial screening is
performed using an enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA) or a radioimmunoassay.
[00145]       More generally, discrete monoclonal antibodies consistent with the present invention
can be prepared using a wide variety of techniques known in the art including hybridoma,
recombinant techniques, phage display technologies, yeast libraries, transgenic animals (e.g. a
XenoMouse or HuMAb Mouse) or some combination thereof. For example, monoclonal

antibodies can be produced using hybridoma techniques such as broadly described above and
taught in more detail in Harlow et al., Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual, (Cold Spring Harbor
Laboratory Press, 2nd ed. 1988); Hammerling, et al., in: Monoclonal Antibodies and T-Cell
Hybridomas 563-681 (Elsevier, N.Y., 1981) each of which is incorporated herein. Using the
disclosed protocols, antibodies are preferably raised in mammals by multiple subcutaneous or
intraperitoneal injections of the relevant antigen and an adjuvant. As previously discussed, this
immunization generally elicits an immune response that comprises production of antigen-reactive
antibodies (that may be fully human if the immunized animal is transgenic) from activated
splenocytes or lymphocytes. While the resulting antibodies may be harvested from the serum of
the animal to provide polyclonal preparations, it is generally more desirable to isolate individual
lymphocytes from the spleen, lymph nodes or peripheral blood to provide homogenous
preparations of monoclonal antibodies. Most typically, the lymphocytes are obtained from the
spleen and immortalized to provide hybridomas.
[00146]      More generally, methods of producing polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies are
known to those of ordinary skill in the art. See, e.g., Coligan, Current Protocols in Immunology
Wiley/Greene, N.Y., 1991; and Harlow and Lane, Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring
Harbor Press, NY, 1989; Stites et al., (eds.) Basic and Clinical Immunology (4th ed.) Lange
Medical Publications, Los Altos, Calif., and references cited therein; Goding, Monoclonal
Antibodies: Principles and Practice (2d ed.) Academic Press, New York, N.Y., 1986; and Kohler
and Milstein, Nature 256: 495-497, 1975. Other suitable techniques for antibody preparation
include selection of libraries of recombinant antibodies in phage or similar vectors. See, Huse et
al., Science 246: 1275-1281, 1989; and Ward et al., Nature 341: 544-546, 1989.
Immunoglobulins and certain variants thereof are known and many have been prepared in
recombinant cell culture (e.g., see U.S. Pat. No. 4,745,055; U.S. Pat. No. 4,444,487; WO
88/03565; EP 256,654; EP 120,694; EP 125,023; Faoulkner et al., Nature 298:286, 1982;
Morrison, J. Immunol. 123:793, 1979; Morrison et al., Ann Rev. Immunol 2:239, 1984). Detailed
methods for preparation of chimeric (humanized) antibodies can be found in U.S. Pat. No.
5,482,856. Additional details on humanization and other antibody production and engineering
techniques can be found in Borrebaeck (ed), Antibody Engineering, 2nd Edition Freeman and
Company, NY, 1995; McCafferty et al., Antibody Engineering, A Practical Approach, IRL at
Oxford Press, Oxford, England, 1996, and Paul Antibody Engineering Protocols Humana Press,
Towata, N.J., 1995. Each of the forgoing is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
[00147]      No matter how obtained or which of the aforementioned forms the antibody binding
agent takes (e.g., humanized, human, etc.) preferred embodiments of the disclosed agents may

exhibit various characteristics. In this regard TICAM antibody-producing cells (e.g., hybridomas
or yeast colonies) may be selected, cloned and further screened for desirable characteristics
including, for example, robust growth, high antibody production and, as discussed in more detail
below, desirable antibody characteristics such as affinity, epitope or domain specificity, etc.
Hybridomas can be expanded in vivo in syngeneic animals, in animals that lack an immune
system, e.g., nude mice, or in cell culture in vitro. Methods of selecting, cloning and expanding
hybridomas and/or colonies, each of which produces a discrete antibody species, are well known
to those of ordinary skill in the art.
[00148]      It will further be appreciated the disclosed antibodies will associate with, or bind to,
discrete epitopes or determinants presented by the selected markers. As used herein the term
epitope refers to that portion of the target antigen capable of being recognized and specifically
bound by a particular antibody. When the antigen is a polypeptide such as CD46, epitopes can
be formed both from contiguous amino acids and noncontiguous amino acids juxtaposed by
tertiary folding of a protein. Epitopes formed from contiguous amino acids are typically retained
upon protein denaturing, whereas epitopes formed by tertiary folding are typically lost upon
protein denaturing. An epitope typically includes at least 3, and more usually, at least 5 or 8-10
amino acids in a unique spatial conformation. More specifically, the skilled artisan will
appreciate the term epitope includes any protein determinant capable of specific binding to an
immunoglobulin or T-cell receptor or otherwise interacting with a molecule. Epitopic
determinants generally consist of chemically active surface groupings of molecules such as
amino acids or carbohydrate or sugar side chains and generally have specific three dimensional
structural characteristics, as well as specific charge characteristics. Additionally an epitope may
be linear or conformational. In a linear epitope, all of the points of interaction between the
protein and the interacting molecule (such as an antibody) occur linearly along the primary amino
acid sequence of the protein. In a conformational epitope, the points of interaction occur across
amino acid residues on the protein that are linearly separated from one another.
[00149]      Once a desired epitope on an antigen is determined, it is possible to generate
antibodies to that epitope, e.g., using the techniques described in the present invention.
Alternatively, during the discovery process, the generation and characterization of antibodies
may elucidate information about desirable epitopes. From this information, it is then possible to
competitively screen antibodies for binding to the same epitope. An approach to achieve this is
to conduct competition studies to find antibodies that competitively bind with one another, i.e.
the antibodies compete for binding to the antigen. A high throughput process for binning
antibodies based upon their cross-competition is described in WO 03/48731.
                                                   4n

[00150]      As used herein, the term binning refers to a method to group antibodies based on
their antigen binding characteristics. The assignment of bins is somewhat arbitrary, depending
on how different the observed binding patterns of the antibodies tested. Thus, while the
technique is a useful tool for categorizing antibodies of the instant invention, the bins do not
always directly correlate with epitopes and such initial determinations should be further
confirmed by other art recognized methodology.
[00151]      With this caveat one can determine whether a selected primary antibody (or fragment
thereof) binds to the same epitope or cross competes for binding with a second antibody by using
methods known in the art and set forth in the Examples herein. In selected embodiments, one
allows the primary antibody of the invention to bind to the marker under saturating conditions
and then measures the ability of the secondary antibody to bind to the same marker. If the test
antibody is able to bind to the marker at the same time as the primary marker antibody, then the
secondary antibody binds to a different epitope than the primary antibody. However, if the
secondary antibody is not able to bind to the maker at the same time, then the secondary antibody
binds to the same epitope, an overlapping epitope, or an epitope that is in close proximity to the
epitope bound by the primary antibody. As known in the art, the desired data can be obtained
using solid phase direct or indirect radioimmunoassay (RIA), solid phase direct or indirect
enzyme immunoassay (EIA), sandwich competition assay, a BiacoreTM system (i.e., surface
plasmon resonance - GE Healthcare), a ForteBio* Analyzer (i.e., bio-layer interferometry
ForteBio, Inc.) or flow cytometric methodology. The term surface plasmon resonance, as used
herein, refers to an optical phenomenon that allows for the analysis of real-time biospecific
interactions by detection of alterations in protein concentrations within a biosensor matrix. In a
particularly preferred embodiment, the analysis is performed using a Biacore or ForteBio
instrument.
[00152]      The term compete when used in the context of antibodies that compete for the same
epitope means competition between antibodies is determined by an assay in which the antibody
or immunologically functional fragment under test prevents or inhibits specific binding of a
reference antibody to a common antigen. Typically, such an assay involves the use of purified
antigen bound to a solid surface or cells bearing either of these, an unlabeled test
immunoglobulin and a labeled reference immunoglobulin. Competitive inhibition is measured
by determining the amount of label bound to the solid surface or cells in the presence of the test
immunoglobulin. Usually the test immunoglobulin is present in excess. Antibodies identified by
competition assay (competing antibodies) include antibodies binding to the same epitope as the
reference antibody and antibodies binding to an adjacent epitope sufficiently proximal to the
                                                  d1

epitope bound by the reference antibody for steric hindrance to occur. Additional details
regarding methods for determining competitive binding are provided in the Examples herein.
Usually, when a competing antibody is present in excess, it will inhibit specific binding of a
reference antibody to a common antigen by at least 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70% or
75%. In some instance, binding is inhibited by at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, or 97% or more.
[00153]         Besides epitope specificity the disclosed antibodies may be characterized using a
number of different physical characteristics including, for example, binding affinities, melting
temperature (Tm), and isoelectric points.
[00154]         In this respect, the present invention further encompasses the use of antibodies that
have a high binding affinity for the selected marker. An antibody of the invention is said to
specifically bind its target antigen when the dissociation constant           Kd   (koff/ko.) is < 10-'M. The
antibody specifically binds antigen with high affinity when the Kd is < 5x10-9M, and with very
high affinity when the K is < 5x10-M. In one embodiment of the invention, the antibody has a
K of < 10-9M and an off-rate of about lx10 4 /sec. In one embodiment of the invention, the off
rate is < 1x10-5/sec. In other embodiments of the invention, the antibodies will bind to CD46
with a K4 of between about 10-8M and 10 1M, and in yet another embodiment it will bind with a
K    <  2x10-10 M. Still other selected embodiments of the present invention comprise antibodies
that have a disassociation constant or K (kff/k..) of less than 10-2M, less than 5x10-2 M, less than
10- 3M, less than 5x10- 3M, less than 10- 4 M, less than 5x10 4 M, less than 10- 5M, less than 5x10- 5M,
less than 10-6 M, less than 5x0      6
                                       M, less than 10-7M, less than 5x0        7
                                                                                  M,  less than 10-8M, less than
5x10 8 M, less than 10 9M, less than 5x10-9M, less than 10 10M, less than 5x10-0 M, less than 10
510M, less than 10-M, less than                      less than 10-12M,     less than 10-1M, less than 10
                                                                      210-M,
  "M, less than 5x10-"M, less than 10-1M, less than 5x10-1M, less than 10-"M, less than 5x10
1M,     less than 10-14M, less than 5x10-14M, less than 10-"M or less than 5x10-"M.
[00155]         In specific embodiments, an antibody of the invention that immunospecifically binds
to CD46 has an association rate constant or kf, rate (CD46 (Ab) + antigen (Ag)k..+-Ab-Ag) of at
least 105 1s-1, at least 2x105 M1s-, at least 5x105 M1s-, at least 106M s , at least 5x106MIs                , at
least 107M's' , at least 5x10 7M-s'I, or at least 108M's-1.
[00156]         In another embodiment, an antibody of the invention that immunospecifically binds
to CD46 has a kog rate (CD46 (Ab) + antigen (Ag)koff<-Ab-Ag) of less than 10-'s-1, less than 5x10
 s-1, less than 10-2s-1, less than 5x10-2s- 1, less than 10- 3s-1, less than 5x10-3s- 1, less than 10-4s-1, less
than 5x10-4s- 1, less than 10-5s-1, less than 5x10-5s- 1, less than 10-6s-1, less than 5x10-6s- I less than 10
7s-1,  less than 5x10-7s- 1, less than 10-s- 1,less than 5x10-s- 1,less than 10- 9 s- 1,less than 5x10-9s- 1or
less than 10-       .
[00157]         In other selected embodiments of the present invention anti-CD46 antibodies will
                                                         d')

have an affinity constant or Ka (k../kff) of at least 102M-1 , at least 5x 102M-1 , at least 103M , at
least 5x10 3M- , at least 104 M 1 , at least 5x10 4 M- , at least 105M 1 ,at least 5x10 5M- , at least
106M , at least 5x10 6M-, at least 107M , at least 5x10 7M , at least 108M-, at least 5x10 8M', at
least 109M- I, at least 5x10 9M I, at least 10 1 0MI, at least 5x10 IM- I, at least 10 1 1M, at least
5x10 I       , at least 1012M , at least 5x1012M , at least 103M , at least 5x10M      3   , at least 1014M
 , at least 5x1014M , at least 105M        or at least 5x105M
[00158]        Once an protein or immunoglobulin binding agent of the invention has been
produced by recombinant expression, it may be purified by any method known in the art for
purification of an immunoglobulin molecule, or more generally, for purification of a protein, for
example, by chromatography (e.g., ion exchange, affinity, particularly by affinity for the specific
antigen after Protein A, and sizing column chromatography), centrifugation, differential
solubility, or by any other standard technique for the purification of proteins. Further, antibody
binding agents of the present invention may be fused to heterologous polypeptide sequences
described herein or otherwise known in the art to facilitate purification. In particularly preferred
embodiments the modulators of the instant invention will be purified, at least in part, using
Protein A or Protein G affinity chromatography.
[00159]        In other preferred embodiments, binding agents of the present invention, or
fragments or derivatives thereof, are conjugated, coupled or otherwise associated with or to a
diagnostic or detectable agent or reporter that may be a biological molecule (e.g., a peptide or
nucleotide) or a small molecule or radioisotope. As set forth elsewhere herein such labeled
binding agents can be useful for monitoring the development or progression of a
hyperproliferative disorder or as part of a clinical testing procedure to determine the efficacy of a
particular therapy including the disclosed modulators. In particularly preferred embodiments the
disclosed binding agents associated with a reporter or detectable agent may be useful in
identifying or characterizing and, optionally, enriching, isolating, sectioning, partitioning or
purifying selected tumorigenic cell populations. Such populations may be used for a myriad of
purposes including, but not limited to target identification, drug research and development,
toxicology studies, etc.
[00160]        Such diagnosis, detection and/or separation or enrichment can be accomplished by
coupling or associating the binding agent to detectable substances including, but not limited to,
various enzymes comprising for example horseradish peroxidase, alkaline phosphatase, beta
galactosidase, or acetylcholinesterase; prosthetic groups, such as but not limited to
streptavidinlbiotin and avidin/biotin; fluorescent materials, such as but not limited to,
umbelliferone, fluorescein, fluorescein isothiocynate, rhodamine, dichlorotriazinylamine

fluorescein, dansyl chloride or phycoerythrin; luminescent materials, such as but not limited to,
luminol; bioluminescent materials, such as but not limited to, luciferase, luciferin, and aequorin;
radioactive materials, such as but not limited to iodine (1311,          1251, 1231, 121I,), carbon (14 C), sulfur
( 35 S), tritium ( 3H), indium ("1In, 13In,    12In,   "IIn,), and technetium ("Tc), thallium (20 Ti),
gallium (68Ga,      67
                       Ga), palladium (103Pd), molybdenum (99Mo), xenon (133 Xe), fluorine (18F),
153Sm,     177Lu, 159 Gd,  149
                               Pm, 40a, 17 5 b,   166
                                                      Ho, 90y, 47
                                                                  Sc, 186Re, 188Re, 142Pr, l0 5 Rh,  97
                                                                                                        Ru, 68Ge,
57
   Co, 65Zn, 85Sr, 32p,     i3Gd, 169Yb, 5 1Cr, 5 4 Mn,  75Se, 113Sn, and   117
                                                                               Tin; positron emitting metals
using various positron emission tomographies, noradioactive paramagnetic metal ions, and
molecules that are radiolabeled or conjugated to specific radioisotopes. In such embodiments
appropriate detection methodology is well known in the art and readily available from numerous
commercial sources. In particularly preferred embodiments the labeled binding agents may be
used in flow cytometric analysis or FACS.
[00161]         As discussed in more detail below, the binding agents can be associated with marker
sequences, such as a peptide or fluorophore to facilitate purification of cell populations or
separation or diagnostic procedures such as immunohistochemistry or FACS. In particularly
preferred embodiments such labels shall comprise the MAXPARTM reagent system (University of
Toronto, Stemspec). In preferred embodiments, the marker amino acid sequence is a hexa
histidine peptide, such as the tag provided in a pQE vector (Qiagen), among others, many of
which are commercially available. Other peptide tags useful for purification include, but are not
limited to, the hemagglutinin "HA"tag, which corresponds to an epitope derived from the
influenza hemagglutinin protein (Wilson et al., 1984, Cell 37:767) and the "flag" tag (U.S.P.N.
4,703,004).
      VIII.    Analysis of tumorigenic cell subpopulations
[00162]         As discussed immediately above the markers disclosed herein provide for the
differentiation of TPC and TProg (e.g., in colorectal cancer) and TIC and NTG cells in a variety
of other neoplasia. Although isolation of live cells is requisite to demonstrate functional
reconstitution, and thus definitively demonstrate tumor perpetuating capability (i.e. CSC
identity), knowledge of TIC, their composite TPC and TProg cell, and NTG cell identity as
discerned using the disclosed markers facilitates the discovery of genes and/or proteins
associated with these respective cell populations, thereby enabling discovery of diagnostic and/or
therapeutic target proteins.
[00163]         In using the markers disclosed herein as tools to identify TIC or TPC populations,
cells or genetic and/or proteomic material isolated from these cells, can be identified and isolated
                                                          44

from NTG cells or contaminants through the use of art-recognized techniques such as magnetic
separation, FACS (Example 2), laser capture microdissection or other techniques described
above. Further, the isolated or enriched populations may be characterized and/or quantified
using microarray technologies (Example 1), next-generation sequencing (Example 8), mass
spectrometry, and technologies combining several aspects of these technologies, such as
massively multiparametric mass cytometry. Such technologies, when applied to analyze the
respective tumor cell subpopulations disclosed herein, for example, may lead to the identification
of additional TIC markers, including proteins, RNA markers that may be identifiable by
fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), biochemical markers that can be visualized with
chromogenic or fluorogenic dyes, physicochemical properties such as differential adherence to
material substrates (i.e. glass, plastic, etc.), or expression of transcriptional regulators that can be
identified using fluorescent or luminescent reporter gene constructs inserted into the genome
using any number of transfection or viral transduction methods.
[00164]       Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the cell populations disclosed herein can
be enriched or isolated using any single marker, any combination of the select disclosed markers,
or surrogate markers that associate with the expression of those markers disclosed herein (i.e.
TICAM). As set forth immediately above tumor cell subpopulations can be enriched or isolated
by contacting them with binding agents and then using magnetic separation, FACS, or any other
technology able to separate the disclosed tumor cell subpopulations based on inherent
physicochemical properties (i.e. their charge or differential adhesion to particular substrates) or
physicochemical properties conferred to distinct tumor cell subpopulations via binding agents
that associate with TICAM. Though magnetic separation techniques are common and generally
successful at enriching populations of cells expressing a particular marker, samples enriched in
this manner are commonly contaminated by a variety of dead cells, non-target cells and cell
clumps. Similarly, cells obtained by depleting a population of cells with all markers except that
not expressed on a target cell population (e.g. CD66c) are rarely pure.
[00165]       Accordingly, particularly preferred embodiments of the instant application employ
fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) for cell enrichment or isolation, as flow cytometry
allows rapid detailed analysis of single cells, and discriminates size and complexity of individual
cells, enabling live versus dead, large versus small, single cell versus cell clumps, and more or
less granular cells to be discriminated from one other. In addition to size & complexity
parameters, emitted fluorescence can be measured via an array of reflective mirrors and bandpass
filters, such that multiple light emission wavelengths from distinct fluorescent proteins,
intracellular chemical reactions, retained dyes, or fluorochrome-conjugated antibodies can be

interrogated in this manner on the order of many thousands of cells per second. Furthermore,
using a flow cytometer with cell isolation capabilities (e.g. FACSAria; Becton Dickenson), single
cells with distinct morphological, physicochemical and/or fluorescent characteristics can
commonly be isolated to great purity (> 99%). Using such techniques in accordance with the
teachings herein, it was possible to characterize the heterogeneity of populations of single cells
obtained from primary and metastatic tumors obtained directly from cancer patients and from
NTX tumors grown in mice. Moreover, it was possible to maintain the viability of these cells
during the process, enabling transplantation of as few as 3 cells per mouse in demonstrating the
robust tumorigenicity of cell populations isolated using the markers disclosed herein.
[00166]       Because the markers disclosed in the instant invention enable precise identification
and isolation of TPC in colorectal cancer, for example, and distinguish these cells from TProg
cells, NTG cells and stromal cells, the resulting tumorigenic cell populations provide for
detection of protein-encoding genes, micro-RNAs, long or short non-coding RNAs and/or
proteins associated with CSC. That is, these genetic and/or proteomic determinants of self
renewal, differentiation, proliferation and/or survival that are preferentially expressed by the
relatively homogeneous tumorigenic cell subpopulations can be identified as discussed herein
evaluated for use as prospective diagnostic markers that may truly predict disease severity,
response to a particular therapeutic regimen or disease outcome based on their privileged
expression by TPC (i.e. CSC) in colorectal cancer, for example. Similarly, markers disclosed
herein that facilitate the isolation of TIC and NTG cells from pancreatic, non-small cell lung and
triple-negative breast cancer enable the discovery of better diagnostic markers associated with
TIC.
[00167]       The enriched or isolated solid tumor cell subpopulations provided for by the instant
invention further allow for the precise elucidation cellular hierarchy and enhanced
characterization of cell phenotypes. In this respect it will be understood that hematologic
malignancies are among the best understood neoplastic malignancies precisely because the
constituent cells are easy to obtain and the in vivo and in vitro assays to determine the fate and
potential of these cells have been exhaustively developed. Similarly, oncology research has
evolved to the point where, not only can the cells responsible for fueling tumor growth be
identified, but they can be reliably isolated using the methods herein and their characteristics
tested both in vivo and in vitro. Because tumor initiating cells (TIC) are preferably identified
retrospectively by their ability to fuel tumor growth in vivo, techniques and instrumentation that
facilitate isolation of competent TIC is essential for their precise identification. In this vein
tumor perpetuating cells (i.e. the cancer stem cell subset of TIC), are best identified

retrospectively based upon their ability to fuel heterogeneous tumor growth through at least two
rounds of serial transplantation using small numbers of well defined cells as demonstrated herein
for colorectal cancer.
[00168]       Although primary transplants are sufficient to give an initial read on tumorigenicity,
thus facilitating the retrospective identification of TIC and NTG cells, a single round of
transplantation is not sufficient to definitively distinguish between TPC and TProg cells, as both
populations are tumorigenic. As indicated herein TProg cells, as identified and disclosed herein
for colorectal cancer, differ from TPC (i.e. CSC) in their inability to completely reconstitute
tumor heterogeneity, but because TPC levels are typically low, this loss in heterogeneity (i.e. loss
of TPC in tumors generated by TProg cells) can be difficult to observe. A second round of
transplantation using small numbers of cells is needed to demonstrate the reconstitution ability of
TPC versus TProg cells, as the latter population of cells is devoid of self-renewal properties and
its proliferation capacity should be exhausted prior to secondary transplantation. Done correctly,
these serial transplantation experiments should use very small numbers of highly purified cells (<
200 cells isolated by FACS) and tumors from primary transplants should be allowed to grow to >
1,500 mm 3 , therein providing an opportunity for TProg cells to exhaust their proliferative
capacity in vivo prior to secondary transplants. Such analysis is greatly facilitated by the
techniques disclosed herein.
[00169]       With respect to such matters it will be appreciated that a panel of markers is
preferably used to precisely identify any define population of stem and/or progenitor cells. More
generally, cell populations defined by certain individual markers may not be pure but contain
several different cell types, or cells with different potential, wherein additional markers are
needed to parse apart the remaining heterogeneity. To determine whether a panel of markers is
sufficient to precisely identify a particular cell population, the potential of that particular cell
population is preferably demonstrated at the single cell level by single cell transplantation and/or
lineage tracing in vivo. The above described serial transplantation methods enable identification
of respective tumor cell subpopulations comprising TIC (TPC and TProg) and NTG cells.
[00170]       When further modified to include the transplantation of at least 3 groups of mice with
dilutions of identical cell populations isolated as described herein, one can also determine the
actual frequency of TIC, or its constituent TPC or TProg cells, among the input population of
cells. For example, this frequency is determined using Poisson distribution statistics, which
enables the quantification of TIC among a known population of cells by empirically testing for
the frequency of tumorigenicity (the functional demonstration of TIC capacity), independent of
the rate at which tumors arise, using limiting dilutions of known input cell populations. The
                                                    z17

number of defined outcomes (i.e. tumors) achieved at each dilution of input cells is used to
calculate the number of TIC among the input population of cells. In this manner, the true
frequency of a cell with defined potential (i.e. tumorigenicity) can be assessed. It is important to
note that Poisson distribution statistics gains its power from the defined events (i.e.
tumorigenicity) being limited in number over the course of dilutions assessed in the experiment.
As demonstrated herein for the CD46hi CD324+ CD66c cell population isolated from the
colorectal NTX-CR4 patient-derived xenograft line, TIC appear to be represented at a 1 in 5
frequency within this population of cells (FIG. 15), whereas cells expressing other markers are
non-tumorigenic or very poorly tumorigenic (FIGS. 4 and 8). As evidence of the novelty of the
instant invention demonstration of a 1 in 5 TIC frequency, as disclosed herein, represents a
significant improvement over art recognized markers for other TIC populations, as cells with
those markers demonstrate a 1:75 tumorigenic cell frequency in similar experiments (Dylla et al.
2008, PLoS ONE 3:e2428).
[00171]       It will further be appreciated that, in preferred embodiments, it is possible to quantify
specific tumor cell subpopulations based on their marker profile. CSC and NTG cells, for
example, may be detected and quantified in tumors following treatment with a prospective
therapeutic agent that may then be compared with pre-treatment controls. As discussed above,
tumors may be dissociated and contacted with agents binding to the markers that define the
respective tumor cell subpopulations, and the relative frequency of these cells can be assessed by
flow cytometry. In accordance with the teachings herein this is demonstrated as set forth in the
Examples below wherein CSC are enriched in colorectal and pancreatic tumors upon exposure to
standard of care chemotherapeutic regimens involving irinotecan or gemcitabine, respectively
(FIGS. 17 & 18).
[00172]       With respect to limiting dilution analysis, in vitro enumeration of tumor initiating cell
frequency may be accomplished by depositing characterized and/or fractionated human tumor
cells (e.g. from treated and untreated tumors, respectively) into in vitro growth conditions that
foster colony formation. In this manner, colony forming cells might be enumerated by simple
counting and characterization of colonies, or by analysis consisting of, for example, the
deposition of human tumor cells into plates in serial dilutions and scoring each well as either
positive or negative for colony formation at least 10 days after plating. In vivo limiting dilution
experiments or analyses, which are generally more accurate in their ability to determine tumor
initiating cell frequency- encompass the transplantation of human tumor cells, from either
untreated control or treated conditions, for example, into immunocompromised mice in serial
dilutions and subsequently scoring each mouse as either positive or negative for tumor formation

at least 60 days after transplant. As alluded to above the derivation of cell frequency values by
limiting dilution analysis in vitro or in vivo is preferably done by applying Poisson distribution
statistics to the known frequency of positive and negative events, thereby providing a frequency
for events fulfilling the definition of a positive event; in this case, colony or tumor formation,
respectively.
[00173]       As to other methods compatible with the instant invention that may be used to
calculate tumor initiating cell frequency, the most common comprise quantifiable flow
cytometric techniques and immunohistochemical staining procedures. Though not as precise as
the limiting dilution analysis techniques described immediately above, these procedures are much
less labor intensive and provide reasonable values in a relatively short time frame. Thus, it will
be appreciated that a skilled artisan may use flow cytometric cell surface marker profile
determination employing one or more antibodies or reagents that bind art recognized cell surface
proteins known to enrich for tumor initiating cells (e.g., potentially compatible markers are set
forth in Example 1 below) and thereby measure TIC levels from various samples. In still another
compatible method one skilled in the art might enumerate TIC frequency in situ (i.e. tissue
section) by immunohistochemistry using one or more antibodies or reagents that are able to bind
cell surface proteins thought to demarcate these cells.
[00174]       In vitro culture conditions have a long way to go before they mimic the physiological
environment encountered in vivo; however, in vitro assays can serve as a decent surrogate for
demonstration of functional reconstitution of a tumor in vivo by serial transplantation using the
cell populations enriched or isolated using the markers disclosed herein. Specifically, cells of
interest may be tested for functional properties such as proliferation and/or differentiation
capacity in in vitro assays that might predict behavior in vivo. There exist examples where
defined, serum-free media is able to maintain and expand tumorigenic cells in vitro (Dylla et al.
2008, PLoS ONE 3:e2428), demonstrating that tumorigenic cells can be maintained in vitro for at
least brief periods of time. Such assays have typically been restricted to colony forming cell
(CFC) or sphere forming assays, for example, which measure the ability of cell populations to
initiate a colony (attached grouping of cells totally > 50 cells) or a floating ball of cells (i.e.
sphere) (Bao et al. 2006, Nature 444:756). The number of CFC or spheres formed can serve as a
proxy for TIC frequency. Moreover, upon dissociation of these colonies and/or spheres, the
ability of the composite cells to subsequently reinitiate colonies or spheres can serve as a
surrogate readout for self-renewal. In this manner, the frequency of CFC/sphere forming cells
and degree of self-renewal under any various culture conditions can be used to identify and
characterize the potential of tumor cell subpopulations such as those isolated using the markers
                                                    do

herein disclosed.
[00175]       As is also standard in the art, differentiation might be facilitated by the culture of
tumor cell subpopulations on different attachment matrices (e.g. collagen or fibronectin), addition
of certain growth factors and/or fetal calf serum, for example, thereby allowing the experimental
interrogation of the differentiation potential of said tumor cell subpopulations. Furthermore,
genes, proteins and/or factors that impact stem and/or progenitor cell fate decisions such as self
renewal versus differentiation might also be interrogated by co-culture of the defined TIC with
such factors or following transfection or transduction with genes and/or proteins of interest. For
example, traditional CFC-like assays may be informative wherein these assays can be linked to a
differentiation capacity readout such as the generation of NTG cell-associated gene products (e.g.
CEACAM6), as demonstrated herein (FIG. 16B and 16C). More clearly, cell differentiation
potential might be measured in vitro based on the input of defined cell populations and
monitoring differentiation processes that can be driven by culture conditions conducive to self
renewal or differentiation, followed by characterizing the resulting cells, proteins these cells are
generating, and/or interrogating the resulting population's potential by in vivo transplantation.
Other methods of characterization enabling the identification of cell populations expressing the
markers disclosed herein include the use of high content imaging technologies. By utilizing
parameters such as multispectral analysis facilitating the identification of specific markers and
their localization in live or fixed cells, parameters such as overall colony numbers, cell number
per colony and quantification of cellular morphology among cells within the colony (e.g. nuclear
to cytoplasmic ratio) can be analyzed, for example. Many of these analyses can also be done
manually. In in vitro assays where markers indicative of TIC, their composite TPC or TProg
cells, and/or NTG cells, respectively, are monitored by high-content, multispectral imaging, the
number or frequency or the respective tumor cell subpopulations might be determined in vitro,
and responses of these cells to various stimuli that may impact self-renewal or differentiation of
these cell populations can be assessed.
[00176]       As evidenced by the instant disclosure, the ability to passage and analyze enriched or
isolated tumor initiating cell subpopulations in animals is a valuable and significant aspect of the
instant invention. In this regard compatible animal hosts may comprise model organisms such as
nematode, fruit fly, zebrafish; preferably a laboratory mammal such as a mouse (nude mouse,
SCID mouse, NOD/SCID mouse, Beige/SCID mouse, FOX/SCID mouse), rat, rabbit, or primate.
Severely immunodeficient NOD-SCID mice are particularly suitable animal recipients of
transplanted human cancer stem cells. Immunodeficient mice do not reject human tissues, and
SCID and NOD-SCID mice have been characterized as hosts for in vivo studies of human

hematopoiesis and tissue engraftment. McCune et al., Science 241: 1632-9 (1988); Kamel-Reid
& Dick, Science 242: 1706-9 (1988); Larochelle et al., Nat. Med. 2: 1329-37 (1996). In
particularly preferred embodiments the NOD/SCID or Beige/SCID mice can be further
immunosuppressed using VP-16, antibodies against asialo-GM1 protein, radiation therapy,
chemotherapy, or other immunosuppressive biological agents. Additional murine models
capable of propagating xenografted human tumors include Nude.Beige, NOD/SCID/IL2Rg-/- ,
RAG2-/-/IL2Rg-/-, RAG 1-/-/IL2Rg-/-, NOD/beta-2-microglobulin-/-, and athymic nude mice.
Each of these murine model systems have severe deficiencies in adaptive immune responses,
with further selective deficiencies in innate immunity which permit engraftment of tissues which
would otherwise be rejected by the host immune system.
[00177]      Typically, single-cell suspensions (or suspensions with a few aggregates of cells,
such as 20,000 cells; ideally less than 100; preferably less than 10 cells) of the isolated cancer
stem cells are prepared in a mixture comprising a 1:1 ratio of cell suspension and the matrix
carrier Matrigel (Invitrogen), and transplanted into appropriate anatomical sites in the mice.
General techniques for formulation and injection of cells may be found in Remington's
Pharmaceutical Sciences, 20th ed. (Mack Publishing Co., Easton, Pa.). Suitable routes may
include parenteral delivery, including intramuscular, subcutaneous, intramedullary injections, as
well as intrathecal, direct intraventricular, intravenous, intraperitoneal, intranasal, intracerebral,
or intraocular injections, for example. For injection, the cells of the invention may be formulated
in aqueous solutions, preferably in physiologically compatible buffers such as Hanks's solution,
Ringer's solution, or physiological saline buffer. For such transmucosal administration,
penetrants appropriate to the barrier to be permeated are used in the formulation. Such penetrants
are generally known in the art. As set forth herein once tumorigenicity is established, the animal
model can be used for a wide array of biological and molecular assays to characterize the
tumorigenic stem cells and the tumors that arise therefrom.
[00178]      For example, in the case of treatment of advanced tumors, tumors are allowed to
develop to the desired size, with animals having tumors exceeding the desired size range or those
tumors that are insufficiently developed being eliminated. The selected animals are distributed at
random to undergo the treatments and controls. Animals not bearing tumors may also be
subjected to the same treatments as the tumor-bearing animals in order to be able to dissociate
any toxicity from the test agent versus toxicity arising from tumor-associated material or
responses to the said agent. Chemotherapy generally begins from 21 - 60 days after grafting,
depending on the type of NTX tumor, and the animals are observed daily. The targeted cargo
proteins can be administered to the animals, for example, by i.p. injection, intravenous injection,

direct injection into the tumor (or into the organ having the tumor), or bolus infusion. The
amount of test compound that is injected can be readily be determined by those of skill in the art.
Typically the different animal groups are weighed about 1 or 2 times a week until the end of the
trial. Tumors are measured once they are palpable and are monitored continuously by direct
measurement using electronic calipers or 3D scanning about 1 or 2 times a week until the tumor
reaches a pre-determined size and/or weight, or until the animal dies or is euthanized if this
occurs before the tumor reaches the pre-determined size/weight. The animals are then sacrificed
and not only is tissue is saved for RNA, DNA, protein, IHC and other analyses, but tumor cell
subpopulations are enriched or isolated using the methods described herein for similar analyses
of the respective populations.
     IX.     Analysis of potential therapeutic compounds
[00179]       The TICAM disclosed herein provide extremely effective methods for the
identification, characterization, monitoring and separation or isolation of tumorigenic cell
subpopulations. It will be appreciated that the disclosed observational techniques and highly
defined cell subpopulations provide powerful tools that may be exploited to identify and validate
therapeutic or diagnostic targets as will as pharmaceutical compounds for the treatment,
prevention or diagnosis of selected disorders.
[00180]       In one embodiment of the instant invention the isolated cells or cell populations may
be subjected to genotypic or phenotypic analysis (e.g., Example 8 below). More particularly the
isolated or enriched cells will be treated or prepared to provide genetic or proteomic material
(i.e., information such as a transcriptome) using techniques known in the art. This prepared or
treated material is then analyzed using modem techniques such as Next-Gen sequencing or mass
spectrometry to provide selected information about the tumorigenic cell or cell subpopulation
such as protein expression or morphology.
[00181]       Further, the defined tumorigenic cell subpopulations disclosed herein may be used to
evaluate test or candidate compounds in vitro and/or in vivo for their ability to reduce the amount
of cancer cells and/or cancer cells, or inhibit their proliferation. The ability of a candidate
compound to stabilize or reduce the amount of cancer cells, cancer cells and/or immune cells
(e.g., lymphocytes) or inhibit their proliferation can be assessed by: detecting the expression of
antigens on cancer cells, cancer cells, and immune cells; detecting the proliferation cancer cells,
cancer cells and immune cells; detecting the cancer cells and cancer cells using functional assays.
In particularly preferred embodiments the analysis will comprise the identification,
characterization and/or isolation and enrichment of tumorigenic cell subpopulations. Techniques
                                                   52

known to those of skilled in the art can be used for measuring these activities. For example,
cellular proliferation can be assayed by 3H-thymidine incorporation assays and trypan blue cell
counts. Antigen expression can be assayed, for example, by immunoassays including, but are not
limited to, competitive and non-competitive assay systems using techniques such as western
blots, immunohistochemistry radioimmunoassays, ELISA (enzyme linked immunosorbent
assay), "sandwich" immunoassays, immunoprecipitation assays, precipitin reactions, gel
diffusion precipitin reactions, immunodiffusion assays, agglutination assays, complement
fixation assays, immunoradiometric assays, fluorescent immunoassays, protein A immunoassays,
immunofluorescence, flow cytometry, and FACS analysis.
[00182]      A potential pharmaceutical compound, pharmaceutical composition, or proposed
regimen is preferably tested in vitro and then in vivo for the desired therapeutic or prophylactic
activity prior to use in humans. For example, assays which can be used to determine whether
administration of a specific compound is indicated include cell culture assays in which a patient
tissue sample (e.g., whole tumor or enriched cell subpopulations) is passaged in
immunocompromised mice and exposed to, or otherwise contacted with, a compound of the
invention, and the effect of such compound upon the tissue sample is observed. The tissue
sample can be obtained by biopsy from the patient. This test allows the identification of the
therapeutically most effective therapy (e.g., prophylactic or therapeutic agent) for each individual
patient. Generally, a therapy is preferably tested in vitro and then in vivo for the desired
therapeutic or prophylactic activity prior to use in humans.
[00183]      More specifically the markers and associated cells, cultures, populations and
compositions comprising the same, including progeny thereof, can be used to screen for or
identify compounds or agents (e.g., drugs) that affect a function or activity of tumor initiating
cells or progeny thereof. The invention therefore further provides systems and methods for
evaluation or identification of a compound or agent that can affect a function or activity tumor
initiating cells or progeny thereof by interfering with selected pathways or functions as displayed
in the enriched populations. Such compounds and agents can be drug candidates that are
screened for the treatment of a hyperproliferative disorder, for example. In one embodiment, a
system or method includes enriched populations of tumor initiating cells and a compound or
agent (e.g., drug), wherein the cells and compound or agent (e.g., drug) are in contact with each
other.
[00184]      In another preferred embodiment the method includes contacting enriched
populations of tumor initiating cells or progeny thereof in vivo or in vitro with a test agent or
compound; and determining if the test agent or compound modulates an activity or function of

the tumor initiating cells. Exemplary activity or function that can be modulated include changes
in cell morphology, expression of a marker, differentiation or de-differentiation, maturation,
proliferation, viability, apoptosis or cell death neuronal progenitor cells or progeny thereof.
[00185]       In some embodiments it will be advantageous to screen for and select compounds
that may impact more than one tumorigenic subpopulation. Thus, if overall survival is to be
impacted by therapeutic regimens, the targets of these drugs will be best selected based on their
expression on or in, primarily TPC, but also TProg. One might expect that selected targeting of
TPC would result in the eventual regression of a tumor, but this may take some time to occur, as
TProg are herein demonstrated in colorectal cancer to have significant proliferative capacity.
Therapeutic targets not only expressed by TPC, but also by TProg may be better drug candidates
as both the self-renewing component of the tumor and the highly proliferative TProg
compartment might be eradicated in parallel, resulting in noticeable tumor regression and
prolonged overall survival. These drug targets may be, for example, genes, proteins, micro-RNA,
and/or long or short non-coding RNAs. Drug targets may also include ligands that are not
expressed by the TPC or TProg, but which bind receptors on TPC or TProg and which are critical
for the self-renewal of TPC or proliferation of TProg.
[00186]       More generally, contacting, when used in reference to cells or a cell culture or
method step or treatment, means a direct or indirect interaction between the enriched or selected
tumorigenic cells or cell subpopulations another referenced entity. A particular example of a
direct interaction is physical interaction. Moreover, such contact may take place in vitro or in
vivo (i.e. a test compound administered to an NTX animal). A particular example of an indirect
interaction is where a composition acts upon an intermediary molecule that in turn acts upon the
referenced entity (e.g., cell or cell culture).
[00187]       In this aspect of the invention modulates indicates influencing an activity or function
of tumor initiating cells or progeny cells in a manner compatible with detecting the effects on cell
activity or function that has been determined to be relevant to a particular aspect (e.g., metastasis
or proliferation) of the tumor initiating cells or progeny cells of the invention. Exemplary
activities and functions include, but are not limited to, measuring morphology, developmental
markers, differentiation, proliferation, viability, cell respiration, mitochondrial activity,
membrane integrity, or expression of markers associated with certain conditions. Accordingly, a
compound or agent (e.g., a drug candidate) can be evaluated for its effect on tumor initiating cells
or progeny cells, by contacting such cells or progeny cells with the compound or agent and
measuring any modulation of an activity or function of tumor initiating cells or progeny cells as
disclosed herein or would be known to the skilled artisan.

[00188]      Methods of screening and identifying agents and compounds include those suitable
for high throughput screening, which include arrays of cells (e.g., microarrays) positioned or
placed, optionally at pre-determined locations or addresses. High-throughput robotic or manual
handling methods can probe chemical interactions and determine levels of expression of many
genes in a short period of time. Techniques have been developed that utilize molecular signals
(e.g., fluorophores) and automated analyses that process information at a very rapid rate (see,
e.g., Pinhasov et al., Comb. Chem. High Throughput Screen. 7:133 (2004)). For example,
microarray technology has been extensively utilized to probe the interactions of thousands of
genes at once, while providing information for specific genes (see, e.g., Mocellin and Rossi, Adv.
Exp. Med. Biol. 593:19 (2007)).
[00189]      In addition to complex biological agents candidate agents include organic molecules
comprising functional groups necessary for structural interactions, particularly hydrogen
bonding, and typically include at least an amine, carbonyl, hydroxyl or carboxyl group,
frequently at least two of the functional chemical groups. The candidate agents often comprise
cyclical carbon or heterocyclic structures and/or aromatic or polyaromatic structures substituted
with one or more of the above functional groups. Candidate agents are also found among
biomolecules, including peptides, polynucleotides, saccharides, fatty acids, steroids, purines,
pyrimidines, derivatives, structural analogs or combinations thereof.
[00190]      Included are pharmacologically active drugs, genetically active molecules, etc.
Compounds of interest include chemotherapeutic agents, hormones or hormone antagonists, etc.
Exemplary of pharmaceutical agents suitable for this invention are those described in, "The
Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics," Goodman and Gilman, McGraw-Hill, New York, N.Y.,
(1996), Ninth edition, under the sections: Water, Salts and Ions; Drugs Affecting Renal Function
and Electrolyte Metabolism; Drugs Affecting Gastrointestinal Function; Chemotherapy of
Microbial Diseases; Chemotherapy of Neoplastic Diseases; Drugs Acting on Blood-Forming
organs; Hormones and Hormone Antagonists; Vitamins, Dermatology; and Toxicology, all
incorporated herein by reference. Also included are toxins, and biological and chemical warfare
agents, for example see Somani, S. M. (Ed.), "Chemical Warfare Agents," Academic Press, New
York, 1992).
[00191]      Such screening methods (e.g., high-throughput) can identify active agents and
compounds rapidly and efficiently. For example, cells can be positioned or placed (pre-seeded)
on a culture dish, tube, flask, roller bottle or plate (e.g., a single multi-well plate or dish such as
an 8, 16, 32, 64, 96, 384 and 1536 multi-well plate or dish), optionally at defined locations, for
identification of potentially therapeutic molecules. Libraries that can be screened include, for

example, small molecule libraries, phage display libraries, fully human antibody yeast display
libraries (Adimab, LLC), siRNA libraries, and adenoviral transfection vectors. In other preferred
embodiments the method comprises screening a chemical compound library of interest for
activity in a culture comprising an enriched preparation tumorigenic cells. Such a chemical
library may include the SpectrumTM Collection library, the LopacTM Collection library, the
Prestwick Chemical Library* and the Maybridge* Collection library (each are libraries of
compounds for screening).
[00192]       Further, compounds, including candidate agents, are obtained from a wide variety of
sources including libraries of synthetic or natural compounds. For example, numerous means are
available for random and directed synthesis of a wide variety of organic compounds, including
biomolecules, including expression of randomized oligonucleotides and oligopeptides.
Alternatively, libraries of natural compounds in the form of bacterial, fungal, plant and animal
extracts are available or readily produced. Additionally, natural or synthetically produced
libraries and compounds are readily modified through conventional chemical, physical and
biochemical means, and may be used to produce combinatorial libraries. Known
pharmacological agents may be subjected to directed or random chemical modifications, such as
acylation, alkylation, esterification, amidification, etc. to produce structural analogs.
[00193]       In such embodiments parameters to be measured comprise quantifiable components
of cells, particularly components that can be accurately measured, desirably in a high throughput
system. A parameter can be any cell component or cell product including cell surface
determinant, receptor, protein or conformational or posttranslational modification thereof, lipid,
carbohydrate, organic or inorganic molecule, nucleic acid, e.g. mRNA, DNA, etc. or a portion
derived from such a cell component or combinations thereof. While most parameters will
provide a quantitative readout, in some instances a semi-quantitative or qualitative result will be
acceptable. Readouts may include a single determined value, or may include mean, median
value or the variance, etc. Characteristically a range of parameter readout values will be obtained
for each parameter from a multiplicity of the same assays. Variability is expected and a range of
values for each of the set of test parameters will be obtained using standard statistical methods
with a common statistical method used to provide single values.
[00194]       Agents are screened for biological activity by adding the agent to at least one and
usually a plurality of cell samples, usually in conjunction with cells lacking the agent. The
change in parameters in response to the agent is measured, and the result evaluated by
comparison to reference cultures, e.g. in the presence and absence of the agent, obtained with
other agents, etc.

[00195]      The agents are conveniently added in solution, or readily soluble form, to the
medium of cells in culture. The agents may be added in a flow-through system, as a stream,
intermittent or continuous, or alternatively, adding a bolus of the compound, singly or
incrementally, to an otherwise static solution. In a flow-through system, two fluids are used,
where one is a physiologically neutral solution, and the other is the same solution with the test
compound added. The first fluid is passed over the cells, followed by the second. In a single
solution method, a bolus of the test compound is added to the volume of medium surrounding the
cells. The overall concentrations of the components of the culture medium should not change
significantly with the addition of the bolus, or between the two solutions in a flow through
method.
[00196]      Various methods can be utilized for quantifying the presence of the selected markers.
For measuring the amount of a molecule that is present, a convenient method is to label a
molecule with a detectable moiety, which may be fluorescent, luminescent, radioactive,
enzymatically active, etc., particularly a molecule specific for binding to the parameter with high
affinity. Fluorescent moieties are readily available for labeling virtually any biomolecule,
structure, or cell type. Immunofluorescent moieties can be directed to bind not only to specific
proteins but also specific conformations, cleavage products, or site modifications like
phosphorylation. Individual peptides and proteins can be engineered to autofluoresce, e.g. by
expressing them as green fluorescent protein chimeras inside cells. (for a review see Jones et al.
(1999) Trends Biotechnol. 17(12):477-8 1). Thus, antibodies can be genetically modified to
provide a fluorescent dye as part of their structure. Depending upon the label chosen, parameters
may be measured using other than fluorescent labels, using such immunoassay techniques as
radioimmunoassay (RIA) or enzyme linked immunosorbance assay (ELISA), homogeneous
enzyme immunoassays, and related non-enzymatic techniques. The quantitation of nucleic acids,
especially messenger RNAs, is also of interest as a parameter. These can be measured by
hybridization techniques that depend on the sequence of nucleic acid nucleotides. Techniques
include polymerase chain reaction methods as well as gene array techniques. See Current
Protocols in Molecular Biology, Ausubel et al., eds, John Wiley & Sons, New York, N.Y., 2000;
Freeman et al. (1999) Biotechniques 26(l):112-225; Kawamoto et al. (1999) Genome Res
9(12):1305-12; and Chen et al. (1998) Genomics 51(3):313-24, for examples.
    X.      Diagnostic uses
[00197]      In another preferred aspect, the present invention provides a method of diagnosing
cancer or detecting a cancerous or pre-cancerous cell comprising obtaining bulk tumor cells or
                                                  57

tumor cell subpopulations enriched or purified from a subject's tumor (e.g. TIC, TPC, TProg,
NTG cells, tumor stroma, or whole tumor tissue) and assessing the frequency of these tumor cell
subpopulations and/or the genetic and/or proteomic molecular profile from these respective cell
populations. Tumorigenic cells can also be isolated based on the TICAM disclosed herein and
various methods of isolating tumorigenic cells from a subject, for example, a human, are known
in the relevant field.
[00198]      In another embodiment, the invention provides a method of analyzing cancer
progression and/or pathogenesis in-vivo. In another embodiment, analysis of cancer progression
and/or pathogenesis in-vivo comprises determining the extent of tumor progression. In another
embodiment, analysis comprises the identification of the tumor. In another embodiment, analysis
of tumor progression is performed on the primary tumor. In another embodiment, analysis is
performed over time depending on the type of cancer as known to one skilled in the art. In
another embodiment, further analysis of secondary tumors originating from metastasizing cells of
the primary tumor is analyzed in-vivo. In another embodiment, the size and shape of secondary
tumors are analyzed. In some embodiment, further ex-vivo analysis is performed. In another
embodiment, the patient's tumor is transplanted into immunocompromised mice and grown as a
xenograft such that the above embodiments analyzing cancer progression, pathogenesis and/or
experiments to predict response to prospective or actual therapies are performed.
[00199]      Other preferred embodiments of the invention also exploit the properties of the
disclosed TIC markers and TICAM, or TIC- or TICAM-associated genes, proteins, micro-RNAs,
or short and long non-coding RNAs discovered using cells enriched or isolated using these TIC
or TICAM, to quantify the relative number or frequency of TIC in a given specimen (e.g. tumor
biopsy) based on the expression of said TIC- or TICAM-associated genes, proteins, micro
RNAs, or short and long non-coding RNAs versus a control specimen or a specimen obtained at
a different point in time. In this manner, it may be possible to predict and/or actively assess
response to therapy without directly assessing the actual number of TIC within the sample as
described herein.
[00200]      Any in vitro or in vivo assays known to one of ordinary skill in the art that can detect
and/or quantify tumorigenic cells can be used to monitor the course of a disease in order to
evaluate the impact of a selected treatment and/or regimen. These methods can be used to assess
the impact in a research setting as well as in a clinical setting. The results of these assays then
may be used to alter the dosing, drugs or timing of the treatment of a subject. The sample can be
subjected to one or more pretreatment steps prior to the detection, isolation and/or measurement
of the cancer stem cell population in the sample. In certain examples, a biological fluid is

pretreated by centrifugation, filtration, precipitation, dialysis, or chromatography, or by a
combination of such pre-treatment steps. In other examples, a tissue sample is pretreated by
freezing, chemical fixation, paraffin embedding, dehydration, permeabilization, or
homogenization followed by centrifugation, filtration, precipitation, dialysis, or chromatography,
or by a combination of such pretreatment steps. In certain examples, the sample is pretreated by
removing cells other than tumorigenic cell subpopulations from the sample, or removing debris
from the sample prior to the determination of the amount of cancer stem cells in the sample.
[00201]       In another embodiment, the invention provides a method of analyzing cancer
progression and/or pathogenesis in-vivo including determining cell metastasis. In yet another
embodiment, analysis of cell metastasis comprises determination of progressive growth of cells
at a site that is discontinuous from the primary tumor. In another embodiment, the site of cell
metastasis analysis comprises the route of neoplastic spread. In some embodiment, cells can
disperse via blood vasculature, lymphatics, within body cavities or combinations thereof. In
another embodiment, cell metastasis analysis is performed in view of cell migration,
dissemination, extravasation, proliferation or combinations thereof. In yet another embodiment,
the metastatic potential of the tumorigenic cell subpopulations are analyzed following
intravenous, orthotopic, or kidney capsule transplantation into immunocompromised mice.
[00202]       In certain examples, the tumorigenic cells in a subject or a sample from a subject
may be assessed or characterized prior to therapy or regimen to establish a baseline. In other
examples the sample is derived from a subject that was treated. In some examples the sample is
taken from the subject at least about 1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 10, 12, 14, 15, 16, 18, 20, 30, 60, 90 days, 6
months, 9 months, 12 months, or >12 months after the subject begins or terminates treatment. In
certain examples, the tumorigenic cells are assessed or characterized after a certain number of
doses (e.g., after 2, 5, 10, 20, 30 or more doses of a therapy). In other examples, the tumorigenic
cells are characterized or assessed after 1 week, 2 weeks, 1 month, 2 months, 1 year, 2 years, 3
years, 4 years or more after receiving one or more therapies.
    XI.      Articles of manufacture
[00203]       The present invention also provides kits for identifying, characterizing and/or
enriching, or isolating tumorigenic cells or cell subpopulations as described herein. Such kits
may be use used in a clinical setting for patient diagnostic purposes or in research for
characterization and/or enrichment of tumorigenic cell populations. Kits according to the
invention will comprise one or more containers comprising TICAM binding agents and a label or
package insert on or associated with the container. Suitable containers include, for example,
                                                   59

bottles, vials, syringes, 96 well plates, etc. The containers may be formed from a variety of
materials such as glass or plastic. The container holds one or more compositions comprising
binding agents that are effective for analyzing tumorigenic cells and optionally providing the
enriched or isolated cells or cell subpopulations as described herein. Such kits will generally
contain in a suitable container a formulation of one or more TICAM binding agents where in the
case of multiple binding agents the binding agents may be in the same or different containers.
The kits may also contain other pharmaceutically acceptable formulations, either for diagnosis or
for labeling or modifying the enclosed binding agents.
[00204]       More specifically the kits may have a single container that contains the one or more
TICAM binding agent, with or without additional components, or they may have distinct
containers for each component. Where combined reporters provided for conjugation, a single
solution may be pre-mixed, either in a molar equivalent combination, or with one component in
excess of the other. Alternatively, the binding agent and any optional labeling agent of the kit
may be maintained separately within distinct containers prior to administration to a subject or in
vitro use. The kits may also comprise a second/third container means for containing a sterile,
pharmaceutically acceptable buffer or other diluent such as bacteriostatic water for injection
(BWFI), phosphate-buffered saline (PBS), Ringer's solution and dextrose solution.
[00205]       When the components of the kit are provided in one or more liquid solutions, the
liquid solution is preferably an aqueous solution, with a sterile aqueous solution being
particularly preferred. However, the components of the kit may be provided as dried powder(s).
When reagents or components are provided as a dry powder, the powder can be reconstituted by
the addition of a suitable solvent. It is envisioned that the solvent may also be provided in
another container.
[00206]       As indicated briefly above the kits may also contain a means by which to administer
the binding agent and any optional components to a subject, e.g., one or more needles or
syringes, or even an eye dropper, pipette, or other such like apparatus, from which the
formulation may be injected or introduced into the animal or applied to a diseased area of the
body. The kits of the present invention will also typically include a means for containing the
vials, or such like, and other component in close confinement for commercial sale, such as, e.g.,
injection or blow-molded plastic containers into which the desired vials and other apparatus are
placed and retained. In particularly preferred embodiments any label or package insert indicates
that the binding agent composition is used for in the diagnosis of cancer, for example colorectal
cancer. In other preferred embodiments the enclosed instructions instructs or indicates how to
use the components in an in vivo or in vitro research setting. one or more therapies.
                                                   Cn

    XII.     Research reagents
[00207]       Other preferred embodiments of the invention also exploit the properties of the
disclosed TICAM as an instrument useful for identifying, isolating, sectioning or enriching
populations or subpopulations of tumor initiating cells through methods such as fluorescent
activated cell sorting (FACS), magnetic activated cell sorting (MACS) or laser mediated
sectioning. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the modulators may be used in several
compatible techniques for the characterization and manipulation of TIC including cancer stem
cells (e.g., see U.S.S.Ns. 12/686,359, 12/669,136 and 12/757,649 each of which is incorporated
herein by reference in its entirety).
    XIII.    Miscellaneous
[00208]       Unless otherwise defined herein, scientific and technical terms used in connection
with the present invention shall have the meanings that are commonly understood by those of
ordinary skill in the art. Further, unless otherwise required by context, singular terms shall
include pluralities and plural terms shall include the singular. More specifically, as used in this
specification and the appended claims, the singular forms "a," "an" and "the" include plural
referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus, for example, reference to "a
protein" includes a plurality of proteins; reference to "a cell" includes mixtures of cells, and the
like. In addition, ranges provided in the specification and appended claims include both end
points and all points between the end points. Therefore, a range of 2.0 to 3.0 includes 2.0, 3.0,
and all points between 2.0 and 3.0.
[00209]       Generally, nomenclature used in connection with, and techniques of, cell and tissue
culture, molecular biology, immunology, microbiology, genetics and protein and nucleic acid
chemistry and hybridization described herein are those well known and commonly used in the
art. The methods and techniques of the present invention are generally performed according to
conventional methods well known in the art and as described in various general and more
specific references that are cited and discussed throughout the present specification unless
otherwise indicated. See, e.g., Sambrook J. & Russell D. Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory
Manual, 3rd ed., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. (2000);
Ausubel et al., Short Protocols in Molecular Biology: A Compendium of Methods from Current
Protocols in Molecular Biology, Wiley, John & Sons, Inc. (2002); Harlow and Lane Using
Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor,
N.Y. (1998); and Coligan et al., Short Protocols in Protein Science, Wiley, John & Sons, Inc.
                                                  61

(2003). Enzymatic reactions and purification techniques are performed according to
manufacturer's specifications, as commonly accomplished in the art or as described herein. The
nomenclature used in connection with, and the laboratory procedures and techniques of,
analytical chemistry, synthetic organic chemistry, and medicinal and pharmaceutical chemistry
described herein are those well known and commonly used in the art.
[00210]      All references or documents disclosed or cited within this specification are, without
limitation, incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Moreover, any section headings
used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not to be construed as limiting the
subject matter described.
                                              EXAMPLES
[00211]      The present invention, thus generally described, will be understood more readily by
reference to the following examples, which are provided by way of illustration and are not
intended to be limiting of the instant invention. The examples are not intended to represent that
the experiments below are all or the only experiments performed. Unless indicated otherwise,
parts are parts by weight, molecular weight is weight average molecular weight, temperature is in
degrees Centigrade, and pressure is at or near atmospheric.
                                              Example 1
                      Characterization of Tumor Initiating Cell Populations
[00212]      To characterize the cellular heterogeneity of solid tumors as they exist in cancer
patients, elucidate the identity of tumor perpetuating cells (TPC; i.e. cancer stem cells: CSC)
using particular phenotypic markers and identify clinically relevant diagnostic biomarkers and
therapeutic targets, a large non-traditional xenograft (NTXTM)   tumor bank was developed and
maintained using art recognized techniques. The NTX tumor bank, comprising a large number of
discrete primary tumors, was propagated in immunocompromised mice through multiple
passages of heterogeneous tumor cells originally obtained from cancer patients suffering from a
variety of solid tumor malignancies. The availability of a large number of discrete early passage
NTX tumor cell lines having well defined lineages greatly facilitate the identification and
isolation of TPC as NTX tumor lines, the cells of which closely reflect the biology of a tumor
taken directly from a patient, allow for the reproducible and repeated characterization of tumor
cell subpopulations in vivo. More particularly, isolated or purified TPC are most accurately
defined retrospectively according to their ability to generate phenotypically and morphologically

heterogeneous tumors in mice that recapitulate the patient tumor sample from which the cells
originated, while retaining their ability to fuel tumor growth in serial transplants of low cell
numbers (i.e. < 200 cells). Thus, the ability to use small populations of isolated cells to generate
fully heterogeneous tumors in mice through at least two series of transplants is strongly
indicative of the fact that the isolated cells comprise TPC. In such work the use of minimally
passaged NTX cell lines that are never expanded in vitro (e.g. for the purpose of increasing cell
numbers) greatly simplifies in vivo experimentation and provides verifiable results in a
physiologically relevant setting. Moreover, early passage NTX tumors also respond to
therapeutic agents such as irinotecan (i.e. Camptosar*), which provides clinically relevant
insights into underlying mechanisms driving tumor growth, resistance to current therapies and
tumor recurrence.
[00213]       As the NTX tumor lines were established the constituent tumor cell phenotypes were
analyzed using flow cytometry to identify discrete markers that might be used to identify,
characterize, isolate, purify or enrich tumor initiating cells (TIC) and separate or analyze TPC
and tumor progenitor cells within such populations. In this regard the inventors employed a
proprietary proteomic based platform (i.e. PhenoPrintTM Array) that provided for the rapid
characterization of cellular protein expression and the concomitant identification of potentially
useful markers.
[00214]       The PhenoPrint Array is a proprietary proteomic platform comprising hundreds of
discrete binding molecules, many obtained from commercial sources, arrayed in 96 well plates
wherein each well contains a distinct binding molecule in the phycoerythrin (PE) fluorescent
channel. Other binding molecules in non-PE fluorescent channels are uniformly applied to all
cells prior to their distribution into wells of the PhenoPrint Array for the purpose of identifying
subpopulations within the tumor cell sample. The use of the PhenoPrint Array allows for the
rapid identification of proteins or markers that prospectively distinguished TIC from non
tumorigenic (NTG) bulk tumor cells and tumor stroma (e.g., fibroblasts and endothelial cells).
More specifically, proteins exhibiting heterogeneous cell surface expression over whole tumor
cell samples allow for the identification, isolation and transplantation of distinct, and highly
purified, TIC subpopulations based on differential protein expression. It will be appreciated that
characterizing and enriching or isolating cell subpopulations (e.g., by flow cytometry or
fluorescence activated cell sorting: FACS) based on marker phenotypes of the instant application
allows for their transplant into immunocompromised mice, thereby facilitating the assessment of
whether TIC were enriched in one tumor cell subpopulation versus another by functionally
testing their tumorigenic capacity in vivo. When the PhenoPrint Array was used in combination

with tissue dissociation, transplantation and stem cell techniques well known in the art (Al-Hajj
et al., 2004, Dalerba et al., 2007 and Dylla et al., 2008, all supra, each of which is incorporated
herein by reference in its entirety), it was possible to effectively identify relevant markers in
accordance with the instant invention and subsequently isolate and transplant specific human
tumor cell subpopulations with great efficiency.
[00215]       In the instant case various NTX tumor lines comprising human tumors were
established in severely immunocompromised mice using art recognized techniques. Upon
reaching 800 - 2,000 mm 3 , tumors were resected from mice and dissociated into single cell
suspensions using art recognized mechanical and enzymatic dissociation techniques involving the
use of collagenase, hyaluronidase and DNAseI (see for example U.S.P.N. 2007/0292414 which is
incorporated herein). Using standard flow cytometric techniques, individual tumor cells were
characterized on a BD FACSCanto TM II flow cytometer (BD Biosciences) for the expression of
hundreds of cell surface proteins. In contrast to most cell surface proteins that were uniformly
expressed or absent, selected proteins including CD46, CD324 and those set forth in FIGS. 9-12
were, to a greater or lesser extent, positively and/or heterogeneously expressed on the surface of
numerous primary human colorectal ("CR"), pancreatic ("PA"), triple negative breast ("BR"),
and non-small cell lung cancer ("LU") tumor cells. The heterogeneous expression of two of
these markers, CD46 and CD324, are illustrated in FIG. 1 and FIG. 2 for several different tumor
types. More particularly, FIG. 1 and FIG. 2 depict flow cytometry-based protein expression data
for individual tumor cells displayed as histogram plots wherein fluorescence minus one (FMO)
staining using isotype control antibodies is shown in the gray, filled histograms and target
antigen expression (i.e. CD46 and CD324) as determined using commercially available antigen
specific, PE-conjugated antibodies, is displayed using bold, black lines.
[00216]       As may be seen in FIGS. 1A and in accordance with the instant invention, CD46
expression was generally observed in subjects presenting with various types of solid tumors.
Moreover, although the levels of expression varied it was generally above background staining.
A review of the plots using tumor cells from freshly isolated tumors reveals that CD46
expression was especially heterogeneous in tumors derived from colorectal, pancreatic, non
small cell lung and triple negative breast cancer patients (FIG. 1B), with subpopulations
generally demonstrating negative/lo or positive expression. Specifically, those cells positively
expressing CD46 often had staining ranging from low levels to high levels as quantified using
isotype control/FMO staining and standard flow cytometric methodology. Similar observations
were made with CD324 as seen in FIG. 2, wherein tumor cell subpopulations expressing CD324
were often observed to comprise a minority population. Surprisingly, and in contrast to accounts
                                                   64

in the art, proteins generally thought to be associated only with a subpopulation of tumorigenic
cells (e.g. CD24 and CD34) generally exhibited uniform expression as exemplified in FIGS. 3A
(CD24) and 3B (CD34) when measured using the same techniques in similar solid tumor types.
As such, these prior art markers may be incompatible with the teachings herein.
[00217]       In any event, the combined use of NTX tumor models that accurately recapitulate
tumor physiology with the PhenoPrint Array analysis of tumor cells as described above,
demonstrate the possibility and utility in characterizing cell surface expression levels of many
hundreds of tumor antigens, including CD46 and CD324. Unlike markers exhibiting
homogeneous expression, the markers of the instant invention are generally heterogeneous across
tumor cell subpopulations from numerous tumor types and thus provide a dramatic advantage
when identifying, characterizing and/or isolating or enriching TIC or components thereof.
                                               Example 2
                               Enrichment for Tumor Initiating Cell
                             Populations by FACS and Transplantation
[00218]       In tumors exhibiting heterogeneous expression of a particular protein or proteins of
interest (e.g., CD46 and/or CD324), cells were enriched or isolated based on such markers and
then transplanted into immunocompromised mice. More particularly, to determine whether high
or low levels of surface CD46 and/or CD324 could be correlated with enhanced tumorigenicity,
NTX tumor samples were disassociated using state of the art techniques as described above and
isolated using a FACSAria Flow Cytometer (BD Biosciences) to provide distinct marker
enriched subpopulations that were subsequently transplanted into immunocompromised mice. In
this respect cells were injected subcutaneously into the mammary fat pad of recipient female
immunocompromised NOD/SCID mice at doses typically ranging between 1,000 to 50 cells per
                                                                                 3
mouse. When tumors arising from these transplants reached 800 - 2,000 mm , mice were
euthanized and the tumors were removed and dissociated by enzymatic digestion to a single cell
suspension for the purpose of phenotypic characterization to assess whether the constitution of
cells was representative of the parental tumor from which the transplanted cells were originally
isolated.
[00219]       FIGS. 4-8 illustrate the results of representative experiments using NTX tumors
derived from colorectal, pancreatic, non-small cell lung and triple negative breast cancer patients.
Empty spaces in FIG. 8 denote that the indicated experimental condition was not tested.
Significantly, tumorigenicity was consistently associated with the subpopulation of cells

expressing CD46 and CD324, and the tumors generated by cells with CD46 CD324* phenotype
were analogous in composition to their parental tumors. Moreover, because all human cells
within these solid tumors were epithelial specific antigen (ESA; EpCAM) positive and all, or at
least the vast majority, were CD24+ and CD34 (FIG. 3), the tumor initiating cell (TIC)
subpopulation from these tumors, and the vast majority of those tumors analyzed, can be
identified using the phenotypic profile of ESA* CD46       hi CD324+ CD24* CD34-. Yet, because
ESA, CD24 and CD34 vary little in their surface expression and are of limited utility in defining
tumor cell subpopulations, the TIC subpopulations disclosed herein may be identified as CD324+
and, optionally, as CD46hi. As described above and repeated using NTX lines derived from
many colorectal, pancreatic, triple negative breast and non-small cell lung cancer patients,
CD46hi cells consistently generated heterogeneous tumors when transplanted into mice, thereby
indicating that this isolated subpopulation of cells is significantly enriched for TICs. Although
CD46 and CD324 may each be used alone to enrich and characterize TIC subpopulations in
accordance with the teachings herein, various aspects of the instant invention will use these
markers in combination and, in alternate embodiments, with additional markers to facilitate more
precise stratification and isolation of tumor cell subpopulations (FIG.8). Conversely, tumor cells
expressing either no, or low levels of, CD46 or CD324 were much less tumorigenic than their
high or positive counterparts, respectively (FIGS. 4-8). Based on the generated data it was
surprisingly found that subpopulations of tumor cells expressing the CD46hi CD324* phenotype
generally contain the vast majority of tumorigenic capability.
                                               Example 3
           Representative Cell Surface Markers Expressed on Tumor Initiating Cells
[00220]      Tumor initiating cells, like all cells, can express hundreds if not thousands of markers
or antigens, preferably on their cell surface. As such, while CD46 and CD324 are preferred
markers for TIC, other concomitant markers may be used to identify and/or isolate the same
tumor cell subpopulation independent of using molecules able to detect CD46 and/or CD324.
Following confirmation of TIC populations using the cell surface marker profiles described
above, the PhenoPrint Array was repeated using reagents to identify proteins exhibiting
comparable expression profiles to CD46 and/or CD324, indicating that they may be used as
surrogates for the same in terms of the instant invention.
[00221]      To identify proteins that are associated with TIC cell populations or substantially co
express with CD46 and/or CD324, non-PE-conjugated antibodies against these antigens were
                                                    66

included in all wells of the PhenoPrint Array and unique antibodies recognizing various distinct
proteins of interest were arrayed and assessed using the fluorescent molecule PE. Proteins with
higher expression within the human CD46h CD324+ (TIC) subfractions, for example, compared
to the CD46      (NTG) and/or CD324 subfractions, of xenografted colorectal, pancreatic, or non
small cell lung cancer are listed in FIGS 9A and 9B. Representative FACS plots demonstrating
the co-expression of each marker with CD46 and CD324 in colorectal cancer are included in
FIG. 10. Representative FACS plots demonstrating the co-expression of each marker with CD46
and CD324 in pancreatic cancer are included in FIG. 11. Representative FACS plots
demonstrating the co-expression of each marker with CD46 and CD324 in non-small cell lung
cancer are included in FIG. 12. Characterization or enrichment or isolation of cells with
substantial expression of each listed marker also indicates the characterization or enrichment or
isolation of CD46hi CD324+ cells (i.e. TIC). In this regard, the markers of FIGS. 9 - 12 and other
markers correlated with expression of either CD46 or CD324 may be used as surrogates and
effectively used to identify TIC as set forth herein. Accordingly, the markers set forth in FIGS. 9
- 12 may be used for isolating TIC subpopulations and possess substantial utility as diagnostic
markers and therapeutic targets.
                                                Example 4
        CD66c Can Distinguish Between Subpopulations of CD46hi CD324+ Colorectal
[00222]      While the majority of tumor cells are devoid of tumor forming ability and can thus be
characterized as NTG, there is precedent in both normal cellular development and hematopoietic
tumors for highly proliferative cells able to reconstitute a tissue and/or tumor upon
transplantation, but which do not have self-renewal capacity (i.e. a finite lifespan) and thus are
eventually exhausted: i.e. short-term reconstituting cells, transit amplifying cells or progenitor
cells. In the context of cancer, cells with a progenitor cell phenotype might reacquire self
renewal properties normally restricted to stem cell populations and thereafter fulfill the definition
of a TPC or CSC (Jamieson et al., N Engl J Med; 351, 2004, which is incorporated herein by
reference in its entirety) in that these cells and their progeny will be long-lived; however, these
mutagenic events that confer self-renewal properties to progenitor cells are rare. Nevertheless,
because: a) the proliferative capacity of progenitor cells may be significant; b)
immunocompromised mice must be euthanized once tumors reach ~ 1,500 - 2,000 mm 3; and c)
the lifespan of immunocompromised mice is short relative to that of humans (~ 9 - 12 months for
NOD/SCID mice), the ability of a TIC to generate tumors in mice is not a robust enough readout
                                                    ~CN7

to demonstrate that the TIC is a TPC. As discussed in the art, demonstration of self-renewal
capacity by a stem cell must be shown in serial transplants whenever possible.
[00223]      To determine whether subpopulations of CD46hi CD324+ cells were more or less
tumorigenic and/or had altered potential, cells with this phenotype were systematically screened
for heterogeneity to identify additional markers enabling cell isolation and transplantation
experiments. Specifically, cell surface markers of interest and potential utility were identified
using the PhenoPrint Array as set forth in previous examples discussed above. During the course
of these experiments, CD66c was identified as a cell surface marker that commonly displayed
heterogeneity among the CD46hi CD324+ cell population (FIG. 11 A) and enabled the isolation of
two distinct subpopulations of CD46hi CD324+ cells possessing different functional reconstitution
capabilities. The respective populations transplanted at 200 cells per mouse are denoted in FIG.
11 A. Colorectal tumors arising from the transplantation of CD66c cell subset of CD46hi CD324+
cells were fully heterogeneous and reflected the parental tumors from which they were derived
(FIGS. 11 B & 1 IC [white bar vs. black bar] and FIG. 12A). Surprisingly, and in contrast to
tumors derived from the CD66c subset of CD46       hi CD324* cells, transplants with small numbers
of the CD66cJ subset did not generate fully heterogeneous tumors in that there were significantly
less CD66c cells present in tumors generated from CD46hi CD324+ CD66cJ cells (FIG. 1 IC
[gray bar vs. black bar] and FIG. 12A), suggesting that these cells are tumor progenitor cells
(TProg) with properties analogous to normal progenitor cells; i.e. significant proliferative
capacity, but devoid of self-renewal capability and unable to dedifferentiate into CD46    hi CD324+
CD66c cells.
[00224]      Serial transplantation of prospective TPC (CD46hi CD324+ CD66c-) and TProg
(CD46hi CD324+ CD66c) cells at low cell numbers confirmed the proposed identity of these
tumor cell subpopulations, as CD46hi CD324+ CD66c cells arising from tumors generated by
CD46hi CD324+ CD66c cells efficiently generated tumors upon serial transplantation of only 50
cells (p2 versus p l tumor), whereas neither the CD66c nor CD66cJ cell subpopulations from
tumors generated by CD46hi CD324+ CD66cJ cells could efficiently reinitiate tumors upon serial
transplantation (FIG. 12). To be clear, 50 CD46hi CD324+ CD66cJ or 50 CD46hi CD324+
CD66c cells isolated from tumors generated from 200 CD46 hi CD324+ CD66cJ cells were rarely
tumorigenic. Surprisingly, these data are indicative of the fact that, in solid tumors from some
colorectal cancer patients, CD46hi CD324+ CD66c cells are TPC and CD46hi CD324+ CD66cJ
cells are TProg cells.
[00225]      To determine the accuracy of the above described TPC phenotype in colorectal
cancer, CD46hi CD324+ CD66c cells were isolated by FACS (pre- vs. post-FACS; FIGS. 13A

vs. 13B, respectively) and transplanted in dilutions at 1,000, 200, 50, 20, 8 and 3 cells per mouse,
respectively. Use of Poisson distribution statistics based on positive events being defined as
successful tumorigenesis independent of rate resulted in the calculation that the true TIC
frequency among CD46h CD324+ CD66c- TPC was roughly 1 in 5.4  2.5 cells (FIG. 13C). We
have unexpectedly demonstrated in a representative colorectal NTX tumor that using the novel
marker combination of CD46hi CD324+ CD66c facilitates a measurable enrichment in TIC
frequency, and use of CD66c further facilitates the parsing of TIC subpopulations in some
patients into TPC versus TProg. This development has significant implications in that not all
TIC are equal and that only the TPC subpopulation in any given patient is the long-lived cancer
stem cell truly driving disease progression and recurrence.
[00226]       The combination of cell surface proteins used to enrich for TPC and TProg cell
populations defined above in colorectal tumors has not been known to be associated with cells
containing such activity in any tissue or neoplasm previously. This work represents a substantial
improvement in the resolution of the method of isolating TIC and subpopulations thereof, and
further improves techniques to identify, isolate and characterize distinct, highly enriched solid
tumor cell subpopulations that exclusively contain tumor generating ability upon transplantation,
distinguishing between tumorigenic cell subpopulations without or with self-renewal capacity:
i.e. TProg and TPC, respectively. We further herein describe a method by which to enumerate
TIC by transplanting human tumor cells in progressively lower dilutions of cell numbers and
assessing the subsequent frequency, independent of rate, at which these dilutions of cells are able
to initiate tumorigenesis in immunocompromised mice. Accordingly, while most cell surface
markers identified using the proprietary PhenoPrint Array did not demonstrate an ability to
enrich TIC populations from tumors using standard FACS protocols, distinct markers and
combinations thereof could be used to identify at least two subpopulations of TIC, including TPC
and TProg, which were functionally demonstrated as fulfilling the definitions standard in the art
of a stem cell and a progenitor, respectively.
                                              Example 5
                     TPC and TProg Cell Populations Have Differing Potential
[00227]       In vitro colony forming cell (CFC) assays have proven to have great utility in helping
parse apart the differentiation potential of distinct cell populations in the hematopoietic cell
hierarchy; however these assays are not amenable to epithelial tissues or solid tumor cells in that
the assay conditions are not conducive to cell growth and/or differentiation. Using NTX tumor
                                                   69

models in which many phenotypically distinct tumor cell subpopulations exist as they do in
patient tumors, FACS and in vitro assay conditions that support either self-renewal or
differentiation of TIC aid in the determination of the potential of defined tumor cell
subpopulations. These in vitro CFC assays, at the very least, provide an effective advantage in
the search for new markers defining tumor cell subpopulations, determining the differentiation
potential of these respective cell populations, and for the screening of anti-cancer agents.
[00228]       To illustrate such aspects of the instant invention, single cells with the defined cell
surface phenotypes of CD46h CD324+ (TIC) or CD46              CD324 (NTG) were isolated from NTX
CR tumors and deposited directly into 96-well plates in dilutions of 468, 162, 54, 18, 6 or 2 cells
per well using a FACSAria flow cytometer (BD Biosciences). Cells were then cultured in
defined serum-free conditions, as is standard in the art, for 15 days at 370 C/5% C0 2/5% 02, and
wells positive for colony formation were then scored as such (FIG. 16A). The frequency of
colony-forming units for each population was finally determined utilizing L-CalCTM Software
(Stemcell Technologies), utilizing the experimental setup information including: a) the number of
individual wells initiated; b) the number of cells used to initiate each well; and c) the number of
wells scored positive, independent of rate, from each dilution.
[00229]       Colonies were observed in wells seeded with as few as 18 sorted CD46h CD324+
cells, while 162 cells were the fewest needed to observe a colony from sorted CD46/IO CD324
cells. Colony forming cells were thus demonstrated to exist at frequencies of 7.3 and 1.1 per
1,000 cells for TIC and NTG cell populations, respectively (FIG. 16A). For the purposes of
clarity, 1 in 137 CD46h CD324+ (TIC) cells formed colonies in vitro, while only 1 in 918 CD46
/' CD324 (NTG) cells had this capacity. These results strongly indicate that colony-forming
cells are significantly enriched in the CD46hi CD324* fraction of colorectal cancer cells and this
activity correlates with tumorigenic capacity, as is also demonstrated above by in vivo
transplantation.
[00230]       To further assess the proliferative and differentiation potential of more distinct tumor
cell subpopulations within colorectal tumors, cells expressing various combinations of CD46,
CD324 and CD66c were sorted into plates containing standard serum-free media conditions that
support stem cell self-renewal (Dylla et al., 2008, supra). The following cell populations were
sorted from among single, live, human ESA* cells: CD46/I (NTG cells; predominantly also
CD324-), CD46h CD324-, CD46h CD324+ CD66cJ and CD46h CD324+ CD66c-. The ability of
these respective tumor cell subpopulations to initiate colonies was then assessed 21 days after
plating, as was the potential of these respective tumor cell subpopulations to generate soluble
CD66c (i.e. CEACAM6) protein. CD66c is routinely shed from the cell surface, was readily
                                                    70

measureable in the supernatant of the above described in vitro cultures, and was used as a
surrogate marker of differentiation.
[00231]      Specifically, 2,000 cells from NTX tumor CR33, for example, were sorted into flat
bottom 96-well Primaria plates (BD Biosciences) in serum-free media conditions and incubated
in the environmental conditions noted above. After 21 days, colonies (defined as > 50 cells per
colony) of tightly packed, attached cells had formed and expanded in the wells. The number of
colonies (white bars) in each well was counted manually and the concentration of CD66c protein
in the supernatant (black bars) was measured by ELISA (FIG. 16B). The frequency of colony
formation corresponded well with the frequency of tumorigenic cells observed in vivo. That is,
CD46/I cells (i.e. NTG cells) generated only a single colony (1 in 2,000 cell frequency) and
soluble CD66c protein was not detected in the media despite 21 days of culture (FIG. 16B). Just
as CD46hi CD324 cells rarely demonstrate in vivo tumor initiation potential, we observed a small
number of colonies in vitro and relatively low levels of CD66c were detected in the media. This
is not surprising given that a subpopulation of CD46hi CD324 cells in many NTX tumors express
CD66c and these cells generally appear to be short-lived. Furthermore, CD46hi CD324+ cells,
regardless of CD66c expression, were better able to form colonies in vitro and generated
significantly more soluble CD66c than either the CD46-"O or the CD46hi CD324 tumor cell
subpopulations (FIG. 16B). In addition, the amount of CD66c generated in the supernatant
appeared to correlate with the number of colonies, suggesting that both CD66+ and CD66 cell
populations that were initially seeded into the wells were capable of generating CD66c. This is
consistent with the observation that CD66c cells are capable of generating CD66cJ cells as
demonstrated above in vivo.
[00232]      Colony formation can serve as a surrogate for in vivo transplantation and
determination of whether TIC are present in one tumor cell subpopulation versus another and is
generally able to assess the potential of candidate stem and progenitor cell populations.
However, even the best in vitro cell culture conditions do not mimic the physiological
environment encountered in vivo. Furthermore, these serum-free culture conditions generally
support self-renewal and prevent differentiation, but do not actively facilitate differentiation.
[00233]      To better assess the differentiation potential of single cells with the defined cell
surface phenotypes described above, the media conditions were modified to contain 10% fetal
calf serum (FCS), so as to actively facilitate differentiation as is common in the art. Fourteen
days later, media was removed and the amount of CD66c in the supernatant was assessed by
ELISA. Although elevated levels of CD66c were expected in the media from CD46 hi CD324+
CD66cJ cells, the fact that CD46hi CD324+ CD66c cells were able to generate similar levels of
                                                   71

CD66c in vitro is consistent with the notion that CD46hi CD324+ CD66c cells can differentiate
into CD46hi CD324+ CD66cJ cells (FIG. 16C). Expansion in media conditions supportive of
self-renewal (i.e. in defined, serum-free media) as described above does not appear to be
supportive of robust CD66c production; however, addition of FCS to the media facilitated
differentiation and greatly aided the ability of cells to produce CD66c. Perhaps not surprisingly
given the demonstration above that CD46hi CD324+ CD66c cells are often the only tumor cell
subpopulation with self-renewal capacity (demonstrated by serial transplantation), the tumor cell
subpopulation with the greatest CD66c production potential in vitro were also CD46hi CD324+
CD66c cells. Although this result was unexpected given that the cells seeded into the well were
negative for CD66c protein expression, and Taqman qRT PCR analysis of this cell population
shows little to no presence of the CD66c transcript (data not shown), these results confirm in vivo
observations demonstrating that CD46hi CD324+ CD66c cells have the most proliferative and
differentiation potential. This also implies that plating of CD46hi CD324+ CD66c cells in vitro
results in progeny that express CD66c, and this process is augmented by cell growth conditions
that promote differentiation.
[00234]       Induced differentiation of TIC in vitro by the addition of FCS is not only observed in
with NTX colorectal cancer cells, as described above, but also with pancreatic cancer TIC. After
fourteen days of pancreatic xenograft tumor cell culture without or with serum, the percentage of
CD46hi cells (also predominantly CD324*) was decreased on both NTX PA14 and PA20 tumor
cells in conditions where FCS was present (FIG. 16D). This data further supports the use of
CD46 and CD324 as markers to distinguish between less differentiated and more differentiated
NTX-derived pancreatic cancer cells in vitro and supports the claim that these markers can serve
distinguish between TIC and NTG cells in several epithelial tumor types.
[00235]       This example demonstrates that TIC subpopulations (e.g. TPC & TProg) can be
distinguished in vitro based upon their ability to initiate colonies, differentiate and produce
proteins normally associated with differentiated cells. Moreover, culture conditions without or
with FCS can also be developed that facilitate differentiation.
                                               Example 6
                       Colorectal and Pancreatic Tumor Initiating Cells are
               Relatively Resistant to Standard of Care Chemotherapeutic Agents
[00236]       A central tenet of the cancer stem cell paradigm is that CSC are generally resistant to
standard of care therapeutic regimens such as chemotherapy and radiation. To assess which
                                                  T)

colorectal and pancreatic tumor cell subpopulation was most resistant to standard of care
regimens such as irinotecan or gemcitabine, respectively, mice were initiated with colorectal or
pancreatic NTX tumors and then randomized once tumors reached approximately 180 - 350
mm3 . Mice then received twice weekly intraperitoneal dosing of 15 mg/kg irinotecan or 25
mg/kg gemcitabine, respectively, for a period of approximately 20 days before they were
euthanized for tumor resection and cellular analysis.
[00237]      To assess chemoresistance of tumor cell subpopulations, in vivo cohorts of mice
bearing NTX colorectal tumors were randomized into two groups, such that the average tumor
volume for each group was roughly equal. The groups were then treated twice weekly with
either 15 mg/kg irinotecan or an equivalent volume of vehicle buffer. Tumor volumes and
animal health were monitored and recorded twice weekly, a day prior to each injection. In the
case of colorectal tumors, the vehicle-treated tumors continued to grow while the irinotecan
treated tumors showed either retarded growth or a decrease in volume (FIG. 17A). When tumors
in irinotecan-treated mice began to decrease in volume, all mice in the experiment were
euthanized and tumors were harvested, dissociated into single-cell suspensions and their
individual cell phenotypes were analyzed by flow cytometry using art recognized techniques.
The frequency of cells with a TPC phenotype (CD46h CD324+ CD66c-) among live human cells
was determined to be more than 2.5-fold higher in tumors from irinotecan-treated mice,
compared to saline-treated counterparts (FIG. 17B and 17C). This is an indication that cells with
the TPC phenotype (CD46h CD324+ CD66c-) resist irinotecan-induced cytotoxicity while other
tumor cell subpopulations succumb to irinotecan. In addition, among the CD46h CD324+
population of vehicle-treated tumors, most residual cells were CD66cJ; however, among the
CD46h CD324+ population of irinotecan-treated mice, most residual cells were CD66c (i.e. TPC
or CSC) (FIG. 17D). This data indicates that cells with the TPC phenotype (i.e. CD46h CD324+
CD66c-) are more resistant to irinotecan-mediated cytotoxicity than other tumor cell
subpopulations, which include both the TProg subset of TIC (i.e. CD46h CD324+ CD66cJ) and
NTG cells.
[00238]      Analogous results were observed in a representative pancreatic NTX tumor, wherein
residual pancreatic NTX tumors were removed during the course of gemcitabine treatment and
the residual tumor cell subpopulations were analyzed based on their marker phenotype. As
expected, pancreatic tumors from vehicle treated mice continued to grow unabated, while tumors
from mice treated with gemcitabine decreased in volume in response to this chemotherapeutic
agent (FIG. 18A). Harvested tumors were then dissociated and constituent single cells were
analyzed by flow cytometry. As observed in colorectal cancer NTX tumors treated with

irinotecan, gemcitabine treatment resulted in enrichment for tumor cells expressing markers
indicative of TIC (e.g. CD46). A representative example of CD46 expression in vehicle vs.
gemcitabine treated tumors is shown in FIG. 18B. As with colorectal cancer, pancreatic TIC
appear relatively resistant to the standard of care chemotherapeutic agent, gemcitabine.
[00239]        We demonstrate here that not all tumor cell subpopulations are equally sensitive or
resistant to standard of care chemotherapeutic agents such as irinotecan or gemcitabine.
Moreover, we demonstrate in colorectal cancer that although TPC and TProg are both
tumorigenic, TPC (i.e. CSC) are more resistant to chemotherapy. Our ability to precisely identify
the most tumorigenic, chemoresistant subpopulation of tumors facilitates the identification of
genes and proteins associated with tumorigenicity and chemoresistance and will therefore enable
the identification of genes/proteins of great diagnostic and/or therapeutic utility.
                                                Example 7
                      Proposed Hierarchy of Cells within Colorectal Tumors
[00240]        As discussed above, TProg are categorized as a subpopulation of TIC due, in part, to
their limited ability to generate tumors in mice. TProg are progeny of TPC and are typically
capable of a finite number of non-self-renewing cell divisions. Moreover, there is precedent in
the hematopoietic cell hierarchy, for example, for several distinct progenitor cell populations that
maintain multilineage differentiation potential, but have differing capacity for proliferation prior
to committing to defined cell fates.. Representative examples of progenitors in the hematopoietic
system are short-term reconstituting hematopoietic stem cells (ST-HSC) and multipotent
progenitor (MPP) cells. Although both cell populations can fully reconstitute the hematopoietic
system, neither can do so indefinitely (i.e. they lack of self-renewal capacity inherent to true stem
cells) and ST-HSC can do so for a longer period of time than MPP (which are progeny of ST
HSC). Although the hierarchy of cells in both solid tissues and tumors originating in these
tissues is ill-defined, a hierarchy of cells likely exists within many organs and tumors wherein
distinct cell subpopulations possess different proliferation and differentiation potential. We
demonstrate here for the first time that not only can TProg exist as a subset of TIC within
colorectal cancer, but TProg cells may be further subdivided into early tumor progenitor (ETP)
and late tumor progenitor (LTP) cells. Each of these respective TProg cell populations may be
distinguished by phenotype (e.g., cell surface markers) and their progressively lesser capacity for
proliferation and differentiation potential, and thus differing in their overall capacity to
recapitulate certain tumor architecture.
                                                    74

[00241]      As illustrated in FIGS. 19A and 19B, the above described in vivo and in vitro data,
together with tumor histomorphological observations, supports the hypothesis that in tumors
where there exists significant differentiation capacity and the ability to enact these differentiation
programs, the TPC may reflect the identity of the normal colon stem cell, for example, which we
herein propose has the identity of ESA* CD46h CD324+ CD66c CD24+ CD34-. We have herein
demonstrated that virtually all colorectal tumor cells are ESA* CD24+ CD34 and thus these
markers serve little utility in identifying tumor cell subpopulations. We further demonstrated that
CD46h CD324+ CD66c cells are able to generate fully heterogeneous tumors consisting, in part,
of CD46h CD324+ CD66c and CD66cJ cells, whereas although CD46hi CD324+ CD66cJ cells
are tumorigenic, they do not have the ability to generate CD46hi CD324+ CD66c cells and are
unable to efficiently fuel tumor growth through serial transplantation. This data, combined with
the observations that the cells with the a) ability to consistently generate heterogeneous tumors
upon serial transplantation; b) most colony forming cell potential; and c) potential to generate
CD66c cells and protein in vitro are CD46hi CD324+ CD66c cells supports the hypothesis that
CD46hi CD324+ CD66cJ cells are daughters of CD46hi CD324+ CD66c cells with restricted
proliferation capacity and potential. The further reduction in in vivo tumorigenicity, in vitro
colony forming potential and reduced ability to generate CD66c as cells lose expression of
CD324 supports the hypothesis that CD46hi CD324 CD66+ cells represent a late tumor
progenitor (LTP) cell population that has some residual proliferative ability, as has been
demonstrated on occasion, but generally has no capacity for self-renewal. Finally, in support of
the cellular hierarchy laid out in FIG. 19A, CD46 cells are also CD324 and are generally
CD66c as well. These NTG cells likely represent the terminally differentiated progeny, which in
the colon include goblet cells (G) and enteroendocrine (eE) cells of the secretory lineage or
enterocytes (E) of the absorptive lineage. Gene expression of the isolated cell subpopulations
supports this hypothesis, as CD46 cells express many genes attributed to terminally
differentiated secretory and/or absorptive cell types (e.g. MUC2 and MUC20; FIG. 20A).
[00242]      The examples above surprisingly document the existence of multiple populations of
tumor initiating cells that are characterized by their differing abilities to generate tumors when
implanted in mice and are associated with unique marker phenotypes. Moreover, the discrete
subpopulations of TIC differ in their ability to self-renew and fully reconstitute a tumor. Tumor
perpetuating cells (TPC), as they're defined here, fulfill the prevailing definition of a cancer stem
cell (CSC) in their demonstrated capacity for self-renewal, as tested by serial transplantation with
small numbers of well defined cells and analysis of resulting tumor heterogeneity. Conversely,
tumor progenitor (TProg) cells, although tumorigenic in primary transplants, differ from true

TPC or CSC in that they appear deficient of self-renewal capacity and their differentiation
potential may, on occasion, be restricted. The above examples also demonstrate the existence of
discrete TProg cell populations with progressively less proliferation and differentiation potential:
ETP and LTP. Knowledge of these cell identities in the context of cancer, and potentially normal
tissue biology, facilitate their use to identify proteins and molecules of diagnostic and therapeutic
utility. As diagrammed in FIGS. 19A & 19B, and documented in the instant disclosure,
heterogeneous tumors comprising tumorigenic and NTG cell populations provide TPC, whose
progeny progress from a CD46hi CD324+ CD66c phenotype to gain expression of CD66c (taking
the identity of ETP) and eventually lose expression of CD324 (LTP phenotype). Finally,
terminal differentiation is apparently accompanied by the concomitant loss of CD66c and CD46.
                                                Example 8
               Identification of Prospective Diagnostic and Therapeutic Targets
                         From Enriched Tumor Initiating Cell Populations
[00243]      The established colorectal NTX tumor line SCRx-CR4, for example, was passaged as
described in Example 1 and used to initiate tumors in immunocompromised mice. Once the
mean tumor burden reached ~ 300 mm 3 the mice were randomized and treated with 15 mg/kg
irinotecan or vehicle control (PBS) twice weekly for a period of at least twenty days before they
were sacrificed. Tumors were then removed and TPC, TProg and NTG cells, respectively, were
isolated generally using the technique set out in Example 2. More particularly, cell populations
were isolated by FACS and immediately pelleted and lysed in Qiagen RLTplus RNA lysis buffer
(Qiagen, Inc.). The lysates were then stored at -80' C. until used. Upon thawing, total RNA was
extracted using the Qiagen RNeasy isolation kit (Qiagen, Inc.) following vendor's instructions,
and quantified on the Nanodrop (Thermo Scientific) and a Bioanalyzer 2100 (Agilent) again
using the vendor's protocols and recommended instrument settings. The resulting total RNA
preparation was suitable for genetic sequencing and analysis.
[00244]      Total RNA samples obtained from the respective cell populations isolated as
described above from vehicle or irinotecan-treated mice were prepared for whole transcriptome
sequencing using an Applied Biosystems SOLiD 3.0 (Sequencing by Oligo Ligation/Detection)
next generation sequencing platform (Life Technologies), starting with > 5 ng of total RNA per
sample. The data generated by the SOLiD platform mapped to 34,609 genes from the human
genome, was able to detect transcripts of interest along with verifiable measurements of
                                                    7';

transcript expression levels in all samples.
[00245]      Generally the SOLiD3 next generation sequencing platform enables parallel
sequencing of clonally-amplified RNA/DNA fragments linked to beads. Sequencing by ligation
with dye-labeled oligonucleotides is then used to generate 50 base reads of each fragment that
exists in the sample with a total of greater than 50 million reads per sample generating a much
more accurate representation of the mRNA transcript level expression of proteins in the genome.
The SOLiD3 platform is able to capture not only expression, but SNPs, known and unknown
alternative splicing events, and potentially new exon discoveries based solely on the read
coverage (reads mapped uniquely to genomic locations). Thus, use of this next generation
platform allowed the determination of differences in transcript level expression as well as
differences or preferences for specific splice variants of those expressed mRNA transcripts.
Moreover, analysis with the SOLiD3 platform using a modified whole transcriptome protocol
from Applied Biosystems only required approximately 5 ng of starting material pre
amplification. This is significant as extraction of total RNA from sorted cell populations where
the TPC subset of cells is, for example, vastly smaller in number than the NTG or bulk tumors
and thus results in very small quantities of usable starting material.
[00246]      Duplicate runs of sequencing data from the SOLiD3 platform were normalized and
transformed and fold ratios calculated, as is standard industry practice. In this manner, transcript
gene expression levels (expressed as reads per million mapped to exons; RPMExon) were
measured in NTG cells (white), TProg (gray) and TPC (black bars), which were isolated from
SCRx-CR4 tumors. Analysis of whole transcriptome data in this manner identified several
proteins and potential therapeutic targets of interest, including APCDD 1, Notum, REG 1A and
CD46 splice variants. An analysis of the data showed that these proteins of interest were up
regulated at the transcript level at least 2-fold greater than expression in NTG cells in vehicle and
irinotecan-treated mice (FIG. 20A - 20 C). Representative examples of prospective diagnostic
and therapeutic target transcripts identified in this manner include NOTUM (FIG. 20A),
APCDD1 (FIG. 20B), an exemplary pancreatic protein (FIG. 20C) and MUC20. Expression of
these transcripts in TPC implies that these proteins are also preferentially expressed (i.e.
APCDD1) or secreted (i.e. exemplary pancreatic protein and NOTUM) by TPC cells at the
protein level and that these proteins are critical for TPC maintenance and/or self renewal. It was
concomitantly possible to identify transcripts preferentially expressed by NTG cell populations
(e.g. MUC20; FIG 20D), which may be used as markers to identify terminally differentiated
cells, and in so doing facilitate a negative selection where in tumors are depleted of their bulk
tumor cell population such that the more tumorigenic components can been more easily
                                                    77

identified and/or targeted with therapeutic regimens. Furthermore, because NTG cells are
generally more numerous than their TProg and TPC counterparts, proteins expressed by these
cell populations will be easier to detect, thus serving as biomarkers of disease burden and/or
status.
[00247]       Those skilled in the art will further appreciate that the present invention may be
embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or central attributes thereof.
In that the foregoing description of the present invention discloses only exemplary embodiments
thereof, it is to be understood that other variations are contemplated as being within the scope of
the present invention. Accordingly, the present invention is not limited to the particular
embodiments that have been described in detail herein. Rather, reference should be made to the
appended claims as indicative of the scope and content of the invention.

                                           CLAIMS
1.  An tumorigenic cell population enriched for expression of at least one TICAM.
2.  The enriched tumorigenic cell population of claim 1 wherein said at least one TICAM is
    selected from the group consisting of CD9, CD13, CD15, CD24, CD26, CD29, CD46,
    CD49a, CD49b, CD49c, CD49f, CD51, CD54, CD55, CD58, CD63, CD66a, CD66c,
    CD66e, CD71, CD73, CD81, CD82, CD91, CD98, CD99, CD104, CD105, CD108,
    CD111, CD130, CD136, CD151, CD155, CD157, CD164, CD166, CD172a, CD186,
    CD221, CD230, CD262, CD273, CD275, CD295, CD298, CD317, CD318, CD324,
    CD340, CCR1O, c-Met, Eph-B2, Eph-B4, FLORI, Glut-2, Glypican 5, HER3, IL-2ORa,
    Integrin a9bl, Integrin b5, LDL-R, Mer, Semaphorin 4B, TROP-2 and Vb9.
3.  The enriched tumorigenic cell population of claim 1 wherein said at least one TICAM is
    selected from the group consisting of CD46, CD324, CD66c and combinations thereof.
4.  The enriched tumorigenic cell population of claim 1 wherein said cells have a marker
    phenotype comprising CD46h CD324+.
5.  A composition comprising the enriched tumorigenic cell population of claim 1 and a
    pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
6.  An isolated tumorigenic cell comprising at least one TICAM.
7.  The cell of claim 6 wherein said at least one TICAM is selected from the group consisting
    of CD9, CD13, CD15, CD24, CD26, CD29, CD46, CD49a, CD49b, CD49c, CD49f,
    CD51, CD54, CD55, CD58, CD63, CD66a, CD66c, CD66e, CD71, CD73, CD81, CD82,
    CD91, CD98, CD99, CD104, CD105, CD108, CD111, CD130, CD136, CD151, CD155,
    CD157, CD164, CD166, CD172a, CD186, CD221, CD230, CD262, CD273, CD275,
    CD295, CD298, CD317, CD318, CD324, CD340, CCR1O, c-Met, Eph-B2, Eph-B4,
    FLORI, Glut-2, Glypican 5, HER3, IL-2ORa, Integrin a9b 1, Integrin b5, LDL-R, Mer,
    Semaphorin 4B, TROP-2 and Vb9.
8.  The cell of claim 7 wherein said at least one TICAM is selected from the group consisting
    of CD46, CD324, CD66c and combinations thereof.
9.  The cell of claim 6 wherein said cell has a marker phenotype comprising CD46h CD324+.
10. A composition comprising the cell of claim 6 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
11. A method of detecting a tumorigenic cell, comprising the steps of:
        a. contacting a tumor cell population with a binding agent which preferably
            associates with at least one TICAM; and
        b. detecting said binding agent associated with said tumorigenic cell.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein said binding agent comprises a nucleic acid.
                                              79

13. The method of claim 11 wherein said binding agent comprises a protein.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein said protein comprises a ligand.
15. The method of claim 13 wherein said protein comprises an antibody.
16. The method of claim 15 wherein said antibody preferably associates with a TICAM is
    selected from the group consisting of CD9, CD13, CD15, CD24, CD26, CD29, CD46,
    CD49a, CD49b, CD49c, CD49f, CD51, CD54, CD55, CD58, CD63, CD66a, CD66c,
    CD66e, CD71, CD73, CD81, CD82, CD91, CD98, CD99, CD104, CD105, CD108,
    CD111, CD130, CD136, CD151, CD155, CD157, CD164, CD166, CD172a, CD186,
    CD221, CD230, CD262, CD273, CD275, CD295, CD298, CD317, CD318, CD324,
    CD340, CCR1O, c-Met, Eph-B2, Eph-B4, FLORI, Glut-2, Glypican 5, HER3, IL-2ORa,
    Integrin a9bl, Integrin b5, LDL-R, Mer, Semaphorin 4B, TROP-2 and Vb9.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein said antibody comprises a monoclonal antibody.
18. The method of claim 17 wherein said monoclonal antibody comprises a reporter
    molecule.
19. The method of claim 18 wherein said detecting step comprises fluorescence activated
    cell sorting, magnetic-assisted cell sorting, substrate-assisted cell sorting, laser mediated
    sectioning, fluorometry, flow cytometry or microscopy techniques.
20. The method of claim 11, wherein said tumor cell population is derived from a solid
    tumor.
21. The method of claim 20 wherein said solid tumor is obtained from a subject suffering
    from a neoplastic disorder selected from the group consisting of adrenal cancer, bladder
    cancer, cervical cancer, endometrial cancer, kidney cancer, liver cancer, lung cancer,
    ovarian cancer, colorectal cancer, pancreatic cancer, prostate cancer and breast cancer.
22. The method of claim 11 wherein said detected cell is a metastatic cell.
23. The method of claim 11 wherein said contacting step takes place in vivo.
24. The method of claim 23 wherein said contacting step takes place in an
    immunocompromised mouse.
25. A method for enriching a tumorigenic cell population comprising the steps of:
        a. contacting a tumor cell population with a binding agent which preferably
            associates with at least one TICAM; and
        b. sorting said cells associated with said TICAM to provide an enriched tumorigenic
            cell population.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein said binding agent comprises a nucleic acid.
27. The method of claim 25 wherein said binding agent comprises a protein.
                                               80

28. The method of claim 27 wherein said protein comprises a ligand.
29. The method of claim 27 wherein said protein comprises an antibody.
30. The method of claim 29 wherein said antibody preferably associates with a TICAM is
    selected from the group consisting of CD9, CD13, CD15, CD24, CD26, CD29, CD46,
    CD49a, CD49b, CD49c, CD49f, CD51, CD54, CD55, CD58, CD63, CD66a, CD66c,
    CD66e, CD71, CD73, CD81, CD82, CD91, CD98, CD99, CD104, CD105, CD108,
    CD111, CD130, CD136, CD151, CD155, CD157, CD164, CD166, CD172a, CD186,
    CD221, CD230, CD262, CD273, CD275, CD295, CD298, CD317, CD318, CD324,
    CD340, CCR1O, c-Met, Eph-B2, Eph-B4, FLORI, Glut-2, Glypican 5, HER3, IL-2ORa,
    Integrin a9bl, Integrin b5, LDL-R, Mer, Semaphorin 4B, TROP-2 and Vb9.
31. The method of claim 30 wherein said TICAM is selected from the group consisting of
    CD46, CD324, CD66c and combinations thereof.
32. The method of claim 30 wherein said antibody comprises a monoclonal antibody.
33. The method of claim 32 wherein said monoclonal antibody comprises a reporter
    molecule.
34. The method of claim 33 wherein said sorting step comprises fluorescence activated cell
    sorting, magnetic-assisted cell sorting, substrate-assisted cell sorting, laser mediated
    sectioning, fluorometry, flow cytometry or microscopy techniques.
35. The method of claim 25 wherein said tumor cell population is derived from a solid tumor.
36. The method of claim 35 wherein said solid tumor is obtained from a subject suffering
    from a neoplastic disorder selected from the group consisting of adrenal cancer, bladder
    cancer, cervical cancer, endometrial cancer, kidney cancer, liver cancer, lung cancer,
    ovarian cancer, colorectal cancer, pancreatic cancer, prostate cancer and breast cancer.
37. The method of claim 25 wherein said enriched tumorigenic cell population have a marker
    phenotype comprising CD46h CD324+.
38. A composition comprising the enriched tumorigenic cell population of claim 37 and a
    pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
39. A method of sorting tumorigenic cells comprising the steps of:
        a. contacting a tumor cell population with a binding agent which preferably
            associates with at least one TICAM; and
        b. sorting cells associated with said at least one TICAM.
40. The method of claim 39, wherein said binding agent comprises a nucleic acid.
41. The method of claim 39 wherein said binding agent comprises a protein.
42. The method of claim 41 wherein said protein comprises a ligand.
                                              81

43. The method of claim 41 wherein said protein comprises an antibody.
44. The method of claim 43 wherein said antibody preferably associates with a TICAM is
    selected from the group consisting of CD9, CD13, CD15, CD24, CD26, CD29, CD46,
    CD49a, CD49b, CD49c, CD49f, CD51, CD54, CD55, CD58, CD63, CD66a, CD66c,
    CD66e, CD71, CD73, CD81, CD82, CD91, CD98, CD99, CD104, CD105, CD108,
    CD111, CD130, CD136, CD151, CD155, CD157, CD164, CD166, CD172a, CD186,
    CD221, CD230, CD262, CD273, CD275, CD295, CD298, CD317, CD318, CD324,
    CD340, CCR1O, c-Met, Eph-B2, Eph-B4, FLORI, Glut-2, Glypican 5, HER3, IL-2ORa,
    Integrin a9bl, Integrin b5, LDL-R, Mer, Semaphorin 4B, TROP-2 and Vb9.
45. The method of claim 43wherein said antibody comprises a monoclonal antibody.
46. The method of claim 45 wherein said monoclonal antibody comprises a reporter
    molecule.
47. The method of claim 39 wherein said sorting step comprises fluorescence activated cell
    sorting, magnetic-assisted cell sorting, substrate-assisted cell sorting, laser mediated
    sectioning, fluorometry, flow cytometry or microscopy techniques.
48. A method of determining if a cell obtained from a tumor sample is tumorigenic
    comprising the step of contacting the tumor cell with at least one TICAM.
49. The method of claim 48 wherein said TICAM is selected from the group consisting of
    CD9, CD13, CD15, CD24, CD26, CD29, CD46, CD49a, CD49b, CD49c, CD49f, CD51,
    CD54, CD55, CD58, CD63, CD66a, CD66c, CD66e, CD71, CD73, CD81, CD82, CD91,
    CD98, CD99, CD104, CD105, CD108, CD111, CD130, CD136, CD151, CD155, CD157,
    CD164, CD166, CD172a, CD186, CD221, CD230, CD262, CD273, CD275, CD295,
    CD298, CD317, CD318, CD324, CD340, CCR1O, c-Met, Eph-B2, Eph-B4, FLORI,
    Glut-2, Glypican 5, HER3, IL-2ORa, Integrin a9b1, Integrin b5, LDL-R, Mer,
    Semaphorin 4B, TROP-2 and Vb9.
50. The method of claim 48 wherein said contacting step comprises more than one TICAM.
51. The method of claim 48 wherein said tumor cell comprises a marker phenotype
    comprising CD46hi CD324+.
52. A method of treating or diagnosing a disorder subject in need thereof comprising the steps
    of;
        a. obtaining a tumor sample from the subject; and
        b. contacting the tumor sample with at least one binding agent that preferably
            associates with a TICAM.
53. The method of claim 52, wherein said binding agent comprises a nucleic acid.
                                              82

54. The method of claim 52 wherein said binding agent comprises a protein.
55. The method of claim 54 wherein said protein comprises a ligand.
56. The method of claim 54 wherein said protein comprises an antibody.
57. The method of claim 56 wherein said antibody preferably associates with a TICAM is
    selected from the group consisting of CD9, CD13, CD15, CD24, CD26, CD29, CD46,
    CD49a, CD49b, CD49c, CD49f, CD51, CD54, CD55, CD58, CD63, CD66a, CD66c,
    CD66e, CD71, CD73, CD81, CD82, CD91, CD98, CD99, CD104, CD105, CD108,
    CD111, CD130, CD136, CD151, CD155, CD157, CD164, CD166, CD172a, CD186,
    CD221, CD230, CD262, CD273, CD275, CD295, CD298, CD317, CD318, CD324,
    CD340, CCR1O, c-Met, Eph-B2, Eph-B4, FLORI, Glut-2, Glypican 5, HER3, IL-2ORa,
    Integrin a9bl, Integrin b5, LDL-R, Mer, Semaphorin 4B, TROP-2 and Vb9.
58. The method of claim 52 wherein said TICAM is selected from the group consisting of
    CD46, CD324, CD66c and combinations thereof.
59. The method of claim 56 wherein said antibody comprises a monoclonal antibody.
60. The method of claim 59 wherein said monoclonal antibody comprises a reporter
    molecule.
61. The method of claim 25 wherein said disorder comprises a solid tumor.
62. The method of claim 35 wherein said disorder comprises a neoplastic disorder selected
    from the group consisting of adrenal cancer, bladder cancer, cervical cancer, endometrial
    cancer, kidney cancer, liver cancer, lung cancer, ovarian cancer, colorectal cancer,
    pancreatic cancer, prostate cancer and breast cancer.
63. A method of determining the tumorigenicity of a cell obtained from a tumor sample
    comprising the step of contacting the tumor cell with at least one TICAM binding agent.
64. The method of claim 63, wherein said binding agent comprises a nucleic acid.
65. The method of claim 63 wherein said binding agent comprises a protein.
66. The method of claim 65 wherein said protein comprises a ligand.
67. The method of claim 65 wherein said protein comprises an antibody.
68. The method of claim 67 wherein said antibody preferably associates with a TICAM is
    selected from the group consisting of CD9, CD13, CD15, CD24, CD26, CD29, CD46,
    CD49a, CD49b, CD49c, CD49f, CD51, CD54, CD55, CD58, CD63, CD66a, CD66c,
    CD66e, CD71, CD73, CD81, CD82, CD91, CD98, CD99, CD104, CD105, CD108,
    CD111, CD130, CD136, CD151, CD155, CD157, CD164, CD166, CD172a, CD186,
    CD221, CD230, CD262, CD273, CD275, CD295, CD298, CD317, CD318, CD324,
    CD340, CCR1O, c-Met, Eph-B2, Eph-B4, FLORI, Glut-2, Glypican 5, HER3, IL-2ORa,
                                             83

    Integrin a9bl, Integrin b5, LDL-R, Mer, Semaphorin 4B, TROP-2 and Vb9.
69. The method of claim 63 wherein said TICAM is selected from the group consisting of
    CD46, CD324, CD66c and combinations thereof.
70. The method of claim 67 wherein said antibody comprises a monoclonal antibody.
71. The method of claim 70 wherein said monoclonal antibody comprises a reporter
    molecule.
72. The method of claim 63 wherein said tumor cell is a solid tumor cell.
73. The method of claim 72 wherein said solid tumor is obtained from a subject suffering
    from a neoplastic disorder selected from the group consisting of adrenal cancer, bladder
    cancer, cervical cancer, endometrial cancer, kidney cancer, liver cancer, lung cancer,
    ovarian cancer, colorectal cancer, pancreatic cancer, prostate cancer and breast cancer.
74. The method of claim 72 wherein said cell has a marker phenotype comprising CD46h
    CD324+.
75. A method of determining whether a subject suffering from cancer is at risk of recurrence
    comprising the steps of;
        a.   obtaining a tumor sample from the subject; and
        b. contacting the tumor sample with at least one binding agent that preferably
            associates with a TICAM.
76. The method of claim 75, wherein said binding agent comprises a nucleic acid.
77. The method of claim 75 wherein said binding agent comprises a protein.
78. The method of claim 77 wherein said protein comprises a ligand.
79. The method of claim 77 wherein said protein comprises an antibody.
80. The method of claim 79 wherein said antibody preferably associates with a TICAM is
    selected from the group consisting of CD9, CD13, CD15, CD24, CD26, CD29, CD46,
    CD49a, CD49b, CD49c, CD49f, CD51, CD54, CD55, CD58, CD63, CD66a, CD66c,
    CD66e, CD71, CD73, CD81, CD82, CD91, CD98, CD99, CD104, CD105, CD108,
    CD111, CD130, CD136, CD151, CD155, CD157, CD164, CD166, CD172a, CD186,
    CD221, CD230, CD262, CD273, CD275, CD295, CD298, CD317, CD318, CD324,
    CD340, CCR1O, c-Met, Eph-B2, Eph-B4, FLORI, Glut-2, Glypican 5, HER3, IL-2ORa,
    Integrin a9bl, Integrin b5, LDL-R, Mer, Semaphorin 4B, TROP-2 and Vb9.
81. The method of claim 80 wherein said TICAM is selected from the group consisting of
    CD46, CD324, CD66c and combinations thereof.
82. The method of claim 79 wherein said antibody comprises a monoclonal antibody.
83. The method of claim 82 wherein said monoclonal antibody comprises a reporter
                                             84

    molecule.
84. The method of claim 75 wherein said contacting step takes place in vivo.
85. The method of claim 84 wherein said contacting step takes place in an
    immunocompromised mouse.
86. The method of claim 75 wherein said contacting step takes place in vitro.
87. The method of claim 75 wherein said tumor sample is a solid tumor sample.
88. The method of claim 87 wherein said tumor sample is obtained from a subject suffering
    from a neoplastic disorder selected from the group consisting of adrenal cancer, bladder
    cancer, cervical cancer, endometrial cancer, kidney cancer, liver cancer, lung cancer,
    ovarian cancer, colorectal cancer, pancreatic cancer, prostate cancer and breast cancer.
89. The method of claim 75 wherein said tumor sample has a marker phenotype comprising
    CD46h CD324+.
90. The method of claim 75 wherein the patient has undergone a debulking procedure.
91. A kit useful for the diagnosis or monitoring of hyperproliferative disorders comprising a
    receptacle comprising one or more TICAM binding agents and instructional materials for
    using the one or more TICAM binding agents to diagnose or monitor the
    hyperproliferative disorder.
92. The kit of claim 91 wherein said one or more TICAM binding agents comprises a
    monoclonal antibody.
93. The kit of claim 92 wherein said monoclonal antibody is associated with a reporter
    molecule.
94. The kit of claim 91 wherein the receptacle comprises a readable plate.
95. A method of conducting genotypic or phenotypic analysis comprising the steps of:
        a. providing a tumorigenic cell or enriched tumorigenic cell population comprising
            one or more TICAM;
        b. treating said cell or cell population to provide genetic or proteomic material; and
        c.  analyzing said genetic or proteomic material.
96.  The method of claim 95 wherein material is genetic material.
97. The method of claim 96 wherein said genetic material comprises transcriptome material.
98. A method of screening potential pharmaceutical compounds comprising the steps of:
        a. exposing a tumorigenic cell or tumorigenic cell population to a candidate
            compound; and
        b. contacting the tumorigenic cell or tumorigenic cell population with at least one
            TICAM binding agent.
                                               85

99.  The method of claim 98 wherein said candidate compounds are small molecules.
100. The method of claim 98 further comprising the step of sorting said tumorigenic cell or
     tumorigenic cell population.
101. The method of claim 100 wherein said sorting step comprises fluorescence activated cell
     sorting, magnetic-assisted cell sorting, substrate-assisted cell sorting, laser mediated
     sectioning, fluorometry, flow cytometry or microscopy techniques.
102. A method of inducing cancer comprising the steps of:
         a. providing a tumorigenic cell population enriched for one or more TICAM; and
         b. introducing the tumorigenic cell population into a subject.
103. A method of inducing cancer comprising the steps of:
         a. isolating a tumorigenic cell exhibiting one or more TICAM; and
         b. introducing isolated tumorigenic cell into a subject.
104. A method a method of generating tumor samples comprising the steps of:
         a. providing a tumorigenic cell or enriched tumorigenic cell population comprising
             one or more TICAM;
         b. introducing the tumorigenic cell or enriched tumorigenic cell population into a
             subject;
         c. waiting for the tumorigenic cell or cell population to generate a heterogeneous
             tumor; and
         d. harvesting said heterogeneous tumor.
105. The method of claim 104 wherein said subject is administered a candidate compound
     during said waiting step.
106. The method of claim 105 wherein said heterogeneous is sorted.
107. An animal model for the analysis of pharmaceutical compounds comprising a subject
     implanted with a tumorigenic cell or cell population purified or enriched for one or more
     TICAM.
108. The method of claim 107 wherein said subject comprises an immunocompromised
     mouse.
109. A method of producing an animal model for the analysis of pharmaceutical compounds
     comprising the step of introducing a tumorigenic cell or cell population purified or
     enriched for one or more TICAM.
110. The method of claim 109 wherein said subject comprises an immunocompromised
     mouse.
                                               86

111. A method of analyzing cancer progression and/or pathogenesis in vivo, comprising the
     steps of:
         a. introducing one or more tumorigenic cells comprising one or more TICAM into a
             subject; and
         b. analyzing cancer progression and/or pathogenesis in the subject.
                                            87

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
