                                          Abstract
         The present utility model relates to the technical field of expandable hoses, and
   relates to a flexible expandable hose, comprising a flexible hose made of flexible
 5 bodies. More than two spiral thread layers or woven mesh layers that can extend or
   retract as the flexible hose extends or retracts are disposed in the flexible hose.
   When the spiral thread layers are disposed, spiral directions of two adjacent spiral
   thread layers are opposite, an outer diameter of an outermost spiral thread layer or
   woven mesh layer is less than an outer diameter of the flexible hose, and an inner
.0 diameter of an innermost spiral thread layer or woven mesh layer is less than an
   inner diameter of the flexible hose. The advantages comprise a light weight, a large
   expansion amount, high tensile strength, and a long service life.
                                                8

   12
          13
       30
20L
      14
10
          Fig. I

                                           Description
                                     Flexible expandable hose
  5  Technical Field
           The present utility model relates to the technical field of expandable hoses, and
     in particular, to a flexible expandable hose.
     Background of the Utility Model
 .0        Expandable hoses can be retracted when not in use and be extended in use, and
     are therefore popular among users related to car washing hoses, household use, and
     the like. A currently used long water hose is stacked on the ground and becomes
     entangled easily. Passers-by easily trip over the water hose, or tread on the water
     hose, resulting in a reduced service life of the water hose. Such problems are
 .5  resolved by expandable hoses. A common commercially-available expandable hose
     has the following structure: A latex tube is sleeved in a fabric tube. The latex tube is
     shorter than the fabric tube. The fabric tube is stacked outside the latex tube. The
     fabric tube may extend in an axial direction as the latex tube extends and expand in
     a radial direction as the latex tube expands, so as to restrict the latex tube from
  o0 limitlessly expanding in the radial direction.
           Alternatively, a threaded expandable hose is sleeved in the fabric tube. For
     example, CN 203836417 U discloses a novel expandable hose, comprising an outer
     tube and an expandable rib disposed in an inner cavity of the outer tube. The outer
25   tube is a fabric tube. The expandable rib can extend in an axial direction in the outer
     tube. The expandable rib is shorter than the outer tube. The outer tube can extend or
     retract in the axial direction as the expandable rib extends. The deficiencies of such
     an expandable hose are as follows: First, the fabric tube becomes heavy with water,
     and bacteria and the like grow easily. Second, the fabric tube becomes muddy easily,
30   making it difficult to clean. Third, an axial expansion amount is small. Fourth, the
                                                 1

     fabric outer tube does not fold readily and results in a large volume in storage.
     Summary of the Utility Model
           The objective of the present utility model is to provide a flexible expandable
  5  hose that is easy to clean and has a large expansion amount and a smooth surface.
           The objective of the present utility model is achieved as follows:
           A flexible expandable hose comprises a flexible hose made of flexible bodies.
     More than two spiral thread layers or woven mesh layers that can extend or retract
 .0  as the flexible hose extends or retracts are disposed in the flexible hose. When the
     spiral thread layers are disposed, spiral directions of two adjacent spiral thread
     layers are opposite, an outer diameter of an outermost spiral thread layer or woven
     mesh layer is less than an outer diameter of the flexible hose, and an inner diameter
     of an innermost spiral thread layer or woven mesh layer is less than an inner
 .5  diameter of the flexible hose.
           The spiral thread layers or woven mesh layers are woven with spiral threads,
     when the flexible hose is in a normal state, a particular axial distance exists between
     two axially adjacent spiral threads, a particular radial distance exists between two
  o0 adjacent spiral thread layers or woven mesh layers, and the axial distances and the
     radial distances are all filled with the flexible bodies integrated with the flexible
     hose.
           Each of the spiral threads is woven with more than one strong thread or strong
25   band.
           The strong thread or strong band is made of a Dacron or nylon material.
           The flexible bodies are made of a TPE or TPV or silica gel or latex material.
30
           Compared with the prior art, the present utility model has the prominent and
                                                 2

     beneficial technical effects as follows:
            1.   Both an inner surface layer and an outer surface layer of the present utility
     model are made of a same TPE or TPV or silica gel or latex material, so that only a
     small amount of water stays on the present utility model, and it is easy to clean and
  5  dry the present utility model, thereby preventing the proliferation of bacteria.
           2.    In the present utility model, flexible bodies are made of TPE, TPV, silica
     gel, latex or other materials, so that an elastic deformation amount is large, and a
     small volume is occupied in a normal state for easy storage.
           3.    The present utility model has a smooth surface on which mud does not
 .0  stick easily, so that self-cleaning performance is desirable and use and storage are
     facilitated.
           4.    A rope or band made of a Dacron or nylon material is used for a force
     supporting element in the present utility model, so that a flexible hose manufactured
     to fit the flexible bodies has a light weight, a large expansion amount, high tensile
 .5  strength, and a long service life.
     Brief Description of the Drawings
           Fig. 1 is a schematic structural sectional view of the present utility model.
  o0 Detailed Description
           The present utility model is further described in conjunction with the drawings
     and particular embodiments as below. Refer to Figs. 1:
           A flexible expandable hose comprises a flexible hose 10 made of flexible
     bodies. More than two spiral thread layers 20, 30 or woven mesh layers that can
25   extend or retract as the flexible hose 10 extends or retracts are disposed in the
     flexible hose 10. When the spiral thread layers are disposed, spiral directions of two
     adjacent spiral thread layers 20, 30 are opposite, an outer diameter D2 of an
     outermost spiral thread layer 20 or woven mesh layer is less than an outer diameter
     D1 of the flexible hose 10, and an inner diameter D3 of an innermost spiral thread
30   layer 13 or woven mesh layer is less than an inner diameter D4 of the flexible hose
      10.
                                                  3

           When pressurized water is filled in the flexible hose 10 to make the flexible
     hose 10 deform in a radial direction, a distance between two adjacent spiral thread
     layers 20, 30 is reduced, and spiral directions of two adjacent spiral thread layers 20,
  5  30 are opposite, so that criss-cross woven mesh is formed. In addition, spiral threads
     woven with strong threads or strong bands have high tensile strength and can be
     barely stretched, so that radial deformation of the flexible hose 10 is restricted.
     Therefore, the flexible hose 10 is protected from bursting under the effect of
     pressurized water.
 .o
           Certainly, when the more than two woven mesh layers that can extend or
     retract as the flexible hose 10 extends or retracts are disposed in the flexible hose 10,
     the woven mesh is pulled by the flexible bodies, and the woven mesh itself has a
     restraining force, radial deformation is better restricted. However, the deficiency is
 .5  that as compared with a spiral thread layer, a woven mesh has a limited axial
     deformation amount. In other words, an axial deformation amount of a woven mesh
     layer is less than that of a spiral thread layer, and a customer may make a choice in
     use.
  o0       The strong thread or strong band is made of a Dacron or nylon material.
           The spiral thread layers 20, 30 or woven mesh layers are woven with spiral
     threads. When the flexible hose 10 is in a normal state, a particular axial distance
     exists between two axially adjacent spiral threads, a particular radial distance LI
25   exists between two adjacent spiral thread layers 20, 30 or woven mesh layers, and
     the axial distances and the radial distances LI are all filled with the flexible bodies
     integrated with the flexible hose 10.
           When the radial distance Li between two adjacent spiral thread layers 20, 30
30   or woven mesh layers is larger, because two adjacent spiral thread layers 20, 30 or
     woven mesh layers are less restricted by each other, an elastic deformation amount
                                                  4

     is larger, or otherwise an elastic deformation amount is smaller.
           Each of the spiral threads is woven with more than one strong thread or strong
     band.
  5
           The strong thread or strong band is made of a Dacron or nylon material.
           The flexible bodies are made of a TPE or TPV or silica gel or latex material.
 .0        A production process of a flexible expandable hose comprises the following
     steps:
           (1) forming a flexible inner tube 13 with an elastic material;
           (2) winding an inner spiral thread layer 30 around an outer surface of the
     flexible inner tube 13 in a forward direction or/and backward direction; or weaving
 .5  an inner woven mesh layer on an outer surface of the flexible inner tube 13;
           (3) forming, on an outer surface of the flexible inner tube 13 and the inner
     spiral thread layer 30 or inner woven mesh layer, a first flexible body 14 covering
     the inner spiral thread layer or inner woven mesh layer;
           (4) winding a second spiral thread layer 20 around an outer surface of the first
  o0 flexible body 14 in a forward direction or/and backward direction; or weaving a
     second woven mesh layer on an outer surface of the first flexible body 14;
           (5) forming, on an outer surface of the first flexible body 14 and the second
     spiral thread layer 20 or second woven mesh layer, a second flexible body 11
     covering the second spiral thread layer 20 or second woven mesh layer; and
25         (6) as deduced by analogy, forming, on an outer surface of an outermost spiral
     thread layer 20 or woven mesh layer and a last flexible body 11, a flexible outer
     tube 12 covering the outermost spiral thread layer 20 or woven mesh layer and the
     last flexible body 14.
30         The embodiments described above are merely the preferred embodiments of
     the present utility model, and are not intended to limit the scope of protection of the
                                                 5

present utility model, and therefore, equivalent changes made according to the
structure, shape and principle of the present utility model shall be contained within
the scope of protection of the present utility model.
                                            6

                                              Claims
          1.   A flexible expandable hose, comprising a flexible hose made of flexible
    bodies, wherein more than two spiral thread layers or woven mesh layers capable of
  5 extending or retracting as the flexible hose extends or retracts are disposed in the
    flexible hose, and when the spiral thread layers are disposed, spiral directions of two
    adjacent spiral thread layers are opposite, an outer diameter of an outermost spiral
    thread layer or woven mesh layer is less than an outer diameter of the flexible hose,
    and an inner diameter of an innermost spiral thread layer or woven mesh layer is
 .0 less than an inner diameter of the flexible hose.
          2.   The flexible expandable hose according to claim 1, wherein the spiral
    thread layers or woven mesh layers are woven with spiral threads, when the flexible
    hose is in a normal state, a particular axial distance exists between two axially
 .s adjacent spiral threads, a particular radial distance exists between two adjacent
    spiral thread layers or woven mesh layers, and the axial distances and the radial
    distances are all filled with the flexible bodies integrated with the flexible hose.
          3.   The flexible expandable hose according to claim 2, wherein each of the
 to spiral threads is woven with more than one strong thread or strong band.
          4.   The flexible expandable hose according to claim 1, wherein the strong
    thread or strong band is made of a Dacron or nylon material.
25        5.   The flexible expandable hose according to any one of claims 1 to 4,
    wherein the flexible bodies are made of a TPE or TPV or silica gel or latex material.
                                                 7

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
