                                                              ABSTRACT
                        The present invention relates to the field of smart water pumps, and particularly to a control system
   for a smart water pump. The control system includes a server platform and at least one smart water pump
 5 connected to the server platform. The smart water pump includes a water pump, a mainboard for controlling
   operating conditions of the water pump, a power supply, a communication device, a flow sensor and a pressure
   sensor. The power supply, the communication device, the flow sensor and the pressure sensor are electrically
   connected to the mainboard separately. The flow sensor and the pressure sensor are disposed on a pipeline running
   through the water pump separately. The smart water pump sets up connection with the server platform by means
10 of the communication device. A user can log in to the server platform to make a remote query for the operating
   conditions of the user's own water pump, and can achieve real-time monitoring and query for the operating
   conditions and water-use energy consumption of the water pump, remote start and stop control of the water pump,
   operating time period setting of the water pump and constant pressure control without on-site operation. Thus,
   high intelligence is realized.
   9691565_1(GHMatters) P107327.AU

                                                                1/1
                                               Control System for Smart Water Pump
                                                                          2
                                          Smart water pump
                                             ,, 23                        21
                                Power supply              Water pump
                                                25                       22
                                 Flow sensor               Mainboard               Server platform
                                                26                       24
                               Pressure sensor          Communication
                                                              Fig. 1
9691565_1(GHMattes) P107327.AU

                                                            -1
                                          Control system for smart water pump
   Technical Field
                       The invention relates to the technical field of smart water pumps, and particularly to a
 5 control system for a smart water pump.
   Background Art
                       An existing smart pump has just GPRS and short messaging service functions and can
   only effect simple operations such as point-to-point remote start/stop control. Consequently, it is
10 hard to achieve centralized management.
   Summary of the Invention
                       The invention provides a control system for a smart water pump includes a server
   platform and at least one smart water pump connected to the server platform. The smart water pump
15 includes a water pump, a mainboard for controlling operating conditions of the water pump, a
   power supply, a communication device, a flow sensor and a pressure sensor. The power supply, the
   communication device, the flow sensor and the pressure sensor are electrically connected to the
   mainboard separately. The flow sensor and the pressure sensor are disposed on a pipeline running
   through the water pump separately. The smart water pump sets up connection with the server
20 platform by means of the communication device.
                       Furthermore, the control system also includes at least one mobile terminal wirelessly
   connected with the server platform and the smart water pump separately.
   Furthermore, the control system also includes a water supply management platform setting up
   connection with the server platform.
25                     Further, the smart water pump also includes a warning device, and the warning device is
   electrically connected with the mainboard.
   Further, there are at least two flow sensors disposed on a part, located at an inlet of the water pump,
   of the pipeline and a part, located at an outlet of the water pump, of the pipeline, respectively.
   Further, the smart water pump also includes a timer, and the time is electrically connected to the
30 mainboard.
   Embodiments of the invention have the following advantages: according to a control system for a
   smart water pump provided in embodiments of the invention, a flow sensor and a pressure sensor
   are disposed on a pipeline running through the water pump to collect a water-use flow and a water
   way pressure for a user and other relevant data, and all the data collected by the water pump is
   9691565_1(GHMattes) P107327.AU

                                                            -2
   uploaded by a communication device to a server platform for storage. Then, the user can log in to
   the server platform to make a remote query for the operating conditions of the user's own water
   pump, and can achieve real-time monitoring and query for the operating conditions and water-use
   energy consumption of the water pump, remote start and stop control of the water pump, operating
 5 time period setting of the water pump and constant pressure control without on-site operation. Thus,
   high intelligence is realized.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
                       An embodiment of the invention is shown in Fig. 1 which is a schematic structure
10 diagram of a control system for a smart water pump of the invention.
   Explanation of reference numerals: 1, Server platform; 2, Smart water pump; 21, Water pump; 22,
   Mainboard; 23, Power supply; 24, Communicating device; 25, Flow sensor; and 26, Pressure
   sensor.
15 Detailed Description of the Invention
                       To illustrate in detail the technical contents of the present invention, objectives to
   achieve thereby and resulting effects, the following descriptions are made with embodiments in
   conjunction with the accompanying drawings.
   Referring to Fig. 1, a control system for a smart water pump provided in the present invention
20 includes a server platform and at least one smart water pump connected to the server platform. The
   smart water pump includes a water pump, a mainboard for controlling operating conditions of the
   water pump, a power supply, a communication device, a flow sensor and a pressure sensor. The
   power supply, the communication device, the flow sensor and the pressure sensor are electrically
   connected to the mainboard separately. The flow sensor and the pressure sensor are disposed on a
25 pipeline running through the water pump separately. The smart water pump sets up connection with
   the server platform by means of the communication device.
                       The invention has the following advantages: according to a control system for a smart
   water pump provided in the invention, a flow sensor and a pressure sensor are disposed on a
   pipeline running through the water pump to collect a water-use flow and a water way pressure for a
30 user and other relevant data, and all the data collected by the water pump is uploaded by a
   communication device to a server platform for storage. Then, the user can log in to the server
   platform to make a remote query for operating conditions of the user's own water pump, and can
   achieve real-time monitoring and query for the operating conditions and water-use energy
   consumption of the water pump, remote start and stop control of the water pump, operating time
   9691565_1(GHMattes) P107327.AU

                                                           -3
   period setting of the water pump and constant pressure control without on-site operation. Thus, high
   intelligence is realized.
                       The working principle of a control system for a smart water pump provided in the
   invention is as follows:
 5                     A smart water pump may obtain operating condition data thereof in real time, including
   supply voltage, operating frequency, water-use flow, water way pressure, water-use energy
   consumption and the like of the smart water pump, where the flow sensor is configured to collect
   the user's water-use flow, and the pressure sensor is configured to collect the water way pressure.
   The collected data is transmitted to the mainboard. A memory may be provided on the mainboard to
10 locally store data. Additionally, the data is transmitted by the communication device connected to
   the mainboard to the server platform for storage, allowing a query from other terminal after logging
   in.
                       The server platform can analyze the obtained operating condition data to obtain an
   analysis result and transmit the analysis result to a mobile terminal corresponding to the smart water
15 pump. That is, one smart water pump corresponds to one mobile terminal, and before use, user's
   identity information registration, login and binding are required.
                       Further, the control system also includes at least one mobile terminal wirelessly
   connected with the server platform and the smart water pump separately.
                       As can be seen from the above description, a user can create and transmit a query
20 request to the server platform by using a mobile terminal. It is equivalent to that the user logs in to
   the server platform to query for the relevant data. For example, if the user wants to know the water
   consumption of the current month, the user can log in to the server platform to query for that. The
   server platform parses the query request so as to obtain and feed back the data corresponding to the
   query request to the mobile terminal. A database is provided on the server platform to store relevant
25 data, and therefore, the user can query for historical records at the server platform on the mobile
   phone.
                       Additionally, the mobile terminal uses another link rather than the server platform when
   remotely controlling and managing the smart water pump because the transmission efficiency can
   be improved when a large quantity of data needing to be transmitted by the smart water pump and
30 minimal data of an operating instruction transmitted by the mobile terminal are not transmitted over
   the same link. Specifically, the mobile terminal receives an operating instruction corresponding to
   the analysis result and transmits the operating instruction to the smart water pump. The smart water
   pump receives the operating instruction transmitted from the mobile terminal and then executes it.
                       Further, the control system also includes a water supply management platform setting
   9691565_1(GHMattes) P107327.AU

                                                             -4
   up connection with the server platform.
                       As can be seen from the above description, in an embodiment, at a preset time interval,
   the server platform transmits a water-use flow to the water supply management platform, and the
   water supply management platform generates and transmits corresponding water charge information
 5 corresponding to the water-use flow to the mobile terminal. The preset time interval is generally a
   month. Thus, the server platform may transit the water-use flow of a user to the water supply
   management platform each month, and a background supervisor may calculate corresponding water
   charge; or the system automatically generates the corresponding water charge and transmits it to the
   user's mobile phone.
10                     Further, the smart water pump also includes a warning device, and the warning device is
   electrically connected to the mainboard.
                       As can be seen from the above description, in an embodiment, if the value of any
   parameter in the operating condition data exceeds a preset threshold range, the smart water pump
   transmits warning information to the mobile terminal or delivers the warning information by means
15 of its own warning device, by way of ringing or vibrating. In case of an emergency, it would be
   better that the emergency is detected earlier. Therefore, the smart water pump is provided with a
   threshold for determination, and may effect warning immediately upon exceeding the threshold.
   Thus, adverse consequences of lagging in warning due to backend determination may be avoided.
                       Further, at least two flow sensors are provided and disposed on the pipeline at an inlet of
20 the water pump and the pipeline at an outlet of the water pump, respectively.
   As can be seen from the above description, in an embodiment, there are at least two flow sensors
   disposed on a part, located at an inlet of the water pump, of the pipeline and a part, located at an
   outlet of the water pump, of the pipeline, respectively. The data obtained by two flow sensors may
   be compared to check whether the smart water pump is abnormal. If a difference therebetween
25 exceeds a reasonable error range, it is considered abnormal, and meanwhile, abnormal information
   is transmitted to the mobile terminal or warning information is delivered directly to ensure normal
   operation of the pump.
                       Further, the smart water pump also includes a timer, and the time is electrically
   connected with the mainboard.
30 As can be seen from the above description, in an embodiment, to optimize the transmission stability
   of data, an interval duration may be set by a timer and then the smart water pump may transmit data
   by the set interval duration, so that long-time space usage of a communication channel due to
   real-time transmission of data can be avoided.
                       The smart water pump is integrated with a module of a communication function, such as
   9691565_1(GHMattes) P107327.AU

                                                          -5
   GPRS, to realize the function of user's water use. With the communication module integrated into
   the water pump, in the process of use by the user and of operating of the water pump, the
   communication module of the smart water pump records the operating conditions (such water pump
   operating conditions as supply voltage, operating frequency, water-use flow, water way pressure and
 5 water-use energy consumption) of the water pump and transmits data to a cloud server platform in a
   certain cycle by means of the communication module. The service platform achieves collection and
   statistics, comparative analysis and exchange of data, and the finally calculated reference data is
   transmitted by a data center to the user and a centralized water supply center for advanced
   maintenance of the water pump, water supply pipeline fault elimination, rescue, charge renewal and
10 payment, etc.
                       After installing a smart water pump in place, a user may activate an Internet of Things
   card (installed in the water pump), and then the smart water pump is powered on to operate.
                       Next, the user may install an APP developed correspondingly on a mobile terminal.
   Then, the user registers water pump information, including an SIM card number, a water pump
15 terminal number, a user' number for receiving warning information, etc. After successful
   registration and login to the APP software, the user can remotely set parameters of water pump
   energy consumption, operating conditions and constant pressure control, and an operating period of
   time, etc.
                       To sum up, according to a control system for a smart water pump provided in the
20 invention, a flow sensor and a pressure sensor are disposed on a pipeline running through the water
   pump to collect a water-use flow and a water way pressure for a user and other relevant data, and all
   the data collected by the water pump is uploaded by a communication device to a server platform
   for storage. Then, the user can log in to the server platform to make a remote query for the
   operating conditions of the user's own water pump, and can achieve real-time monitoring and query
25 for the operating conditions and water-use energy consumption of the water pump, remote start and
   stop control of the water pump, operating time period setting of the water pump and constant
   pressure control without on-site operation. Thus, high intelligence is realized.
                       The above are merely descriptions of the embodiments of the present invention and not
   intended to thereby limit the patent scope of the present invention. Any equivalent alterations made
30 with the descriptions and the accompanying drawings of the present invention or direct or indirect
   utilization thereof in the related art shall all be encompassed in the scope of patent protection of the
   present invention in the same way.
                       In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except
   where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
   9691565_1(GHMattes) P107327.AU

                                                -6
"comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to
specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further
features in various embodiments of the invention.
9691565_1(GHMattes) P107327.AU

                                                           -7
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
    1.                 A control system for a smart water pump, comprising: a server platform and at least one
   smart water pump connected to the server platform,
 5                     wherein the smart water pump comprises a water pump, a mainboard for controlling
   operating conditions of the water pump, a power supply, a communication device, a flow sensor and
   a pressure sensor,
                       wherein the power supply, the communication device, the flow sensor and the pressure
   sensor are electrically connected to the mainboard separately, the flow sensor and the pressure
10 sensor are disposed on a pipeline running through the water pump separately; and
                       wherein the smart water pump sets up connection with the server platform by means of
   the communication device.
   2.                  The control system for a smart water pump of claim 1, also comprising: at least one
15 mobile terminal wirelessly connected with the server platform and the smart water pump separately.
   3.                  The control system for a smart water pump of claim 1, also comprising a water supply
   management platform setting up connection with the server platform.
20 4.                  The control system for a smart water pump of claim 1, wherein the smart water pump
   also comprises a warning device, the warning device being electrically connected with the
   mainboard.
   5.                  The control system for a smart water pump of claim 1, wherein at least two flow sensors
25 are provided and disposed on a part, located at an inlet of the water pump, of the pipeline and a part,
   located at an outlet of the water pump, of the pipeline, respectively.
   6.                  The control system for a smart water pump of claim 1, wherein the smart water pump
   also comprises a timer, the timer being electrically connected with the mainboard.
   9691565_1(GHMattes) P107327.AU

                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
         )
                       #
     #
         2   1
         (
*+
                       1

