   ABSTRACT
            A functionally integrated detachable photovoltaic module junction box
   has a base part and an upper cover part. The base part has string ports (11) and
   two power supply ports (12, 13). The string port (11) electrically connects to
 5 strings on a photovoltaic module. The upper cover part has a circuit board (21)
   therein. The circuit board (21) has an optimizing and monitoring circuit and
   multiple electrical connection pieces (22) connected to the optimizing and
   monitoring circuit. The electrical connection pieces (22) are detachably
   connected to the string ports (11) and the power supply port (12, 13), for the
10 optimizing and monitoring circuit to perform such functions as component
   optimization, monitoring, communication and shutdown on the photovoltaic
   module. Use of the junction box reduces production, assembly and maintenance
   costs. When the junction box requires maintenance, only the upper cover part is
   needed to be replaced, thereby quickly completing the repair.

              1/9
         CNCD
00                0
   r :|-

                                             1
     FUNCTIONALLY INTEGRATED DETACHABLE PHOTOVOLTAIC
                             MODULE JUNCTION BOX
   1. Field of the Utility model
            The utility model relates to a photovoltaic module junction box and, in
 5 particular, to a detachable photovoltaic module junction box that integrates
   functions of component optimization, monitoring, communication and
   shutdown.
   2. Description of Related Art
            With the rise of green energy, photovoltaic (PV) power generation
10 receives more and more attention on the market. With technological
   developments, PV systems that can provide the maximum power generation
   efficiency are more welcomed by the market.
            Owing to limitations in production processes, there are subtle
   differences among power generation units. Constrained by the cost and the
15 current level of electrical and electronic components manufacturing, it is
   impossible to achieve an overall optimization of the power plant level in power
   optimization.
            With developments in the technology, power optimization is gradually
   pushed toward smaller power generation units. Currently, group serial power
20 optimization is most likely to achieve. Also as time goes on, the market has
   posed more demanding requirements for PV power generation systems, as listed
   below.
            Optimization: power optimization is required at the level of the smallest
   power generation unit in order to have the maximum power output. When the

                                                2
   devices are blocked by tree branches and weeds, have inconsistent orientations,
   or mismatched components, it is still designed to have its maximum power
   output.
             Monitoring: such parameters as voltage, current and temperature, of the
 5 power generation unit are measured at maximum precision.
             Communication: reliable communications are achieved within the ISM
   band, with a minimal frequency band and radio wave interference, while
   resistant to surrounding radio interference;
             Shutdown: the output of the module can be shut down automatically or
10 remotely, thereby protecting the safety of the module and the surrounding
   components.
             Production: the product production cycle is shortened as much as
   possible, thereby reducing space occupancy.
             Maintenance: difficulties in repair and maintenance are reduced so that
15 problems can be solved once and for all.
             Cost: more functions can be integrated while the cost is reduced.
             From the above description, it is seen that the market currently imposes
   a lot of requirements on the PV power generation system, such as the
   specification, performance and cost. However, related products on the market at
20 the moment emphasize more on power optimization. Nothing of integration type
   has appeared to integrate various functions in a single module to reduce
   production, assembly and maintenance costs.
             It is an objective of the utility model to provide a functionally integrated
   detachable PV module junction box. Functions of group serial optimization,

                                              3
   monitoring, communication and shutdown are integrated to a single device to
   meet market requirements. At the same time, a detachable structure is employed
   to increase the efficiencies in production, assembly and maintenance, thereby
   relatively reducing the costs.
 5          To achieve the objective, the functionally integrated detachable PV
   module junction box includes a base part and an upper cover part that electrically
   and detachably connects to the base part.
            The base part has a base in which a plurality of string ports, a positive
   electrical port, and a negative electric port are provided.
10          The upper cover part has an upper cover provided with a circuit board
   therein. The circuit board has an optimizing and monitoring circuit and a
   plurality of electrical connection pieces that electrically connect to the
   optimizing and monitoring circuit. Each of the electrical connection pieces
   matches with a respective one of the string ports, the positive electrical port, and
15 the negative electrical port on the base part for connections.
            The base part is applied to be mounted on a PV module. Each of the
   string ports, the positive electrical port, and negative electrical port electrically
   connect to the strings of the PV module. When the upper cover part and the base
   part are connected, each of the electrical connection pieces of the upper cover
20 part correspondingly match with the string ports, the positive electrical port and
   the negative electrical port and form electrical connections. As a result, the
   optimizing and monitoring circuit of the upper cover part connects to the strings
   of the PV module via the electrical connection pieces, thereby performing power
   optimization and performance monitoring on each of the strings. When an

                                              4
   abnormal activity happens, the optimizing and monitoring circuit sends out a
   notification and shuts down the corresponding string.
             Since the optimizing and monitoring circuit that has various processing
   functions is integrated on the circuit board of the upper cover part, the functions
 5 of power optimization, monitoring, communications and shutdown are all
   integrated on the junction box, thereby satisfying function requirements of PV
   power generation products by the market. Moreover, the base part is mounted on
   the PV module. The upper cover part is detachably combined with the base part
   to increase the assembly efficiency and reducing the assembly cost. On the other
10 hand, when the junction box needs to be repaired, only the upper cover part of
   the junction box needs to be replaced. This quickly completes the repair and
   reduces the maintenance cost.
             FIG. 1 shows a perspective view of a junction box of the utility model;
             FIG. 2 is an exploded perspective view showing a base part and an upper
15 cover part of the junction box;
             FIG. 3 is a locally exploded view of the base part of the utility model;
             FIG. 4 is a planar view of a string port of the base part of the utility
   model;
             FIG. 5 is an exploded view of the upper cover part of the utility model;
20           FIG. 6 is a cross-sectional view of the utility model;
             FIGS. 7A and 7B are block diagrams of an optimizing and monitoring
   circuit; and
             FIG. 8 is another cross-sectional view of the utility model.
            As shown in FIG. 1, a junction box in a PV module comprises a base part

                                             5
   1 and an upper cover part 2 that is detachably mounted on the base part 1. The
   base part 1 has a base 10 and a plurality of through holes 101 formed on a bottom
   of the base 10 for copper belts to go through. The copper belts electrically
   connect to strings of the PV module. Both sides of the base 10 are provided
 5 respectively with a cable 100 for serial connections of the junction boxes of
   adjacent PV modules.
            As shown in FIG. 2, a lower wall 102 is formed around the bottom of the
   base 10. A plurality of string ports 11, a positive electrical port 12, and a
   negative electrical port 13 are provided inside the lower wall 102. The positive
10 electrical port 12 and the negative electrical port 13 electrically connect to the
   two cables 100, respectively. A plurality of buckles 103 are provided outside the
   lower wall 102 on the bottom of the base 10 for the connection with the upper
   cover part 2. In this embodiment, each buckle 103 is in an inverted U shape.
            The upper cover part 2 has an upper cover 20. The upper cover 20 has a
15 top, around which an upper wall 202 is formed. The space formed within the top
   and the upper wall 202 is provided with a circuit board 21. The circuit board 21
   is provided with a plurality of electrical connection pieces 22 and an optimizing
   and monitoring circuit (not shown). The electrical connection pieces 22 match
   with the string ports 11, the positive electrical port 12 and the negative electrical
20 port 13 on the base 10, thereby forming electrical connections through insertions.
   The top of the upper cover 20 is provided with a plurality of engaging blocks 203
   outside the upper wall 202. Each of the engaging blocks 203 corresponds to a
   respective buckle 103 on the base 10, thereby achieving a detachable connection.
            FIG. 3 shows the structures of the string ports 11, the positive electrical

                                              6
   port 12, and the negative electrical port 13 inside the base 10. Moreover, the
   string ports 11, the positive electrical port 12, and the negative electrical port 13
   have the same structure. In the following, one of the string ports 11 is taken as an
   explicit example to describe in detail the structure thereof.
 5          With reference simultaneously to FIGS. 3 and 4, the string port 11 is
   formed by bending a conductive metal sheet, with one end forming a U-shaped
   inserting part 111. The inserting part 111 has two pinnacles, with one pinnacle
   extending toward the interior of the inserting part 111 to form a contact spring
   112 and the other pinnacle extending horizontally to form a saddle part 113. The
10 saddle part 113 is formed with two fixing holes 114. Besides, the saddle part 113
   is formed with an L-shaped electrical connection part 115 on the end opposite to
   the inserting part 111. That is, the inserting part 111 and the electrical connection
   part 115 are on opposite ends of the saddle part 113. The electrical connection
   part 115 corresponds to the through holes 101 on the base 10 for being soldered
15 on the copper belts passing through the through holes 101. The inserting part
   111 allows the electrical connection pieces 22 of the upper cover part 1 to be
   inserted in between. Each electrical connection piece 22 is in electrical contact
   with one side wall of a corresponding inserting part 111 and the contact spring
   112. The opposite outer sidewalls of the inserting part 111 are punched to form a
20 protruding piece 116 to reinforce fixing effects.
            In order to more firmly combine the string ports 11, the positive
   electrical port 12 and the negative electrical port 13, the inner surface of the
   bottom of the base 10 is formed with a plurality of installation platforms 14.
   Each of the installation platforms 14 comprises a concave accommodation

                                             7
   chamber 141 and a wall part 142 protruding from one edge of the
   accommodation chamber 141. The accommodation chamber 141
   accommodates the inserting parts 111 of the string ports 11. Two side walls of
   the accommodation chamber 141 are formed with concave grooves 143. The
 5 two grooves 143 correspond to the protruding pieces 116 on the two opposite
   outer sidewalls of the inserting part 111. The protruding pieces 116 are inserted
   to enhance the fixing effect.
            The wall part 142 is formed with two protruding pillars 144. The saddle
   part 113 of the string port 11 strides across the wall part 142. The protruding
10 pillars 144 of the wall part 142 protrude through the fixing holes 114 on the
   saddle part 113, thereby firmly fixing the string port 11 on the installation
   platform 14. As described before, the structure of the positive electrical port 12
   and the negative electrical port 13 are the same as that of the string port 11. The
   base 10 is also formed with the same installation platform 14 to fix the positive
15 electrical port 12 and the negative electrical port 13.
            As shown in FIG. 5, the inner surface of the upper wall 202 of the upper
   cover 20 is formed with a plurality of limiting sheets 204 and a plurality of
   limiting blocks 205. The circuit board 21 is disposed within the limiting sheets
   204 inside the upper wall 202, supported by the limiting blocks 205 to maintain a
20 height over the upper wall 202.
            The circuit board 21 is formed with a plurality of sets of paired
   conductive holes 211 in order to have electrical connections with pins 220
   protruding from the bottom end of the electrical connection pieces 22. Each of
   the conductive holes 211 is connected to the optimizing and monitoring circuit

                                              8
   provided on the circuit board 21. When the upper cover part 20 and the base part
   10 are connected, and the electrical connection pieces 22 are respectively
   connected to the string ports 11, the positive electrical port 12, and the negative
   electrical port 13 on the base 10, the optimizing and monitoring circuit on the
 5 circuit board 21 performs power optimization on the strings that are connected to
   the string ports 11, the positive electrical port 12, and the negative electrical port
   13. Parameters such as voltage and temperature of the PV module are monitored.
   When any parameter is abnormal, a notification is sent out and the strings are
   shut down automatically or remotely.
10          When the optimizing and monitoring circuit provided on the circuit
   board 21 performs power optimization, monitoring, and communications, it may
   generate a high temperature. To ensure that the operation of the optimizing and
   monitoring circuit is not affected by the high temperature, the upper cover 20 in
   this embodiment is further provided with a heat sink 23. As shown in FIG. 5, the
15 heat sink 23 is formed with a plurality of protruding parts 230, each of which is
   close to primary elements (such as MCU) on the optimizing and monitoring
   circuit of the circuit board 21 for heat dissipation. In this embodiment, the upper
   cover 20 is further injected with a glue with high thermal conductivity, thereby
   firmly fixing the circuit board 21 and the heat sink 23 therein. The highly
20 thermal conductive glue also helps heat dissipation. In addition, it is resistant to
   water and dusts. As shown in FIG. 6, a waterproof ring 40 is inserted between
   the upper cover 20 and the base 10 so that the junction box has better water
   resistance.
            The structure of the optimizing and monitoring circuit on the circuit

                                              9
   board 21 is shown in FIGS. 7A and 7B. The optimizing and monitoring circuit
   inside a single junction box comprises a micro control unit 30, a plurality of
   optimization modules 31~33, a driving module 34, a voltage collecting unit 35, a
   temperature collecting unit 36, and a power line communication (PLC) module
 5 37.
            The optimization modules 31-33 connect respectively to the power
   input terminals of the strings PV 1, PV2, and PV3 of the PV module. More
   explicitly, the optimization modules 31~33 electrically connect to the string
   ports 11, the positive electrical port 12, and the negative electrical port 13 on the
10 base part 1 via the electrical connection pieces 22 on the circuit board 21, thereby
   connecting to the power output terminals of PV1, PV2, and PV3. The
   optimization modules 31~33 perform maximum power point tracking (MPPT)
   on each of the strings PV1, PV2, and PV3. This achieves the goal of power
   optimization at the smallest power generation unit (string level).
15          The voltage collecting unit 35 has a set of input terminals and an output
   terminal. The input terminals are connected to a positive power source VO+ and
   a negative power source VO- of the PV module via the positive electrical port 12
   and the negative electrical port 13, thereby detecting the voltage of the PV
   module. The output terminal of the voltage collecting unit 35 is connected to the
20 micro control unit 30 to transmit the detected voltage to the micro control unit
   30.
            The temperature collecting unit 36 collects an environmental
   temperature of the optimizing and monitoring circuit, and transmits the detected
   environmental temperature to the connected micro control unit 30.

                                            10
            The PLC module 37 is a power line communication device connected to
   power loops of the micro control unit 30 and the PV module. Therefore, the
   micro control unit 30 communicates with an external system terminal device 50
   via power lines.
 5          In addition to the above-mentioned functions of power optimization,
   monitoring, and communications, the utility model further provides a shutdown
   function. Each of the optimization modules 31~33 has a shutdown end EN,
   which is connected to the output terminal of the driving module 34. The input
   terminal of the driving module 34 is connected with the micro control unit 30.
10 When the micro control unit 30 determines that the PV module or any of the
   strings is abnormal, in addition to sending a notification via the PLC module 37
   to the system terminal device 50, the micro control unit 30 can automatically
   send a command or accept a command from the system terminal device to shut
   down any one or all of the strings via the driving module 34. The abnormal
15 strings are isolated from the power loop to protect the system safety of other
   normal strings of the PV module or other PV modules.
            The power supplied to the junction box and the optimizing and
   monitoring circuit comes from the power output from the PV module without the
   need of any additional power supply systems. That is, the optimizing and
20 monitoring circuit further includes a DC/DC conversion unit 38, whose input
   terminal is connected to the power output terminal of the PV module via the
   electrical connection pieces 22 and the string ports 11. Therefore, the DC/DC
   conversion unit 38 performs DC to DC voltage conversion on the power output
   from the PV module, thereby supplying a stable working voltage to the micro

                                             11
   control unit 30. Since each of the strings PV1~PV3 of the PV module are
   connected in series via the optimization modules 31~33, the input terminal of the
   DC/DC conversion unit 38 then connects to the positive power output terminal
   of the string PV3 and the negative power output terminal of the string PV 1 via
 5 the electrical connection pieces 22 and the string ports 11, thereby obtaining
   electrical power from the PV module.
            Through the above-mentioned junction box, each of the PV modules can
   be connected in series. Each of the PV modules can also make use of the
   junction box to have power optimization, monitoring, and shutdown functions.
10 The optimizing and monitoring circuit of each junction box communicates with
   the system terminal device 50 via power lines. The system terminal device 50
   connects to the power lines via a demodulator 51 in order to demodulate carrier
   waves on the power line to the system terminal device 50.
            The explicit structure of the utility model is described above. The
15 following describes how to use the utility model.
            As shown in FIGS. 6 and 8, the upper cover part 2 is detachably
   connected to the base part 1. The upper cover 20 of the upper cover part 2 is
   provided with a circuit board 21 with the optimizing and monitoring circuit to
   perform optimization, communications, monitoring and shutdown functions.
20 Through the detachable electrical connections between the electrical connection
   pieces 22 and the string ports 11, the positive electrical port 12, and the negative
   electrical port 13, the junction box is easier to assemble. When the junction box
   requires maintenance, one merely takes off the upper cover part 2 and replaces it
   with a new upper cover part 2, making the repair quick and easy. Use of the

                                            12
   power lines for communications can reduce the costs of wiring and materials.
   This also reduces difficulty in assembly.
            While the utility model has been described by way of example and in
   terms of the preferred embodiment, it is to be understood that the utility model is
 5 not limited to the disclosed embodiments. To the contrary, it is intended to cover
   various modifications and similar arrangements as would be apparent to those
   skilled in the art. Therefore, the scope of the appended claims should be
   accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications
   and similar arrangements.
10

                                              13
   The claims defining the utility model are as followings::
             1. A functionally integrated detachable photovoltaic (PV) module
   junction box, comprising a base part and an upper cover part connected to the
   base part in a detachable way to establish an electrical connection; wherein
 5           the base part includes a base provided with a plurality of string ports, a
   positive electrical port, and a negative electrical port; and
             the upper cover part includes an upper cover provided with a circuit
   board therein, the circuit board is provided with an optimizing and monitoring
   circuit, a plurality of electrical connection pieces electrically connected to the
10 optimizing and monitoring circuit, and each of the electrical connection pieces
   matches a respective one of the string ports, the positive electrical port, and the
   negative electrical port on the base for corresponding insertion.
             2. The functionally integrated detachable PV module junction box of
   claim 1, wherein:
15           the base of the base part has a bottom formed with a plurality of through
   holes;
             a lower wall is formed around the bottom of the base and provided with
   the string ports, the positive electrical port and the negative electrical port
   therein;
20           a plurality of buckles are provided outside the lower wall of the bottom
   of the base for connection to the upper cover part;
             the upper cover of the upper cover part has a top and an upper wall
   formed around the top, with a space defined by the top and the upper wall being
   provided with the circuit board; and

                                              14
             a plurality of engaging blocks are provided outside the upper wall of the
   top of the upper cover, with each of the engaging blocks corresponding to a
   respective one of the buckles on the base.
             3. The functionally integrated detachable PV module junction box of
 5 claim 2, wherein:
             each of the string ports, the positive electrical port, and the negative
   electrical port is formed by bending a conductive metal sheet, with one end
   forming a U-shaped inserting part that has two pinnacles, one of the two
   pinnacles extending toward interior of the inserting part to form a contact spring
10 and the other pinnacle extending horizontally to form a saddle part, and the
   saddle part is formed with an electrical connection part on the end opposite to the
   inserting part;
             an inner surface of the bottom of the base is formed with a plurality of
   installation platforms, each of the installation platforms includes a concave
15 accommodation chamber and a wall part protruding from one edge of the
   accommodation chamber, and the saddle part strides across the wall part;
             the wall part of each of the installation platforms is formed with two
   protruding pillars; and
             the saddle part is formed with two fixing holes for the protruding pillars
20 of the wall part to go through, respectively.
             4. The functionally integrated detachable PV module junction box of
   claim 2, wherein an inner surface of the upper wall on the upper cover is formed
   with a plurality of limiting pieces and a plurality of limiting blocks, the circuit
   board is disposed within the limiting pieces of the upper wall and supported by

                                             15
   the limiting blocks to maintain a height on the upper wall;
            wherein the upper cover is provided with a heat sink on an inner side of
   the circuit board, the heat sink is formed with a plurality of protruding parts, and
   each of the protruding parts is close to the optimizing and monitoring circuit on
 5 the circuit board;
            wherein the upper cover is provided with thermally conductive glue to
   fix the circuit board and the heat sink therein; and
            wherein the circuit board is formed with a plurality of sets of paired
   conductive holes, each of which is connected to the optimizing and monitoring
10 circuit on the circuit board; and the each of the electrical connection pieces has
   two pins to be correspondingly inserted into the conductive holes on the circuit
   board.
            5. The functionally integrated detachable PV module junction box of
   claim 1, 2, 3, or 4, wherein
15          the optimizing and monitoring circuit includes:
                   a micro control unit;
                   a plurality of optimization modules; and
                   a driving module, a voltage collecting unit, a temperature
   collecting unit, and a power line communication (PLC) module connected to the
20 micro control unit;
            the optimization modules electrically connect to the electrical
   connection pieces, respectively;
            each of the optimization modules has a shutdown end connected to an
   output terminal of the driving module; and

                                           16
           an input terminal of the driving module connects to the micro control
  unit;
           wherein the optimizing and monitoring circuit includes a DC/DC
  conversion unit that has an input terminal connected to the corresponding
5 electrical connection piece, and an output terminal connected to the micro
  control unit.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/9

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
