                                        ABSTRACT
        The present disclosure provides activatable binding polypeptides (ABPs), which
contain a target binding moiety (TBM), a masking moiety (MM), and a cleavable moiety
(CM). The present disclosure provides activatable antibody compositions, which contain a
TBM containing an antigen binding domain (ABD), a MM and a CM. Furthermore the
present disclosure also provides ABPs which contain a first TBM, a second TBM and a CM.
The ABPs exhibit an "activatable" conformation such that at least one of the TBMs is less
accessible to target when uncleaved than after cleavage of the CM in the presence of a
cleaving agent capable of cleaving the CM. The disclosure further provides libraries of
candidate ABPs, methods of screening to identify such ABPs, and methods of use. The
disclosure further provides ABPs having TBMs that bind VEGF, CTLA-4, or VCAM, ABPs
having a first TBM that binds VEGF and a second TBM that binds FGF, as well as
compositions and methods of use.

                            AUSTRALIA
                          Patents Act 1990
                 The Regents of the University of California
                                      -and
                         CytomX Therapeutics, Inc.
                       COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                           STANDARD PATENT
Invention Title.
        Activatable bindingpolypeptides and methods of identificationand use
        thereof
The following statement is a full description of this invention including the best
method of performing it known to us:
                                         1

        ACTIVATABLE BINDING POLYPEPTIDES AND METHODS OF
                        IDENTIFICATION AND USE THEREOF
                 CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This application is a divisional application pursuant to S.79B of the PatentsAct 1990
of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn> which is a divisional application of
Australian Patent No. 2013202755 which is a divisional application of Australian Patent
Application        No. 2008289441       which   corresponds  to  International  Application   No.
PCT/US2008/009974 filed 21 August 2008 in the Australian national phase, which claims
priority from USSN 60/957,449 filed 22 August 2007; USSN 60/957,453 filed 22 August
2007; and USSN 61/052,986, filed 13 May 2008, the contents of which are incorporated herein
in their entirety.
     STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH
[0002] This invention was made with Government support under Federal Grant No. 1 U54
CA1 19335-01 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain
rights in this invention.
                                         BACKGROUND
[0003] Protein drugs have changed the face of modem medicine, finding application in a
variety of different diseases such a cancer, anemia, and neutropenia. As with any drugs,
however, the need and desire for drugs having improved specificity and selectivity for their
targets is of great interest, especially in developing second generation of protein drugs
having known targets to which they bind.
[0004] In the realm of small molecule drugs, strategies have been developed to provide
"prodrugs" of an active chemical entity. Such prodrugs are administered in a relatively
inactive (or significantly less active) form. Once administered, the prodrug is metabolized in
vivo into the active compound. Such prodrug strategies can provide for increased selectivity
of the drug for its intended target. An example of this can be seen in many anti-cancer
treatments, in which the reduction of adverse effects is always of paramount importance.
Drugs used to target hypoxic cancer cells, through the use of redox-activation, utilize the
large quantities of reductase enzyme present in the hypoxic cell to convert the drug into its
cytotoxic form, essentially activating it. Since the prodrug has low cytotoxicity prior to this
                                                  2

activation, there is a markedly decreased risk of damage to non-cancerous cells, thereby
providing for reduced side-effects associated with the drug.
[0005] There is a need in the field for a strategy for providing features of a prodrug to
protein-based therapeutics.
[0006] Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has
been included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of
these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field
relevant to the present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each of the
appended claims.
[0007] Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as "comprises"
or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or
step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other element,
integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.
                           SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0008] The present disclosure provides activatable binding polypeptides (ABPs), which
contain a target binding moiety (TBM), a masking moiety (MM), and a cleavable moiety
(CM). The ABP exhibits an "activatable" conformation such that the such that the TBM is
less accessible to target when uncleaved than after cleavage of the CM in the presence of a
cleaving agent capable of cleaving the CM. The disclosure further provides libraries of
candidate ABPs, methods of screening to identify such ABPs, and methods of use. The
disclosure further provides ABPs having a TBM that binds VEGF, as well as compositions
and methods of use.
[0009] Accordingly, the present disclosure provides an activatable binding polypeptide
(ABP) comprising a target binding moiety (TBM); a masking moiety (MM) capable of
inhibiting binding of the TBM to a target, wherein said MM does not have an amino acid
sequence of a naturally occurring binding partner of said TBM; and a cleavable moiety
(CM), wherein said CM is positioned in the activatable binding polypeptide such that in a
cleaved state in the presence of a target, the TBM binds the target, and in an uncleaved state
in the presence of the target, binding of the TBM to the target is inhibited by the MM.
[0010] In related embodiments, the MM is selected from a plurality of candidate
polypeptides based on its ability to inhibit binding of the TBM to the target in an uncleaved
state and allow binding of the TBM to the target in a cleaved state. In further related
embodiments, the MM inhibits binding of the TBM to the target via steric hindrance when
                                                 3

the ABP is in an uncleaved state. In other related embodiments, the MM comprises a
cysteine residue and steric hindrance is achieved via disulfide bond linkage between said
cysteine residue and an additional cysteine residue adjacent to or within the TBM. In
additional embodiments the TBM is an extracellular polypeptide.
[0011] In further related embodiments, the CM is located between the TBM and the MM in
the ABP, and in other embodiments is located within the MM. In certain embodiments, the
CM comprises a protease substrate, which can be, for example, a plasmin substrate, a
caspase substrate or a matrix metalloprotease (MMP) substrate (e.g., a substrate of MMP-1,
MMP-2, MMP-9, or MMP-14). In other embodiments, the CM includes a protease substrate
is a substrate for an intracellular protease. In additional embodiments, the CM comprises a
cysteine-cysteine disulfide bond.
[0012] In another aspect, the disclosure provides methods of screening for an activatable
binding polypeptide (ABP), the method comprising contacting a plurality of candidate
activatable binding polypeptides (candidate ABPs) with a target capable of binding a target
binding moiety of the candidate ABPs and a cleaving agent capable of cleaving a cleavable
moiety (CM) of the ABPs; screening a first population of members of said plurality which
bind to said target in the presence of the cleaving agent; contacting said first population with
the target in the absence of the cleaving agent; and screening a second population of
members from said first population by depleting said first population for members that bind
the target in the absence of the cleaving agent; wherein said method provides for selection of
candidate ABPs which exhibit decreased binding to the target in the absence of the cleaving
agent as compared to target binding in the presence of the cleaving agent.
[0013] In related embodiments the cleaving agent is a protease or a reducing agent. In
further related embodiments, the target comprises a detectable label. In further embodiments,
the first population is selected by detection of the detectable label. In further embodiments,
the second population is produced by separating from the first population members that are
detectably labeled.
[0014] In further related embodiments, each of said plurality of candidate activatable
binding polypeptides is presented on a surface of a replicable biological entity in a display
scaffold.
[0015] The disclosure further provides libraries of candidate activatable binding
polypeptides (ABPs), the library comprising a plurality of candidate ABPs displayed on the
surface of a replicable biological entity. In related embodiments the replicable biological
entity is a bacterial, yeast or mammalian cell.
                                                  4

[0016] The disclosure also provides compositions comprising a nucleic acid construct
comprising a nucleic acid coding for an ABP. In related embodiments, the nucleic acid
construct further comprises a nucleic acid coding for a display scaffold wherein the nucleic
acid coding for the ABP is operably inserted into the construct to provide for expression of a
fusion protein for presentation of the ABP in the display scaffold on the surface of a host
cell. An exemplary display scaffold is a circularly permuted outer membrane protein X
(CPX). In related embodiments, the ABP is a candidate ABP having a candidate MM.
[0017] The disclosure further provides methods of making a library of candidate activatable
binding polypeptides, the method comprising introducing into genomes of replicable
biological entities a collection of recombinant DNA constructs that encode a plurality of
candidate activatable binding polypeptides (ABPs), wherein each member of said plurality
comprises a target binding moiety (TBM), a cleavable moiety (CM) and a candidate masking
moiety (MM), said introducing producing recombinant replicable biological entities; and
culturing said recombinant replicable biological entities under conditions suitable for
expression and display of the candidate ABPs.
[0018] The disclosure also provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising a
therapeutically effective amount of an activatable binding polypeptide (ABP) and a
pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In related embodiments the TBM of the ABP is
capable of binding VEGF to effect VEGF inhibition.
[0019] The disclosure also provides methods of inhibiting angiogenesis in a subject in need
thereof, the method comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically
effective amount of an ABP, with exemplary ABPs including those having a TBM that binds
VEGF to effect inhibition of VEGF activity (e.g., at a tumor site).
[0020] In one embodiment, an ABP is disclosed wherein the target of the ABP is any one of
VCAM-1, VEGF-A, CTLA-4 or CD40L.
[0021] The present disclosure also provides activatable binding polypeptides (ABPs), which
contain a first target binding moiety (TBM), a second TBM, and a cleavable moiety (CM).
The ABP exhibits an "activatable" conformation such that the such that at least one of the
TBMs is less accessible to target when uncleaved than after cleavage of the CM in the
presence of a cleaving agent capable of cleaving the CM. The disclosure further provides
libraries of candidate ABPs having such a configuration, methods of screening to identify
such ABPs, and methods of use. The disclosure further provides ABPs having a TBM that
binds VEGF and a TBM that binds FGF to effect inhibition of VEGF and FGF activity, as
well as compositions and methods of use.
                                                5

[0022] Accordingly, the disclosure provides an activatable binding polypeptide (ABP)
comprising a first target binding moiety (TBM); a second TBM; and a cleavable moiety
(CM), wherein said CM is positioned in the activatable binding polypeptide such that in a
cleaved state in the presence of a target, the first and second TBMs bind target, and in an
uncleaved state the ABP is in a conformation such that the first TBM interferes with target
binding by the second TBM.
[0023] In related embodiments, the ABP in the uncleaved state is in a conformation such
that the first and second TBMs interfere with binding of target to the first and second TBMs.
In further related embodiments, the first and second TBMs are capable of binding different
targets, e.g., to FGF2 and to VEGF. In further related embodiments, the first TBM is
selected from a plurality of candidate polypeptides based on the ability of said first TBM to
inhibit binding of said second TBM to a target when the ABP is in an uncleaved state and
allow binding of said second TBM to the target when the ABP is in a cleaved state. In
another embodiment, the first TBM interferes with target binding by said second TBM via
steric hindrance when the ABP is in an uncleaved state. In further related embodiments, the
ABP comprises a first cysteine residue within or adjacent to said first TBM and a second
cysteine residue within or adjacent to said second TBM, and wherein steric hindrance is
achieved via disulfide bond linkage between said first and second cysteine residue. In related
embodiments, the target of said first TBM and said second TBM is an extracellular
polypeptide. In other embodiments, the CM is located between said first TBM and said
second TBM in the ABP, or, where the CM comprises a cysteine-cysteine pair, the CM can
be located within either said first TBM or said second TBM. In further related embodiments,
the CM comprises a protease substrate, e.g., a matrix metalloprotease (MMP) substrate, e.g.,
a substrate of MMP-1, MMP-2, MMP-9, or MMP-14. In further related embodiments, the
protease substrate is a substrate for an intracellular protease. In another embodiment, the CM
comprises a cysteine-cysteine disulfide bond.
[0024] The disclosure further provides methods for selecting for a dual target binding
activatable binding polypeptide (ABP), said method comprising: contacting a plurality of
candidate activatable binding polypeptides (ABPs), wherein each member of said plurality
comprises a first target binding moiety (TBM), a second TBM and a cleavable moiety (CM),
with a target capable of binding said first TBM and a cleaving agent capable of cleaving the
CM; selecting a first population of members of said plurality which bind to said target in the
presence of the cleaving agent; contacting said first population with said target in the
absence of the cleaving agent; and selecting a second population of members from said first
                                                 6

population by depleting said first population for members that bind to said target in the
absence of the cleaving agent; wherein said method provides for selection of candidate ABPs
which exhibit decreased binding to said target in the absence of the cleaving agent as
compared to binding to said target in the presence of the cleaving agent.
[0025] In related embodiments, the cleaving agent is a protease or a disulfide bond reducing
agent. In further related embodiments, the first target and the second target each comprise a
detectable label. In further related embodiments, the first population is selected by detection
of the detectable label. In further related embodiments, the second population is produced by
separating from the first population members that are detectably labeled. In still other
embodiments, the plurality of candidate activatable binding polypeptides is presented on a
surface of a replicable biological entity in a display scaffold. In further embodiments,
binding of the second TBM to target is assessed by providing the amino acid sequence of the
second TBM in a display scaffold and detecting binding of target to the second TBM.
[0026] The disclosure further provides libraries of candidate dual target binding activatable
binding polypeptides (ABPs), said library comprising a plurality of candidate dual target
binding ABPs displayed on the surface of a replicable biological entity. In related
embodiments, the replicable biological entity is a bacterial, yeast or mammalian cells.
[0027] The disclosure also provides compositions comprising a nucleic acid construct
comprising a nucleic acid coding for a dual target binding ABP. In related embodiments, the
nucleic acid construct further comprises a nucleic acid coding for a display scaffold wherein
the nucleic acid coding for the ABP is operably inserted into the construct to provide for
expression of a fusion protein for presentation of the ABP in the display scaffold on the
surface of a host cell. In further related embodiments, the display scaffold is a circularly
permuted outer membrane protein X (CPX).
[0028] The disclosure also provides compositions comprising a nucleic acid construct
comprising a nucleic acid encoding a candidate dual target binding activatable binding
polypeptide, and further wherein said candidate activatable binding polypeptide comprises:
(a) a first target binding moiety (TBM); (b) a cleavable moiety (CM); and (c) a second
TBM, wherein the first TBM, CM and second TBM are positioned such that the ability of
said first TBM to inhibit binding of said second TBM to a target in an uncleaved state and
allow binding of said second TBM to the target in a cleaved state can be determined.
[0029] In related embodiments, the nucleic acid construct further comprises a nucleic acid
coding for a circularly permuted outer membrane protein X (CPX).
                                                 7

[0030] The disclosure further provides methods of making a library of candidate dual target
binding activatable binding polypeptides, said method comprising introducing into genomes
of replicable biological entities a collection of recombinant DNA constructs that encode a
plurality of dual target binding candidate activatable binding polypeptides (ABPs), wherein
each member of said plurality comprises a first target binding moiety (TBM), a cleavable
moiety (CM) and a second TBM, said introducing producing recombinant replicable
biological entities; and culturing said recombinant replicable biological entities under
conditions suitable for expression and display of the candidate dual target binding ABPs.
[0031] The disclosure also provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising a
therapeutically effective amount of a dual target binding activatable binding polypeptide
(ABP) and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In related embodiments, the first TBM
of the ABP binds VEGF to effect VEGF inhibition and the second TBM binds fibroblast
growth factor-2 (FGF2) to effect FGF2 inhibition.
[0032] The disclosure also provides methods of inhibiting angiogenesis in a mammalian
subject, method comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically
effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a dual target binding ABP.
[0033] In one aspect, the disclosure provides for a composition comprising an antigen
binding domain (ABD) capable of binding a target, wherein said ABD is coupled to at least
one masking moiety (MM) wherein said MM interferes with specific binding of the ABD to
the target. In one embodiment the composition further comprises a cleavable moiety (CM)
wherein said composition comprises two configurations, a first configuration wherein the
CM is in an uncleaved state and the MM interferes with specific binding of the ABD to the
target and a second configuration wherein the CM is in a cleaved state and the MM does not
interfere with specific binding of the ABD to the target.
[0034] In another aspect the disclosure provides an activatable binding polypeptide (ABP)
comprising at least one antigen binding domain (ABD) capable of binding a target, at least
one masking moiety (MM) coupled said ABD capable of interfering with specific binding of
the ABD to the target, and, at least one cleavable moiety (CM) coupled to said ABD,
wherein said CM is positioned in the ABP such that in an uncleaved state the MM interferes
with specific binding of the ABD to the target and in a cleaved state the MM does not
interfere with specific binding of the ABD to the target. In certain embodiments the CM is
coupled to the C-terminus of the ABD. In other embodiments, the CM is coupled to the N
terminus of the ABD or to the N-terminus of the VL or VH chains of the ABD. In related
embodiments the MM is coupled to the C-terminus of the ABD. In other related
                                                 8

embodiments, the MM is coupled to the N-terminus of the ABD or to the N-terminus of the
VL or VH chains of the ABD. In further embodiments the ABP also contains a linker
peptide positioned between the MM and the CM. In related embodiments a linker peptide is
positioned between the ABD and the CM. In specific embodiments the ABP comprising an
ABD, CM, and MM further comprises a detectable moiety. In certain embodiments the
detectable moiety is a diagnostic agent.
[0035] In one embodiment the ABP comprising an ABD, CM, and MM contains an ABD
that is from a full length antibody, Fab fragment, ScFv, or SCAB. In certain embodiments
the target of the ABD is selected from the group consisting of VEGF-A, VEGF-B, VEGF-C,
VEGF-D, VEGFR1, VEGFR2, VEGFR3, EGFR, FGF-2, FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FGFR4,
HER2/neu, DLL4, NOTCHR1, ILIB, ILIR, IL2, IL2R, IL4, IL6, IL12, IL13, IL15, IL18,
IL23, IGF, IGF1R, ERBB3, VCAM-1, CXCR4, CD3, CD11a, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD25,
CD28, CD30, CD33, CD40, CD40L, CD41, CD44, CD52, CD80, CD86, CTLA-4, TNFa,
TNFR, TRAIL-Ri, TRAIL-R2, IgE, IgE Receptor, PDGF-AA, PDGF-BB, PDGFRa,
PDGFRP, GPIIB/IIIA, CLAUDIN-3, CLAUDIN-4, C5 complement, F protein of RSV,
Glyocprotein Ilb/Illa receptor, a4pl integrin, and a4p7 integrin. In further embodiments the
ABP comprising an ABD further comprises a CM which is a substrate for an enzyme
selected from the group consisting of MMP1, MMP2, MMP3, MMP8, MMP9, MMP14,
plasmin, PSA, PSMA, CATHEPSIN D, CATHEPSIN K, CATHEPSIN S, ADAM10,
ADAM12, ADAMTS, Caspase-1, Caspase-2, Caspase-3, Caspase-4, Caspase-5, Caspase-6,
Caspase-7, Caspase-8, Caspase-9, Caspase-10, Caspase- 11, Caspase-12, Caspase-13,
Caspase-14, and TACE. In specific embodiments the CM is a substrate for MMP9.
[0036] In another aspect, the present disclosure provides a method of modifying a
composition containing an antigen binding domain (ABD) capable of binding a target, the
method comprising coupling a masking moiety (MM) and a cleavable moiety (CM) to said
ABD such that in a uncleaved state the MM interferes with the ABD to specifically bind the
target and in a cleaved state the MM does not interfere with the ABD to specifically bind the
target. In one embodiment the MM and/or the CM is coupled to the C-terminus of the ABD.
In another embodiment MM and/or the CMS is coupled to the N-terminus of the ABD. In
some embodiments the CM is a substrate for an enzyme selected from the group consisting
of MMP1, MMP2, MMP3, MMP8, MMP9, MMP14, plasmin, PSA, PSMA, CATHEPSIN
D, CATHEPSIN K, CATHEPSIN S, ADAM1O, ADAM12, ADAMTS, Caspase-1, Caspase
2, Caspase-3, Caspase-4, Caspase-5, Caspase-6, Caspase-7, Caspase-8, Caspase-9, Caspase
10, Caspase- 11, Caspase-12, Caspase-13, Caspase-14, and TACE.
                                               9

[0037] In certain embodiments the target of the ABD is selected from the group consisting
of VEGF-A, VEGF-B, VEGF-C, VEGF-D, VEGFR1, VEGFR2, VEGFR3, EGFR, FGF-2,
FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FGFR4, HER2/neu, DLL4, NOTCHR1, ILIB, ILIR, IL2, IL2R,
IL4, IL6, IL12, IL13, IL15, IL18, IL23, IGF, IGF1R, ERBB3, VCAM-1, CXCR4, CD3,
CD11a, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD25, CD28, CD30, CD33, CD40, CD40L, CD41, CD44,
CD52, CD80, CD86, CTLA-4, TNFa, TNFR, TRAIL-Ri, TRAIL-R2, IgE, IgE Receptor,
PDGF-AA, PDGF-BB, PDGFRa, PDGFRP, GPIB/IIIA, CLAUDIN-3, CLAUDIN-4, C5
complement, F protein of RSV, Glyocprotein Ilb/Illa receptor, a4PlI integrin, and a4p7
integrin. In related embodiments, the ABD is from a full length antibody, Fab fragment,
ScFv, or SCAB and the ABD is from an antibody or an antibody fragment to a target
selected from the group consisting of VEGF, EGFR, CTLA-4, TNFu, Integrina4, IL2R,
Complement C5, CD1 1a, CD20, CD25, CD33, CD52, Glycoprotein receptor Ilb/Ila, IgE,
Her2, and F protein of RSV. In further related embodiments ABD is from an antibody
selected from the group consisting of bevacizumab, ranibizumab, trastuzumab, infliximab,
adalimumab, efalizumab, gemtuzumab ozogamicin, tositumomab, ibritumomab tiuxetan,
eculizumab, alemtuzumab, rituximab, abiciximab, cetuximab, daclizumab, basiliximab,
gemtuzumab, panitumumab, eculizumab, natalizumab, omalizumab, ipilimumab,
tremelimumab, and palivizumab. In specific embodiments the ABD is from an antibody or
an antibody fragment thereof to VEGF. In a related embodiment the ABD is from
bevacizumab or ranibizumab. In another specific embodiment, the ABD is from an antibody
or an antibody fragment thereof to TNFa. In a related embodiment, the ABD is from
infliximab or adalimumab. In another specific embodiment, the ABD is from an antibody or
an antibody fragment thereof to CD20. In a related embodiment the ABD is from
tositumomab, ibritumomab tiuxetan, or rituximab. In yet another specific embodiment the
ABD is from an antibody or an antibody fragment thereof to EGFR. In a related
embodiment the ABD is from cetuximab or panitumumab. In yet another specific
embodiment the ABD is from an antibody or an antibody fragment thereof to CTLA-4. In a
related embodiment the ABD is from ipilimumab or tremelimumab.
[0038] The disclosure also provides a method of screening candidate peptides to identify a
masking moiety (MM) peptide with specific binding affinity for an antibody or fragment
thereof comprising an antigen binding domain (ABD). This method includes providing a
library of peptide scaffolds, wherein each peptide scaffolds comprises a transmembrane
protein (TM), a candidate peptide and involves contacting the antibody or fragment thereof
comprising an ABD with the library and identifying a MM peptide having specific binding
                                              10

affinity for the ABD contained in the antibody or fragment thereof. In some embodiments
the library comprises viruses, cells or spores. In a specific embodiment the library comprises
E. coli. In certain embodiments the peptide scaffold further comprises a detectable moiety.
[0039] In certain embodiments the antibody or fragment thereof comprises an ABD to be
screened in order to identify MMs is capable of binding a target wherein the target is
selected from the group consisting of VEGF-A, VEGF-B, VEGF-C, VEGF-D, VEGFR1,
VEGFR2, VEGFR3, EGFR, FGF-2, FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FGFR4, HER2/neu, DLL4,
NOTCHR1, ILIB, ILIR, IL2, IL2R, IL4, IL6, IL12, IL13, IL15, IL18, IL23, IGF, IGF1R,
ERBB3, VCAM-1, CXCR4, CD3, CD11a, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD25, CD28, CD30,
CD33, CD40, CD40L, CD41, CD44, CD52, CD80, CD86, CTLA-4, TNFa, TNFR, TRAIL
RI, TRAIL-R2, IgE, IgE Receptor, PDGF-AA, PDGF-BB, PDGFRa, PDGFRO, GPIIB/IIIA,
CLAUDIN-3, CLAUDIN-4, C5 complement, F protein of RSV, Glyocprotein Ilb/IIla
receptor, a4plI integrin, and a4f7 integrin. In related embodiments the ABD to be screened
to identify MMs is from an antibody selected from the group consisting of bevacizumab,
ranibizumab, trastuzumab, infliximab, adalimumab, efalizumab, gemtuzumab ozogamicin,
tositumomab, ibritumomab tiuxetan, eculizumab, alemtuzumab, rituximab, abiciximab,
cetuximab, daclizumab, basiliximab, gemtuzumab, panitumumab, eculizumab, natalizumab,
omalizumab, ipilimumab, tremelimumab, and palivizumab. In specific embodiments the
ABD is from an antibody or an antibody fragment to a target selected from the group
consisting of VEGF, EGFR, CTLA-4, TNFa, Integrina4, IL2R, Complement C5, CD1 1a,
CD20, CD25, CD33, CD52, Glycoprotein receptor Ilb/Ila, IgE, Her2, and F protein of RSV.
In specific embodiments the ABD is from an antibody or an antibody fragment thereof to
VEGF. In a related embodiment the ABD is from bevacizumab or ranibizumab. In another
specific embodiment, the ABD is from an antibody or an antibody fragment thereof to
TNFa. In a related embodiment, the ABD is from infliximab or adalimumab. In another
specific embodiment, the ABD is from an antibody or an antibody fragment thereof to
CD20. In a related embodiment the ABD is from tositumomab, ibritumomab tiuxetan, or
rituximab. In yet another specific embodiment the ABD is from an antibody or an antibody
fragment thereof to EGFR. In a related embodiment the ABD is from cetuximab or
panitumumab. In yet another specific embodiment the ABD is from an antibody or an
antibody fragment thereof to CTLA-4. In a related embodiment the ABD is from
ipilimumab or tremelimumab.
[0040] In other aspects the present disclosure provides methods of treating and/or
diagnosing a condition in a subject including administering to the subject a composition
                                                11

comprising an antibody or fragment thereof containing an antigen binding domain (ABD)
capable of binding a target coupled to a masking moiety (MM) and a cleavable moiety
(CM), such that in an uncleaved state the MM interferes with the ABD to specifically bind
the target and in a cleaved state the MM does not interfere with the ABD to specifically bind
the target. In certain embodiments the ABD is from a full length antibody, a Fab fragment,
ScFv, or SCAB. In certain embodiments the ABD is from an antibody selected from the
group consisting of bevacizumab, ranibizumab, trastuzumab, infliximab, adalimumab,
efalizumab, gemtuzumab ozogamicin, tositumomab, ibritumomab tiuxetan, eculizumab,
alemtuzumab, rituximab, abiciximab, cetuximab, daclizumab, basiliximab, gemtuzumab,
panitumumab, eculizumab, natalizumab, omalizumab, ipilimumab, tremelimumab, and
palivizumab. In related embodiments the target is selected from the group consisting of
VEGF-A, VEGF-B, VEGF-C, VEGF-D, VEGFR1, VEGFR2, VEGFR3, EGFR, FGF-2,
FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FGFR4, HER2/neu, DLL4, NOTCHR1, ILIB, ILIR, IL2, IL2R,
IL4, IL6, IL12, IL13, IL15, IL18, IL23, IGF, IGF1R, ERBB3, VCAM-1, CXCR4, CD3,
CD11a, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD25, CD28, CD30, CD33, CD40, CD40L, CD41, CD44,
CD52, CD80, CD86, CTLA-4, TNFa, TNFR, TRAIL-Ri, TRAIL-R2, IgE, IgE Receptor,
PDGF-AA, PDGF-BB, PDGFRa, PDGFRp, GPIIB/IIIA, CLAUDIN-3, CLAUDIN-4, C5
complement, F protein of RSV, Glyocprotein Ilb/Illa receptor, a4p1 integrin, and a4p7
integrin. In further related embodiments the ABD is from an antibody or an antibody
fragment to a target selected from the group consisting of VEGF, EGFR, CTLA-4, TNFa,
Integrina4, IL2R, Complement C5, CDI la, CD20, CD25, CD33, CD52, Glycoprotein
receptor Ilb/Ila, IgE, Her2, and F protein of RSV. In specific embodiments the ABD is
from an antibody or an antibody fragment thereof to VEGF. In a related embodiment the
ABD is from bevacizumab or ranibizumab. In another specific embodiment, the ABD is
from an antibody or an antibody fragment thereof to TNFa. In a related embodiment, the
ABD is from infliximab or adalimumab. In another specific embodiment, the ABD is from
an antibody or an antibody fragment thereof to CD20. In a related embodiment the ABD is
from tositumomab, ibritumomab tiuxetan, or rituximab. In yet another specific embodiment
the ABD is from an antibody or an antibody fragment thereof to EGFR. In a related
embodiment the ABD is from cetuximab or panitumumab. In yet another specific
embodiment the ABD is from an antibody or an antibody fragment thereof to CTLA-4. In a
related embodiment the ABD is from ipilimumab or tremelimumab.
[0041] In certain specific aspects the disclosure provides for enzyme-activatable antibodies
or fragments thereof. In certain embodiments the enzyme selected from the group consisting
                                               12

of MMP1, MMP2, MMP3, MMP8, MMP9, MMP 14, plasmin, PSA, PSMA, CATHEPSIN
D, CATHEPSIN K, CATHEPSIN S, ADAM1O, ADAM12, ADAMTS, Caspase-1, Caspase
2, Caspase-3, Caspase-4, Caspase-5, Caspase-6, Caspase-7, Caspase-8, Caspase-9, Caspase
10, Caspase- 11, Caspase-12, Caspase-13, Caspase-14, and TACE. In related embodiments
the antibody fragment is from a full length antibody, or is a scFv, Fab, or SCAB. In one
specific aspect the disclosure provides for an enzyme-activatable anti-VEGF-A antibody or
fragment thereof. In one specific embodiment the antibody is ranibizumab. In another
embodiment the antibody is activated by MMP9. In another aspect the disclosure provides
for an enzyme-activatable anti-CTLA-4 antibody or fragment thereof. In one specific
embodiment the antibody is ipilimumab or tremelimumab. In another embodiment the
antibody is activated by MMP9. In yet another related aspect the disclosure provides for an
enzyme-activatable VCAM- 1 antibody of fragment thereof. In one specific embodiment the
antibody is activated by MMP9.
[0042] In one aspect, the disclosure provides a reaction mixture comprising an ABP, a
protease capable of cleaving said ABP, and a target of said ABP.
[0043] Other aspects and embodiments will be readily apparent upon reading the present
disclosure.
                    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0044] Figure 1 is a diagram of an ABP which shows the ABP in an inactive (uncleaved
state) and an active (cleaved state).
[0045] Figure 2 is a schematic of a library screening procedure which may be used to
identify and isolate ABPs.
[0046] Figure 3 shows the amino acid sequence of a T7 control construct and shows that the
VEGF binds the control construct in both the presence and absence of enzyme. Fig. 3 also
shows cleavage of an MMP-2 substrate (CM) by MMP-2.
[0047] Figure 4 shows the amino acid sequences of a cysteine constrained loop ABP and a
GS control construct. Fig. 4 also shows a diagram of the ABP in an inactive (uncleaved
state) and an active (cleaved state).
[0048] Figure 5 shows the results of binding experiments which indicate that the formation
of a cysteine constrained loop in an ABP interferes with VEGF binding. Diagrams of the GS
control and the ABP, in both cleaved and uncleaved states, are also shown.
[0049] Figure 6 shows the amino acid sequences of 4 exemplary construct libraries and
shows diagrams representing the displayed constructs of the libraries.
                                               13

[0050] Figure 7 is a schematic of the screening procedure applied to the construct libraries
shown in Fig. 6.
[0051] Figure 8 shows that members of an exemplary library that exhibit switch-like
behavior can be identified after sorting constructs according to the screening procedure
shown in Fig. 7.
[0052] Figure 9 shows that selected library clones demonstrate improved switching activity
over cysteine constrained controls.
[0053] Figure 10 shows the amino acid sequences of clones isolated from the libraries that
demonstrated the most marked "switching" phenotype.
[0054] Figure 11 shows the results of binding experiments that demonstrate switching
activity for clones having cysteine residues in the MM as well for clones lacking cysteine
residues in the MM.
[0055] Figure 12 shows the results of experiments demonstrating that reduction of disulfide
bonds in both a cysteine constrained parent and a library clone having a cysteine in the MM
results in increased binding of VEGF to the TBM of the constructs.
[0056] Figure 13 shows a graphical representation of the improvement in K that occurred
when a cysteine constrained parent construct was contacted with VEGF and treated with
MMP-2, as compared with the Kd in the absence of MMP-2 treatment.
[0057] Figure 14 shows a graphical representation of the improvement in Kd that occurred
when library clone 2.2A.5 was contacted with VEGF and treated with MMP-2, as compared
with the K4 in the absence of MMP-2 treatment.
[0058] Figure 15 shows the results of sorting of masking moiety Library 1 for expanded
dynamic range by adjusting the concentration of labeled target.
[0059] Figure 16 shows the results of sorting of masking moiety Library 1 for expanded
dynamic range by adjusting the concentration of labeled target and identifies an average 4
fold dynamic range for a Library 1 ABP pool. Note that for Fig. 16, the term EABP refers to
an ABP as described herein.
[0060] Figure 17 shows a diagram of an exemplary embodiment of a protease-activatable
VEGF inhibitor.
[0061] Figure 18 shows the amino acid sequence of an exemplary ABP identified through a
screen of a candidate ABP library.
[0062] Figure 19 shows a diagram of candidate ABP libraries with candidate masking
moieties suitable for the identification of protease-activatable VEGF inhibitors.
[0063] Figure 20 is a schematic showing exemplary ABPs of the present disclosure.
                                                14

[0064] Figure 21 shows an embodiment of the library screening procedure shown in Fig. 2.
[0065] Figure 22 shows the sequences for various exemplary ABPs having cysteine and
non-cysteine containing MMs.
[0066] Figure 23 shows fluorescence values for a cysteine constrained loop structure in the
presence and absence of MMP-2 compared with the fluorescence values for library clones
4.2A.1 1 (a.k.a. 4-2A-1 1) and 2.3B.5 (a.k.a. 2-3B-5) in the presence and absence of MMP-2.
[0067] Figure 24 shows fold fluorescence increase after enzyme treatment for various ABP
library clones.
[0068] Figure 25 shows switching activity for selected ABP library clones.
[0069] Figure 26 shows a diagram of a maltose-binding protein (MBP)-ABP fusion utilized
in soluble protein binding assays.
[0070] Figure 27 provides graphs showing BiacoreTM assay results demonstrating that
soluble ABP fusions retain enzyme mediated binding properties.
[0071] Figure 28 provides the results of FACS analysis showing binding of selected
candidate MM peptides to anti-VCAM-1 scFV.
[0072] Figures 29, 30 and 31 each provide an amino acid sequence of a prophetic ABP
comprising an anti-VCAM-1 scFV.
[0073] Figures 32, 33 and 34 each provide an amino acid sequence of a prophetic ABP
comprising an anti-VCAM-1 scFV, wherein the ABPs are designed for cytoplasmic
expression as inclusion bodies.
[0074] Figure 35 provides a schematic showing activation and target binding of an ABP
with a TBM comprising an anti-VCAM-1 scFV ABD and a CM comprising an MMP-1
substrate.
[0075] Figure 36 shows a protease-activated ABP containing an antigen binding domain
(ABD).
[0076] Figure 37 illustrates a process to produce a protease-activated ABP containing an
antigen binding domain (ABD), involving: screening for MMs; screening for CMs;
assembling the MM, CM, and TBM containing an ABD; expressing and purifying the
assembled construct; and assaying the assembled construct for activity and toxicity in vitro
and in vivo.
[0077] Figure 38 provides an exemplary MMP-9 cleavable masked anti-VEGF scFv amino
acid sequence.
                                                15

[0078] Figure 39 provides ELISA data showing the MMP-9 activation of the MBP:anti
VEGFscFv ABPs with the MMs 306 and 314. Samples were treated with TEV to remove
the MBP fusion partner and subsequently activated by MMP-9 digestion.
[0079] Figure 40 provides ELISA data demonstrating the MMP-9-dependent VEGF binding
of the anti-VEGFscFv His construct with the 306 MM.
[0080] Figure 41 provides ELISA data demonstrating the MMP-9-dependent VEGF binding
of anti-VEGFscFv-Fc ABPs with the MMs 306 and 314 from HEK cell supernatants.
[0081] Figure 42 provides ELISA data showing the MMP-9-dependent VEGF binding of
anti-VEGF scFv-Fc ABP constructs with the MMs 306 and 314 that were purified using a
Protein A column.
[0082] Figure 43 shows light and heavy chains of anti-CTLA4 joined via SOE-PCR to
generate scFv constructs in both orientiations, VHVL and VLVH
[0083] Figure 44 illustrates the use of PCR to add sites for MM cloning, CM cleavage
sequence, GGS2 linker on the N-terminus of the anti-CTLA4 scFv VHVL and VLVH
constructs.
[0084] Figure 45 provides the nucleotide and amino acid sequence of a MM linker-CM
anti-CTLA4 scFv linker used in the preparation of ABPs including an anti-CTLA4 scFv.
[0085] Before the present invention is further described, it is to be understood that this
invention is not limited to particular embodiments described, as such may, of course, vary. It
is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing
particular embodiments only, and is not intended to be limiting, since the scope of the
present invention will be limited only by the appended claims.
[0086] Where a range of values is provided, it is understood that each intervening value, to
the tenth of the unit of the lower limit unless the context clearly dictates otherwise, between
the upper and lower limit of that range and any other stated or intervening value in that
stated range, is encompassed within the invention. The upper and lower limits of these
smaller ranges may independently be included in the smaller ranges, and are also
encompassed within the invention, to any specifically excluded limit in the stated range.
Where the stated range includes one or both of the limits, ranges excluding either or both of
those included limits are also included in the invention.
[0087] Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention
belongs. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein
                                                 16

can also be used in the practice or testing of the present invention, the preferred methods and
materials are now described. All publications mentioned herein are incorporated herein by
reference to disclose and describe the methods and/or materials in connection with which the
publications are cited.
[0088] It must be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims, the singular forms
"a," "an," "and," and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates
otherwise. Thus, for example, reference to "an activatable binding polypeptide" includes a
plurality of such activatable binding polypeptides and reference to "the activatable binding
polypeptide" includes reference to one or more activatable binding polypeptides and
equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art, and so forth. It is further noted that the
claims may be drafted to exclude any optional element. As such, this statement is intended to
serve as antecedent basis for use of such exclusive terminology as "solely," "only" and the
like in connection with the recitation of claim elements, or use of a "negative" limitation.
[0089] The publications discussed herein are provided solely for their disclosure prior to the
filing date of the present application. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that
the present invention is not entitled to antedate such publication by virtue of prior invention.
Further, the dates of publication provided may be different from the actual publication dates
which may need to be independently confirmed.
         DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS
[0090] The present disclosure provides activatable binding polypeptides (ABPs), which
contain a target binding moiety (TBM), a masking moiety (MM), and a cleavable moiety
(CM). The ABP exhibits an "activatable" conformation such that the TBM is less accessible
to target when uncleaved than after cleavage of the CM, e.g., in the presence of a cleavage
agent (e.g., a protease which recognizes the cleavage site of the CM). The disclosure further
provides libraries of candidate ABPs, methods of screening to identify such ABPs, and
methods of use. The disclosure further provides ABPs having a TBM that binds VEGF, as
well as compositions and methods of use.
[0091] The present disclosure also provides ABPs, which contain a first TBM, a second
TBM, and a CM. These ABPs exhibit an "activatable" conformation such that at least one of
the TBMs is less accessible to target when uncleaved than after cleavage of the CM in the
presence of a cleaving agent capable of cleaving the CM. The disclosure further provides
libraries of candidate ABPs having such a configuration, methods of screening to identify
such ABPs, and methods of use. The disclosure further provides ABPs having a TBM that
                                                17

binds VEGF and a TBM that binds FGF to effect inhibition of VEGF and FGF activity, as
well as compositions and methods of use.
 [0092] The present disclosure also provides activatable binding polypeptides (ABPs), which
include a target binding moiety (TBM) that is an antibody or an antibody fragment
containing an antigen binding domain capable of binding a target (ABD), a masking moiety
(MM), and a cleavable moiety (CM). The ABP exhibits an "activatable" conformation such
that the ABD is less accessible to the target when uncleaved than after cleavage of the CM,
e.g., in the presence of a cleavage agent (e.g., a protease which recognizes the cleavage site
of the CM). The disclosure further provides libraries of candidate ABPs, candidate MMs for
the ABD, methods of screening to identify such ABPs and MMs and methods of use. The
disclosure further provides ABPs having ABDs that bind one or more of several targets
disclosed herein as well as compositions and methods of use.
DEFINITIONS
 [0093] The term "activatable binding polypeptide" or "ABP" generally refers to a
polypeptide that contains a target binding moiety (TBM), a cleavable moiety (CM), and a
masking moiety (MM). The TBM generally contains an amino acid sequence that provides
for binding to a target protein (e.g., VEGF). In some embodiments the TBM comprises the
antigen binding domain (ABD) of an antibody or antibody fragment thereof.
 [0094] The CM generally includes an amino acid sequence that serves as the substrate for an
enzyme and/or a cysteine-cysteine pair capable of forming a reducible disulfide bond. As
 such, when the terms "cleavage," "cleavable," "cleaved" and the like are used in connection
with a CM, the terms encompass enzymatic cleavage, e.g., by a protease, as well as
disruption of a disulfide bond between a cysteine-cysteine pair via reduction of the disulfide
bond that can result from exposure to a reducing agent.
 [0095] The MM is an amino acid sequence that, when the CM of the ABP is intact (i.e.,
uncleaved by a corresponding enzyme, and/ or containing an unreduced cysteine-cysteine
disulfide bond), the MM interferes with binding of the TBM to its target. The amino acid
sequence of the CM may overlap with or be included within the MM. It should be noted that
for sake of convenience "ABP" is used herein to refer to an ABP in both its uncleaved (or
 nativeve) state, as well as in its cleaved state. It will be apparent to the ordinarily skilled
artisan that in some embodiments a cleaved ABP may lack an MM due to cleavage of the
CM, e.g, by a protease, resulting in release of at least the MM (e.g., where the MM is not
joined to the ABP by a covalent bond (e.g., a disulfide bond between cysteine residues).
Exemplary ABPs are described in more detail below.
                                                   18

[0096] In an embodiment of particular interest, the ABP comprises two TBMs, wherein at
least one of the TBMs acts as a masking moiety (MM) for the other TBM and/or the two
TBMs serves as masking moieties for one another, such that in the uncleaved conformation,
the ABP exhibits reduced binding to a target for at least one of the TBMs relative to when
the ABP is in the cleaved conformation. Thus "activatable binding polypeptide" or "ABP" in
this embodiment encompasses a polypeptide that contains a first target binding moiety
(TBM), a second TBM, and a cleavable moiety (CM), wherein the first and second TBMs
interact to "mask" binding of at least one of the TBMs to target (i.e., the first and/or second
TBMs act as a masking moiety (MM) for target binding). The TBM generally contains an
amino acid sequence that provides for binding to a target protein (e.g., VEGF).
[0097] In this latter embodiment, when the CM of the ABP is intact (i.e., uncleaved by a
corresponding enzyme, and/ or containing an unreduced cysteine-cysteine disulfide bond),
the interaction of the first and second TBMs interferes with binding of one or both of the
TBMs to their corresponding target(s). It should be noted that for sake of convenience
"ABP" is used herein to refer to an ABP in both its uncleaved (or "native") state, as well as
in its cleaved state. It will be apparent to the ordinarily skilled artisan that in some
embodiments a cleaved ABP may no longer contain two TBMs as described above due to
cleavage of the CM, e.g, by a protease. Where the ABP includes both a protease-cleavable
CM and a CM that includes a disulfide bond, cleavage of the protease cleavable CM may
leave the disulfide bond intact, and thus the ABP in the cleaved form may retain two the
TBMs, but in an "unmasked" configuration allowing for target binding. Exemplary ABPs
are described in more detail below.
[0098] As used herein, the term "cleaving agent" refers to an agent capable of cleaving a
sequence of the CM, e.g., by enzymatic cleavage, or a reducing agent capable of reducing a
disulfide bond between a cysteine-cysteine pair. A "reducing agent" generally refers to a
compound or element that serves as an electron-donating compound in a reduction-oxidation
reaction with a disulfide bond. Reducing agents of particular interest include cellular
reducing agents such as proteins or other agents that are capable of reducing a disulfide bond
under physiological conditions, e.g., glutathione, thioredoxin, NADPH, flavins, and
ascorbate.
[0099] The terms polypeptidee," "peptide," and "protein", used interchangeably herein, refer
to a polymeric form of amino acids of any length, which can include coded and non-coded
amino acids, chemically or biochemically modified or derivatized amino acids, and
polypeptides having modified peptide backbones. The term includes fusion proteins,
                                                  19

including, but not limited to, fusion proteins with a heterologous amino acid sequence,
fusions with heterologous and homologous leader sequences, with or without N-terminal
methionine residues; immunologically tagged proteins; and the like.
[00100]         The terms "protease", "proteinase" and "enzyme capable of cleaving a
polypeptide" are used interchangeably herein to refer to any enzyme, e.g., an endopeptidase
or exopeptidase, usually an endopeptidase, that hydrolyzes peptide bonds.
[00101]         The term "replicable biological entity" refers to self-replicating biological
cells, including bacterial, yeast, protozoan, and mammalian cells, as well various viruses and
bacteriophage capable of infecting such cells and replicating, and the like.
[00102]         The terms "nucleic acid molecule" and "polynucleotide" are used
interchangeably and refer to a polymeric form of nucleotides of any length, either
deoxyribonucleotides or ribonucleotides, or analogs thereof. Polynucleotides may have any
three-dimensional structure, and may perform any function, known or unknown. Non
limiting examples of polynucleotides include a gene, a gene fragment, exons, introns,
messenger RNA (mRNA), transfer RNA, ribosomal RNA, ribozymes, cDNA, recombinant
polynucleotides, branched polynucleotides, plasmids, vectors, isolated DNA of any
sequence, isolated RNA of any sequence, nucleic acid probes, and primers.
[00103]         "Encoded by" refers to a nucleic acid sequence which codes for a polypeptide
sequence, wherein the polypeptide sequence or a portion thereof contains an amino acid
sequence of at least 3 to 5 amino acids, more preferably at least 8 to 10 amino acids, and
even more preferably at least 15 to 20 amino acids from a polypeptide encoded by the
nucleic acid sequence. Also encompassed are polypeptide sequences that are
immunologically identifiable with a polypeptide encoded by the sequence.
[00104]         "Construct" is used herein to refer to a polypeptide or nucleic acid
characterized as a covalently and operably linked elements. For example, an ABP construct
can refer to a ABP polypeptide including at least a TBM, an MM, and a CM, which are
operably linked to provide a switchable phenotype as described herein, as well as nucleic
acid encoding such an ABP polypeptide.
[00105]         A "vector" is capable of transferring gene sequences to target cells. Typically,
vectorr construct," "expression vector," and "gene transfer vector," mean any nucleic acid
construct capable of directing the expression of a gene of interest in a host cell. Thus, the
term includes cloning, and expression vehicles, as well as integrating vectors.
[00106]         As used herein, "recombinant" has the usual meaning in the art, and refers to
a polynucleotide synthesized or otherwise manipulated in vitro (e.g., "recombinant
                                                20

polynucleotide"), to methods of using recombinant polynucleotides to produce gene products
in cells or other biological systems, or to a polypeptide ("recombinant protein") encoded by
a recombinant polynucleotide.
[001071          The term "recombinant" when used with reference to a cell indicates that the
cell contains a heterologous nucleic acid, or expresses a peptide or protein encoded by such a
heterologous nucleic acid, and usually provides for replication of such heterologous nucleic
acid. Recombinant cells can contain genes that are not found within the native (non
recombinant) form of the cell. Recombinant cells can also contain genes found in the native
form of the cell wherein the genes are modified and re-introduced into the cell by artificial
means. The term also encompasses cells that contain a nucleic acid endogenous to the cell
that has been modified without removing the nucleic acid from the cell; such modifications
include those obtained by gene replacement, site-specific mutation, and related techniques.
[001081          A "heterologous sequence", "heterologous nucleic acid", "heterologous
polypeptide" or "heterologous amino acid sequence" as used herein, is one that originates
from a source foreign to the particular host cell, or, if from the same source, is modified
from its original form. Thus, a heterologous nucleic acid in a host cell includes nucleic acid
that, although being endogenous to the particular host cell, has been modified (e.g., so that it
encodes an amino acid sequence different from that of a naturally-occurring or parent
nucleic acid, to a nucleic acid to provide a sequence not normally found in the host cell, and
the like). Modification of the heterologous sequence can be accomplished by a variety of
methods, e.g., by treating the DNA with a restriction enzyme to generate a DNA fragment
that is capable of being operably linked to the promoter or by operably linking the DNA to a
heterologous promoter to provide an expression cassette that is not endogenous to the host
cell. Techniques such as site-directed mutagenesis are also useful for modifying a
heterologous nucleic acid.
[00109]          The term "operably linked" refers to functional linkage between molecules to
provide a desired function. For example, "operably linked" in the context of nucleic acids
refers to a functional linkage between nucleic acids to provide a desired function such as
transcription, translation, and the like, e.g., a functional linkage between a nucleic acid
expression control sequence (such as a promoter, signal sequence, or array of transcription
factor binding sites) and a second polynucleotide, wherein the expression control sequence
affects transcription and/or translation of the second polynucleotide. "Operably linked" in
the context of a polypeptide refers to a functional linkage between amino acid sequences
(e.g., of different domains) to provide for a described activity of the polypeptide (e.g.,
                                                  21

"masking" of a TBM when an ABP is uncleaved; accessibility to protease to facilitate
cleavage and "unmasking" of a TBM of an ABP; and the like).
[00110]          A "recombinant expression cassette" or simply an "expression cassette" is a
nucleic acid construct, generated recombinantly and/or synthetically, that has control
elements that are capable of affecting expression of a structural gene that is operably linked
to the control elements in hosts compatible with such sequences. Expression cassettes
include at least promoters and optionally, transcription termination signals. Typically, the
recombinant expression cassette includes at least a nucleic acid to be transcribed and a
promoter. Additional factors necessary or helpful in effecting expression can also be used as
described herein. For example, transcription termination signals, enhancers, and other
nucleic acid sequences that influence gene expression, can also be included in an expression
cassette.
[00111]          "Introducing into a genome" as used herein in the context of making a
recombinant replicable biological entity (e.g., host cell, bacteriophage) refers to production
of a recombinant replicable biological entity so as to provide for replication and, where
desired, expression of an exogenous polypeptide with replication of the replicable biological
entity. Where the replicable biological entity is a host cell (e.g., a bacterial, yeast, or
mammalian cell) "introducing into a genome" encompasses both genomically introduction
by genomic integration (e.g., stable integration) as well as introduction of a episomal
element (e.g., plasmid) to provide for stable or transient maintenance of the exogenous
nucleic acid in the host cell. The term "transformation" is similarly used to indicate
production of a recombinant cell by introduction of exogenous nucleic acid encoding a
polypeptide of interest, where the exogenous nucleic acid can be maintained stably or
transiently as an episomal element (e.g., such as a plasmid in the context of a bacterial or
yeast host cell) or can be stably or transiently genomically integrated.
[00112]          The term "isolated" refers to separation of an entity (e.g., polypeptide, nucleic
acid, etc.) from other entities with which they are naturally associated or may be associated
during synthesis (e.g., recombinant, chemical synthesis, etc.). The term "isolated" means an
entity is not in a state in which it is found in nature or, where the entity is produced by
recombinant or other synthetic means, is separated or enriched relative to other components
that may be present. Thus, for example, an "isolated protein" is not as it appears in nature
but may be substantially less than 100% pure protein.
[00113]          "Substantially pure" indicates that an entity (e.g., polypeptide) makes up
greater than about 50% of the total content of the composition (e.g., total protein of the
                                                  22

composition) and typically, greater than about 60% of the total protein content. More
typically, a "substantially pure" refers to compositions in which at least 75%, at least 75%, at
least 85%, at least 90% or more of the total composition is the entity of interest (e.g., , of the
total protein. Preferably, the protein will make up greater than about 90%, and more
preferably, greater than about 95% of the total protein in the composition.
[00114]          "Enriched" indicates a composition is increased in the proportion of an entity
of interest relative to a starting composition. For example, a starting or first population in
which 10% of the members exhibit a desired attribute (e.g., enzymatically "switchable") can
be enriched to provide a second population in which greater than 10% (e.g., 150% or more) of
the total members exhibit the desired activity. It should be noted that enrichment can result
in a decrease of total different members of the population such that enrichment is
accompanied by selection.
[00115]          "Screen" or "screening", as well as the terms "selection" or "selecting", are
used herein to refer to treatment of a population so as to facilitate separation of members in
the population having a desired attribute (e.g., enzymatically 'switchable") from those that
have a less desirable attribute (e.g., no detectable enzymatically switchable phenotype or an
enzymatically switchable phenotype that is not of a desired dynamic range). A screen can be
effected on a population of members using one or more criterion. Screening can be
accomplished by means that maintain the recoverability and/or viability of the separated
populations (e.g., by cell sorting using, e.g., FACS) or can be accomplished by reducing
viability or recoverability of undesired members of the population.
[00116]          A screen (or selection) can be a "positive screen" or a "negative screen" (also
referred to herein as a "positive selection" or a "negative selection", respectively). In a
"positive screen" members exhibiting a desirable attribute are selected according to the
presence of a positive signal (e.g., the presence of a detectable signal, growth in the presence
of an agent that inhibits growth of members deficient in a desirable attribute, etc.). In
"negative screen" members exhibiting a desirable attribute are selected according to a
decreased or undetectable signal (e.g., a relatively decreased or undetectable signal; reduced
growth in the presence of an agent that inhibits growth of members exhibiting a desirable
attribute, etc.)
[001171          As used herein, "contacting" has its normal meaning and refers to combining
two or more entities (e.g., a target protein, a candidate ABP, an enzyme, etc.). Contacting
can occur in, for example, a test tube or other container (e.g., combining of two or more
agents [e.g., a cleaving agent (e.g., an enzyme) and a cell expressing a peptide display
                                                 23

scaffold]), in a cell-based system (e.g., contacting of a target protein and/or cleaving agent
(e.g., enzyme) with an ABP displayed on a cell surface), or in a cell-free system (e.g.,
combining a cleaving agent (e.g., an enzyme) with a cell membranes, synthetic membrane,
or other membranes for presentation of a peptide display scaffold without the need for intact
cells).
[00118]          As used herein, a "ligand" refers to a molecule(s) that binds to a binding
partner molecule(s), e.g., a substrate, inhibitor, or allosteric regulator binding to an enzyme,
and includes natural and synthetic biomolecules, such as proteins, polypeptides, peptides,
nucleic acid molecules, carbohydrates, sugars, lipids, lipoproteins, small molecules, natural
and synthetic organic and inorganic materials, synthetic polymers, and the like.
[00119]          "Binding" as used herein generally refers to a covalent or non-covalent
interaction between two molecules (referred to herein as "binding partners", e.g., a substrate
and an enzyme), which binding is usually specific.
[00120]          As used herein, "specifically binds" or "binds specifically" refers to
interaction between binding partners such that the binding partners bind to one another, but
do not bind other molecules that may be present in the environment (e.g., in a biological
sample, in tissue) at a significant or substantial level under a given set of conditions (e.g.,
physiological conditions).
[00121]          As used herein, "fluorescent group" refers to a molecule that, when excited
with light having a selected wavelength, emits light of a different wavelength. Fluorescent
groups may also be referred to as "fluorophores".
[00122]          As used herein, the term "display scaffold" refers to a polypeptide which
when expressed in a host cell is presented on an extracellularly accessible surface of the host
cell and provides for presentation of an operably linked heterologous polypeptide. For
example, display scaffolds find use in the methods disclosed herein to facilitate screening of
candidate ABPs. Display scaffolds can be provided such that a heterologous polypeptide of
interest can be readily released from the display scaffold, e.g. by action of a protease that
facilitates cleavage of the fusion protein and release of a candidate ABP from the display
scaffold.
[00123]          The term "detecting" or "assessing" includes any form of qualitative or
quantitative measurement, and includes determining if an element is present or absent. The
terms "determining", "measuring", "evaluating", "assessing" and "assaying" are used
interchangeably and includes quantitative and qualitative determinations. Assessing may be
relative or absolute. "Assessing the presence of' includes determining the amount of
                                                 24

something present, and/or determining whether it is present or absent. As used herein, the
terms "detecting," "determining," "measuring," and "assessing," and "assaying" are used
interchangeably and include both quantitative and qualitative determinations.
[00124]          The term "effective amount" or "therapeutically effective amount" means a
dosage sufficient to provide for treatment for the disease state being treated or to otherwise
provide the desired effect (e.g., reduction in tumor size, reduction in angiogenesis, etc.). The
precise dosage will vary according to a variety of factors such as subject-dependent variables
(e.g., age, immune system health, etc.), the disease (e.g., the type of cancer or tumor), and
the treatment being effected.
[00125]          The term "treatment site" is meant to refer to a site at which an ABP is
designed to be switchable, as described herein, e.g., a site at which a target for one or both
TBMs of an ABP and a cleaving agent capable of cleaving a CM of the ABP are co
localized. Treatment sites include tissues that can be accessed by local administration (e.g.,
injection, infusion (e.g., by catheter), etc.) or by systemic administration (e.g., administration
to a site remote from a treatment site). Treatment sites include those that are relatively
biologically confined (e.g., an organ, sac, tumor site, and the like).
ACTIVATABLE BINDING POLYPEPTIDES
[00126]          The present disclosure provides activatable binding polypeptides (ABPs)
which exhibit "activatable" binding, also referred to as "switchable" binding, to a target
protein. ABPs generally include a target binding moiety ("TBM"), a masking moiety
("MM") and a cleavable moiety ("CM"). In some embodiments, the CM contains an amino
acid sequence that serves as a substrate for a protease of interest. In other embodiments, the
CM provides a cysteine-cysteine disulfide bond that is cleavable by reduction.
[001271          Schematics of ABPs are provided in Figs. 1, 35 and 36, the latter two
schematically representing the embodiments where the TBM of the ABP contains an
antigen- binding domain (ABD). As illustrated in Figs. 1, 35, and 36 the elements of the
ABP are arranged such that the CM is positioned such that in a cleaved state (or relatively
"active" state) and in the presence of a target, the TBM binds a target, while in an uncleaved
state (or relatively "inactive" state) in the presence of the target, binding of the TBM to the
target is inhibited due to the conformation of the ABP, which can involve "masking" of the
TBM by the MM. As used herein, the term "cleaved state" refers to the condition of the ABP
following cleavage of the CM by a protease and/or reduction of a cysteine-cysteine disulfide
bond of the CM. The term "uncleaved state," as used herein, refers to the condition of the
ABP in the absence of cleavage of the CM by a protease and/or in the absence reduction of a
                                                  25

cysteine-cysteine disulfide bond of the CM. As discussed above, "ABP" is used herein for
sake of convenience to refer to ABP in both its uncleaved (or "native") state, as well as in its
cleaved state. It will be apparent to the ordinarily skilled artisan that in some embodiments a
cleaved ABP may lack an MM due to cleavage of the CM by protease, resulting in release of
at least the MM (e.g., where the MM is not joined to the ABP by a covalent bond (e.g., a
disulfide bond between cysteine residues).
[001281           By "activatable" or "switchable" is meant that the ABP exhibits a first level
of binding to a target when in a native or uncleaved state (i.e., a first conformation), and a
second level of binding to the target in the cleaved state (i.e., a second conformation), where
the second level of target binding is greater than the first level of binding. In general, access
of target to the TBM of the ABP is greater in the presence of a cleaving agent capable of
cleaving the CM than in the absence of such a cleaving agent. Thus, in the native or
uncleaved state the TBM is "masked" from target binding (i.e., the first conformation is such
that it interferes with access of the target to the TBM), and in the cleaved state the TBM is
"unmasked" to target binding.
[00129]           The CM and TBM of the ABP may be selected so that the TBM represents a
binding moiety for a target of interest, and the CM represents a substrate for a protease that
is co-localized with the target at a treatment site in a subject. Alternatively or in addition, the
CM is a cysteine-cysteine disulfide bond that is cleavable as a result of reduction of this
disulfide bond. ABPs contain at least one of a protease-cleavable CM or a cysteine-cysteine
disulfide bond, and in some embodiments include both kinds of CMs. The ABPs disclosed
herein find particular use where, for example, a protease capable of cleaving a site in the CM
is present at relatively higher levels in target-containing tissue of a treatment site than in
tissue of non-treatment sites.
[001301           Stated differently, the CM-TBM pair of the ABPs is designed to exploit the
elevated levels of a protease co-localized with a target. Thus, ABP can be designed so that
they are predominantly enzymatically activated (and thus exhibit higher levels of target
binding) at a treatment site than at non-treatment sites in a subject. ABPs can thus provide
for reduced toxicity and/or adverse side effects that can result from binding of the TBM at
non-treatment sites. Where the ABP contains a CM that is cleavable by a reducing agent that
facilitates reduction of a disulfide bond, the TBMs of such ABPs may selected to exploit
activation of a TBM where a target of interest is present at a desired treatment site
characterized by elevated levels of a reducing agent, such that the environment is of a higher
reduction potential than, for example, an environment of a non-treatment site.
                                                  26

[001311         In general, an ABP can be designed by selecting a TBM of interest and
constructing the remainder of the ABP so that, when conformationally constrained, the MM
provides for masking of the TBM. Structural design criteria to be taken into account to
provide for this functional feature. For example, where the ABP includes an MM, a at least
one CM, and a linker, the linker is generally selected so that it is at least 1.5 to 2 times,
usually at least 2 times, the length representative of the distance from a target binding site of
the TBM to a terminus of the TBM to which the remainder of the construct is to be attached.
[00132]         Dual-target binding ABPs are of particular interest in the present disclosure.
Such dual target binding ABPs contain two TBMs, which may bind the same or different
target, and wherein at least one TBM serves as dual function of target binding and
"masking". As noted above, such dual target binding ABPs generally contain two TBMs,
wherein at least one of the TBMs acts as a masking moiety (MM) for the other TBM and/or
the two TBMs serves as masking moieties for one another, such that in the uncleaved
conformation, the ABP exhibits reduced binding to a target for at least one of the TBMs
relative to when the ABP is in the cleaved conformation. Thus "ABP" in this embodiment
encompasses a polypeptide that contains a first target binding moiety (TBM), a second
TBM, and a cleavable moiety (CM), wherein the first and second TBMs interact to "mask"
binding of at least one of the TBMs to target (i.e., the first and/or second TBMs act as a
masking moiety (MM) for target binding). The TBMs can include TBMs that bind to
different targets (e.g., VEGF and fibroblast growth factor (FGF), e.g., FGF2). Each TBM
can be independently selected so that each contains 1 or more actives sites for binding to the
target.
[001331         Fig. 20 is a schematic showing an exemplary ABP of the present disclosure
having two TBMs which can serve the dual function of binding their respective targets when
the ABP is cleaved and masking the ABP from binding to one or both targets of the TBMs
when the ABP is uncleaved. In the upper portion of Fig. 20, an "MM" is shown, where the
MM is a first TBM having a single binding site. In the center portion of Fig. 20, an ABP
having a first TBM and a second TBM (arbitrarily labeled as TBM1 and TBM2) with a
cleavable moiety (CM) positioned between the two TBMs. In a switchable, uncleaved
conformation (i.e., when the CM is intact such that it is uncleaved by a corresponding
enzyme, and/or containing an unreduced cysteine-cysteine disulfide bond), as illustrated in
the lower portion of Fig. 20, TBM1 interacts with TBM2 thus "masking" binding to target to
at least TBM 1 and in particular embodiments masking target binding to both TBM 1 and
                                                27

TBM2. When cleaved, each of the TBMs are "unmasked" and thus are free to bind their
respective targets.
[00134]          Dual target binding TBMs can be designed so as to have a CM cleavable by a
cleaving agent that is co-localized in a target tissue with one or both of the targets capable of
binding to the TBMs of the ABP. The disclosure further contemplates multiple "units" of
TBM 1-TBM2 domains, such that cleavage of a single ABP by the cleaving agent results in
release of multiple target binding fragments.
[00135]          As exemplified in Fig. 20, a second CM can be positioned between the
"masked" TBMs and a moiety of interest that can provide an additional desired function,
such as targeting or serum half-life extension (as exemplified by a serum IgGbinding
protein). This second CM can be susceptible to cleavage by the same or different cleaving
agents.
[00136]          It will be apparent to the ordinarily skilled artisan that in some embodiments a
cleaved ABP may no longer contain two TBMs as described above due to cleavage of the
CM, e.g,, by a protease. Where the ABP includes both a protease-cleavable CM and a CM
that includes a disulfide bond, cleavage of the protease cleavable CM may leave the disulfide
bond intact, and thus the ABP in the cleaved form may retain two the TBMs, but in an
"unmasked" configuration allowing for target binding. Exemplary ABPs are described in
more detail below.
[001371          ABPs exhibiting a switchable phenotype of a desired dynamic range for target
binding in a cleaved versus uncleaved conformation are of particular interest. The term
"dynamic range" as used herein generally refers to a ratio of (a) a maximum detected level of
a parameter under a first set of conditions to (b) a minimum detected value of that parameter
under a second set of conditions. For example, in the context of an ABP, the dynamic range
refers to the ratio of (a) a maximum detected level of target protein binding to an ABP in the
presence of protease capable of cleaving the CM of the ABP to (b) a minimum detected level
of target protein binding to an ABP in the absence of the protease. The dynamic range of an
ABP can be calculated as the ratio of the equilibrium dissociation constant of an ABP
cleaving agent (e.g., enzyme) treatment to the equilibrium dissociation constant of the ABP
cleaving agent treatment. The greater the dynamic range of an ABP, the better the
"switchable" phenotype of the ABP. ABPs having relatively higher dynamic range values
(e.g., greater than 1) exhibit more desirable switching phenotypes such that target protein
binding by the ABP occurs to a greater extent (e.g., predominantly occurs) in the presence of
                                                 28

a cleaving agent (e.g., enzyme) capable of cleaving the CM of the ABP than in the absence
of a cleaving agent.
[00138]         ABPs can be provided in a variety of structural configurations provided that
the TBM, MM and CM are operably positioned in the ABP such that a switchable phenotype
is provided. Exemplary formulae for ABPs are provided below. It is specifically
contemplated that the N- to C-terminal order of the TBM, MM and CM may be reversed
within a ABP. It is also specifically contemplated that the CM and MM may overlap in
amino acid sequence, e.g., such that the CM is contained within the MM.
[00139]         For example, ABPs can be represented by the following formula (in order
from an amino ("N") terminal region to carboxyl ("C") terminal region:
                                       (MM)-(CM)-(TBM)
                                       (TBM)-(CM)-(MM)
        where MM is a masking moiety, CM is a cleavable moiety, and TBM is a target
binding moiety. It should be noted that although MM and CM are indicated as distinct
components in the formula above, in all exemplary embodiments (including formulae)
disclosed herein it is contemplated that the amino acid sequences of the MM and the CM
could overlap, e.g., such that the CM is completely or partially contained within the MM. In
addition, the formulae above provide for additional amino acid sequences that may be
positioned N-terminal or C-terminal to the ABP elements. In some embodiments, the dual
target-binding ABP is such that the MM is a second TBM. It is understood that throughout
this disclosure, the formulae provided encompass such dual target-binding ABPs wherein
"MM" in the formula is TBMI and "TBM" is TBM2, where TBM1 and TBM2 are arbitrary
designations for first and second TBMs, and where the target capable of binding the TBMs
may be the same or different target, or the same or different binding sites of the same target.
[00140]         It is understood that generally ABPs can exhibit a switchable phenotype as a
result of folding of the ABP so that access of target to the TBM is inhibited by at least the
MM. Thus, in many embodiments it may be desirable to insert one or more linkers, e.g.,
flexible linkers, into the ABP construct so as to provide for flexibility at one or more of the
MM-CM junction, the CM-TBM junction, or both. For example, the TBM, MM, and/or CM
may not contain a sufficient number of residues (e.g., Gly, Ser, Asp, Asn, especially Gly and
Ser, particularly Gly) to provide the desired flexibility. As such, the switchable phenotype of
such ABP constructs may benefit from introduction of one or more amino acids to provide
                                                29

for a flexible linker. In addition, as described below, where the ABP is provided as a
conformationally constrained construct, a flexible linker can be operably inserted to facilitate
formation and maintenance of a cyclic structure in the uncleaved ABP.
[00141]          For example, in certain embodiments an ABP comprises one of the following
formulae (where the formula below represent an amino acid sequence in either N- to C
terminal direction or C- to N-terminal direction):
                                       (MM)-Li-(CM)-(TBM)
                                       (MM)-(CM)-L1 -(TBM)
                                     (MM)-L 1 -(CM)-L 2-(TBM)
                               cyclo[Li-(MM)-L 2-(CM)-L 3-(TBM)]
         wherein MM, CM, and TBM are as defined above; wherein L1 , L2, and L3 are each
independently and optionally present or absent, are the same or different flexible linkers that
include at least 1 flexible amino acid (e.g., Gly); and wherein "cyclo" where present the ABP
is in the form of a cyclic structure due to the presence of a disulfide bond between a pair of
cysteines in the ABP. In addition, the formulae above provide for additional amino acid
sequences that may be positioned N-terminal or C-terminal to the ABP elements. It should
be understood that in the formula cyclo[Li-(MM)-L 2 -(CM)-L 3-(TBM)], the cysteines
responsible for the disulfide bond may be positioned in the ABP to allow for one or two
"tails," thereby generating a "lasso" or "omega" structure when the ABP is in a disulfide
bonded structure (and thus conformationally constrained state). The amino acid sequence of
the tail(s) can provide for additional ABP features, such as binding to a target receptor to
facilitate localization of the ABP, increasing serum half-life of the ABP, and the like.
Targeting moieties (e.g., a ligand for a receptor of a cell present in a target tissue) and serum
half-life extending moieties (e.g., polypeptides that bind serum proteins, such as
immunoglobulin (e.g., IgG) or serum albumin (e.g., human serum albumin (HSA).
[00142]          As noted above, the formula above encompass dual target-binding ABPs such
that "MM" in the formula is TBM1 and "TBM" is TBM2, where TBMI and TBM2 are
arbitrary designations for first and second TBMs, and where the target capable of binding the
TBMs may be the same or different target, or the same or different binding sites of the same
target. The disclosure further provides that the ABPs can include a second CM, such that the
second CM is the same of different and provides for cleavable release of a moiety of interest
                                                 30

(e.g., a targeting moiety, a serum half-life extending moiety, a moiety for immobilizing the
ABP on a support and the like).
[00143]          Linkers suitable for use in ABPs are generally ones that provide flexibility of
the ABP to facilitate a "masked" conformation. Such linkers are generally referred to as
"flexible linkers". Suitable linkers can be readily selected and can be of any of a suitable of
different lengths, such as from 1 amino acid (e.g., Gly) to 20 amino acids, from 2 amino
acids to 15 amino acids, from 3 amino acids to 12 amino acids, including 4 amino acids to
10 amino acids, 5 amino acids to 9 amino acids, 6 amino acids to 8 amino acids, or 7 amino
acids to 8 amino acids, and may be 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7 amino acids.
[00144]          Exemplary flexible linkers include glycine polymers (G)n, glycine-serine
polymers (including, for example, (GS)n, (GSGGS: SEQ ID NO: 1), and (GGGS: SEQ ID
NO: 2)n, where n is an integer of at least one), glycine-alanine polymers, alanine-serine
polymers, and other flexible linkers known in the art. Glycine and glycine-serine polymers
are of interest since both of these amino acids are relatively unstructured, and therefore may
be able to serve as a neutral tether between components. Glycine polymers are of particular
interest since glycine accesses significantly more phi-psi space than even alanine, and is
much less restricted than residues with longer side chains (see Scheraga, Rev. Computational
Chem. 11173-142 (1992)). Exemplary flexible linkers include, but are not limited Gly-Gly
Ser-Gly: SEQ ID NO: 3, Gly-Gly-Ser-Gly-Gly: SEQ ID NO: 4, Gly-Ser-Gly-Ser-Gly: SEQ
ID NO: 5, Gly-Ser-Gly-Gly-Gly: SEQ ID NO: 6, Gly-Gly-Gly-Ser-Gly: SEQ ID NO: 7,
Gly-Ser-Ser-Ser-Gly: SEQ ID NO: 8, and the like. The ordinarily skilled artisan will
recognize that design of an ABP can include linkers that are all or partially flexible, such that
the linker can include a flexible linker as well as one or more portions that confer less
flexible structure to provide for a desired ABP structure.
[00145]          In addition to the element described above, the ABPs can contain additional
elements such as, for example, amino acid sequence N- or C-terminal of the ABP. For
example, ABPs can include a targeting moiety to facilitate delivery to a cell or tissue of
interest. Moreover, in the context of the ABP libraries discussed further below, the ABP can
provided in the context of a scaffold protein to facilitate display of the ABP on a cell surface.
[001461          Exemplary basic elements of ABPs are described in more detail below.
         Target Binding Moiety (TBM)
[001471          The target binding moiety (TBM) of ABPs can include any of a variety of
known amino acid sequences that are capable of binding, usually capable of specifically
binding, a target, usually a protein target, of interest. For example, the TBM can be selected
                                                 31

to include the amino acid sequence of a binding partner of a target protein of interest, where
binding of the binding partner and target provides for a desired biological effect, e.g.,
inhibition of activity of the target protein and/or detection of a target protein.
[00148]         Exemplary classes of target proteins for which amino acid sequences of
binding partners (e.g., inhibitors) are known include, but are not necessarily limited to, cell
surface receptors and secreted binding proteins (e.g., growth factors), soluble enzymes,
structural proteins (e.g. collagen, fibronectin) and the like. In specifically exemplary
embodiments, in no way limiting, the TBM is a binding partner for any target as listed in
Table 1 below.
Table 1: Exemplary TBM targets
  VEGF-A      HER2/neu           IGF            CD33              IgE Receptor
  VEGF-B      DLL4               IGF1R          CD40              PDGF-AA
  VEGF-C      NOTCHR1            ERBB3          CD40L             PDGF-BB
  VEGF-D      ILIB               VCAM-1         CD44              PDGFRa
  VEGFR1      ILIR               CXCR4          CD52              PDGFRp
  VEGFR2      IL2                CD3            CD80              GPIIB/IIIA
  VEGFR3      IL4                CD11a          CD86              CLAUDIN-3
  EGFR        IL6                CD19           CTLA4             CLAUDIN-4
  FGF-2       IL12               CD20           TNFa              C5 complement
  FGFR1       IL13               CD22           TNFR              u4pl integrin
  FGFR2       IL15               CD25           TRAIL-Ri          a4f7 integrin
  FGFR3       IL18               CD28           TRAIL-R2          F protein of RSV
  FGFR4       IL23               CD30           IgE               GP Ilb/IIla
                                                                  receptors
  IL2R        CD41
                                                 32

[001491         In some embodiments, the TBM comprises a full length antibody or an
antibody fragment containing an antigen binding domain, antigen binding domain fragment
or an antigen binding fragment of the antibody (e.g., an antigen binding domain of a single
chain) which is capable of binding, especially specific binding, to a target of interest, usually
a protein target of interest. In this embodiment the TBM contains an antigen binding domain
(ABD). A schematic of an ABP containing a TBM that contains an ABD is provided in Fig.
36. In such embodiments, the ABD can be binding polypeptides such as, but not limited to
variable or hypervariable regions of light and/or heavy chains of an antibody (VL, VH),
variable fragments (Fv), F(ab') 2 fragments, Fab fragments, single chain antibodies (scAb),
single chain variable regions (scFv), complementarity determining regions (CDR), or other
polypeptides known in the art containing a ABD capable of binding target proteins or
epitopes on target proteins. In further embodiments, the TBM may be a chimera or hybrid
combination containing a first TBM that contains a ABD and a second TBM that contains a
ABD such that each ABD is capable of binding to the same or different target. In some
embodiments, the TBM is a bispecific antibody or fragment thereof, designed to bind two
different antigens. In some embodiments there is a first MM and a second MM coupled to
the first TBM and the second TBM, respectively, in the activatable form. The origin of the
ABD can be a naturally occurring antibody or fragment thereof, a non-naturally occurring
antibody or fragment thereof, a synthetic antibody or fragment thereof, a hybrid antibody or
fragment thereof, or an engineered antibody or fragment thereof.
[00150]         Methods for generating an antibody for a given target are well known in the
art. The structure of antibodies and fragments thereof, variable regions of heavy and light
chains of an antibody (VH and VL), Fv, F(ab') 2 , Fab fragments, single chain antibodies
(scAb), single chain variable regions (scFv), and complementarity determining regions
(CDR) are well understood. Methods for generating a polypeptide having a desired antigen
binding domain of a target antigen are known in the art. Methods for modifying antibodies to
couple additional polypeptides are also well-known in the art. For instance, peptides such as
MMs, CMs or linkers may be coupled to modify antibodies to generate the ABPs and other
compositions of the disclosure. ABPs that contain protease-activated ABDs can be
developed and produced with standard methods, as described in the schematic in Fig. 37.
[00151]         Exemplary classes of target proteins for which the TBM contains a ABD
include, but are not necessarily limited to, cell surface receptors and secreted binding
proteins (e.g growth factors), soluble enzymes, structural proteins (e.g. collagen, fibronectin)
and the like. The target can be selected from any TBM target as described herein and
                                                33

exemplified but not limited to those in Table 1. In specific exemplary embodiments, in no
way limiting, exemplary sources for ABDs are listed in Table 2 below.
Table 2: Exemplary sources for ABDs
 Antibody Trade Name (antibody name)                                 Target
 AvastinTM (bevacizumab)                            VEGF
 LucentisTM (ranibizumab)                           VEGF
 ErbituxTM (cetuximab)                              EGFR
 VectibixTM (panitumumab)                           EGFR
 Remicade TM (infliximab)                           TNFca
 HumiraTM (adalimumab)                              TNFa
 TysabriTM (natalizurab)                            Integrina4
            TM
 Simulect      (basiliximab)                        IL2R
 SolirisT M (eculizumab)                            Complement C5
           TM
 Raptiva      (efalizumab)                          CD11a
 BexxarTM (tositumomab)                             CD20
 ZevalinTM (ibritumomab tiuxetan)                   CD20
 RituxanTM (rituximab)                              CD20
 Zenapax TM (daclizumab)                            CD25
 MvelotargTM (gemtuzumab)                           CD33
 Mylotarg T M (gemtuzumab ozogamicin)               CD33
 CampathTM (alermtuzumab)                           CD52
 ReoProTM (abiciximab)                              Glycoprotein receptor 11b/lla
 XolairTM (onalizurnab)                             IgE
 HerceptinTM (trastuzumab)                          Her2
 Synagis TM(palivizurnab)                           F protein of RSV
 (ipilimumab)                                       CTLA-4
 (tremelimumab)                                     CTLA-4
[001521              The exemplary sources for ABDs described in Table 2 are discussed in
greater detail in the following references which are incorporated by reference herein for their
description of one or more of the referenced ABD sources: RemicadeTM (infliximab): U.S.
patent 6,015,557, Nagahira K, Fukuda Y, Oyama Y, Kurihara T, Nasu T, Kawashima H,
Noguchi C, Oikawa S, Nakanishi T. Humanization of a mouse neutralizing monoclonal
antibody against tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha). J Immunol Methods. 1999 Jan
1;222(1-2):83-92.) Knight DM, Trinh H, Le J, Siegel S, Shealy D, McDonough M, Scallon
B, Moore MA, Vilcek J, Daddona P, et al. Construction and initial characterization of a
                                                 34

mouse-human chimeric anti-TNF antibody. Mol Immunol. 1993 Nov;30(16):1443-53.
HumiraTM (adalimumab): Sequence in US Patent 6 258 562. Raptiva T M (efalizumab):
Sequence listed in Werther WA, Gonzalez TN, O'Connor SJ, McCabe S, Chan B, Hotaling
T, Champe M, Fox JA, Jardieu PM, Berman PW, Presta LG. Humanization of an anti
lymphocyte function-associated antigen (LFA)-1 monoclonal antibody and reengineering of
the humanized antibody for binding to rhesus LFA-1. J Immunol. 1996 Dec 1;157(11):4986
95. Mylotarg TM(gemtuzumab ozogamicin): (Sequence listed in CO MS, Avdalovic NM,
Caron PC, Avdalovic MV, Scheinberg DA, Queen C: Chimeric and humanized antibodies
with specificity for the CD33 antigen. J Immunol 148:1149, 1991) (Caron PC, Schwartz
MA, Co MS, Queen C, Finn RD, Graham MC, Divgi CR, Larson SM, Scheinberg DA.
Murine and humanized constructs of monoclonal antibody M195 (anti-CD33) for the therapy
of acute myelogenous leukemia. Cancer. 1994 Feb 1;73(3 Suppl): 1049-56). SolirisTM
(eculizumab):_Hillmen P, Young N, Schubert J, Brodsky R, Soci6 G, Muus P, Rith A, Szer
J, Elebute M, Nakamura R, Browne P, Risitano A, Hill A, Schrezenmeier H, Fu C,
Maciejewski J, Rollins S, Mojcik C, Rother R, Luzzatto L (2006). "The complement
inhibitor eculizumab in paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria". N Engl JMed 355 (12):
1233-43. TysabriT M (natalizumab): Sequence listed in Leger OJ, Yednock TA, Tanner L,
Homer HC, Hines DK, Keen S, Saldanha J, Jones ST, Fritz LC, Bendig MM. Humanization
of a mouse antibody against human alpha-4 integrin: a potential therapeutic for the treatment
of multiple sclerosis. Hum Antibodies. 1997;8(1):3-16
SynagisT M (palivizumab): Sequence listed in Johnson S, Oliver C, Prince GA, Hemming
VG, Pfarr DS, Wang SC, Dormitzer M, O'Grady J, Koenig S, Tamura JK, Woods R, Bansal
G, Couchenour D, Tsao E, Hall WC, Young JF. Development of a humanized monoclonal
antibody (MEDI-493) with potent in vitro and in vivo activity against respiratory syncytial
virus. J Infect Dis. 1997 Nov; 176(5):1215-24. Ipilimumab: J. Immunother: 2007; 30(8):
825-830 Ipilimumab (Anti-CTLA4 Antibody) Causes Regression of Metastatic Renal Cell
Cancer Associated With Enteritis and Hypophysitis; James C. Yang, Marybeth Hughes,
Udai Kammula, Richard Royal, Richard M. Sherry, Suzanne L. Topalian, Kimberly B. Suri,
Catherine Levy, Tamika Allen, Sharon Mavroukakis, Israel Lowy, Donald E. White, and
Steven A. Rosenberg
Tremelimumab: Oncologist 2007;12;873-883; Blocking Monoclonal Antibody in Clinical
Development for Patients with Cancer; Antoni Ribas, Douglas C. Hanson, Dennis A. Noe,
Robert Millham, Deborah J. Guyot, Steven H. Bernstein, Paul C. Canniff, Amarnath Sharma
and Jesus Gomez-Navarro.
                                              35

[001531          In some embodiments, the TBM of an ABP (including dual target-binding
ABPs) comprises multiple active sites (e.g., 1, 2, 3, or more) for binding a target. These
active sites may have the same or different amino acid sequences, and are usually designed
to bind to different binding sites on a target of interest such that binding of a first active site
of a TBM does not substantially interfere with binding of a second active site of the TBM to
the target. In certain embodiments the active sites are separated by an amino acid linker
sequence. A TBM comprising multiple active sites is represented schematically in Figs. 17
19. ABPs can further include multiple TBM-MM "units", which may optionally be separated
by additional CMs so that upon exposure to a cleaving agent, the one or more TBMs are
unmasked. Dual target-binding ABPs can include multiple TBM1-TBM2 units, which units
can be separated by one or more CMs positioned on either "arm" of the dual target-binding
ABP, and which may be cleavable by the same or different cleaving agent.
[00154]          In certain embodiments, the TBM of an ABP can contain more than one
ABD. In some embodiments the ABDs can be derived from bispecific antibodies or
fragments thereof. In other embodiments the ABP can be synthetically engineered so as to
incorporate ABDs derived from two different antibodies or fragments thereof. In such
embodiments, the ABDs can be designed to bind two different targets, two different
antigens, or two different epitopes on the same target. A TBM containing multiple ABDs
capable of binding more than one target site are usually designed to bind to different binding
sites on a target or targets of interest such that binding of a first ABD of the TBM does not
substantially interfere with binding of a second ABD of the TBM to a target. ABPs
containing multiple ABDs can further include multiple ABD-MM "units", which may
optionally be separated by additional CMs so that upon exposure to a cleaving agent, the
ABDs are unmasked. Dual target-binding ABPs can include multiple ABD 1-ABD2 units,
which units can be separated by one or more CMs positioned on either "arm" of the dual
target-binding ABP, and which may be cleavable by the same or different cleaving agent.
[00155]          In general, ABPs contemplated by the present disclosure are those having a
TBM capable of binding an extracellular target, usually an extracellular protein target.
However, ABPs can also be designed such that they are capable of cellular uptake and are
designed to be switchable inside a cell.
        Masking Moiety (MM)
[00156]          The masking moiety (MM) of an ABP generally refers to an amino acid
sequence positioned in the ABP such that in an uncleaved state, even in the presence of a
target for the TBM, the MM interferes with binding of the TBM to the target. However, in
                                                  36

the cleaved state of the ABP, the MM's interference with target binding to the TBM is
reduced, thereby allowing greater access of the TBM to the target and providing for target
binding. Thus, the MM is one that when the ABP is uncleaved provides for "masking" of the
TBM from target binding, but does not substantially or significantly interfere or compete for
binding for target to the TBM when the ABP is in the cleaved conformation. Thus, the
combination of the MM and the CM facilitates the "switchable" phenotype, with the MM
decreasing binding of target when the ABP is uncleaved, and cleavage of the CM by
protease providing for increased binding of target.
[001571          The structural properties of the MM will vary according to a variety of factors
such as the minimum amino acid sequence required for interference with TBM binding to
target, the target protein-TBM binding pair of interest, the length of the TBM, the length of
the CM, whether the CM is positioned within the MM and also serves to "mask" the TBM in
the uncleaved ABP, the presence or absence of linkers, the presence or absence of a cysteine
within or flanking the TBM that is suitable for providing a CM of a cysteine-cysteine
disulfide bond, and the like.
[001581          In some embodiments, the MM is coupled to the ABP by covalent binding. In
one such embodiment, the coupling is to a C-terminus of the ABP. In another embodiment,
the coupling is by cross-linking to an internal amino acid of the ABP. In another
embodiment, the ABP composition is masked by binding the MM to an N-terminus of the
ABP. In yet another embodiment, the ABP is coupled to the MM by cysteine-cysteine
disulfide bridges between the MM and the ABP.
[00159]          The MM can be provided in a variety of different forms. For example, the
MM can be selected to be a known binding partner of the TBM, provided that the MM binds
the TBM with less affinity and/or avidity than the target protein to which the TBM is
designed to bind following cleavage of the CM so as to reduce interference of MM in target
TBM binding. Stated differently, as discussed above, the MM is one that "masks" the TBM
from target binding when the ABP is uncleaved, but does not substantially or significantly
interfere or compete for binding for target when the ABP is in the cleaved conformation. In a
specific embodiment, the TBM and MM do not contain the amino acid sequences of a
naturally-occurring binding partner pair, such that at least one of the TBM and MM does not
have the amino acid sequence of a member of a naturally occurring binding partner. In a
specific embodiment, the TBM and MM are other than a binding partner pair of TNF-alpha
and a complete or partial extracellular domain of TNF receptor, or derivatives thereof, that
act as a binding partner for TNF-alpha. In another specific embodiment, the TBM and MM
                                                 37

are other than a binding partner pair of TNF-alpha and the viral T2 protein, or derivatives
thereof, that act as a binding partner for TNF-alpha. In another specific embodiment, the
TBM and MM are other than a binding partner pair of FasL and a complete or partial
extracellular domain of a Fas receptor or derivatives thereof, that act as a binding partner for
FasL. In another specific embodiment, the TBM and MM are other than a binding partner
pair of FasL and a viral protein or derivatives thereof, that act as a binding partner for FasL.
In another specific embodiment, the TBM and MM are other than a binding partner pair of
FasL and an antibody or fragment thereof having binding affinity for FasL.
[00160]         For example, the TBM and MM can also be selected so they are not natural
binding partners, where the MM may be, for example, a modified binding partner for the
TBM which contains amino acid changes that at least slightly decrease affinity and/or
avidity of binding to the TBM such that, following cleavage, the MM does not substantially
or significantly interfere with TBM-target binding. Because ABPs can be based on known
binding partners for which the amino acid sequences that facilitate binding are known,
production of such MM-TBM pairs is well within the skill of the ordinarily skilled artisan.
For example, the amino acid sequences that facilitate interaction of VEGF and a VEGF
inhibitor are well known, and are exemplified herein.
[001611         The MM can be identified through a screening procedure from a library of
candidates ABPs having variable MMs. For example, a TBM and CM can be selected to
provide for a desired enzyme/target combination, and the amino acid sequence of the MM
can be identified by the screening procedure described below to identify an MM that
provides for a switchable phenotype. For example, a random peptide library (e.g., from
about 4 to about 40 amino acids or more) may be used in the screening methods disclosed
herein to identify a suitable MM. A random peptide library may also be utilized in
connection with the targeted introduction of cysteine residues to favor disulfide bond
formation and facilitate formation of a conformationally constrained, "cyclic" ABP structure.
[00162]         In other embodiments, MMs with specific binding affinity for an antigen
binding domain (ABD) can be identified through a screening procedure that includes
providing a library of peptide scaffolds consisting of candidate MMs wherein each scaffold
is made up of a transmembrane protein and the candidate MM. The library is then contacted
with an entire or portion of TBM such as a full length antibody, a naturally occurring
antibody fragment, or a non-naturally occurring fragment containing an antigen binding
domain (also capable of binding the target of interest), and identifying one or more candidate
                                                38

MMs having detectably bound ABD. Screening can include one more rounds of magnetic
activated sorting (MACS) or fluorescence-activated sorting (FACS).
[00163]         In this manner, ABPs having an MM that inhibits binding of the TBM to the
target in an uncleaved state and allows binding of the TBM to the target in a cleaved state
can be identified, and can further provide for selection of an ABP having an optimal
dynamic range for the switchable phenotype. Methods for identifying ABPs having a
desirable switching phenotype are described in more detail below.
[00164]         Alternatively, the MM may not specifically bind the TBM, but rather interfere
with TBM-target binding through non-specific interactions such as steric hindrance. For
example, the MM may be positioned in the uncleaved ABP such that the folded ABP allows
the MM to "mask" the TBM through charge-based interaction, thereby holding the MM in
place to interfere with target access to the TBM.
[001651         ABPs can also be provided in a conformationally constrained structure, such
as a cyclic structure, to facilitate the switchable phenotype. This can be accomplished by
including a pair of cysteines in the ABP construct so that formation of a disulfide bond
between the cysteine pairs places the ABP in a loop or cyclic structure. Thus the ABP
remains cleavable by the desired protease while providing for inhibition of target binding to
the TBM. Upon cleavage of the CM, the cyclic structure is "opened", allowing access of
target to the TBM. Fig. 6 provides a schematic of an uncleaved ABP which is
conformationally constrained by a disulfide bond (represented by a dashed line) between
cysteine residues positioned in a region at or near the ends of a ABP (where the "ends" refers
to the ABP in the linear form prior to disulfide bond formation). Such cyclic ABPs can be
designed or be optimized (e.g., using the screening methods described below) such that in
the uncleaved ABP accessibility of the CM to its corresponding protease is greater than
accessibility of the TBM to target protein binding. It should be noted that target access to the
TBM may also occur following reduction of the disulfide bond.
[001661         The cysteine pairs can be positioned in the ABP at any position that provides
for a conformationally constrained ABP, but that, following CM cleavage, does not
substantially or significantly interfere with target biding to the TBM. For example, the
cysteine residues of the cysteine pair are positioned in the MM and a linker flanked by the
MM and TBM, within a linker flanked by the MM and TBM, or other suitable
configurations. For example, the MM or a linker flanking an MM can include one or more
cysteine residues, which cysteine residue forms a disulfide bridge with a cysteine residue
positioned opposite the MM when the ABP is in a folded state. It is generally desirable that
                                                  39

the cysteine residues of the cysteine pair be positioned outside the TBM so as to avoid
interference with target binding following cleavage of the ABP. Where a cysteine of the
cysteine pair to be disulfide bonded is positioned within the TBM, it is desirable that it be
positioned to as to avoid interference with TBM-target binding following exposure to a
cleaving agent, e.g., after exposure to a reducing agent.
[001671          Exemplary ABPs capable of forming a cyclic structure by disulfide bonds
between cysteines can be of the general formula (which may be from either N-to C-terminal
or from C- to N-terminal direction):
                             Xni-(Cysi)-Xm -CM - TBM - (Cys 2 )-Xn2
                         Xni-cyclo[(Cysi)-Xm -CM - TBM - (Cys 2 )]-Xn2
wherein
        XI and Xn2 are independently, optionally present or absent and, when present,
independently represent any amino acid, and can optionally include an amino acid sequence
of a flexible linker (e.g., at least one Gly, Ser, Asn, Asp, usually at least one Gly or Ser,
usually at least one Gly), and ni and n 2 are independently selected from s zero or any integer,
usually nor more than 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10;
        Cysi and Cys2 represent first and second cysteines of a pair capable of forming a
disulfide bond;
        Xm represents amino acids of a masking motif (MM), where X is any amino acid,
wherein Xm can optionally include a flexible linker (e.g., at least one Gly, Ser, Asn, Asp,
usually at least one Gly or Ser, usually at least one Gly); and where m is an integer greater
than 1, usually 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 or more (as described above);
        CM represents a cleavable moiety (as described herein); and
        TBM represents a target binding moiety (as described herein).
[00168]          As used in the formula above, "cyclo" indicates a disulfide bond in the ABP
that provides for a cyclic structure of the ABP. Furthermore, the formula above contemplate
dual target-binding ABPs wherein "MM" refers to a TBMI and "TBM" refers to TBM2,
where TBM1 and TBM2 are arbitrary designations for first and second TBMs, and where the
target capable of binding the TBMs may be the same or different target, or the same or
different binding sites of the same target. In such embodiments, the TBM1 and/or TBM2
acts as a masking moiety to interfere with target binding to an uncleaved dual target-binding
ABP.
                                                  40

[001691          As illustrated above, the cysteines can thus be positioned in the ABP allow
for one or two "tails" (represented by X 1I and Xn2 above), thereby generating a "lasso" or
"omega" structure when the ABP is in a disulfide-bonded structure (and thus
conformationally constrained state). The amino acid sequence of the tail(s) can provide for
additional ABP features, such as binding to a target receptor to facilitate localization of the
ABP.
[001701          For example, in an ABP containing an exemplary VEGF binder as a TBM,
the TBM can comprise the amino acid sequence NFGYGKWEWDYGKWLEKVGGC: SEQ
ID NO: 10, and a corresponding MM comprises the amino acid sequence PEWGCG: SEQ
ID NO: 11. Further specific examples are provided in the Examples section below.
[00171]          In certain specific embodiments, the MM does not inhibit cellular entry of the
ABP.
         Cleavable Moiety (CM)
[00172]          The cleavable moiety (CM) of the ABP may include an amino acid sequence
that can serve as a substrate for a protease, usually an extracellular protease (i.e., other than
an intracellular protease). Optionally, the CM comprises a cysteine-cysteine pair capable of
forming a disulfide bond, which can be cleaved by action of a reducing agent. The CM is
positioned in the ABP such that when the CM is cleaved by a cleaving agent (e.g., a protease
substrate of a CM is cleaved by the protease and/or the cysteine-cysteine disulfide bond is
disrupted via reduction by exposure to a reducing agent), in the presence of a target,
resulting in a cleaved state, the TBM binds the target, and in an uncleaved state, in the
presence of the target, binding of the TBM to the target is inhibited by the MM. It should be
noted that the amino acid sequence of the CM may overlap with or be included within the
MM, such that all or a portion of the CM facilitates "masking" of the TBM when the ABP is
in the uncleaved conformation.
[001731          As discussed above, the CM may be selected based on a protease that is co
localized in tissue with the desired target of the TBM of the ABP. A variety of different
conditions are known in which a target of interest is co-localized with a protease, where the
substrate of the protease is known in the art. For example, the target tissue can be a
cancerous tissue, particularly cancerous tissue of a solid tumor. There are many reports in the
literature of increased levels of proteases having known substrates in a number of cancers,
e.g., solid tumors. See, e.g., La Rocca et al, (2004) British J. of Cancer 90(7): 1414-1421.
Furthermore, anti-angiogenic targets, such as VEGF, are known. As such, where the TBM of
an ABP is selected such that it is capable of binding an anti-angiogenic target such as VEGF,
                                                 41

a suitable CM will be one which comprises a peptide substrate that is cleavable by a protease
that is present at the cancerous treatment site, particularly that is present at elevated levels at
the cancerous treatment site as compared to non-cancerous tissues. For example, the TBM
of an ABP can be a polypeptide, peptide, or antigen binding domain (ABD) that binds VEGF
and the CM can be a matrix metalloprotease (MMP) substrate, and thus is cleavable by an
MMP.
[00174]         Exemplary substrates can include but are not limited to substrates cleavable
by one or more of the following enzymes: MMP-1, MMP-2, MMP-3, MMP-8, MMP-9,
MMP-14, PLASMIN, PSA, PSMA, CATHEPSIN D, CATHEPSIN K, CATHEPSIN S,
ADAM1O, ADAM12, ADAMTS, Caspase-1, Caspase-2, Caspase-3, Caspase-4, Caspase-5,
Caspase-6, Caspase-7, Caspase-8, Caspase-9, Caspase-10, Caspase- 11, Caspase-12,
Caspase-13, Caspase-14, and TACE.
[001751         Alternatively or in addition, the TBM of an ABP can be one that binds VEGF
and the CM can involve a disulfide bond of a cysteine pair, which is thus cleavable by a
reducing agent such as, for example, a cellular reducing agent such as glutathione (GSH),
thioredoxins, NADPH, flavins, ascorbate, and the like, which can be present in large
amounts in tissue of or surrounding a solid tumor.
         Exemplary ABPs
[00176]         In certain embodiments the ABP is an activatable antibody or activatable
antibody fragment that includes a TBM, a CM, and a MM. In such embodiments the TBM
comprises an ABD or ABD fragment. Non limiting exemplary activatable antibody
compositions include a MMP-9 activatable, masked anti-VEGF scFv, a MMP-9 activatable,
masked anti-VCAM scFv, and a MMP-9 activatable masked anti-CTLA4. These are
provided by way of example only and such enzyme activatable masked antibody ABPs could
be designed to any target as listed in but not limited to those in Table 1 and by using any
antibody as listed in but not limited to those in Table 2.
METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR IDENTIFYING AND/OR OPTIMIZING ABPS
[001771         Methods for identifying and/or optimizing ABPs, as well as compositions
useful in such methods, are described below.
         Libraries of ABPs or candidate ABPs displayed on replicable biological entities
[00178]         In general, the screening methods to identify an ABP and/or to optimize an
ABP for a switchable phenotype involve production of a library of replicable biological
entities (as exemplified by cells) that display on their surface a plurality of different
                                                42

candidate ABPs. These libraries can then be subjected to screening methods to identify
candidate ABPs having one or more desired characteristics of an ABP.
[00179]          The candidate ABP libraries can contain candidate ABPs that differ by one or
more of the MM, linker (which may be part of the MM), CM (which may be part of the
MM), and TBM. As discussed above, ABPs are may be designed to target a known protease
target pair of a condition of interest. Thus, generally the candidate ABPs in the library are
variable for the MM and/or the linker, with the TBM and CM being preselected. Where the
ABP is to include pairs of cysteine residues to provide a disulfide bond in the ABP, the
relative position of the cysteines in the ABP can be varied.
[00180]          The library for screening is generally provided as a library of replicable
biological entities which display on their surface different candidate ABPs. For example, a
library of candidate ABPs can include a plurality of candidate ABPs displayed on the surface
of population of a replicable biological entities, wherein each member of said plurality of
candidate activatable binding polypeptides comprises: (a) a target binding moiety (TBM);
(b) a cleavable moiety (CM); and (c) a candidate masking moiety (candidate MM), wherein
the TBM, CM and candidate MM are positioned such that the ability of the candidate MM to
inhibit binding of the TBM to a target in an uncleaved state and allow binding of the TBM to
the target in a cleaved state can be determined.
[00181]          Suitable replicable biological entities include cells (e.g., bacteria (e.g., E.
coli), yeast (e.g., S. cerevesiae), mammalian cells), bacteriophage, and viruses. Bacterial host
cells and bacteriophage, particularly bacterial host cells, are of interest.
         Display of candidate ABPs on the surface of replicable biological entities
[00182]          A variety of display technologies using replicable biological entities are
known in the art. These methods and entities include, but are not limited to, display
methodologies such as mRNA and ribosome display, eukaryotic virus display, and bacterial,
yeast, and mammalian cell surface display. See Wilson, D. S., et al. 2001 PNAS USA
98(7):3750- 3755; Muller, 0. J., et al. (2003) Nat. Biotechnol. 3:312; Bupp, K. and M. J.
Roth (2002) Mol. Ther. 5(3):329 3513; Georgiou, G., et al., (1997) Nat. Biotechnol. 15(1):29
3414; and Boder, E. T. and K. D. Wittrup (1997) Nature Biotech. 15(6):553 557. Surface
display methods are attractive since they enable application of fluorescence-activated cell
sorting (FACS) for library analysis and screening. See Daugherty, P. S., et al. (2000) J
Immuunol. Methods 243(1 2):211 2716; Georgiou, G. (2000) Adv. Protein Chem. 55:293
315; Daugherty, P. S., et al. (2000) PNAS USA 97(5):2029 3418; Olsen, M. J., et al. (2003)
Methods Mol. Biol. 230:329 342; Boder, E. T. et al. (2000) PNAS USA 97(20):10701 10705;
                                                43

Mattheakis, L. C., et al. (1994) PNAS USA 91(19): 9022 9026; and Shusta, E. V., et al.
(1999) Curr. Opin. Biotech. 10(2):117 122. Additional display methodologies which may be
used to identify a peptide capable of binding to a biological target of interest are described in
U.S. Patent No. 7,256,038, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
[00183]         Phage display involves the localization of peptides as terminal fusions to the
coat proteins, e.g., pIII, pIlIV of bacteriophage particles. See Scott, J. K. and G. P. Smith
(1990) Science 249(4967):386 390; and Lowman, H. B., et al. (1991) Biochem.
30(45):10832 10838. Generally, polypeptides with a specific function of binding are isolated
by incubating with a target, washing away non-binding phage, eluting the bound phage, and
then re-amplifying the phage population by infecting a fresh culture of bacteria.
[00184]         Exemplary phage display and cell display compositions and methods are
described in U.S. Patent Nos. 5,223,409; 5,403,484; 7,118,879; 6,979,538; 7,208,293;
5571698; and 5,837,500.
[00185]         Additional exemplary display scaffolds and methods include those described
in U.S. Patent Application Publication No: 2007/0065878, published March 22, 2007.
[00186]         Optionally, the display scaffold can include a protease cleavage site (different
from the protease cleavage site of the CM) to allow for cleavage of an ABP or candidate
ABP from a surface of a host cell.
[001871         In one, where the replicable biological entity is a bacterial cell, suitable
display scaffolds include circularly permuted Esccherichiacoli outer membrane protein
OmpX (CPX) described by Rice et al, ProteinSci. (2006) 15: 825-836. See also, U.S. Patent
No. 7,256,038, issued August 14, 2007.
        Constructs encoding ABPs and candidate ABPs
[00188]         The disclosure further provides nucleic acid constructs which include
sequences coding for ABPs and/or candidate ABPs. Suitable nucleic acid constructs include,
but are not limited to, constructs which are capable of expression in a prokaryotic or
eukaryotic cell. Expression constructs are generally selected so as to be compatible with the
host cell in which they are to be used.
[00189]         For example, non-viral and/or viral constructs vectors may be prepared and
used, including plasmids, which provide for replication of ABP- or candidate ABP-encoding
DNA and/or expression in a host cell. The choice of vector will depend on the type of cell in
which propagation is desired and the purpose of propagation. Certain constructs are useful
for amplifying and making large amounts of the desired DNA sequence. Other vectors are
suitable for expression in cells in culture. The choice of appropriate vector is well within the
                                                 44

skill of the art. Many such vectors are available commercially. Methods for generating
constructs can be accomplished using methods well known in the art.
[00190]           In order to effect expression in a host cell, the polynucleotide encoding an
ABP or candidate ABP is operably linked to a regulatory sequence as appropriate to
facilitate the desired expression properties. These regulatory sequences can include
promoters, enhancers, terminators, operators, repressors, and inducers. Expression constructs
generally also provide a transcriptional and translational initiation region as may be needed
or desired, which may be inducible or constitutive, where the coding region is operably
linked under the transcriptional control of the transcriptional initiation region, and a
transcriptional and translational termination region. These control regions may be native to
the species from which the nucleic acid is obtained, or may be derived from exogenous
sources.
[00191]           Promoters may be either constitutive or regulatable. In some situations it may
be desirable to use conditionally active promoters, such as inducible promoters, e.g.,
temperature-sensitive promoters. Inducible elements are DNA sequence elements that act in
conjunction with promoters and may bind either repressors (e.g. lacO/LAC Iq repressor
system in E. coli) or inducers (e.g. gall/GAL4 inducer system in yeast). In such cases,
transcription is virtually "shut off' until the promoter is derepressed or induced, at which
point transcription is "turned-on."
[00192]           Constructs, including expression constructs, can also include a selectable
marker operative in the host to facilitate, for example, growth of host cells containing the
construt of interest. Such selectable marker genes can provide a phenotypic trait for selection
of transformed host cells such as dihydrofolate reductase or neomycin resistance for
eukaryotic cell culture.
[00193]           Expression constructs can include convenient restriction sites to provide for
the insertion and removal of nucleic acid sequences encoding the ABP and/or candidate
ABP. Alternatively or in addition, the expression constructs can include flanking sequences
that can serve as the basis for primers to facilitate nucleic acid amplification (e.g., PCR
based amplification) of an ABP-coding sequence of interest.
[00194]           The above described expression systems may be employed with prokaryotes
or eukaryotes in accordance with conventional ways, depending upon the purpose for
expression. In some embodiments, a unicellular organism, such as E. coli, B. subtilis,
S. cerevisiae, insect cells in combination with baculovirus vectors, or cells of a higher
organism such as vertebrates, e.g. COS 7 cells, HEK 293, CHO, Xenopus Oocytes, etc., may
                                                  45

be used as the expression host cells. Expression systems for each of these classes and types
of host cells are known in the art.
        Methods of making libraries of ABPs or candidate ABPs displayed on replicable
biological entities
[00195]         The present disclosure contemplates methods of making the libraries of ABPs
and/or candidate ABPs described herein.
[00196]         In one embodiment, a method of making an ABP library and/or candidate
ABP library comprises: (a) constructing a set of recombinant DNA vectors as described
herein that encode a plurality of ABPs and/or candidate ABPs; (b) transforming host cells
with the vectors of step (a); and (c) culturing the host cells transformed in step (b) under
conditions suitable for expression and display of the fusion polypeptides.
                Productionof nucleic acidsequences encoding candidateABPs
[001971         Production of candidate ABPs for use in the screening methods can be
accomplished using methods known in the art. Polypeptide display, single chain antibody
display, antibody display and antibody fragment display are methods well know in the art.
In general, an element of an ABP e.g., MM, to be varied in the candidate ABP library is
selected for randomization. The candidate ABPs in the library can be fully randomized or
biased in their randomization, e.g. in nucleotide/residue frequency generally or in position of
amino acid(s) within an element. By "randomized" is meant that any genetically-encodable
amino acid can be provided at any given position within a randomized amino acid sequence.
An amino acid sequence of an element of an ABP that is to be optimized can also be
partially randomized. For example, the ABP element (e.g., candidate MM) can be partially
randomized so as to provide for only a subset of amino acids at a selected position (e.g., to
provide for a flexible linker at a selected position in the amino acid sequence, to provide for
an amino acid residue of a desired characteristic (e.g., hydrophobic, polar, positively
charged, negatively charged, etc.). In another example, the ABP element (e.g., candidate
MM) can be partially randomized so that one or more residues within the otherwise
randomized amino acid sequence is selected and held as invariable among a population or
subpopulation of ABP library members (e.g., so as to provide a cysteine at a desired position
within the candidate MM).
[00198]         Where the ABP is a dual target-binding ABP, a first TBM may be "fixed" and
the second TBM having a known target binding activity can be provided in its unmodified
form (e.g., a native amino acid sequence having a known target binding activity) or can be
modified (e.g., by directed or random mutagenesis) and screened for activity in providing a
                                                46

"switchable" phenotype. TBMs that are identified through the screening methods can
subsequently be evaluated for activity in binding the target of interest, e.g., to determine that
the "masking" TBM retains a desired level of target binding.
[00199]          Using such methods candidate ABPs having a variety of different possible
combinations of amino acid sequence over the length of the amino acid sequence of an
element(s) to be varied can be generated, thus providing a library of randomized candidate
ABPs. As such, in some embodiments, the library of candidate ABPs can be fully
randomized, with no sequence preferences or constants at any position of an element(s) to be
optimized. In other embodiments, the library of candidate peptides is biased. That is, some
positions within the sequence are either held constant, or are selected from a limited number
of possibilities. For example, in one embodiment, the nucleotides or amino acid residues are
randomized within a defined class, for example, of hydrophobic amino acids, hydrophilic
residues, sterically biased (either small or large) residues, towards the creation of cysteines,
for cross-linking, prolines for SH-3 domains, serines, threonines, tyrosines or histidines for
phosphorylation sites, etc., or to purines, etc.
METHODS OF SCREENING FOR ACTIVATABLE BINDING POLYPEPTIDES
[00200]          The present disclosure provides methods of identifying ABPs, which can be
enzymatically activated ABPs, reducing agent-susceptible ABPs, or an ABP that is
activatable by either or both of enzymatic activation or reducing agent-based activation.
Generally, the methods include contacting a plurality of candidate ABPs with a target
capable of binding a TBM of the ABPs and a protease capable of cleaving a CM of the
ABPs, selecting a first population of members of said plurality which bind to the target when
exposed to protease, contacting said first population with the target in the absence of the
protease, and selecting a second population of members from said first population by
depleting from said first population members that bind the target in the absence of the
protease, wherein said method provides for selection of candidate ABPs which exhibit
decreased binding to the target in the absence of the protease as compared to target binding
in the presence of the protease.
[00201]          In general, the method for screening for candidate ABPs having a desired
switchable phenotype is accomplished through a positive screening step (to identify
members that bind target following exposure to protease) and a negative screening step (to
identify members that do not bind target when not exposed to protease). The negative
screening step can be accomplished by, for example, depleting from the population members
that bind the target in the absence of the protease. It should be noted that the library
                                                 47

screening methods described herein can be initiated by conducting the negative screening
first to select for candidates that do not bind labeled target in the absence of enzyme
treatment (i.e., do not bind labeled target when not cleaved), and then conducting the
positive screening (i.e., treating with enzyme and selecting for members which bind labeled
target in the cleaved state). However, for convenience, the screening method is described
below with the positive selection as a first step.
[00202]           The positive and negative screening steps can be conveniently conducted
using flow cytometry to sort candidate ABPs based on binding of a detectably labeled target.
For example, as illustrated in the schematic of Fig. 18, candidate ABPs having a CM
susceptible to cleavage by a protease (such as the one exemplified in Fig. 18) can be
expressed in a host cell (e.g., E. coli) in a display scaffold (exemplified by CPX). Host cells
displaying the candidate ABP are exposed to a protease capable of cleaving the CM and to a
detectably labeled target that is capable of binding the TBM. As illustrated in the lower
panel of the right side of Fig. 18, the cells are sorted by FACS for intensity of detectable
signal (exemplified by red fluorescence)of the detectably labeled target. The cells that are
detectably labeled include those displaying a candidate ABP that was present on the cell
surface, contained a CM cleavable by the protease, and that bound to detectably labeled
target. The unlabeled subpopulation (or population having relative lower detectable signal)
represents host cells that fail to bind target at a desirable level. The "labeled" subpopulation
can then be collected and subjected to a negative screen in which the candidate ABPs are
exposed to detectably labeled target in the absence of protease. As exemplified in the upper
panel on the right side of Fig. 18, those cells that are unlabeled include those that present on
their surface a candidate ABP that has relatively lower or no detectable binding of detectably
labeled target relative to other members of the population. Cells that are detectably labeled
include those displaying a candidate ABP that binds target in the absence of cleavage. The
"unlabeled" subpopulation can then be collected and, if desired, subjected to further rounds
or screening.
[00203]           One "round" or "cycle" of the screening procedure involves both a positive
selection step and a negative selection step. The methods may be repeated for a library such
that multiple cycles (including complete and partial cycles, e.g., 1.5 cycles, 2.5 cycles, etc.)
are performed. In this manner, members of the plurality of candidate ABPs that exhibit the
switching characteristics of an ABP may be enriched in the resulting population.
[00204]           In general, the screening methods are conducted by first generating a nucleic
acid library encoding a plurality of candidate ABPs in a display scaffold, which is in turn
                                                  48

introduced into a display scaffold for expression on the surface of a replicable biological
entity. As used herein, a "plurality of candidate activatable binding polypeptides," or a
"plurality of candidate ABPs" refers to a plurality of polypeptides having amino acid
sequences encoding candidate ABPs, where members of the plurality are variable with
respect to the amino acid sequence of at least one of the components of an ABP, e.g., the
plurality is variable with respect to the amino acid sequence of the MM, the CM or the TBM,
usually the MM.
[00205]          For example, the TBM and CM of the candidate ABPs are held "fixed" and
the candidate ABPs in the library are variable with respect to the amino acid sequence of the
MM. The variable amino acid sequence of the MM is referred to hereinafter as a candidate
masking moiety (candidate MM). As illustrated in Fig. 19, libraries can be generated having
different MMs, which can include, for example, candidate ABPs having an MM that is
designed to position a cysteine residue to "force" formation of a disulfide bond with another
cysteine present in the candidate ABP (with other residues selected to provide an MM
having an amino acid sequence that is otherwise fully or at least partially randomized). In
another example, a library can be generated to include candidate ABPs having an MM that is
designed to position a cysteine residue such that disulfide bond formation with another
cysteine in the candidate ABP is favored (with other residues selected to provide an MM
having an amino acid sequence that is otherwise fully or at least partially randomized). In
another example, a library can be generated to include candidate ABPs in which the MM
includes a fully randomized amino acid sequence. Such libraries can contain candidate ABPs
designed by one or more of these criterion. By screening members of said plurality
according to the methods described herein, members having candidate MMs that provide a
desired switchable phenotype can be identified.
[00206]          The term "candidate", as used in the context of, for example, "candidate
ABP" or "candidate MM" (or other element of an ABP that is to be screened), refers to a
polypeptide that is to be screened to determine whether it exhibits desired structural and/or
functional characteristics. For example, a "candidate ABP" refers to a polypeptide that is
designed to resemble the structure of an ABP as described herein, except that at least one of
the MM, CM, TBM, and linker(s) are variable with respect to their amino acid sequences,
wherein the candidate ABP is to be screened for a desired switchable phenotype. A
"candidate MM", for example, refers to an amino acid sequence of an ABP which is to be
screened for its function as a masking moiety in the context of an ABP.
                                               49

[002071          In one embodiment of the methods, each member of the plurality of candidate
ABPs is displayed on the surface of a replicable biological entity (exemplified here by
bacterial cells). The members of the plurality are exposed to a protease capable of cleaving
the CM of the candidate ABPs and contacted with a target which is a binding partner of the
TBM of the candidate ABPs. Bacterial cells displaying members comprising TBMs which
bind the target after exposure to the protease are identified and/or separated via detection of
target binding (e.g., detection of a target-TBM complex). Members comprising TBMs which
bind the target after protease exposure (which can lead to cleavage of the CM) are then
contacted with the target in the absence of the protease. Bacterial cells displaying members
comprising TBMs which exhibit decreased or undetectable binding to the target in the
absence of cleavage are identified and/or separated via detection of cells lacking bound
target. In this manner, members of the plurality of candidate ABPs which bind target in a
cleaved state and exhibit decreased or undetectable target binding in an uncleaved state are
identified and/or selected.
[00208]          As noted above, candidate ABP libraries can be constructed so as to screen
for one or more aspects of the ABP constructs, e.g., to provide for optimization of a
switchable phenotype for one or more of the MM, the CM, and the TBM. One or more other
elements of the ABP can be varied to facilitate optimization. For example: vary the MM,
including varying the number or position of cysteines or other residues that can provide for
different conformational characteristics of the ABP in the absence of cleaving agent (e.g.,
enzyme): vary the CM to identify a substrate that is optimized for one or more desired
characteristics (e.g., specificity of enzyme cleavage, and the like); and/or vary the TBM to
provide for optimization of "switchable" target binding.
[00209]          In general, the elements of the candidate ABP libraries are selected according
to a target protein of interest, where the ABP is to be activated to provide for enhanced
binding of the target in the presence of a cleaving agent (e.g., enzyme) that cleaves the CM.
For example, where the CM and TBM are held "fixed" among the library members, the CM
is selected such that it is cleavable by a cleaving agent (e.g., enzyme) that is co-localized
with a target of interest, where the target of interest is a binding partner of the TBM. In this
manner, an ABP can be selected such that it is selectively activated under the appropriate
biological conditions, and thus at an appropriate biological location. For example, where it is
desired to develop an ABP to be used as an anti-angiogenic compound and exhibit a
switchable phenotype for VEGF binding, the CM of the candidate ABP is selected to be a
                                                 50

substrate for an enzyme and/or a reducing agent that is colocalized with VEGF (e.g., a CM
cleavable by a matrix-metalloprotease).
[00210]         As discussed above, a TBM is generally selected according to a target of
interest. Many targets are known in the art. Biological targets of interest include protein
targets that have been identified as playing a role in disease. Such targets include but are not
limited to cell surface receptors and secreted binding proteins (e.g., growth factors), soluble
enzymes, structural proteins (e.g. collagen, fibronectin) and the like. Exemplary non-limiting
targets are presented in Table 1, but other suitable targets will be readily identifiable by those
of ordinary skill in the art. In addition, many proteases are known in the art which co
localize with targets of interest. As such, persons of ordinary skill in the art will be able to
readily identify appropriate enzymes and enzyme substrates for use in the above methods.
         Optional enrichment for cell surface display prior to ABP screening
[00211]         Prior to the screening method, it may be desirable to enrich for cells
expressing an appropriate peptide display scaffold on the cell surface. The optional
enrichment allows for removal of cells from the cell library that (1) do not express peptide
display scaffolds on the cell outer membrane or (2) express non-functional peptide display
scaffolds on the cell outer membrane. By "non-functional" is meant that the peptide display
scaffold does not properly display a candidate ABP, e.g., as a result of a stop codon or a
deletion mutation.
[00212]         Enrichment for cells can be accomplished by growing the cell population and
inducing expression of the peptide display scaffolds. The cells are then sorted based on, for
example, detection of a detectable signal or moiety incorporated into the scaffold or by use
of a detectably-labeled antibody that binds to a shared portion of the display scaffold or the
ABP. These methods are described in greater detail in U.S. Patent Application Publication
No: 2007/0065878, published March 22, 2007.
         Screening for target binding by cleaved ABPs
[00213]         Prior to screening, the candidate ABP library can be expanded (e.g., by
growth in a suitable medium in culture under suitable conditions). Subsequent to the optional
expansion, or as an initial step, the library is subjected to a first screen to identify candidate
ABPs that bind target following exposure to protease. Accordingly, this step is often referred
to herein as the "positive" selection step.
[00214]         In order to identify members that bind target following protease cleavage, the
candidate ABP library is contacted with a protease capable of cleaving the CM of the
displayed candidate ABPs for an amount of time sufficient and under conditions suitable to
                                                  51

provide for cleavage of the protease substrate of the CM. A variety of protease-CM
combinations will be readily ascertainable by those of ordinary skill in the art, where the
protease is one which is capable of cleaving the CM and one which co-localizes in vivo with
a target of interest (which is a binding partner of the TBM). For example, where the target of
interest is a solid tumor associated target (e.g. VEGF), suitable enzymes include, for
example, Matrix-Metalloproteases (e.g., MMP-2), A Disintegrin and Metalloprotease(s)
(ADAMs)/ADAM with thrombospondin-like motifs (ADAMTS), Cathepsins and
Kallikreins. The amino acid sequences of substrates useful as CMs in the ABPs described
herein are known in the art and, where desired, can be screened to identify optimal
sequences suitable for use as a CM by adaptation of the methods described herein.
Exemplary substrates can include but are not limited to substrates cleavable by one or more
of the following enzymes: MMP-1, MMP-2, MMP-3, MMP-8, MMP-9, MMP-14,
PLASMIN, PSA, PSMA, CATHEPSIN D, CATHEPSIN K, CATHEPSIN S, ADAM1O,
ADAM12, ADAMTS, Caspase-1, Caspase-2, Caspase-3, Caspase-4, Caspase-5, Caspase-6,
Caspase-7, Caspase-8, Caspase-9, Caspase-10, Caspase- 11, Caspase-12, Caspase-13,
Caspase-14,and TACE.
[00215]          The candidate ABP library is also exposed to target for an amount of time
sufficient and under conditions suitable for target binding, which conditions can be selected
according to conditions under which target binding to the TBM would be expected. The
candidate ABP library can be exposed to the protease prior to exposure to target (e.g., to
provide a population of candidate ABPs which include cleaved ABPs) or in combination
with exposure to target, usually the latter so as to best model the expected in vivo situation in
which both protease and target will be present in the same environmental milieu. Following
exposure to both protease and target, the library is then screened to select members having
bound target, which include candidate ABPs in a target-TBM complex.
[00216]          Detection of target-bound candidate ABPs can be accomplished in a variety
of ways. For example, the target may be detectably labeled and the first population of target
bound candidate ABPs may be selected by detection of the detectable label to generate a
second population having bound target (e.g., a positive selection for target-bound candidate
ABPs).
         Screening for candidate ABPs that do not bind target in the absence of protease
         cleavage
[002171          The population of candidate ABPs selected for target binding following
exposure to protease can then be expanded (e.g., by growth in a suitable medium in culture
                                                 52

under suitable conditions), and the expanded library subjected to a second screen to identify
members exhibiting decreased or no detectable binding to target in the absence of protease
exposure. The population resulting from this second screen will include candidate ABPs
that, when uncleaved, do not bind target significantly or to a detectable level. Accordingly,
this step is often referred to herein as the "negative" selection step.
[00218]          The population that resulted from the first screen is contacted with target in
the absence of the protease for a time sufficient and under conditions suitable for target
binding, which conditions can be selected according to conditions under which target
binding to the TBM would be expected. A negative selection can then be performed to
identify candidate ABPs that are relatively decreased for target binding, including those
which exhibit no detectably target binding. This selection can be accomplished by, for
example, use of a detectably labeled target, and subjecting the target-exposed population to
flow cytometry analysis to sort into separate subpopulation those cells that display a
candidate ABP that exhibits no detectable target binding and/or which exhibit a relatively
lower detectable signal. This subpopulation is thus enriched for cells having a candidate
ABP that exhibit decreased or undetectable binding to target in the absence of cleavage.
                 Detectable labels
[00219]          As used herein, the terms "label", "detectable label" and "detectable moiety"
are used interchangeably to refer to a molecule capable of detection, including, but not
limited to, radioactive isotopes, fluorescers, chemiluminescers, chromophores, enzymes,
enzyme substrates, enzyme cofactors, enzyme inhibitors, chromophores, dyes, metal ions,
metal sols, ligands (e.g., biotin, avidin, strepavidin or haptens) and the like. The term
"fluorescer" refers to a substance or a portion thereof which is capable of exhibiting
fluorescence in the detectable range. Exemplary detectable moieties suitable for use as target
labels include, affinity tags and fluorescent proteins.
[00220]          The term "affinity tag" is used herein to denote a peptide segment that can be
attached to a target that can be detected using a molecule that binds the affinity tag and
provides a detectable signal (e.g., a fluorescent compound or protein). In principal, any
peptide or protein for which an antibody or other specific binding agent is available can be
used as an affinity tag. Exemplary affinity tags suitable for use include, but are not limited
to, a monocytic adaptor protein (MONA) binding peptide, a T7 binding peptide, a
streptavidin binding peptide, a polyhistidine tract, protein A (Nilsson et al., EMBO J. 4:1075
(1985); Nilsson et al., Methods Enzymol. 198:3 (1991)), glutathione S transferase (Smith
and Johnson, Gene 67:31 (1988)), Glu-Glu affinity tag (Grussenmeyer et al., Proc. Natl.
                                                 53

Acad. Sci. USA 82:7952 (1985)), substance P, FLAG peptide (Hopp et al., Biotechnology
6:1204 (1988)), or other antigenic epitope or binding domain. See, in general, Ford et al.,
Protein Expression and Purification 2:95 (1991). DNA molecules encoding affinity tags are
available from commercial suppliers (e.g., Pharmacia Biotech, Piscataway, N.J.).
[00221]         Any fluorescent polypeptide (also referred to herein as a fluorescent label)
well known in the art is suitable for use as a detectable moiety or with an affinity tag of the
peptide display scaffolds described herein. A suitable fluorescent polypeptide will be one
that can be expressed in a desired host cell, such as a bacterial cell or a mammalian cell, and
will readily provide a detectable signal that can be assessed qualitatively (positive/negative)
and quantitatively (comparative degree of fluorescence). Exemplary fluorescent polypeptides
include, but are not limited to, yellow fluorescent protein (YFP), cyan fluorescent protein
(CFP), GFP, mRFP, RFP (tdimer2), HCRED, etc., or any mutant (e.g., fluorescent proteins
modified to provide for enhanced fluorescence or a shifted emission spectrum), analog, or
derivative thereof. Further suitable fluorescent polypeptides, as well as specific examples of
those listed herein, are provided in the art and are well known.
[00222]         Biotin-based labels also find use in the methods disclosed herein.
Biotinylation of target molecules and substrates is well known, for example, a large number
of biotinylation agents are known, including amine-reactive and thiol-reactive agents, for the
biotinylation of proteins, nucleic acids, carbohydrates, carboxylic acids; see, e.g., chapter 4,
Molecular Probes Catalog, Haugland, 6th Ed. 1996, hereby incorporated by reference. A
biotinylated substrate can be detected by binding of a detectably labeled biotin binding
partner, such as avidin or streptavidin. Similarly, a large number of haptenylation reagents
are also known.
                Screening methods
[00223]         Any suitable method that provides for separation and recovery of ABPs of
interest may be utilized. For example, a cell displaying an ABP of interest may be separated
by FACS, immunochromatography or, where the detectable label is magnetic, by magnetic
separation. As a result of the separation, the population is enriched for cells that exhibit the
desired characteristic, e.g., exhibit binding to target following cleavage or have decreased or
no detectable binding to target in the absence of cleavage.
[00224]         For example, selection of candidate ABPs having bound detectably labeled
target can be accomplished using a variety of techniques known in the art. For example, flow
cytometry (e.g., FACS@) methods can be used to sort detectably labeled candidate ABPs
from unlabeled candidate ABPs. Flow cyomtery methods can be implemented to provide for
                                                 54

more or less stringent requirements in separation of the population of candidate ABPs, e.g.,
by modification of gating to allow for "dimmer" or to require "brighter" cell populations in
order to be separated into the second population for further screening.
[00225]         In another example, immunoaffinity chromatography can be used to separate
target-bound candidate ABPs from those that do not bind target. For example, a support
(e.g., column, magnetic beads) having bound anti-target antibody can be contacted with the
candidate ABPs that have been exposed to protease and to target. Candidate ABPs having
bound target bind to the anti-target antibody, thus facilitating separation from candidate
ABPs lacking bound target. Where the screening step is to provide for a population enriched
for uncleaved candidate ABPs that have relatively decreased target binding or no detectable
target binding (e.g., relative to other candidate ABPs), the subpopulation of interest is those
members that lack or have a relatively decreased detectably signal for bound target. For
example, where an immunoaffinity technique is used in such negative selection for bound
target, the subpopulation of interest is that which is not bound by the anti-target support.
         Screening for dual target-binding ABPs
[00226]         Methods for screening disclosed herein can be readily adapted to identify dual
target-binding ABPs having a desired switchable phenotype due to interaction between two
TBMs. In general, rather than a candidate MM in the example above, a TBM having a
known binding activity is presented in the candidate ABP in place of the MM. In general, the
method thus involves a library containing a plurality of candidate ABPs, wherein each
member of said plurality comprises a first TBM, a second TBM and a CM. The library is
contacted with target capable of binding at least the first TBM and a cleaving agent capable
of cleaving the CM. A first population of members of the library is selected for binding the
target in the presence of the cleaving agent (e.g., protease for the CM). This selected
population is then subjected to the negative screen above, in which binding of target to the
library members in the absence of the cleaving agent is assessed. A second population of
members is then generated by depleting the subpopulation of members that bind to said
target in the absence of the cleaving agent. This can be accomplished by, for example,
sorting members that are not bound to target away from those that are bound to target, as
determined by detection of a detectably labeled target. This method thus provides for
selection of candidate ABPs which exhibit decreased binding to the target in the absence of
the cleaving agent as compared to binding to said target in the presence of the cleaving
agent.
                                                 55

[002271          This method can be repeated for both targets, although target binding to a
TBM that is not associated with a display scaffold following cleavage must be assessed by
evaluating the presence or absence (and/or relative levels) of target complexed with TBM
containing ABP fragments in solution.
[00228]          In one example, a library containing a plurality of candidate ABPs is
generated, wherein each member comprises a first TBM, a second TBM and a CM, where
the CM is positioned between the first and second TBMs, and where the first TBM is
immobilized on the surface of a replicable biological entity via a display scaffold. The
library is then subjected to the positive and negative screening steps above with a target that
is capable of binding the second TBM. For example, the library is contacted with a target
capable of binding the first TBM and a cleaving agent capable of cleaving the CM, then
selecting a first population of members of said plurality which bind to said target in the
presence of the cleaving agent. The selected first population is then contacted with target
capable of binding the first TBM in the absence of the cleaving agent, and a second
population of members selected that bind to said target in the absence of the cleaving agent.
[00229]          As above, any element of a dual target binding ABP can be varied within the
library. For example, a first TBM may be "fixed" and the second TBM having a known
target binding activity can be provided in its unmodified form (e.g., a native amino acid
sequence having a known target binding activity) or can be modified (e.g., by directed or
random mutagenesis) and screened for activity in providing a "switchable" phenotype.
TBMs that are identified through the screening methods as exhibiting "masking" activity can
subsequently be evaluated for activity in binding the target of interest, e.g., to determine that
the "masking" TBM retains a desired level of target binding. For example, a construct
encoding a display scaffold and a TBM-MM dual function element of a dual target-binding
ABP can be inserted for expression and display on a replicable biological entity surface.
Binding of the TBM-MM can then be evaluated according to methods in the art.
         Exemplary variations of the screening methods to select for candidate ABPs
[00230]          The above method may be modified to select for populations and library
members that demonstrate desired switching characteristics.
                 Iterativescreens to identify and/or optimize ABP elements
[00231]          The methods and candidate ABP libraries described herein can be readily
adapted to provide for identification and/or optimization of one or more elements of an ABP.
For example, candidate ABPs that vary with respect to any one or more of TBM, CM,
                                                56

linkers, and the like can be produced and subjected to the screening methods described
herein.
                  Reducing agent-activatableABPs
[00232]           While the methods above describe screening methods for identifying ABPS,
it should be understood that an ABP or candidate ABP with a CM that can facilitate
formation of a cysteine-cysteine disulfide bond in an ABP can also be subjected to the
screening methods disclosed herein. Such ABPs may or may not further include a CM
(which may be the same or different CM) that may or may not comprise a protease substrate.
In these embodiments, the positive screen described above may be conducted by exposing an
ABP or candidate ABP to a reducing agent (e.g., to reducing conditions) capable of cleaving
the disulfide bond of the cysteine-cysteine pair of the ABP. The negative screen can then be
conducted in the absence of the reducing conditions. As such, a library produced having may
be enriched for ABPs which are activatable by exposure to disulfide bond reducing
conditions.
                  Number of cycles and scaffoldfree screeningof ABPs
[00233]           By increasing the number of cycles of the above methods, populations and
library members that demonstrate improved switching characteristics can be identified, as
exemplified in Fig. 8. Any number of cycles of screening can be performed.
[00234]           In addition, individual clones of candidate ABPs can be isolated and
subjected to screening so as to determine the dynamic range of the candidate ABP.
Candidate ABPs can also be tested for a desired switchable phenotype separate from the
scaffold, i.e., the candidate ABP can be expressed or otherwise generated separate from the
display scaffold, and the switchable phenotype of the candidate ABP assessed in the absence
of the scaffold and, where desired, in a cell-free system (e.g., using solubilized ABP).
[00235]           It may be desirable to provide an ABP expression construct which includes a
secretion signal to provide for extracellular secretion of the ABP, thereby facilitating
production and recovery of an ABP of interest. Secretion signals suitable for use in bacterial
and mammalian systems are well known in the art.
                  Optimization ofABP components and switching activity
[00236]           The above methods may be modified to optimize the performance of an ABP,
e.g., an ABP identified in the screening method described herein. For example, where it is
desirable to optimize the performance of the masking moiety, e.g., to provide for improved
inhibition of target binding of the TBM in the uncleaved state, the amino acid sequences of
the TBM and the CM may be "fixed" in a candidate ABP library, and the MM varied such
                                                 57

that members of a library have variable MMs relative to each other. The MM may be
optimized in a variety of ways including alteration in the number and or type of amino acids
that make up the MM. For example, each member of the plurality of candidate ABPs may
comprise a candidate MM, wherein the candidate MM comprises at least one cysteine amino
acid residue and the remaining amino acid residues are variable between the members of the
plurality. In a further example, each member of the plurality of candidate ABPs may
comprise a candidate MM, wherein the candidate MM comprises a cysteine amino acid
residue and a random sequence of amino acid residues, e.g., a random sequence of 5 amino
acids.
                 Selectionfor expanded dynamic range
[002371          As noted above, ABPs having a desired dynamic range with respect to target
binding in the cleaved versus uncleaved state are of particular interest. Such ABPs are those
that, for example, have no detectable binding in the presence of target at physiological levels
found at treatment and non-treatment sites in a subject but which, once cleaved by protease,
exhibit high affinity and/or high avidity binding to target. The greater the dynamic range of
an ABP, the better the "switchable" phenotype of the ABP. Thus ABPs can be optimized to
select for those having an "expanded" dynamic range for target binding in the presence and
absence of a cleaving agent.
[00238]          The screening methods described herein can be modified so as to enhance
selection of ABPs having a desired and/or optimized dynamic range. In general, this can be
accomplished by altering the concentrations of target utilized in the positive selection and
negative selection steps of the method such that screening for target binding of ABPs
exposed to protease (i.e., the screening population that includes cleaved ABPs) is performed
using a relatively lower target concentration than when screening for target binding of
uncleaved ABPs. Accordingly, the target concentration is varied between the steps so as to
provide a "selective pressure" toward a switchable phenotype. Where desired, the difference
in target concentrations used at the positive and negative selection steps can be increased
with increasing cycle number.
[00239]          Use of a relatively lower concentration of target in the positive selection step
can serve to drive selection of those ABP members that have improved target binding when
in the cleaved state. For example, the screen involving protease-exposed ABPs can be
performed at a target concentration that is from about 2 to about 100 fold lower, about 2 to
50 fold lower, about 2 to 20 fold lower, about 2 to 10-fold lower, or about 2 to 5-folder
lower than the Kd of the TBM- target interaction. As a result, after selection of the
                                                58

population for target-bound ABPs, the selected population will be enriched for ABPs that
exhibit higher affinity and/or avidity binding relative to other ABPs in the population.
[00240]          Use of a relatively higher concentration of target in the negative selection step
can serve to drive selection of those ABP members that have decreased or no detectable
target binding when in the uncleaved state. For example, the screen involving ABPs that
have not been exposed to protease (in the negative selection step) can be performed at a
target concentration that is from about 2 to about 100 fold higher, about 2 to 50 fold higher,
about 2 to 20 fold higher, about 2 to 10-fold higher, or about 2 to 5-folder higher, than the
Kd of the TBM-target interaction. As a result, after selection of the population for ABPs that
do not detectably bind target, the selected population will be enriched for ABPs that exhibit
lower binding for target when in the uncleaved state relative to other uncleaved ABPs in the
population. Stated differently, after selection of the population for ABPs that do not
detectably bind target, the selected population will be enriched for ABPs for which target
binding to TBM is inhibited, e.g., due to "masking" of the TBM from target binding.
[00241]          Where the ABP is a dual target-binding ABP, the screening method described
above can be adapted to provide for ABPs having a desired dynamic range for a first target
that is capable of binding a first TBM and for a second target that is capable of binding a
second TBM. Target binding to a TBM that is located on a portion of the ABP that is
"cleaved away" from the ABP presented on a display scaffold can be evaluated by assessing
formation of target-TBM complexes in solution (e.g., in the culture medium), e.g.,
immunochromatography having an anti-ABP fragment antibody to capture cleaved
fragment, then detecting bound, detectably labeled target captured on the column.
                 Testing of soluble ABPs
[00242]          Candidate ABPs can be tested for their ability to maintain a "switchable"
phenotype while in soluble form. One such method involves the immobilization of target to
support (e.g., an array, e.g., a BiacoreTM CM5 sensor chip surface). Immobilization of a
target of interest can be accomplished using any suitable techniques (e.g., standard amine
coupling). The surface of the support can be blocked to reduce non-specific binding.
Optionally, the method can involve use of a control (e.g., a support that does not contain
immobilized target (e.g., to assess background binding to the support) and/or contains a
compound that serves as a negative control (e.g., to assess specificity of binding of the
candidate ABP to target versus non-target).
[00243]          After the target is covalently immobilized, the candidate ABP is contacted
with the support under conditions suitable to allow for specific binding to immobilized
                                                 59

target. The candidate ABP can be contacted with the support-immobilized target in the
presence and in the absence of a suitable cleavage agent in order to assess the "switchable"
phenotype. Assessment of binding of the candidate ABP in the presence of cleavage agent as
compared to in the absence of cleavage agent and, optionally, compared to binding in a
negative control provides a binding response, which in turn is indicative of the "switchable"
phenotype.
         Screening for individual moieties for use in candidate ABPs
[00244]         It may be desirable to screen separately for one or more of the moieties of a
candidate ABP, e.g., a TBM, MM or CM, prior to testing the candidate ABP for a
"switchable" phenotype. For example, known methods of identifying peptide substrates
cleavable by specific proteases can be utilized to identify cleavable moieties for use in ABPs
designed for activation by such proteases. In addition a variety of methods are available for
identifying peptide sequences which bind to a target of interest. These methods can be used,
for example, to identify TBMs which binds to a particular target or to identify a MM which
binds to a particular TBM.
[00245]         The above methods include, for example, methods in which a moiety of a
candidate ABP, e.g., a TBM, MM or CM, is displayed using a replicable biological entity.
[00246]         As discussed previously herein, a variety of display technologies using
replicable biological entities are known in the art. These methods and entities include, but
are not limited to, display methodologies such as mRNA and ribosome display, eukaryotic
virus display, and bacterial, yeast, and mammalian cell surface display. See Wilson, D. S., et
al. 2001 PNAS USA 98(7):3750- 3755; Muller, 0. J., et al. (2003) Nat. Biotechnol. 3:312;
Bupp, K. and M. J. Roth (2002) Mol. Ther. 5(3):329 3513; Georgiou, G., et al., (1997) Nat.
Biotechnol. 15(1):29 3414; and Boder, E. T. and K. D. Wittrup (1997) Nature Biotech.
15(6):553 557. Surface display methods are attractive since they enable application of
fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) for library analysis and screening. See
Daugherty, P. S., et al. (2000) J Immuunol. Methods 243(1 2):211 2716; Georgiou, G.
(2000) Adv. Protein Chem. 55:293 315; Daugherty, P. S., et al. (2000) PNAS USA
97(5):2029 3418; Olsen, M. J., et al. (2003) Methods Mol. Biol. 230:329 342; Boder, E. T. et
al. (2000) PNAS USA 97(20):10701 10705; Mattheakis, L. C., et al. (1994) PNAS USA
91(19): 9022 9026; and Shusta, E. V., et al. (1999) Curr. Opin. Biotech. 10(2):117 122.
Additional display methodologies which may be used to identify a peptide capable of
binding to a biological target of interest are described in U.S. Patent No. 7,256,038, the
disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                                60

[002471         Phage display involves the localization of peptides as terminal fusions to the
coat proteins, e.g., pIII, pIlIV of bacteriophage particles. See Scott, J. K. and G. P. Smith
(1990) Science 249(4967):386 390; and Lowman, H. B., et al. (1991) Biochem.
30(45):10832 10838. Generally, polypeptides with a specific function of binding are isolated
by incubating with a target, washing away non-binding phage, eluting the bound phage, and
then re-amplifying the phage population by infecting a fresh culture of bacteria.
[00248]         Exemplary phage display and cell display compositions and methods are
described in U.S. Patent Nos. 5,223,409; 5,403,484; 7,118,879; 6,979,538; 7,208,293;
5571698; and 5,837,500.
[00249]         Additional exemplary display scaffolds and methods include those described
in U.S. Patent Application Publication No: 2007/0065878, published March 22, 2007.
[00250]         Optionally, the display scaffold can include a protease cleavage site (different
from the protease cleavage site of the CM) to allow for cleavage of an ABP or candidate
ABP from a surface of a host cell.
[00251]         In one, where the replicable biological entity is a bacterial cell, suitable
display scaffolds include circularly permuted Esccherichiacoli outer membrane protein
OmpX (CPX) described by Rice et al, ProteinSci. (2006) 15: 825-836. See also, U.S. Patent
No. 7,256,038, issued August 14, 2007.
        Automated Screening Methods
[00252]         The screening methods described herein may be automated to provide
convenient, real time, high volume methods of screening a library of ABPs for a desired
switchable activity. Automated methods can be designed to provide for iterative rounds of
positive and negative selection, with the selected populations being separated and
automatically subjected to the next screen for a desired number of cycles.
[00253]         Analysis points to assess of candidate ABPs in a population may be over time
following completion of a positive selection step, a negative selection step, or both. In
addition, information regarding the average dynamic range of a population of candidate
ABPs at selected target concentrations in the positive and negative selection steps can be
monitored and stored for later analysis, e.g. so as to assess the effect of selective pressure of
the different target concentrations.
[00254]         A computer program product can control operation of the detection and/or
measuring means and can perform numerical operations relating to the above-described
steps, and generate a desired output (e.g., flow cytometry analysis, etc.). Computer program
product comprises a computer readable storage medium having computer-readable program
                                                 61

code means embodied in the medium. Hardware suitable for use in such automated
apparatus will be apparent to those of skill in the art, and may include computer controllers,
automated sample handlers, fluorescence measurement tools, printers and optical displays.
The measurement tool may contain one or more photodetectors for measuring the
fluorescence signals from samples where fluorescently detectable molecules are utilized. The
measurement tool may also contain a computer-controlled stepper motor so that each control
and/or test sample can be arranged as an array of samples and automatically and repeatedly
positioned opposite a photodetector during the step of measuring fluorescence intensity.
[00255]         The measurement tool (e.g., a fluorescence activated cell sorter) can be
operatively coupled to a general purpose or application specific computer controller. The
controller can comprise a computer program produce for controlling operation of the
measurement tool and performing numerical operations relating to the above-described
steps. The controller may accept set-up and other related data via a file, disk input or data
bus. A display and printer may also be provided to visually display the operations performed
by the controller. It will be understood by those having skill in the art that the functions
performed by the controller may be realized in whole or in part as software modules running
on a general purpose computer system. Alternatively, a dedicated stand-alone system with
application specific integrated circuits for performing the above described functions and
operations may be provided.
METHODS OF USE OF ABPS IN THERAPY
[00256]         ABPs can be incorporated into pharmaceutical compositions containing, for
example, a therapeutically effective amount of an ABP of interest and a carrier
pharmaceutically acceptable excipient (also referred to as a pharmaceutically acceptable
carrier). Many pharmaceutically acceptable excipients are known in the art, are generally
selected according to the route of administration, the condition to be treated, and other such
variables that are well understood in the art. Pharmaceutically acceptable excipients have
been amply described in a variety of publications, including, for example, A. Gennaro
(2000) "Remington: The Science and Practice of Pharmacy," 20th edition, Lippincott,
Williams, & Wilkins; Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms and Drug Delivery Systems (1999)
H.C. Ansel et al., eds., 7th ed., Lippincott, Williams, & Wilkins; and Handbook of
Pharmaceutical Excipients (2000) A.H. Kibbe et al., eds., 3 rd ed. Amer. Pharmaceutical
Assoc. Pharmaceutical compositions can also include other components such as pH
adjusting and buffering agents, tonicity adjusting agents, stabilizers, wetting agents and the
                                                 62

like. In some embodiments, nanoparticles or liposomes carry a pharmaceutical composition
comprising an ABP.
[002571         Suitable components for pharmaceutical compositions of ABPs can be guided
by pharmaceutical compositions that may be available for a TBM of the ABP. For example,
where the, the ABP include a VEGF binder (i.e., VEGF inhibitor), such ABPs can be
formulated in a pharmaceutical formulation according to methods and compositions suitable
for use with the VEGF binder. In embodiments where the ABP comprises a full length
antibody or an antigen binding fragment thereof, the composition can be formulated in a
pharmaceutical formulation according to methods and compositions suitable for use with
antibodies and antigen binding fragments.
[00258]         In general, pharmaceutical formulations of one or more ABPs are prepared
for storage by mixing the ABP having a desired degree of purity with optional
physiologically acceptable carriers, excipients or stabilizers (Remington's Pharmaceutical
Sciences 16th edition, Osol, A. Ed. (1980)), in the form of lyophilized formulations or
aqueous solutions. Acceptable carriers, excipients, or stabilizers are nontoxic to recipients at
the dosages and concentrations employed, and include buffers such as phosphate, citrate, and
other organic acids; antioxidants including ascorbic acid and methionine; preservatives (such
as octadecyldimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride; hexamethonium chloride; benzalkonium
chloride, benzethonium chloride; phenol, butyl or benzyl alcohol; alkyl parabens such as
methyl or propyl paraben; catechol; resorcinol; cyclohexanol; 3-pentanol; and m-cresol); low
molecular weight (less than about 10 residues) polypeptide; proteins, such as serum albumin,
gelatin, or immunoglobulins; hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone; amino
acids such as glycine, glutamine, asparagine, histidine, arginine, or lysine; monosaccharides,
disaccharides, and other carbohydrates including glucose, mannose, or dextrins; chelating
agents such as EDTA; sugars such as sucrose, mannitol, trehalose or sorbitol; salt-forming
counter-ions such as sodium; metal complexes (e.g., Zn-protein complexes); and/or non
ionic surfactants such as TWEENTM, PLURONICSTM or polyethylene glycol (PEG).
[00259]         The formulations to be used for in vivo administration must be sterile. This is
readily accomplished by filtration through sterile filtration membranes. Pharmaceutical
formulations may also contain more than one active compound as necessary for the
particular indication being treated, where the additional active compounds generally are
those with activities complementary to an ABP. Such compounds are suitably present in
combination in amounts that are effective for the purpose intended.
                                               63

[002601         The pharmaceutical formulation can be provided in a variety of dosage forms
such as a systemically or local injectable preparation. The components can be provided in a
carrier such as a microcapsule, e.g., such as that prepared by coacervation techniques or by
interfacial polymerization, for example, hydroxymethylcellulose or gelatin-microcapsule and
poly-(methylmethacylate) microcapsule, respectively, in colloidal drug delivery systems (for
example, liposomes, albumin microspheres, microemulsions, nano-particles and
nanocapsules) or in macroemulsions. Such techniques are disclosed in Remington's
Pharmaceutical Sciences 16th edition, Osol, A. Ed. (1980).
[00261]         Sustained-release preparations are also within the scope of ABP-containing
formulations. Exemplary sustained-release preparations can include semipermeable matrices
of solid hydrophobic polymers containing the antibody, which matrices are in the form of
shaped articles, e.g., films, or microcapsule. Examples of sustained-release matrices include
polyesters, hydrogels (for example, poly(2-hydroxyethyl-methacrylate), or
poly(vinylalcohol)), polylactides (U.S. Pat. No. 3,773,919), copolymers of L-glutamic acid
and y-ethyl-L-glutamate, non-degradable ethylene-vinyl acetate, degradable lactic acid
glycolic acid copolymers such as the LUPRON DEPOTTM (injectable microspheres
composed of lactic acid-glycolic acid copolymer and leuprolide acetate), and poly-D-(-)-3
hydroxybutyric acid. While polymers such as ethylene-vinyl acetate and lactic acid-glycolic
acid enable release of molecules for over 100 days, certain hydrogels release proteins for
shorter time periods.
[00262]         When encapsulated ABPs remain in the body for a long time, they may
denature or aggregate as a result of exposure to moisture at 37 degrees C., resulting in
decreased biological activity and possible changes in immunogenicity. Rational strategies
can be devised for stabilization depending on the mechanism involved. For example, if the
aggregation mechanism is discovered to be undesirable intermolecular S-S bond formation
through thio-disulfide interchange, stabilization may be achieved by modifying sulfhydryl
residues, lyophilizing from acidic solutions, controlling moisture content, using appropriate
additives, and developing specific polymer matrix compositions.
[00263]         ABPs can be conjugated to delivery vehicles for targeted delivery of an active
agent that serves a therapeutic purpose. For example, ABPs can be conjugated to
nanoparticles or liposomes having drugs encapsulated therein or associated therewith. In this
manner, specific, targeted delivery of the drug can be achieved. Methods of linking
polypeptides to liposomes are well known in the art and such methods can be applied to link
ABPs to liposomes for targeted and or selective delivery of liposome contents. By way of
                                                64

example, polypeptides can be covalently linked to liposomes through thioether bonds.
PEGylated gelatin nanoparticles and PEGylated liposomes have also been used as a support
for the attachment of polypeptides, e.g., single chain antibodies. See, e.g., Immordino et al.
(2006) Int JNanomedicine. September; 1(3): 297-315, incorporated by reference herein for
its disclosure of methods of conjugating polypeptides, e.g., antibody fragments, to
liposomes.
METHODS OF TREATMENT
[00264]          ABPs described herein can be selected for use in methods of treatment of
suitable subjects according to the CM-TBM combination provided in the ABP. Examples
based on the VEGF-inhibiting ABP are provided below.
[00265]          The ABP can be administered by any suitable means, including parenteral,
subcutaneous, intraperitoneal, intrapulmonary, and intranasal, and, if desired for local
injection (e.g., at the site of a solid tumor). Parenteral administration routes include
intramuscular, intravenous, intraarterial, intraperitoneal, or subcutaneous administration.
[00266]          The appropriate dosage of ABP will depend on the type of disease to be
treated, the severity and course of the disease, the patient's clinical history and response to
the ABP, and the discretion of the attending physician. ABPs can suitably be administered to
the patient at one time or over a series of treatments.
[002671          Depending on the type and severity of the disease, about 1 [tg/kg to 15 mg/kg
(e.g., 0.1-20 mg/kg) of ABP can serve as an initial candidate dosage for administration to the
patient, whether, for example, by one or more separate administrations, or by continuous
infusion. A typical daily dosage might range from about 1 pg/kg to 100 mg/kg or more,
depending on factors such as those mentioned herein. For repeated administrations over
several days or longer, depending on the condition, the treatment is sustained until a desired
suppression of disease symptoms occurs. However, other dosage regimens may be useful.
[00268]          The ABP composition will be formulated, dosed, and administered in a
fashion consistent with good medical practice. Factors for consideration in this context
include the particular disorder being treated, the particular mammal being treated, the
clinical condition of the individual patient, the cause of the disorder, the site of delivery of
the ABP, the method of administration, the scheduling of administration, and other factors
known to medical practitioners. The "therapeutically effective amount" of an ABP to be
administered will be governed by such considerations, and is the minimum amount
necessary to prevent, ameliorate, or treat a disease or disorder.
                                                  65

[002691          Generally, alleviation or treatment of a disease or disorder involves the
lessening of one or more symptoms or medical problems associated with the disease or
disorder. For example, in the case of cancer, the therapeutically effective amount of the drug
can accomplish one or a combination of the following: reduce the number of cancer cells;
reduce the tumor size; inhibit (i.e., to decrease to some extent and/or stop) cancer cell
infiltration into peripheral organs; inhibit tumor metastasis; inhibit, to some extent, tumor
growth; and/or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the
cancer. In some embodiments, a composition of this invention can be used to prevent the
onset or reoccurrence of the disease or disorder in a subject or mammal.
[002701          ABPs can be used in combination (e.g., in the same formulation or in separate
formulations) with one or more additional therapeutic agents or treatment methods
("combination therapy"). An ABP can be administered in admixture with another therapeutic
agent or can be administered in a separate formulation. Therapeutic agents and/or treatment
methods that can be administered in combination with an ABP, and which are selected
according to the condition to be treated, include surgery (e.g., surgical removal of cancerous
tissue), radiation therapy, bone marrow transplantation, chemotherapeutic treatment, certain
combinations of the foregoing, and the like.
                 Use ofABPs that inhibit VEGF in anti-angiogenictherapies
[002711          Where the ABP contains a TBM that is a VEGF inhibitor, the ABP finds use
in treatment of conditions in which inhibition of angiogenesis is desired, particularly those
conditions in which inhibition of VEGF is of interest. VEGF-inhibiting ABPs can include
dual target binding ABPs having a TBM that binds to VEGF as well as a TBM that binds to
a second growth factor, such as a fibroblast growth factor (e.g., FGF-2), and inhibits FGF
activity. Such dual target binding ABPs thus can be designed to provide for inhibition of two
angiogenesis-promoting factors, and which are activatable by a cleaving agent (e.g., enzyme,
such as a MMP or other enzyme as discussed herein) which co-localizes at a site of aberrant
angiogenesis.
[00272]          Angiogenesis-inhibiting ABPs find use in treatment of solid tumors in a
subject (e.g., human), particularly those solid tumors that have an associated vascular bed
that feeds the tumor such that inhibition of angiogenesis can provide for inhibition or tumor
growth. Anti-VEGF-based anti-angiogenesis ABPs also find use in other conditions having
one or more symptoms amenable to therapy by inhibition of abnormal angiogenesis.
[002731          In general, abnormal angiogenesis occurs when new blood vessels either
grow excessively, insufficiently or inappropriately (e.g., the location, timing or onset of the
                                                 66

angiogenesis being undesired from a medical standpoint) in a diseased state or such that it
causes a diseased state. Excessive, inappropriate or uncontrolled angiogenesis occurs when
there is new blood vessel growth that contributes to the worsening of the diseased state or
causes a diseased state, such as in cancer, especially vascularized solid tumors and metastatic
tumors (including colon, lung cancer (especially small-cell lung cancer), or prostate cancer),
diseases caused by ocular neovascularisation, especially diabetic blindness, retinopathies,
primarily diabetic retinopathy or age-induced macular degeneration and rubeosis; psoriasis,
psoriatic arthritis, haemangioblastoma such as haemangioma; inflammatory renal diseases,
such as glomerulonephritis, especially mesangioproliferative glomerulonephritis, haemolytic
uremic syndrome, diabetic nephropathy or hypertensive neplirosclerosis; various
imflammatory diseases, such as arthritis, especially rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory
bowel disease, psorsasis, sarcoidosis, arterial arteriosclerosis and diseases occurring after
transplants, endometriosis or chronic asthma and other conditions that will be readily
recognized by the ordinarily skilled artisan. The new blood vessels can feed the diseased
tissues, destroy normal tissues, and in the case of cancer, the new vessels can allow tumor
cells to escape into the circulation and lodge in other organs (tumor metastases).
[00274]          ABP-based anti-angiogenesis therapies can also find use in treatment of graft
rejection, lung inflammation, nephrotic syndrome, preeclampsia, pericardial effusion, such
as that associated with pericarditis, and pleural effusion, diseases and disorders characterized
by undesirable vascular permeability, e.g., edema associated with brain tumors, ascites
associated with malignancies, Meigs' syndrome, lung inflammation, nephrotic syndrome,
pericardial effusion, pleural effusion, permeability associated with cardiovascular diseases
such as the condition following myocardial infarctions and strokes and the like.
[002751          Other angiogenesis-dependent diseases that may be treated using anti
angiogenic ABPs as described herein include angiofibroma (abnormal blood of vessels
which are prone to bleeding), neovascular glaucoma (growth of blood vessels in the eye),
arteriovenous malformations (abnormal communication between arteries and veins),
nonunion fractures (fractures that will not heal), atherosclerotic plaques (hardening of the
arteries), pyogenic granuloma (common skin lesion composed of blood vessels),
scleroderma (a form of connective tissue disease), hemangioma (tumor composed of blood
vessels), trachoma (leading cause of blindness in the third world), hemophilic joints,
vascular adhesions and hypertrophic scars (abnormal scar formation).
[00276]          Amounts of ABP for administration to provide a desired therapeutic effect
will vary according to a number of factors such as those discussed above. In general, in the
                                                67

context of cancer therapy, a therapeutically effective amount of an ABP is an amount that
that is effective to inhibit angiogenesis, and thereby facilitate reduction of, for example,
tumor load, atherosclerosis, in a subject by at least about 5%, at least about 10%, at least
about 20%, at least about 25%, at least about 50%, at least about 75%, at least about 85%, or
at least about 90%, up to total eradication of the tumor, when compared to a suitable control.
In an experimental animal system, a suitable control may be a genetically identical animal
not treated with the agent. In non-experimental systems, a suitable control may be the tumor
load present before administering the agent. Other suitable controls may be a placebo
control.
[002771          Whether a tumor load has been decreased can be determined using any
known method, including, but not limited to, measuring solid tumor mass; counting the
number of tumor cells using cytological assays; fluorescence-activated cell sorting (e.g.,
using antibody specific for a tumor-associated antigen) to determine the number of cells
bearing a given tumor antigen; computed tomography scanning, magnetic resonance
imaging, and/or x-ray imaging of the tumor to estimate and/or monitor tumor size;
measuring the amount of tumor-associated antigen in a biological sample, e.g., blood or
serum; and the like.
[00278]          In some embodiments, the methods are effective to reduce the growth rate of
a tumor by at least about 50%, at least about 10%, at least about 2 0%, at least about 2 5 %, at
least about 50%, at least about 75%, at least about 8 5%, or at least about 9 0%, up to total
inhibition of growth of the tumor, when compared to a suitable control. Thus, in these
embodiments, "effective amounts" of an ABP are amounts that are sufficient to reduce tumor
growth rate by at least about 5%, at least about 10%, at least about 2 0%, at least about 2 5%,
at least about 50%, at least about 75%, at least about 8 5%, or at least about 9 0%, up to total
inhibition of tumor growth, when compared to a suitable control. In an experimental animal
system, a suitable control may be tumor growth rate in a genetically identical animal not
treated with the agent. In non-experimental systems, a suitable control may be the tumor
load or tumor growth rate present before administering the agent. Other suitable controls
may be a placebo control.
[002791          Whether growth of a tumor is inhibited can be determined using any known
method, including, but not limited to, an in vivo assay for tumor growth; an in vitro
proliferation assay; a 3 H-thymidine uptake assay; and the like.
                                                 68

NON-THERAPEUTIC METHODS OF USING ABPS
[00280]          ABPs can also be used in diagnostic and/or imaging methods. For example,
ABPs having an enzymatically cleavable CM can be used to detect the presence or absence
of an enzyme that is capable of cleaving the CM. Such ABPs can be used in diagnostics,
which can include in vivo detection (e.g., qualitative or quantitative) of enzyme activity (or,
in some embodiments, an environment of increased reduction potential such as that which
can provide for reduction of a disulfide bond) accompanied by presence of a target of
interest through measured accumulation of activated ABPs in a given tissue of a given host
organism.
[00281]          For example, the CM can be selected to be a protease substrate for a protease
found at the site of a tumor, at the site of a viral or bacterial infection at a biologically
confined site (e.g., such as in an abscess, in an organ, and the like), and the like. The TBM
can be one that binds a target antigen. Using methods familiar to one skilled in the art, a
detectable label (e.g., a fluorescent label) can be conjugated to a TBM or other region of an
ABP. Suitable detectable labels are discussed in the context of the above screening methods
and additional specific examples are provided below. Using a TBM specific to a protein or
peptide of the disease state, along with a protease whose activity is elevated in the disease
tissue of interest, ABPs will exhibit increased rate of binding to disease tissue relative to
tissues where the CM specific enzyme is not present at a detectable level or is present at a
lower level than in disease tissue. Since small proteins and peptides are rapidly cleared from
the blood by the renal filtration system, and because the enzyme specific for the CM is not
present at a detectable level (or is present at lower levels in non-diseased tissues),
accumulation of activated ABP in the diseased tissue is enhanced relative to non-disease
tissues.
[00282]          In another example, ABPs can be used in to detect the presence or absence of
a cleaving agent in a sample. For example, where the ABP contains a CM susceptible to
cleavage by an enzyme, the ABP can be used to detect (either qualitatively or quantitatively)
the presence of an enzyme in the sample. In another example, where the ABP contains a CM
susceptible to cleavage by reducing agent, the ABP can be used to detect (either qualitatively
or quantitatively) the presence of reducing conditions in a sample. To facilitate analysis in
these methods, the ABP can be detectably labeled, and can be bound to a support (e.g., a
solid support, such as a slide or bead). The detectable label can be positioned on a portion of
the ABP that is released following cleavage. The assay can be conducted by, for example,
contacting the immobilized, detectably labeled ABP with a sample suspected of containing
                                                  69

an enzyme and/or reducing agent for a time sufficient for cleavage to occur, then washing to
remove excess sample and contaminants. The presence or absence of the cleaving agent
(e.g., enzyme or reducing agent) in the sample is then assessed by a change in detectable
signal of the ABP prior to contacting with the sample (e.g., a reduction in detectable signal
due to cleavage of the ABP by the cleaving agent in the sample and the removal of an ABP
fragment to which the detectable label is attached as a result of such cleavage.
[00283]          Such detection methods can be adapted to also provide for detection of the
presence or absence of a target that is capable of binding the TBM of the ABP. Thus, the in
vitro assays can be adapted to assess the presence or absence of a cleaving agent and the
presence or absence of a target of interest. The presence or absence of the cleaving agent can
be detected by a decrease in detectable label of the ABP as described above, and the
presence or absence of the target can be detected by detection of a target-TBM complex,
e.g., by use of a detectably labeled anti-target antibody.
[00284]         As discussed above, the ABPs disclosed herein can comprise a detectable
label. In one embodiment, the ABP comprises a detectable label which can be used as a
diagnostic agent. Non-limiting examples of detectable labels that can be used as diagnostic
agents include imaging agents containing radioisotopes such as indium or technetium;
contrasting agents for MRI and other applications containing iodine, gadolinium or iron
oxide; enzymes such as horse radish peroxidase, alkaline phosphatase, or B-galactosidase;
fluorescent substances and fluorophores such as GFP, europium derivatives; luminescent
substances such as N- methylacrydium derivatives or the like.
[00285]         The rupture of vulnerable plaque and the subsequent formation of a blood clot
are believed to cause the vast majority of heart attacks. Effective targeting of vulnerable
plaques can enable the delivery of stabilizing therapeutics to reduce the likelihood of rupture.
[00286]         VCAM-1 is upregulated both in regions prone to atherosclerosis as well as at
the borders of established lesions. Iiyama, et al. (1999) CirculationResearch Am Heart
Assoc. 85: 199-207. Collagenases, such as MMP-1, MMP-8 and MMP-13, are
overexpressed in human atheroma which may contribute to the rupture of atheromatous
plaques. Fricker, J. (2002) Drug Discov Todav 7(2): 86-88.
[002871         In one example, ABPs disclosed herein find use in diagnostic and/or imaging
methods designed to detect and/or label atherosclerotic plaques, e.g., vulnerable
atherosclerotic plaques. By targeting proteins associated with atherosclerotic plaques, ABPs
can be used to detect and/or label such plaques. For example, ABPs comprising an anti
                                                70

VCAM-1 ABD and a detectable label find use in methods designed to detect and/or label
atherosclerotic plaques. These ABPs can be tested in animal models, such as ApoE mice.
                                           EXAMPLES
[002881           The following examples are put forth so as to provide those of ordinary skill
in the art with a complete disclosure and description of how to make and use the present
invention, and are not intended to limit the scope of what the inventors regard as their
invention nor are they intended to represent that the experiments below are all or the only
experiments performed. Efforts have been made to ensure accuracy with respect to numbers
used (e.g. amounts, temperature, etc.) but some experimental errors and deviations should be
accounted for. Unless indicated otherwise, parts are parts by weight, molecular weight is
weight average molecular weight, temperature is in degrees Celsius, and pressure is at or
near atmospheric. Standard abbreviations may be used, e.g., bp, base pair(s); kb, kilobase(s);
pl, picoliter(s); s or sec, second(s); min, minute(s); h or hr, hour(s); aa, amino acid(s); kb,
kilobase(s); bp, base pair(s); nt, nucleotide(s); i.m., intramuscular(ly); i.p.,
intraperitoneal(ly); s.c., subcutaneous(ly); and the like.
        Methods and Materials
[00289]           The following methods and materials were used in Examples 1-5 below.
[00290]           Cloning and expression experiments were performed using E. coli strain
MC 1061. Cells were grown overnight at 37 'C in LB medium and choramphenicol. Cultures
were then diluted 1:50 into LB medium containing chloramphenicol, grown for 2 hours at
37'C, and substrate expression was induced with 0.2 % L-(+)-arabinose at 37 'C for 2 hours.
Approximately 2x 108 cells were centrifuged at 5000 rpm for 5 minutes, washed once with
50 mM Tris-Cl (pH 7.5) supplemented with 20 mM NaCl/ 2 mM CaCl 2/ 100 pLM ZnCl 2, and
resuspended in 1OuL of Tris-Cl buffer.
[00291]           In experiments involving addition of enzyme, 30nM MMP-2 was included in
the Tris-Cl buffer (no enzyme added to the control reaction), and the reaction mixture was
incubated at room temperature for 2 hours. Cells were then removed and diluted 1:100 in
PBS (pH 7.4) to stop the reaction, pelleted by centrifugation, and resuspended in 30
microliters of refrigerated PBS containing 25nM biotinylated VEGF. After incubation in the
refrigerator on a rotary shaker for 45 minutes, cells were pelleted at 4 'C and resuspended in
refrigerated PBS containing 50nM Streptavidin-Phycoerythrin fluorescent conjugate. After
incubation in the refrigerator on a rotary shaker for 45 minutes, cells were pelleted at 4 'C
and resuspended in PBS and red fluorescence was measured for analysis or sorting on a
                                                 71

FACSAria cell sorter. The fluorescence of cells treated with enzyme was compared to
control samples to determine the increase in VEGF binding.
[00292]          All switch constructs and libraries were displayed on the surface of E. coli
bacteria using the N-terminus of the circularly permuted outer membrane protein X (CPX).
[00293]          It should be noted that in describing the clones identified in the experiments
below, the following naming conventions are used interchangeably: #-#X-# and #.#X.#,
where # is a numerical identifier and X is a alphabetical identifier.
EXAMPLE 1: CONSTRUCTION OF POLYPEPTIDES HAVING A                VEGF BINDING MOIETY AND
A MOIETY CLEAVABLE BY AN ENZYME
[00294]          As discussed above, the activatable binding polypeptides (ABPs) include a
target binding moiety (TBM) and a cleavable moiety (CM), where the CM contains a
substrate for a protease. As a first step in the production of ABPs, constructs for display on a
bacterial cell surface were generated containing a VEGF binding sequence (to act as the
TBM) and an amino acid sequence that is cleavable by matrix metalloprotease-2 (MMP-2).
The amino acid sequence of T7 antigen was included at the N-terminus as an
immunodetectable tag to facilitate detection of uncleaved product. Specifically binding of a
detectably labeled anti-T7 antibody was indicative of uncleaved ABP. The amino acid
sequence of this construct without the cell surface anchoring sequences is provided below as
SEQ ID NO: 12. Figure 3 provides a schematic of the construct in the presence and absence
of enzyme (see upper right panel for details).
Table 3: SEQ ID NO: 12:
N-Terminus     7                        Substrate            EGF Binder
GQSGQ          ASMTGGQQM GGSG           LLGLAG       GGSG NFGYGKWEWDYGKWLEKVG
[00295]          The ability of the construct to bind labeled VEGF in the presence or absence
of MMP-2 was tested. Bacteria displaying the construct on its surface were incubated in the
presence of labeled VEGF either in the presence or absence of MMP-2 (Fig. 3, left panels).
Cleavage of the construct by the protease was confirmed by incubating the cells either in the
presence or absence of a detectably-labeled anti-T7 antigen antibody (Fig. 3, right panels).
Binding of either labeled VEGF or labeled anti-T7 antibody was assessed by FACS. As
shown in Figure 3, when the construct is contacted with labeled VEGF in either the presence
or absence of MMP-2, the labeled VEGF is able to bind the VEGF binder sequence,
                                                  72

indicating that the presence of the enzyme substrate does not substantially interfere with
VEGF binding to the TBM of the construct. Figure 3 also confirms that MMP-2 cleaved the
PLGLAG substrate of the construct, as indicated by an approximately 16.5 fold decrease in
average fluorescence of the construct in the presence of the enzyme.
[002961         These data illustrate that VEGF binding is not substantially impaired by the
presence of the MMP-2 substrate and that the MMP-2 substrate utilized in the T7 control
polypeptide is a candidate enzyme substrate for use as a CM in an ABP.
EXAMPLE    2: ABP HAVING A CYSTEINE-CONSTRAINED LooP
[002971         One strategy for "masking" a target binding moiety (TBM) in an ABP is to
provide the ABP in a "loop" that sterically hinders access of target to the TBM. In this
strategy, cysteines are positioned at or near the N-terminus and C-terminus of the ABP, such
that upon formation of a disulfide bond between the cysteines, the TBM is masked.
[002981         An exemplary ABP is illustrated in Fig. 4. This ABP includes a cysteine
containing flexible linker sequence positioned N-terminal of a MMP-2 substrate (the
cleavable moiety (CM), indicated as "substrate" below), which in turn was N-terminal of a
VEGF binder as the TBM. A flexible linker was positioned between the CM and TBM. The
sequence is provided below as SEQ ID NO: 13.
Table 4: SEQ ID NO: 13:
N-Terminu Cysteine     Substrate    Linker   EGF Binder
GQSGQ       GCGSG       LGLAG      GGSG      FGYGKWEWDYGKWLEKVGGC
[00299]         A control ("GS Control") that lacked the cysteine-cysteine disulfide bond was
also constructed. The sequence of the GS control is provided below in SEQ ID NO: 14.
Table 5: SEQ ID NO: 14:
N-Terminus     nsert     Substrate                 EGF Binder
GQSGQ         (GGS) 5     LGLAG          GGSG      FGYGKWEWDYGKWLEKVGGG
[003001         These constructs were then tested for the ability to bind labeled VEGF in the
presence or in the absence of MMP-2 as described above.
[003011         The ABP of Fig. 4 was displayed on the surface of a bacterial cell and
contacted with labeled VEGF in presence and absence of MMP-2 enzyme. FACS analysis to
detect VEGF-labeled cells was performed to determine whether the ABP demonstrated
                                                73

switching behavior as compared to the control polypeptide lacking the cysteine-cysteine
disulfide bond. As illustrated in Fig. 5, binding of labeled VEGF was increased in the
presence of enzyme compared to in the absence of enzyme, as evidenced by an
approximately 2.6 fold increase in fluorescence after MMP-2 treatment (Fig. 5, right panels).
A similar increase in VEGF binding was not seen in the GS control polypeptide.
[00302]          These data illustrate that cleavage of the substrate by MMP-2 provided for
enhanced binding of VEGF to the ABP as compared to the binding of VEGF to the ABP in
the absence of MMP-2. In addition, the cysteine loop-containing ABP exhibited a more
enhanced "switchable" VEGF-binding phenotype as compared to the GS control. The level
of VEGF binding to cleaved cysteine loop-containing ABP relative to uncleaved cysteine
loop-containing ABP was greater than the level of VEGF binding to cleaved GS control
relative to uncleaved GS control.
EXAMPLE     3: SCREENING OF ABP LIBRARIES
[00303]          In order to identify further ABPs having desired "switching" characteristics
(i.e., decreased target binding when in an uncleaved conformation relative to target binding
when in a cleaved conformation), libraries of candidate ABPs having different variable
amino acid sequences in the masking moieties (MMs) and varying positions of the cysteine
in the MM were generated. The amino acid sequences of exemplary libraries are provided
below as SEQ ID NOs. 15-18 in Table 6. "X" represents a randomized amino acid sequence.
Glycine was included in order to impart flexibility to the MM.
Table 6
                -Terminus    ibrary  Substrate   Linker     EGF Binder
 1 (SEQ ID
NO: 15        GQSGQ        CX 6 G      LGLAG     GGSG       FGYGKWEWDYGKWLEKVGGC
2 (SEQ ID
NO: 16)       GQSGQ          sG        LGLAG     GGSG       FGYGKWEWDYGKWLEKVGGC
3 (SEQ ID
NO: 17)       GQSGQ              3     LGLAG     GGSG       FGYGKWEWDYGKWLEKVGGC
4 (SEQ ID
NO: 18)       GQSGQ           G        LGLAG     GGSG       FGYGKWEWDYGKWLEKVGGG
         X  = any amino acid
[00304]          Fig. 6 provides a schematic of the library constructs, and illustrates the
construct design to provide cysteines of the construct (underlined residues) which can form a
                                                  74

disulfide bridge, thereby constraining the conformation of the construct in the uncleaved
state.
[003051          Fig. 7 provides a schematic illustrating the screening/sorting method used to
identify candidates that display the switchable phenotype. The libraries were introduced via
expression vectors resulting in display of the ABP polypeptides on the surface of the
bacterial cells. The resulting display library contained more than 3 x 108 transformants. After
expansion of the libraries by culture ("Grow Library"), cells displaying the ABP
polypeptides were then treated with MMP-2 enzyme to provide for cleavage of the cleavable
substrate moiety. MMP-2 treated cells were then contacted with fluorescently labeled VEGF
and the cells were sorted by FACS to isolate cells displaying ABPs which bound VEGF after
cleavage with MMP-2. The cells that displayed VEGF-binding constructs were then
expanded by growth in culture ("Grow Library"). The cells were then contacted with labeled
VEGF and sorted by FACS to isolate cells displaying ABPs which failed to bind labeled
VEGF in the absence of MMP-2. These steps represented one "cycle" of the screening
procedure. The cells can then be subjected to additional cycles by expansion by growth in
culture ("Grow Library"), and again subjecting the culture to all or part of the screening
steps.
[003061          It should be noted that library screening and sorting could also be initiated by
first selecting for candidates that do not bind labeled VEGF in the absence of enzyme
treatment (i.e., do not bind VEGF when not cleaved).
[003071          Exemplary data for one of the libraries is provided in Fig. 8. After 1.5 cycles
of selection (i.e., one complete cycle of enzyme treatment, sorting, VEGF-binding, sorting;
followed by a half-cycle of enzyme treatment and sorting), libraries exhibited a marked
improvement in the "switchable" phenotype, with binding of labeled VEGF in the absence
of enzyme (Fig. 8, top right panel) being significantly less than in the presence of enzyme
(Fig. 8, bottom right panel). In addition, as illustrated in Fig. 8, left panels, the unsorted
library exhibited a less significant switchable phenotype, confirming that the
selection/sorting method is effective in enrichment of the library for cells displaying an ABP
having a desired switchable phenotype.
[003081          In addition, selected clones demonstrated improved "switching" activity
compared to cysteine-constrained controls. Fig. 9 shows fold fluorescence increase after
cleavage with MMP-2 for selected library clones identified from each of libraries 1-4. The
selected clones of Fig. 9, identified after screening the libraries identified in Fig. 6, showed a
modest improvement when compared with clones derived from a screen of a random library.
                                                 75

For example, of the 40 clones identified in Fig. 9, six demonstrated a 3-fold increase in
fluorescence. The average fluorescence increase for the 40 clones was approximately 2 fold.
For clones derived from the random library, 2 of 23 clones demonstrated a 3-fold increase in
fluorescence. The average fluorescence increase for the random library of clones was
approximately 1.5 fold.
[00309]         The amino acid sequences of clones exhibiting the most marked "switching"
phenotype (also referred to as an enzymatically "activatable" phenotype) are provided in Fig.
10.
[00310]         In a further screen, several additional clones were identified which exhibited a
marked "switching" phenotype. The fold fluorescence increase after enzyme treatment for
these clones is shown in Fig. 24.
[003111         Fig. 25 shows switching activity for selected clones based on fold
fluorescence increase after enzyme cleavage. Each of clones 4-2A- 11 (GEDEEG: SEQ ID
NO: 19 including fixed G residue), 2-2A-5 (PEWGCG: SEQ ID NO: 11 including fixed G
residue), 2-3B-5 (CEYAFG: SEQ ID NO: 20 including fixed G residue), 1-3A-4
(CSMYWMRG: SEQ ID NO: 21 including fixed C and G residues), and 2-3B-6 (EYEGEG:
SEQ ID NO: 22 including fixed G residue) exhibit improved switching activity relative to
control, with clone 2-3B-5 exhibiting an approximate 10-fold increase in fluorescence
relative to an increase in fluorescence of less than approximately 2-fold for the GS control.
EXAMPLE     4: THE SWITCHABLE PHENOTYPE IS ATTRIBUTABLE TO CLEAVAGE OF THE
CLEAVABLE MOIETY
[00312]         In general, the switchable phenotype is due to a change in conformation of
the ABP that allows for more or less access of the target to the target binding moiety (TBM).
Where the ABP contains cysteines capable of forming a disulfide bridge, the switchable
phenotype could be a result of at least two different mechanisms: 1) cleavage of the ABP at
the enzyme cleavage site; or 2) reduction of the disulfide bond between cysteines positioned
near the N- and C-termini of the ABP.
[003131         For example, switching behavior was observed in ABPs that contained a MM
that lacked a cysteine. Three clones, each with a different 5 amino acid MM library
sequence, were tested for the ability to bind labeled VEGF in the presence and absence of
MMP-2. As seen in Fig. 11, clones with MM library amino acid sequences of GEDEE: SEQ
ID NO: 23 (GEDEEG: SEQ ID NO: 19 including fixed G residue) and DDMEE: SEQ ID
NO: 24 (DDMEEG: SEQ ID NO: 25 including fixed G residue) showed improved binding
                                                76

in the presence of MMP-2 despite the lack of cysteine residues in the MM. This result
indicates that the disulfide bond linkage is not necessarily required in order for an ABP to
demonstrate the desired switching activity.
[00314]         Additional cysteine and non-cysteine containing MM sequences identified
according to the screening methods described herein are shown in Fig. 22.
[00315]         As indicated above, the switchable phenotype could potentially result from
the disruption of the disulfide bond linkage between a cysteine residue in the MM and a
cysteine residue adjacent the TBM. This possibility was verified by testing clones in the
presence and absence of disulfide bond reducing conditions. As indicated in Fig. 12, clone
2.2A.5 (a clone that was the product of the screening procedure above) and a cysteine
constrained parent (i.e., a design or "trial" sequence that shows 2-fold switching activity,
sequence given in Figure 4) that was not the product of the screening procedure were each
tested for the ability to bind labeled VEGF in the presence and absence DTT reducing
conditions. Both the cysteine constrained parent and clone 2.2A.5 showed increased binding
of labeled VEGF after reduction of the disulfide bond with DTT.
[00316]         However, the screening procedure of the Example above provides for an
enhanced switching phenotype over that associated with conformation change as a result of
reduction of disulfide bonds. This is evidenced by the results of analysis of the switching
phenotype of the cysteine-constrained parent construct and clone 2.2A.5. The     Kd,app values
for VEGF binding by the cysteine constrained parent were determined in the presence and
absence of MMP-2 and compared with         Kd,app values for VEGF binding by the library clone
2.2A.5 in the presence and absence of MMP-2. Clone 2.2A.5 showed an approximately 4.8
fold improvement in K4 in the presence of enzyme (Fig. 14) as compared with an
approximately 3.4 fold improvement in Kd in the presence of enzyme for the cysteine
constrained parent (Fig. 13).
[003171         In an additional experiment, the fluorescence values for a cysteine
constrained loop structure were determined in the presence and absence of MMP-2 and
compared with the fluorescence values for library clones 4.2A.1 1 (a.k.a. 4-2A-1 1) and
2.3B.5 (a.k.a. 2-3B-5) in the presence and absence of MMP-2. Clone 4.2A.11 showed an
approximate 5.7 fold increase in fluorescence in the presence of enzyme (Fig. 23) and clone
2.3B.5 showed an approximate 11.8 fold increase in fluorescence in the presence of enzyme
as compared with an approximately 3 fold increase in fluorescence in the presence of
enzyme for the cysteine constrained loop structure (Fig. 23).
                                                  77

[003181         These results indicate that optimization of a cysteine constrained ABP to
provide for an enhanced switchable phenotype can be achieved by screening an ABP library
containing MMs with variable amino acid sequences.
EXAMPLE 5: SCREENING FOR DESIRED DYNAMIC RANGE
[003191         Dynamic range can be enhanced by at least two mechanisms; 1) the switch
off state can be improved by improving the MM to prevent binding between the target and
TBM, and 2) the affinity of the TBM can be improved after substrate cleavage that results in
the MM motif acting as cooperative target binding element (Figs. 4 and 5). Screening for
expanded dynamic range can, in certain embodiments, be effectively accomplished by using
alternating separations, (e.g. using FACS) that use different concentrations of the target
protein for the "A" and "B" steps represented in Figure 2. To identify in separation "A"
binders that may have improved affinity relative to the TBM when used alone (i.e. outside of
the switch context), a target ceontration of 10 nM was used that is approximately 10-fold
below the expected dissociation constant (100 nM) of the TBM. Cells exhibiting the highest
level of fluorescence were then collected using FACS, and amplified by overnight growth.
Then, to improve the off-state (i.e. ability to bind the target in the absence of the protease),
the cell population was incubated with 1 pM VEGF (a concentration significantly above the
KD of the TBM), and cells exhibiting low levels of fluorescence were collected. This
process resulted in a pool of ABPs with a greater dynamic range, than a process using the
same concentration of the target in both A and B sorts. An additional embodiment of a
screening method using different target concentrations for steps "A" and "B" is depicted in
Fig. 21, wherein a 25nM VEGF concentration is used for the "A" sort and a 250nM VEGF
concentration is used for the "B" sort. The enriched cell populations resulting from selection
using FACS are shown in Figure 15 and 16 for sorts 1A, IB, 2A, 2B, and 3A where A and B
are positive and negative selections, respectively. Enrichment of the library for ABPs can be
determined by comparing the unsorted library populations' fluorescence distribution change
from protease treatment, to that of the round 3A population before and after protease
treatment. The later enriched pool shows an average dynamic range of approximately four
fold as indicated by the four fold increase in cell fluorescence after enzyme treatment (Figure
16, Right-hand panel "Sort 3A 25 nM VEGF").
                                                 78

EXAMPLE     6:  SOLUBLE PROTEIN FUSIONS DEMONSTRATE ENZYME MEDIATED BINDING
[00320]          In order to demonstrate the activity of ABPs in soluble form, C-terminal
maltose-binding protein (MBP) fusions of VEGF binding clones and VEGF binding ABPs
were constructed and tested.
         Methods and Materials
[00321]          VEGF was immobilized to the Biacore TM CM5 sensor chip surface using the
standard amine coupling kit. An NHS/EDC mixture was injected first to activate the surface
using the surface preparation wizard in the BiacoreTM software. Then, 25ug/mL
concentration of VEGF was injected until the desired immobilization amount was reached
(typically ~5000 response units).The surface is then blocked with ethanolamine. A control
reaction was performed on another surface with NHS/EDC then Ethanolamine.
[00322]          After the VEGF is covalently immobilized, the maltose-binding protein
(MBP) fusions of VEGF binding or VEGF binding ABP clones were injected over both the
VEGF surface and the control surface. Injections were typically for 1 minute, with a few
minutes of dissociation time after each injection. The clones were injected both with and
without 30nM MMP-2 enzyme. For analysis, the signal on the VEGF surface minus the
signal on the control surface is the binding response (in RU). Clones were compared in
triplicate, with and without enzyme, at clone concentrations of up to 15 micromolar.
         Results
[003231          As indicated in Fig. 27, exemplary MBP-ABP fusions retained their enzyme
mediated VEGF binding properties, with the 2.3B.5 (2-3B-5) fusion exhibiting an
approximate 4-fold increase in binding response in the presence of MMP-2 enzyme. A
similar increase in binding response in the presence of enzyme was not seen for the VEGF
binding peptide controls. These results demonstrate retained "switching activity" for soluble
ABPs.
EXAMPLE     7: IDENTIFICATION OF PEPTIDE SEQUENCES FOR USE AS MMS IN AN ANTI
VCAM-1 ABP
[00324]          The following materials and methods were utilized to identify peptide
sequences for use as masking moieties (MM) in ABPs wherein the target binding moiety
(TBM) comprises an antigen binding domain (ABD) of an anti-VCAM-1 scFv.
                                                79

        Methods and Materials
[00325]         Magnetic-Activated Cell Sorting (MACS) (one round) and Fluorescence
Activated Cell Sorting (FACS) (three rounds) were utilized to enrich for clones exhibiting
strong binding to anti-VCAM-1 scFv.
[00326]         Bacterial cells displaying selected peptide sequences were sorted by FACS
after contacting with lnM anti-biotin phycoerythin (PE) or 50nM biotinylated anti-VCAM
scFv followed by lnM anti-biotin PE.
        Results
[003271         The following peptide sequences were identified as a result of the referenced
MACS and FACS analysis:
Table 7
           Clone              Amino Acid Sequence
 BBB-08                       GVVLTTMNFWDWITV (SEQ ID NO: 26)
 BBB-09                       WADWARSWEAIVGMA (SEQ ID NO: 27)
 BBB-16                       RGMDMYWAEIIYGAA (SEQ ID NO: 28)
[00328]         As demonstrated by FACS analysis in Fig. 28, each of clones BBB-08, BBB
09 and BBB-16 showed significant binding to anti-VCAM-1 scFV. Of the three clones,
BBB-08 showed the highest level of binding to anti-VCAM-1 scFV with an average
fluorescence value of 2,625 following incubation with anti-VCAM-1 scFV as compared to
an average fluorescence value of 142 in the absence of anti-VCAM-1 scFV. As such, these
peptides are likely candidates for functional MMs in ABPs comprising an antigen binding
domain (ABD) of an anti-VCAM-1 scFv as a TBM.
EXAMPLE    8:  PROPHETIC    ABPs COMPRISING AN ANTI-VCAM-1 ANTIGEN BINDING
DOMAIN
[00329]         Prophetic examples of ABPs comprising an anti-VCAM-1 scFv (MK271) are
described herein. These ABPS will be inactive under normal conditions due to an attached
MM. When the scFv reaches the site of plaque, however, matrix metalloproteinase-1 will
cleave a substrate linker connecting the peptide inhibitor to the scFv allowing it to bind to
VCAM-1. A representation of this process is set forth in Fig. 35. Bacterial cell surface
display was used as described in Example 7 to find suitable MMs for the antibody. In the
prophetic ABPs, selected MMs are combined with an enzyme substrate to be used as a
                                                80

trigger to create a scFv construct that becomes competent for targeted binding after protease
activation.
[00330]          Prophetic ABPs utilizing the peptide sequences identified in Example 7 and
comprising an antigen binding domain (ABD) of an anti-VCAM- 1 scFv are provided in
Figs. 29, 30 and 31. These prophetic ABP sequences comprises an OmpA periplasmic signal
sequence, a Flag tag, a His tag, a peptide sequence which binds anti-VCAM scFV, an MMP
1 substrate and an anti-VCAM scFV sequence. Lower-case, non-bold letters indicate linker
sequences. The sequence of the anti-VCAM scFV is indicated by underlining and all caps.
The MM sequence is indicated in bold and all caps.
        Construction of Protease Activated Antibody
[00331]          Genes encoding ABPs comprising a VCAM-1 antibody in single-chain form
are produced by overlap extension PCR or total gene synthesis with flanking SfiI restriction
enzyme sites, digested with SfiI and ligated into a similarly digested expression plasmid
pBAD33, or any other suitable bacterial, yeast, or mammalian expression vector familiar to
one skilled in the art. Full length antibodies could alternatively be produced using
commercially available expression vectors incorporating half-life extending moieties (e.g.
the Fc region of an IgG, serum albumin, or transferrin) and methods familiar to one skilled
in the art. The expression plasmid is then transformed or transfected into an appropriate
expression host such as BL21 for E. coli or HEK293t cells. Single chain antibodies are
harvested from overnight cultures using a Periplasmic fraction extraction kit (Pierce), and
purified by immobilized metal ion affinity chromatography, and by size exclusion
chromatography.
[00332]          In some instances, it may be desirable to produce ABPs comprising
antibodies as insoluble aggregates in the cytoplasm. In such cases, the signal sequence can
be removed, and an appropriate affinity tag (6xHis) can be introduced at the C-terminus to
aid purification. Prophetic ABP sequences for cytoplasmic expression (as inclusion bodies)
are provided in Figs. 32, 33 and 34. Lower-case, non-bold letters indicate linker sequences.
The sequence of the anti-VCAM scFV is indicated by underlining and all caps. The MM
sequence is indicated in bold and all caps.
        Assay for antibody switching activity in vitro
[00333]          Aliquots of protease-activated antibodies, at a concentration of 1 pM -1 pM)
are incubated in a buffered aqueous solution separately with 0 and 50 nM MMP-1 for 3 hrs.
The reaction mixtures are then assayed for binding using ELISA or surface Plasmon
resonance with immobilized antigen VCAM- 1. An increase in binding activity for the ABP
                                                81

after protease treatment is indicated by an increase in resonance units when using BIAcoreTM
SPR instrumentation. The change in apparent dissociation constant (Kdiss) as a result of
MMP cleavage can then be calculated according the instrument manufacturer's instructions
(BlAcore, GE Healthcare).
EXAMPLE     9: CLONING OF THE ANTI-VEGF scFV TBM
[00334]         In certain embodiments, the ABP includes a TBM that contains an ABD, a
MM, and a CM. In this and following examples an ABP containing a masked MMP-9
cleavable anti-VEGF scFv (target = VEGF; TBM        =  anti-VEGF single chain Fv) was
constructed. As a first step in the production of such an ABP, constructs containing an anti
VEGF scFv were generated (the TBM). An anti-VEGF scFv TBM (VL-linker L-VH) was
designed from the published sequence of ranibizumab (Genetech, Chen, Y., Wiesmann, C.,
Fuh, G., Li, B., Christinger, H., McKay, P., de Vos, A. M., Lowman, H. B. (1999) Selection
and Analysis of an Optimized Anti-VEGF Antibody: Crystal Structure of an Affinity
matured Fab in Complex with Antigen J Mol. Biol. 293, 865-88 1) and synthesized by
Codon Devices (Cambridge, MA).
[00335]         Ranibizumab is a monoclonal antibody Fab fragment derived from the same
parent murine antibody as bevacizumab (Presta LG, Chen H, O'Connor SJ, et al
Humanization of an anti-vascular endothelial growth factor monoclonal antibody for the
therapy of solid tumors and other disorders. Cancer Res, 57: 4593-9, 1997). It is much
smaller than the parent molecule and has been affinity matured to provide stronger binding
to VEGF-A. Ranibizumab binds to and inhibits all subtypes of vascular endothelial growth
factor A (VEGF-A). A His6 tag at the N-terminus and a TEV protease cleavage site were
included in the design. The TEV protease is a protease isolated from tobacco etch virus, is
very specific, and is used to separate fusion proteins following purification. The anti-VEGF
scFv nucleotide and amino acid sequences are provided below in SEQ ID NOs: 29 and 30
respectively.
                                                82

  Table 8: SEQ ID NO: 29: anti-VEGF scFv TBM nucleotide sequence
  gatattcaactgacccagagcccttcttccctgagtgccagcgtgggtgaccgtgttac
  gatcacttgctcggccagccaagatatttctaactacctgaattggtaccagcagaagc
  caggaaaggcaccaaaagtcctgatctacttcacaagttcactgcattccggcgtaccg
  tcgcgctttagcggttctggcagtggtaccgacttcaccctgactatctcgagtctgca
  acctgaggattttgctacatattactgtcagcaatattcgaccgtgccgtggacgttcg
  ggcagggcaccaaagtggagattaaggggggtggaggcagcgggggaggtggctcaggc
  ggtggagggtctggcgaggtccagctggtagaaagcgggggcggactggtccaaccggg
  cggatccctgcgtctgagctgcgcggcctcgggttacgactttactcactacggaatga
  actgggttcgccaagcccctggtaaaggtctggaatgggtcggatggattaatacatac
  actggagaacctacttatgctgctgatttcaaacgtcgctttactttctctctggatac
  aagtaagtcaaccgcctatctgcaaatgaacagcctgcgtgcagaggacacggctgtgt
  actattgtgcgaaatatccttattattatggaacttcccactggtatttcgatgtatgg
  ggccagggtactctggttacagtgtcg
  Table 9: SEQ ID NO: 30: anti-VEGF scFv TBM amino acid sequence
  DIQLTQSPSSLSASVGDRVTITCSASQDISNYLNWYQQKPGKAPKVLIYFTSSLHSGVP
  SRFSGSGSGTDFTLTISSLQPEDFATYYCQQYSTVPWTFGQGTKVEIKGGGGSGGGGSG
  GGGSGEVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGYDFTHYGMNWVRQAPGKGLEWVGWINTY
  T GE PTYAADFKRRFT FS L DT SKS TAYLQMNS LRAE DTAVYYCAKYPYYYGT S HWYFDVW
  GQGTLVTVS
EXAMPLE 10: SCREENING AND IDENTIFICATION OF MMS FOR ANTI-VEGF SCFV
[00336]         Ranibizumab was used to screen a pooled random peptide library, consisting
of peptides that are X 15 (8.3x10 9), X 4 CX 7 CX 4 (3.6x10 9), or X 12CX 3 (1.1x10 9), where X is
any amino acid and the number represents the total diversity of the library. The total
diversity of the pooled library was 1.3x10 10 . The screening consisted of one round of MACS
and two rounds of FACS sorting. In the first round MACS screen, 1 x 10              cells were
probed with 150 nM biotinylated-ranibizumab, and 5.5x 07 binding cells were isolated. In
the first FACS screen, positive cells isolated in the MACS screen were probed with 500 nM
biotinylated- ranibizumab, and visualized with neutrAvidin-PE (Molecular Probes, Eugene,
OR). The second and third rounds of FACS selections were done with 500nM and then 100
nM Alexa-labeled ranibizumab in the presence of 20uM IgG. Individual clones were
sequenced and subsequently verified for their ability to bind anti-VEGF scfv by FACS
analysis. Amino acid sequences of MMs for anti-VEGF scFv are provided in Table 10
below. (These sequences will hereafter be referred to as 283MM, 292MM, 306MM, etc.)
                                                   83

            Table 10: MMs for anti-VEGF scFv
JS283   ATAVWNSMVKQSCYMQG (SEQ ID NO: 31)
JS292   GHGMCYTILEDHCDRVR (SEQ ID NO: 32)
JS306   PCSEWQSMVQPRCYYGG (SEQ ID NO: 33)
JS308   NVECCQNYNLWNCCGGR (SEQ ID NO: 34)
JS311   VHAWEQLVIQELYHC (SEQ ID NO: 35)
JS313   GVGLCYTILEQWCEMGR (SEQ ID NO: 36)
JS314   RPPCCRDYSILECCKSD (SEQ ID NO: 37)
JS315   GAMACYNIFEYWCSAMK (SEQ ID NO: 38)
EXAMPLE 10: CONSTRUCTION OF THE              ABP: MMP-9 CLEAVABLE, MASKED- ANTI-VEGF
scFv VECTORS
[00337]         A CM (substrate for MMP-9) was fused to the masked anti-VEGF scFv
construct to provide a cleavable, masked ABP. An exemplary construct is provided in Fig.
38. Several exemplary ABP constructs and sequences containing different CMs are
described in great detail below. Primers utilized for construction of the exemplary constructs
are represented in Table 11 below.
  Table 11: Primers utilized for construction of MMP-9 cleavable, masked- anti-VEGF
  scFv
  CX0233 5'gaattcatgggccatcaccatcaccatcacggtgggg3' (SEQ ID NO: 39)
  CX0249 5'gtgagtaagcttttattacgacactgtaaccagagtaccctgg3' (SEQ ID NO: 40)
  CX0270 5'gtggcatgtgcacttggccaccttggcccactcgagctggccagactggccctgaaaatacagattttccc3' (SEQ ID NO: 41)
  CX0271 5'gagtgggccaaggtggccaagtgcacatgccactgggcttcctggtccgggcggttctgatattcaactgacccagagcc3'
  (SEQ ID NO: 42)
  CX0288 5' ttcgagctcgaacaacaacaacaataacaataacaacaac3' (SEQ ID NO: 43)
  CX0289 5' gctttcaccgcaggtacttccgtagctggccagtctggcc3' (SEQ ID NO: 44)
  CX0290 5' cgctccatgggccaccttggccgctgccaccagaaccgcc3' (SEQ ID NO: 45)
  CX0308 5' gcccagccggccatggccggccagtctggccagctcgagt3' (SEQ ID NO: 46)
  CX0310 5' ccagtgccaagcttttagtggtgatggtgatgatgcgacactgtaaccagagtaccctggcc3' (SEQ ID NO: 47)
  CX0312 5'cttgtcacgaattcgggccagtctggccagctcgagt3' (SEQ ID NO: 48)
  CX0314 5'cagatctaaccatggcgccgctaccgcccgacactgtaaccagagtaccclg3' (SEQ ID NO: 49)
        Cloning and expression of the ABP: a MMP-9 cleavable, masked anti-VEGF
        scFv as a MBP fusion
[00338]          Cloning: A MBP:anti-VEGF scFv TBM fusion was cloned. The MBP
(maltose binding protein) expresses well in E. coli, as a fusion protein, and can be purified
on a maltose column, a method well known in the art to make fusion proteins. In this
                                                   84

example, the MBP was used to separate the masked scFv. The His6 tagged Anti-VEGF scFv
TBM was cloned into the pMal-c4x vector (NEB) as a C-terminal fusion with MBP using
the EcoRI and HindlIl restriction sites in the multiple cloning site (MCS). The primers
CX0233 and CX0249 (Table 11) were used to amplify the Anti-VEGF scFv TBM and
introduce the EcoRI and HindlIl sites, respectively.
[003391         The accepting vector for the ABP (the peptide MM, the anti-VEGF scFv
TBM and the MMP-9 CM) was synthesized using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with the
overlapping primers CX0271 and CX0270 which placed the cloning site for the peptide
MM's, linker sequences, and MMP-9 CM protease site between the TEV protease site and
the anti-VEGF scFv TBM. The primers CX0271 and CX0249 (Table 11) were used to
amplify the C-terminal portion of the construct, while the primers CX0270 and CX0288
(Table 11) were used to amplify the N-terminal portion. Products from both the above
reactions were combined for a final PCR reaction using the outside primers, CX0249 and
CX0288 (Table 11), and cloned into the pMal vector as an MBP fusion using the Sac and
HindlIl restriction sites (SEQ ID NO: 50)
 Table 12: SEQ ID NO: 50: MBP/MM accepting site/MMP-9 CM/Anti-VEGF scFv
 TBM vector nucleotide sequence
 atgggccatcaccatcaccatcacggtggggaaaatctgtattttcagggccagtctggccagc
 tcgagtgggccaaggtggccaagtgcacatgccactgggcttcctgggtccgggcggttctgat
 attcaactgacccagagcccttcttccctgagtgccagcgtgggtgaccgtgttacgatcactt
 gctcggccagccaagatatttctaactacctgaattggtaccagcagaagccaggaaaggcacc
 aaaagtcctgatctacttcacaagttcactgcattccggcgtaccgtcgcgctttagcggttct
 ggcagtggtaccgacttcaccctgactatctcgagtctgcaacctgaggattttgctacatatt
 actgtcagcaatattcgaccgtgccgtggacgttcgggcagggcaccaaagtggagattaaggg
 gggtggaggcagcgggggaggtggctcaggcggtggagggtctggcgaggtccagctggtagaa
 agcgggggcggactggtccaaccgggcggatccctgcgtctgagctgcgcggcctcgggttacg
 actttactcactacggaatgaactgggttcgccaagcccctggtaaaggtctggaatgggtcgg
 atggattaatacatacactggagaacctacttatgctgctgatttcaaacgtcgctttactttc
 tctctggatacaagtaagtcaaccgcctatctgcaaatgaacagcctgcgtgcagaggacacgg
 ctgtgtactattgtgcgaaatatccttattattatggaacttcccactggtatttcgatgtatg
 gggccagggtactctggttacagtgtcg
[00340]         The 306MM and 314MM (Table 10) were amplified from the ecpX display
vector using the primers CX0289 and CX0290 (Table 11), and directionally cloned into the
N-terminally masked vector using the SfiI restriction sites. The corresponding nucleotide
and amino acid sequences are provided in Table 13 below.
                                               85

Table 13
 SEQ ID NO: 51: MBP / 306 MM / MMP-9 CM / Anti-VEGF scFv TBM nucleotide
 sequence
 atgggccatcaccatcaccatcacggtggggaaaatctgtattttcagggccagtctggccagcc
 gtgttctgagtggcagtcgatggtgcagccgcgttgctattatgggggcggttctggtggcagcg
 gccaaggtggccaagtgcacatgccactgggcttcctgggtccgggcggttctgatattcaactg
 acccagagcccttcttccctgagtgccagcgtgggtgaccgtgttacgatcacttgctcggccag
 ccaagatatttctaactacctgaattggtaccagcagaagccaggaaaggcaccaaaagtcctga
 tctacttcacaagttcactgcattccggcgtaccgtcgcgctttagcggttctggcagtggtacc
 gacttcaccctgactatctcgagtctgcaacctgaggattttgctacatattactgtcagcaata
 ttcgaccgtgccgtggacgttcgggcagggcaccaaagtggagattaaggggggtggaggcagcg
 ggggaggtggctcaggcggtggagggtctggcgaggtccagctggtagaaagcgggggcggactg
 gtccaaccgggcggatccctgcgtctgagctgcgcggcctcgggttacgactttactcactacgg
 aatgaactgggttcgccaagcccctggtaaaggtctggaatgggtcggatggattaatacataca
 ctggagaacctacttatgctgctgatttcaaacgtcgctttactttctctctggatacaagtaag
 tcaaccgcctatctgcaaatgaacagcctgcgtgcagaggacacggctgtgtactattgtgcgaa
 atatccttattattatggaacttcccactggtatttcgatgtatggggccagggtactctggtta
 cagtgtcg
 SEQ ID NO: 52: MBP / 306 MM / MMP-9 CM / Anti-VEGF scFv TBM amino acid
 sequence
 MGHHHHHHGGENLYFQGQSGQPCSEWQSMVQPRCYYGGGSGGSGQGGQVHMPLGFLGPGG
 SDIQLTQSPSSLSASVGDRVTITCSASQDISNYLNWYQQKPGKAPKVLIYFTSSLHSGVP
 SRFSGSGSGTDFTLTISSLQPEDFATYYCQQYSTVPWTFGQGTKVEIKGGGGSGGGGSGG
 GGSGEVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGYDFTHYGMNWVRQAPGKGLEWVGWINTYTG
 EPTYAADFKRRFTFSLDTSKSTAYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCAKYPYYYGTSHWYFDVWGQG
 TLVTVS
 SEQ ID NO: 53: MBP / 314 MM / MMP-9 CM / Anti-VEGF scFv TBM nucleotide
 sequence
 Atgggccatcaccatcaccatcacggtggggaaaatctgtattttcagggccagtctggccagcg
 gccgccgtgttgccgtgattatagtattttggagtgctgtaagagtgatggcggttctggtggca
 gcggccaaggtggccaagtgcacatgccactgggcttcctgggtccgggcggttctgatattcaa
 ctgacccagagcccttcttccctgagtgccagcgtgggtgaccgtgttacgatcacttgctcggc
 cagccaagatatttctaactacctgaattggtaccagcagaagccaggaaaggcaccaaaagtcc
 tgatctacttcacaagttcactgcattccggcgtaccgtcgcgctttagcggttctggcagtggt
 accgacttcaccctgactatctcgagtctgcaacctgaggattttgctacatattactgtcagca
 atattcgaccgtgccgtggacgttcgggcagggcaccaaagtggagattaaggggggtggaggca
 gcgggggaggtggctcaggcggtggagggtctggcgaggtccagctggtagaaagcgggggcgga
 ctggtccaaccgggcggatccctgcgtctgagctgcgcggcctcgggttacgactttactcacta
 cggaatgaactgggttcgccaagcccctggtaaaggtctggaatgggtcggatggattaatacat
 acactggagaacctacttatgctgctgatttcaaacgtcgctttactttctctctggatacaagt
 aagtcaaccgcctatctgcaaatgaacagcctgcgtgcagaggacacggctgtgtactattgtgc
 gaaatatccttattattatggaacttcccactggtatttcgatgtatggggccagggtactctgg
 ttacagtgtcg
                                     86

  Table 13 Continued.
  SEQ ID NO: 54: MBP / 314 MM / MMP-9 CM / Anti-VEGF scFv TBM amino acid
  sequence
 MGHHHHHHGGENLYFQGQSGQRPPCCRDYS ILECCKS DGGSGGSGQGGQVHMPLGFLGPG
  GSDIQLTQSPSSLSASVGDRVTITCSASQDISNYLNWYQQKPGKAPKVLIYFTSSLHSGV
  PSRFSGSGSGTDFTLTISSLQPEDFATYYCQQYSTVPWTFGQGTKVEIKGGGGSGGGGSG
  GGGSGEVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGYDFTHYGMNWVRQAPGKGLEWVGWINTYT
  GE PTYAADFKRRFT FS L DT SKS TAYLQMNS LRAE DTAVYYCAKYPYYYGT S HWYFDVWGQ
  GTLVTVS
[00341]         Expression: Expression of the MBP:ABP fusions were conducted in a K12
TB1 strain of E. coli. An ampicillin-resistant colony containing the desired construct was
used to inoculate a 5 ml overnight culture containing LB medium supplemented with 50
pg/mL Ampicillin. The entire overnight culture was used to inoculate 500 mL of fresh LB
medium supplemented with 50 pg/mL ampicillin and 0.2% Glucose and allowed to grow at
37'C shaking at 250 rpm until an O.D. of 0.5 was reached. Isopropylthio-p-D-galactosidase
was then added to a final concentration of 0.3 mM and the culture was allowed to grow for a
further 3 hrs under the same conditions after which the cells were harvested by
centrifugation at 3000xg. Inclusion bodies were purified using standard methods. Briefly,
10mls of BPER II cell lysis reagent (Pierce). Insoluble material was collected by
centrifugation at 14,000xg and the soluble proteins were discarded. The insoluble materials
were resuspended in 5mls BPER II supplemented with 1mg/mL lysozyme and incubated on
ice for 10 minutes after which 5mls of BPER II diluted in water 1:20 was added and the
samples were spun at 14,000xg. The supernatant was removed and the pellets were wash
twice in 1:20 BPERII. The purified inclusion bodies were solubilized in PBS 8 M Urea, 10
mM BME, pH 7.4.
[00342]         The MBP fusion proteins were diluted to a concentration of approximately 1
mg/mL and refolded using a stepwise dialysis in PBS pH 7.4 from 8 to 0 M urea through 6,
4, 2, 0.5, and 0 M urea. At the 4, 2, and 0.5 M Urea steps 0.2 M Arginine, 2 mM reduced
Glutathione, and 0.5 mM oxidized glutathione was added. The OM Urea dialysis included
0.2 M Arginine. After removal of the urea, the proteins were dialyzed against 0.05 M
Arginine followed by and extensive dialysis against PBS pH 7.4. All dialysis were
conducted at 4'C overnight. To remove aggregates, each protein was subjected to size
exclusion chromatography on a sephacryl S-200 column. Fractions containing the correctly
folded proteins were concentrated using an Amicon Ultra centrifugal filter.
                                               87

         Cloning and expression of the ABP: a MMP-9 cleavable, masked anti-VEGF
         scfv CHis tag
[00343]         Cloning: The primers CX0308 and CX0310 (Table 11) were used to amplify
and add a NcoI restriction site to the 5' end and a HindIll restriction site and His6 tag to the
3' end, respectively, of the (MM accepting site / MMP-9 CM / VEGFscFv TBM) vector
which was subsequently cloned into a vector containing the pelB signal peptide. Anti-VEGF
scFv MMs were cloned as previously described. The corresponding nucleotide and amino
acid sequences are provided in Table 14 below.
Table 14
SEQ ID NO: 55: 306 MM / MMP-9 CM / anti-VEGF scFv CHis TBM nucleotide sequence
ggccagtctggccagccgtgttctgagtggcagtcgatggtgcagccgcgttgctattatgggggcggttctggtgg
ggtaccagcagaagccaggaaaggcaccaaaagtcctgatctacttcacaagttcactgcattccggcgtaccgtcg
aggtggctcaggcggtggagggtctggcgaggtccagctggtagaaagcgggggcggactggtccaaccgggcggat
tctctggatacaagtaagtcaaccgcctatctgcaaatgaacagcctgcgtgcagaggacacggctgtgtactattg
SEQ ID NO: 56: 306 MM / MMP-9 CM / anti-VEGF scFv CHis TBM amino acid sequence
GQSGQPCSEWQSMVQPRCYYGGGSGGSGQGGQVHMPLGFLGPGGSDIQLTQSPSSLSASV
GDRVTITCSASQDI SNYLNWYQQKPGKAPKVLIYFTSSLHSGVPSRFSGSGSGTDFTLTI
SSLQPEDFATYYCQQYSTVPWTFGQGTKVEIKGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGEVQLVESGGGLV
QPGGSLRLSCAASGYDFTHYGMNWVRQAPGKGLEWVGWINTYTGEPTYAADFKRRFTFSL
DTSKSTAYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCAKYPYYYGTSHWYFDVWGQGTLVTVSHHHHHH
SEQ ID NO: 57: 314 MM / MMP-9 CM / anti-VEGF scFv CHis TBM nucleotide sequence
ggccagtctggccagcggccgccgtgttgccgtgattatagtattttggagtgctgtaagagtgatggcggttctgg
attggtaccagcagaagccaggaaaggcaccaaaagtcctgatctacttcacaagttcactgcattccggcgtaccg
gggaggtggctcaggcggtggagggtctggcgaggtccagctggtagaaagcgggggcggactggtccaaccgggcg
ttctctctggatacaagtaagtcaaccgcctatctgcaaatgaacagcctgcgtgcagaggacacggctgtgtacta
Table 14 Continued.
SEQ ID NO: 58: 314 MM / MMP-9 CM / anti-VEGF scFv CHis TBM amino acid sequence
GQSGQRPPCCRDYSILECCKSDGGSGGSGQGGQVHMPLGFLGPGGSDIQLTQSPSSLSAS
VGDRVTITCSASQDISNYLNWYQQKPGKAPKVLIYFTSSLHSGVPSRFSGSGSGTDFTLT
ISSLQPEDFATYYCQQYSTVPWTFGQGTKVEIKGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGEVQLVESGGGL
VQPGGS LRLS CAASGYDFTHYGMNWVRQAPGKGLEWVGWINTYTGE PTYAADFKRRFT FS
LDTSKS TAYLQMNS LRAE DTAVYYCAKYPYYYGT SHWYFDVWGQGTLVTVSHHHHHH
[00344]         Expression: Expression of the Anti-VEGF scFv His ABPs was conducted in a
K12 TB1 strain of E. coli. An ampicillin-resistant colony containing the desired construct
was used to inoculate a 5 ml overnight culture containing LB medium supplemented with 50
pg/mL Ampicillin. 2.5 ml of overnight culture was used to inoculate 250 mL of fresh LB
medium supplemented with 50 pg/mL ampicillin and 0.2% Glucose and allowed to grow at
37 0 C shaking at 250 rpm until an O.D. of 1.0 was reached. Isopropylthio-p-D-galactosidas
                                               88

was then added to a final concentration of 0.3 mM and the culture was allowed to grow for a
further 5 hrs at 30'C after which the cells were harvested by centrifugation at 3000xg. The
periplasmic fraction was immediately purified using the lysozyme/osmotic shock method.
Briefly, the cell pellet was resuspended in 3mLs of 50mM Tris, 200 mM NaCl, 10mM
EDTA, 20% Sucrose, pH 7.4 and 2 uL/mL ready-use lysozyme solution was added. After a
15 min. incubation on ice, 1.5 volumes of water (4.5mLs) was added and the cells were
incubated for another 15 min. on ice. The soluble periplasmic fraction was recovered by
centrifugation at 14,000xg.
[00345]          The Anti-VEGF scFv His proteins were partially purified using Ni-NTA
resin. Crude periplasmic extracts were loaded onto 0.5 ml of Ni-NTA resin and washed with
50 mM phosphate, 300 mM NaCl, pH 7.4. His tagged proteins were eluted with 50mM
phosphate, 300 mM NaCl, 200 mM Imidizale, pH 6.0. Proteins were concentrated to
approximately 600 pL and buffer exchanged into PBS using Amicon Ultra centrifugal
concentrators.
        Cloning and expression of the ABP: a MMP-9 cleavable, masked anti-VEGF
        scFv as human Fc fusion
[00346]          Cloning: The primers CX0312 and CXO314 (Table 11) were used to amplify
the sequence encoding MMP-9 CM / Anti-VEGF scFv. The primers also included sequences
for a 5' EcoRI restriction site and a 3' NcoI restriction site and linker sequence. Cutting the
PCR amplified sequence with EcoRI and NcoI and subsequent cloning into the pFUSE
hIgG1-Fc2 vector generated vectors for the expression of Fc fusion proteins. Anti-VEGF
scFv TBM MMs were inserted into these vectors as previously described. Constructs
containing 306MM, 313MM, 314MM, 315MM, a non-binding MM (100MM), as well as no
MM were constructed and sequences verified. The corresponding nucleotide and amino acid
sequences are provided below in Table 15.
Table 15
  SEQ ID NO: 59: 306 MM / MMP-9 CM /anti-VEGF scfv-Fc TBM nucleotide sequence
  ggccagtctggccagccgtgttctgagtggcagtcgatggtgcagccgcgttgctattat
  gggggcggttctggtggcagcggccaaggtggccaagtgcacatgccactgggcttcctg
  ggtccgggcggttctgatattcaactgacccagagcccttcttccctgagtgccagcgtg
  ggtgaccgtgttacgatcacttgctcggccagccaagatatttctaactacctgaattgg
  taccagcagaagccaggaaaggcaccaaaagtcctgatctacttcacaagttcactgcat
  tccggcgtaccgtcgcgctttagcggttctggcagtggtaccgacttcaccctgactatc
  tcgagtctgcaacctgaggattttgctacatattactgtcagcaatattcgaccgtgccg
  tggacgttcgggcagggcaccaaagtggagattaaggggggtggaggcagcgggggaggt
  ggctcaggcggtggagggtctggcgaggtccagctggtagaaagcgggggcggactggtc
  caaccgggcggatccctgcgtctgagctgcgcggcctcgggttacgactttactcactac
                                                89

ggaatgaactgggttcgccaagcccctggtaaaggtctggaatgggtcggatggattaat
acatacactggagaacctacttatgctgctgatttcaaacgtcgctttactttctctctg
gatacaagtaagtcaaccgcctatctgcaaatgaacagcctgcgtgcagaggacacggct
gtgtactattgtgcgaaatatccttattattatggaacttcccactggtatttcgatgta
tggggccagggtactctggttacagtgtcgggcggtagcggcgccatggttagatctgac
aaaactcacacatgcccaccgtgcccagcacctgaactcctggggggaccgtcagtcttc
ctcttccccccaaaacccaaggacaccctcatgatctcccggacccctgaggtcacatgc
gtggtggtggacgtgagccacgaagaccctgaggtcaagttcaactggtacgtggacggc
gtggaggtgcataatgccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagcagtacaacagcacgtaccgt
gtggtcagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccaggactggctgaatggcaaggagtacaagtgc
aaggtctccaacaaagccctcccagcccccatcgagaaaaccatctccaaagccaaaggg
cagccccgagaaccacaggtgtacaccctgcccccatcccgggaggagatgaccaagaac
caggtcagcctgacctgcctggtcaaaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgccgtggagtgg
gagagcaatgggcagccggagaacaactacaagaccacgcctcccgtgctggactccgac
ggctccttcttcctctacagcaagctcaccgtggacaagagcaggtggcagcaggggaac
gtcttctcatgctccgtgatgcatgagggtctgcacaaccactacacgcagaagagcctc
tccctgtctccgggtaaa
SEQ ID NO: 60: 306 MM / MMP-9 CM / anti-VEGF scFv-Fc TBM amino acid sequence
GQSGQPCSEWQSMVQPRCYYGGGSGGSGQGGQVHMPLGFLGPGGSDIQLTQSPSSLSASV
GDRVTITCSASQDISNYLNWYQQKPGKAPKVLIYFTSSLHSGVPSRFSGSGSGTDFTLTI
SSLQPEDFATYYCQQYSTVPWTFGQGTKVEIKGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGEVQLVESGGGLV
QPGGSLRLSCAASGYDFTHYGMNWVRQAPGKGLEWVGWINTYTGEPTYAADFKRRFTFSL
DTSKSTAYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCAKYPYYYGTSHWYFDVWGQGTLVTVSGGSGAMVRSD
KTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYVDG
VEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTISKAKG
QPREPQVYTLPPSREEMTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLDSD
GSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEGLHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
                                     90

 Table 15 Continued.
 SEQ ID NO: 61: 314 MM / MMP-9 CM / anti-VEGF scfv-Fc TBM nucleotide sequence
 ggccagtctggccagcggccgccgtgttgccgtgattatagtattttggagtgctgtaag
 agtgatggcggttctggtggcagcggccaaggtggccaagtgcacatgccactgggcttc
 ctgggtccgggcggttctgatattcaactgacccagagcccttcttccctgagtgccagc
 gtgggtgaccgtgttacgatcacttgctcggccagccaagatatttctaactacctgaat
 tggtaccagcagaagccaggaaaggcaccaaaagtcctgatctacttcacaagttcactg
 cattccggcgtaccgtcgcgctttagcggttctggcagtggtaccgacttcaccctgact
 atctcgagtctgcaacctgaggattttgctacatattactgtcagcaatattcgaccgtg
 ccgtggacgttcgggcagggcaccaaagtggagattaaggggggtggaggcagcggggga
 ggtggctcaggcggtggagggtctggcgaggtccagctggtagaaagcgggggcggactg
 gtccaaccgggcggatccctgcgtctgagctgcgcggcctcgggttacgactttactcac
 tacggaatgaactgggttcgccaagcccctggtaaaggtctggaatgggtcggatggatt
 aatacatacactggagaacctacttatgctgctgatttcaaacgtcgctttactttctct
 ctggatacaagtaagtcaaccgcctatctgcaaatgaacagcctgcgtgcagaggacacg
 gctgtgtactattgtgcgaaatatccttattattatggaacttcccactggtatttcgat
 gtatggggccagggtactctggttacagtgtcgggcggtagcggcgccatggttagatct
 gacaaaactcacacatgcccaccgtgcccagcacctgaactcctggggggaccgtcagtc
 ttcctcttccccccaaaacccaaggacaccctcatgatctcccggacccctgaggtcaca
 tgcgtggtggtggacgtgagccacgaagaccctgaggtcaagttcaactggtacgtggac
 ggcgtggaggtgcataatgccaagacaaagccgcgggaggagcagtacaacagcacgtac
 cgtgtggtcagcgtcctcaccgtcctgcaccaggactggctgaatggcaaggagtacaag
 tgcaaggtctccaacaaagccctcccagcccccatcgagaaaaccatctccaaagccaaa
 gggcagccccgagaaccacaggtgtacaccctgcccccatcccgggaggagatgaccaag
 aaccaggtcagcctgacctgcctggtcaaaggcttctatcccagcgacatcgccgtggag
 tgggagagcaatgggcagccggagaacaactacaagaccacgcctcccgtgctggactcc
 gacggctccttcttcctctacagcaagctcaccgtggacaagagcaggtggcagcagggg
 aacgtcttctcatgctccgtgatgcatgagggtctgcacaaccactacacgcagaagagc
 ctctccctgtctccgggtaaa
 SEQ ID NO: 62: 314 MM / MMP-9 CM / anti-VEGF scFv-Fc TBM amino acid sequence
 GQSGQRPPCCRDYSILECCKSDGGSGGSGQGGQVHMPLGFLGPGGSDIQLTQSPSSLSAS
 VGDRVTITCSASQDISNYLNWYQQKPGKAPKVLIYFTSSLHSGVPSRFSGSGSGTDFTLT
  ISSLQPEDFATYYCQQYSTVPWTFGQGTKVEIKGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGEVQLVESGGGL
 VQPGGSLRLSCAASGYDFTHYGMNWVRQAPGKGLEWVGWINTYTGEPTYAADFKRRFTFS
 L DT SKS TAYLQMNS LRAE DTAVYYCAKYPYYYGT S HWYFDVWGQGT LVTVSGGSGAMVRS
 DKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGP SVFLFPPKPKDTLMI SRT PEVTCVVVDVS HE DPEVKFNWYVD
 GVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTI SKAK
 GQPREPQVYTLPPSREEMTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLDS
 DGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEGLHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
[00347]        Expression: 10 Lg of expression vectors for 306 MM / MMP-9 CM / anti
VEGFscFv-Fc, 314 MM / MMP-9 CM / anti-VEGFscFv-Fc or anti-VEGFscFv-Fc were
introduced into 107 HEK-293 freestyle cells (Invitrogen, CA) by transfection using
transfectamine 2000 as per manufacturer's protocol (Invitrogen, CA). The transfected cells
                                             91

were incubated for an additional 72 hours. After incubation, the conditioned media was
harvested and cleared of cells and debris by centrifugation. The conditioned media was
assayed for activity by ELISA.
EXAMPLE 11: TESTING OF A       ABP
[00348]          To measure the activation of the masked MMP-9 cleavable anti-VEGF ABPs
by MMP-9, 100 pl of a 2 pg/ml PBS solution of VEGF was added to microwells (96 Well
Easy Wash; Corning) and incubated overnight at 4'C. Wells were then blocked for 3 x 15
minute with 300 uL Superblock (Pierce). One hundred microliters of ABP (see below for
details pertaining to each construct), treated or untreated with MMP-9, were then added to
wells in PBST, 10% Superblock and incubated at room temperature (RT) for 1 hr. All wash
steps were done three times and performed with 300 ul PBST. One hundred microliters of
secondary detection reagent were then added and allowed to incubate at RT for 1 hr.
Detection of HRP was completed using 100 ul of TMB one (Pierce) solution. The reaction
was stopped with 100 pL of IN HCL and the absorbance was measured at 450 nM.
         ELISA assay of ABP construct containing: MBP / MM / MMP-9 CM / anti
         VEGF scFv TBM
[00349]         Two hundred microliters of biotinylated ABP in MMP-9 digestion buffer (50
mM Tris, 2 mM CaCl 2, 20 mM NaCl, 100 pM ZnCl 2, pH 6.8) at a concentration of 200 nM
was digested with 20U TEV protease overnight at 4'C to remove the MBP fusion partner.
Samples were then incubated for 3 hrs with or without ~3U of MMP-9 at 37'C, diluted 1:1 to
a final concentration of 100 nM in PBST, 10% Superblock, and added to the ELISA wells.
Detection of the ABP was achieved with an Avidin-HRP conjugate at a dilution of 1:7500.
MMP-9 activation of MMP-9 cleavable masked MBP:anti-VEGF scFv ABP is presented in
Figure 39.
         ELISA assay of ABP construct containing: MM / MMP-9 CM / anti-VEGF scFv
         His
[003501         Crude periplasmic extracts dialyzed in MMP-9 digestion buffer (150 pL)
were incubated with or without ~3U of MMP-9 for 3 hrs at 37'C. Samples were then diluted
to 400 pL with PBST, 10% Superblock and added to the ELISA wells. Detection of the ABP
was achieved using an Anti-His6-HRP conjugate at a dilution of 1:5000. MMP-9 activation
of MMP-9 cleavable masked anti-VEGF scFv His ABP is presented in Figure 40.
                                                92

        ELISA assay of ABP construct containing: MM / MMP-9 CM / anti-VEGF
        scFv-Fc
[003511          Fifty microliters of HEK cell supernatant was added to 200 pL MMP-9
digestion buffer and incubated with or without ~19U MMP-9 for 2 hrs at 37'C. Samples
were then diluted 1:1 in PBST, 10% Superblock and 100 pL were added to the ELISA wells.
Detection of the ABP was achieved using Anti-human Fc-HRP conjugate at a dilution of
1:2500. MMP-9 activation of MMP-9 cleavable masked anti-VEGF scFv-Fc is presented in
Figure 41.
        Purificaiton and assay of ABP construct containing: MM / MMP-9 CM / anti
        VEGF scFv-Fc
[00352]          Anti-VEGF scFv Fc ABPs were purified using a Protein A column
chromatography. Briefly, 10 mLs of HEK cell supernatants were diluted 1:1 with PBS and
added to 0.5 mL Protein A resin pre-equilibrated in PBS. Columns were washed with 10
column volumes of PBS before eluting bound protein with 170 mM acetate, 300 mL NaCl
pH. 2.5 and immediatley neutralized 1 mL fractions with 200 pL of 2 M Tris pH 8.0.
Fractions containing protein were then concentrated using Amicon Ultra centrifugal
concentrators. ELISA was conducted as with HEK cell supernatants. ELISA data showing
the MMP-9 dependent VEGF binding of Anti-VEGFscFv Fc ABP constructs with the MMs
306 and 314 that were purified using a Protein A column are presented in Figure 42.
EXAMPLE     12: LIBRARY SCREENING AND ISOLATION OF ANTI-CTLA4 MMs
[00353]          CTLA4 antibody masking moieties (MMs) were isolated from a
combinatorial library of 1010 random 15mer peptides displayed on the surface of E. coli
according to the method of Bessette et al (Bessette, P.H., Rice, J.J and Daugherty, P.S. Rapid
isolation of high-affinity protein binding peptides using bacterial display. Protein Eng.
Design & Selection. 17:10,731-739, 2004). Biotinylated mouse anti-CTLA4 antibody (clone
UC4 F 10-11, 25 nM) was incubated with the library and antibody-bound bacteria expressing
putative binding peptides were magnetically sorted from non-binders using streptavidin
coated magnetic nanobeads. Subsequent rounds of enrichment were carried out using FACS.
For the initial round of FACS, bacteria were sorted using biotinylated target (5 nM) and
secondary labeling step with streptavidiin phycoerythrin. In subsequent rounds of FACS,
sorting was performed with Dylight labeled antibody and the concentration of target was
reduced (1 nM, then 0.1 nM) to avoid the avidity effects of the secondary labeling step and
select for the highest affinity binders. One round of MACS and three rounds of FACS
                                                93

resulted in a pool of binders from which individual clones were sequenced. Relative affinity
and off-rate screening of individual clones were performed using a ficin digested Dylight
labeled Fab antibody fragment to reduce avidity effects of the bivalent antibody due to the
expression of multiple peptides on the bacterial surface. As an additional test of target
specificity, individual clones were screened for binding in the presence of 20 uM E. Coli
depleted IgG as a competitor. Amino acid and nucleotide sequences of the 4 clones chosen
for MM optimization are shown in Table 16. These sequences will interchangeably referred
to as 187MM, 184MM, 182MM, and 175MM. MM candidates with a range of off-rates were
chosen, to determine the effects of off-rates on MM dissociation after cleavage. An MM that
did not bind anti-CTLA4 was used as a negative control.
Table 16: Amino acid and nucleotide sequences for MMs that mask anti-CTLA4
  KK187 MM
   M   I   L    L    C    A   A    G    R  T   W     V     E  A    C   A    N   G     R (SEQ ID NO:
  63)
  ATGATTTTGTTGTGCGCGGCGGGTCGGACGTGGGTGGAGGCTTGCGCTAA TGGTAGG (SEQ
  ID NO: 64)
  KK184 MM
   A    E   R    L    C   A    W     A   G   R     F    C   G   S (SEQ ID NO: 65)
  GCTGAGCGGTTGTGCGCGTGGGCGGGGCGGTTCTGTGGCAGC (SEQ ID NO: 66)
   KK182 MM
   W    A    D    V    M   P   G     S   G   V   L     P    W   T    S (SEQ ID NO: 67)
   TGGGCGGATGTTATGCCTGGGTCGGGTGTGTTGCCGTGGACGTCG (SEQ ID NO: 68)
   KK175 MM
   S   D    G   R    M    G   S    L   E   L   C     A     L  W    G    R   F  C    G   S (SEQ ID
  NO: 69)
  AGTGATGGTCGTATGGGGAGTTTGGAGCTTTGTGCGTTGTGGGGGCGGTTCTGTGGCAGC
  (SEQ ID NO: 70)
  Negative control (does not bind anti-CTLA4)
  P   C    S   E   W    Q    S   M     V   Q   P     R    C   Y   Y (SEQ ID NO: 71)
  GCCGTGTTCTGAGTGGCAGTCGATGGTGCAGCCGCGTTGCTATTA (SEQ ID NO: 72)
EXAMPLE 13: CLONING OF ANTI-CTLA4 scFv
[00354]         Anti-CTLA4 ScFv was cloned from the HB304 hybridoma cell line
(American Type Culture Collection) secreting UC4F10-11 hamster anti-mouse CTLA4
antibody according to the method of Gilliland et al. (Gilliland L. K., N. A. Norris, H.
Marquardt, T. T. Tsu, M. S. Hayden, M. G. Neubauer, D. E. Yelton, R. S. Mittler, and J. A.
                                                   94

Ledbetter.. Rapid and reliable cloning of antibody variable regions and generation of
recombinant single chain antibody fragments. Tissue Antigens 47:1, 1-20, 1996). A detailed
version of this protocol can be found at the website located by placing http://www in front of
.ibms.sinica.edu.tw/-sroff/protocols/scFv.htm. In brief, total RNA was isolated from
hybridomas using the RNeasy total RNA isolation kit (Qiagen). The primers IgK1
(gtyttrtgngtnacytcrca) and IgH1 (acdatyttyttrtcnacyttngt) (Gilliland et al. referenced above)
were used for first strand synthesis of the variable light and heavy chains, respectively. A
poly G tail was added with terminal transferase, followed by PCR using the 5' ANCTAIL
primer (Gilliland et al. referenced above)
(cgtcgatgagctctagaattcgcatgtgcaagtccgatggtcccccccccccccc:        SEQ ID NO: 73) containing
EcoRI, Sac and XbaI sites for both light and heavy chains (poly G tail specific) and the 3'
HBS-hIgK (cgtcatgtcgacggatccaagcttacyttccayttnacrttdatrtc: SEQ ID NO: 74) and HBS
hIgH (cgtcatgtcgacggatccaagcttrcangcnggngcnamggrtanac: SEQ ID NO: 75) derived from
mouse antibody constant region sequences and containing HindIll, BamHI and SalI sites for
light and heavy chain amplification, respectively (Gilliland et al. referenced above).
Constructs and vector were digested with HindIll and Sac, ligated and transformed into
E.Coli. Individual colonies were sequenced and the correct sequences for VL and VH (Tables
17 and 18 respectively) were confirmed by comparison with existing mouse and hamster
antibodies. The leader sequences, as described for anti-CTLA4 in the presented sequence is
also commonly called a signal sequence or secretion leader sequence and is the amino acid
sequence that directs secretion of the antibody. This sequence is cleaved off, by the cell,
during secretion and is not included in the mature protein. Additionally, the same scFv
cloned by Tuve et al (Tuve, S. Chen, B.M., Liu, Y., Cheng, T-L., Toure, P., Sow, P.S., Feng,
Q., Kiviat, N., Strauss, R., Ni, S., Li, Z., Roffler, S.R. and Lieber, A. Combination of Tumor
Site -Located CTL-Associated Antigen-4 Blockade and Systemic Regulatory T-Cell
Depletion Induces Tumor Destructive Immune Responses. Cancer Res. 67:12, 5929-5939,
2007) was identical to sequences presented here.
                                                  95

Table 17
Hamster anti-mouse CTLA4 VL
                                 Leader
M E       S  H I H V F M S L F L W V S                           G S C A D I M M                  T Q
S P S       S L S V S A             G E K A          T    I S C K S         S   Q S      L    F   N  S
N     A   K   T N Y         L N      W     Y L Q        K   P G      Q S      P K     L L I Y       Y
A S T        R H     T    G V P D R             F R      G   S   G T D F         T L      T I    S  S
V Q       D E    D L      A F Y          Y C     Q Q W Y D Y P Y                     T F     G   A   G
T    K    V   E   I    K(SEQIDNO:76)
atggaatcacatatccatgtcttcatgtccttgttcctttgggtgtctggttcctgtgcagacatcatgatgacccagtctccttcatccctga
gtgtgtcagcgggagagaaagccactatcagctgcaagtccagtcagagtcttttcaacagtaacgccaaaacgaactacttgaactgg
tatttgcagaaaccagggcagtctcctaaactgctgatctattatgcatccactaggcatactggggtccctgatcgcttcagaggcagtg
gatctgggacggatttcactctcaccatcagcagtgtccaggatgaagacctggcattttattactgtcagcagtggtatgactacccata
cacgttcggagctgggaccaaggtggaaatcaaa (SEQ ID NO: 77)
Table 18
Hamster anti mouse CTLA4 VH
                                 Leader
K     M R L L G L              L Y L V T A                L P G V L         S Q I        Q L    Q E
S G P G L V N                P   S Q S        L   S L      S C    S   V T G Y S           I  T S    G
Y G W N W I               R    Q F P G Q K V E W M G F I Y Y                                    E   G
S T Y        Y N     P S I       K S R        I   S I     T   R D T      S K N       Q    F F L     Q
VNSVT                TED            TATYY                  C A R Q T G            Y F D Y W G
Q    G T M V T V S               S(SEQIDNO:78)
aagatgagactgttgggtcttctgtacctggtgacagcccttcctggtgtcctgtcccagatccagcttcaggagtcaggacctggctggt
gaacccctcacaatcactgtccctctcttgctctgtcactggttactccatcaccagtggttatggatggaactggatcaggcagttcccag
ggcagaaggtggagtggatgggattcatatattatgagggtagcacctactacaacccttccatcaagagccgcatctccatcaccagag
acacatcgaagaaccagttcttcctgcaggtgaattctgtgaccactgaggacacagccacatattactgtgcgagacaaactgggtact
ttgattactggggccaaggaaccatggtcaccgtctcctca (SEQ ID NO: 79)
EXAMPLE 14: CONSTRUCTION OF THE ANTI-CTLA4 scFv WITH MMS AND                            CMS
[003551         To determine the optimal orientation of the anti-CTLA4 scFv for expression
and function, primers were designed to PCR amplify the variable light and heavy chains
                                                     96

individually, with half of a (GGGS) 3 linker at either the N- or C-terminus for a subsequent
'splicing by overlapping extension' PCR (SOE-PCR; Horton, R.M., Hunt, H.D., Ho, S.N.,
Pullen, J.K. and Pease, L.R. (1989) Engineering hybrid genes without the use of restriction
enzymes: gene splicing by overlap extension. Gene 77, 61-68) with either VH or VL at the N
terminus. An NdeI restriction site was engineered at the N-terminus to generate a start codon
in frame at the beginning of the nucleotide sequence and a His tag and stop codon were
added to the C-terminus. Light and heavy chains were then joined via sewing PCR using the
outer primers to generate ScFvs in both VHVL and VLVH (Fig. 43). Primers are shown below
in Table 19.
  Table 19: Primers to generate scFvs VHVL and VLVH
     VL forl      caaggaccatagcatatggacatcatgatgacccagtct (SEQ ID NO: 80)
    VL linker
    revI          acttccgcctccacctgatccaccaccacctttgatttccaccttggtcc (SEQ ID NO: 81)
    linker VH     ggatcaggtggaggcggaagtggaggtggcggttcccagatccagcttcaggagtcagga
    for2          (SEQ ID NO: 82)
    VH his        ggccggatccaagcttttagtggtgatggtgatgatgtgaggagacggtgaccatggttcc
    rev2          (SEQ ID NO: 83)
    VH for3       acaaggaccatagcatatgcagatccagcttcaggagtca (SEQ ID NO: 84)
    VH linker
    rev3          acttccgcctccacctgatccaccaccacctgaggagacggtgaccatggttcc (SEQ ID NO: 85)
    linker VL     ggtggatcaggtggaggcggaagtggaggtggcggttccgacatcatgatgacccagtctcct
    for4          (SEQ ID NO: 86)
    VL his        cggccggatccaagcttttagtggtgatggtgatgatgtttgatttccaccttggtcccagc
    rev4          (SEQ ID NO: 87)
[00356]         Next, a set of overlapping primers were designed to add sfi and xho 1 sites for
MM cloning followed by the MMP-9 cleavage sequence and (GGS) 2 linker on the N
terminus of the ScFv constructs. These primers are presented in Table 20 and shown
schematically in Figure 44.
                                               97

  Table 20: Primers MM and CM cloning
                            gccagtctggccggtagggctcgagcggccaagtgcacatgccactgggcttcctgggtc
    for Ic linker           (SEQ ID NO: 88)
                            gccactgggcttcctgggtccgggtggaagcggcggctcagacatcatgatgacccagtc
    for I d linker VL       (SEQ ID NO: 89)
                            gccactgggcttcctgggtccgggtggaagcggcggctcacagatccagcttcaggagtca
    for le linker VH        (SEQ ID NO: 90)
                            ttcaccaacaaggaccatagcatatgggccagtctggccggtagggc   (SEQ ID NO:
    for la                  91)
                            ggccggatccaagcttttagtggtgatggtgatgatgtgaggagacggtgaccatggttcc
    VH his rev2             (SEQ ID NO: 92)
                            acttccgcctccacctgatccaccaccacctgaggagacggtgaccatggttcc   (SEQ
    VH linker rev3          ID NO: 93)
[003571          Linker containing ScFvs were PCR amplified, digested with Ndel and EcoR1
(an internal restriction site in VH) and gel purified. The PCR fragments were ligated into the
vectors and transformed into E. Coli. The nucleotide and amino acid sequences are presented
in Table 21 and illustrated in Fig. 45.
Table 21: Sequence of MM linker-CM-anti-CTLA4 scFv linker
Amino acid sequence:
G G        S   G    G    S      G   G    S    S     G   Q V      H   M    P    L   G      F
L G       P     G   G    S      G    G   S   (SEQIDNO:94)
Nucleotide sequence:
GGCGGTTCTGGTGGCAGCGGTGGCTCGAGCGGCCAAGTGCACATGCCACTGGGC
TTCCTGGGTCCGGGTGGAAGCGGCGGCTCA                           (SEQ ID NO: 95)
[00358]          MM sequences were PCR amplified, digested at sfi1 and xhol sites, ligated
into linker anti-CTLA4 scFv constructs, transformed into E.Coli and sequenced. The
complete nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the MM187-CM-TBM are shown below in
Tables 22 and 23 as SEQ ID NOs: 96 and 97 respectively.
                                                 98

Table 22
Amino acid sequence of MM187-anti-CTLA4 ScFv TBM:
M I L L C A A G R T W V E A C A N G RG G S                                  G G S    G G S S       G
Q V H M P L G F L G P G G S G G S Q I Q L QE S G P G L V N P
S QSLSLSC                   SVTGYS              ITSG YGW NWIRQFP                           GQK
VEW MGFI YYE GST YYNP                                       SIK     SRI      SITRDTS             K
N Q F F L Q VN S V T T ED TA TYY                                  CAR Q T GY FD               YW
GQ GTMV                TV S      S GG GG S G GGG S GG GG SD                              IMM
TQSPSSL                SVS       AGE KATI                SCK SSQ            SLFN       SNA       K
TN YLNWYLQ                       KP G Q S PK LLI                 YYA S TRH T GV P
DR FRG S              G S GTDF TLTI                  S SV     QDE D LAF YYC Q Q
W YD YP YTF GA GTK VE                                IK   (SEQIDNO:96)
Table 23
Nucleotide sequence of MM187-anti-CTLA4 ScFv TBM:
atgattttgttgtgcgcggcgggtcggacgtgggtggaggcttgcgctaatggtaggggcggttctggtggcagcggtggctcgagcggccaag
tgcacatgccactgggcttcctgggtccgggtggaagcggcggctcacagatccagcttcaggagtcaggacctggcctggtgaacccctcaca
atcactgtccctctcttgctctgtcactggttactccatcaccagtggttatggatggaactggatcaggcagttcccagggcagaaggtggagtgg
atgggattcatatattatgagggtagcacctactacaacccttccatcaagagccgcatctccatcaccagagacacatcgaagaaccagttcttcct
gcaggtgaattctgtgaccactgaggacacagccacatattactgtgcgagacaaactgggtactttgattactggggccaaggaaccatggtcac
cgtctcctcaggtggtggtggatcaggtggaggcggaagtggaggtggcggttccgacatcatgatgacccagtctccttcatccctgagtgtgtc
agcgggagagaaagccactatcagctgcaagtccagtcagagtcttttcaacagtaacgccaaaacgaactacttgaactggtatttgcagaaacc
agggcagtctcctaaactgctgatctattatgcatccactaggcatactggggtccctgatcgcttcagaggcagtggatctgggacggatttcactc
tcaccatcagcagtgtccaggatgaagacctggcattttattactgtcagcagtggtatgactacccatacacgttcggagctgggaccaaggtgga
aatcaaacatcatcaccatcaccactaa (SEQ ID NO: 97)
[003591           To generate MM-CM-anti-CTLA4 scFV-Fc fusions, the following primers
listed in Table 24 were designed to PCR amplify the constructs for cloning into the pfuse Fc
vector via the in fusion system (Clontech). Plasmids were transformed into E.coli, and the
sequence of individual clones was verified.
                                                    99

Table 24: Primers to generate MM-CM-anti-CTLA4 scFV-Fc fusions
    HLCTLA4ScFv pFuse reverse    tcagatctaaccatggctttgatttccaccttggtcc (SEQ ID NO: 98)
    LHCTLA4ScFv pFuse reverse    tcagatctaaccatggctgaggagacggtgaccatgg (SEQ ID NO: 99)
    p187CTLA4 pfuse forward      cacttgtcacgaattcgatgattttgttgtgcgcggc (SEQ ID NO: 100)
    p182CTLA4 pfuse forward      cacttgtcacgaattcgtgggcggatgttatgcctg (SEQ ID NO: 101)
    p184CTLA4 pfuse forward      cacttgtcacgaattcggctgagcggttgtgcgcgtg (SEQ ID NO: 102)
    p175CTLA4 pfuse forward      cacttgtcacgaattcgagtgatggtcgtatggggag (SEQ ID NO: 103)
    pnegCTLA4 pfuse forward      cacttgtcacgaattcgccgtgttctgagtggcagtcg (SEQ ID NO: 104)
EXAMPLE 15: EXPRESSION AND ASSAY OF MASKED/MMP-9/ ANTI-CTLA ScFv-Fc IN
HEK-293 CELLS
[00360]         10 ug of expression vectors for p175CTLA4pfuse, p182CTLA4pfuse,
p184CTLA4pfuse, p187CTLA4pfuse, or pnegCTLA4pfuse were introduced into 107 HEK
293 freestyle cells (Invitrogen) by transfection using transfectamine 2000 as per
manufacturer's protocol (Invitrogen). The transfected cells were incubated for an additional
72 hours. After incubation the conditioned media was harvested and cleared of cells and
debris by centrifugation. The conditioned media was assayed for activity by ELISA as
described below.
[00361]        Fifty microliters of conditioned media from HEK-293 expressing MM175
anti-CTLA4 scFv, MM182-anti-CTLA4 scFv, MM184-anti-CTLA4 scFv, MM187-anti
CTLA4 scFv, or MMneg-anti-CTLA4 scFv was added to 200 pL MMP-9 digestion buffer
and incubated with or without ~19U MMP-9 for 2 hrs at 37'C. Samples were then diluted
1:1 in PBS, 4% non fat dry milk (NFDM) and assayed for binding activity by competition
ELISA.
[00362]         100 ul of 0.5 mg/ml solution of murine CTLA4-Fc fusion protein (R & D
systems) in PBS was added to wells of 96 well Easy Wash plate (Corning) and incubated
overnight at 4'C. Wells were then blocked for one hour at room temperature (RT) with 100
ul of 2% non-fat dry milk (NFDM) in PBS and then washed 3X with PBS; 0.05% Tween-20
(PBST). 50 ul of conditioned media from cultures of transfected HEK-293 cells expressing
MM175-anti-CTLA4 scFv, MM182-anti-CTLA4 scFv, MM184-anti-CTLA4 scFv, MM187
anti-CTLA4 scFv, or MMneg-anti-CTLA4 scFv that had previously been untreated or
treated with MMP-9, were added to wells and incubated RT for 15 minutes. Following
incubation, 50 ul of PBS containing 0.5 ug/ml biotinylated murine B71-Fc (R & D systems)
was added to each well. Following a further incubation at RT of 30 minutes the wells were
                                               100

washed 5X with 150 ul PBST. 100 ul of PBS containing 1:3000 dilution of avidin-HRP was
added and the plate incubated at RT for 45 minutes and then washed 7X with 150 ul PBST.
The ELISA was developed with 100 ul of TMB (Pierce), stopped with 100 uL of IN HCL
and the absorbance was measured at 450 nM.
[00363]         While the present invention has been described with reference to the specific
embodiments thereof, it should be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes
may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the true spirit and
scope of the invention. In addition, many modifications may be made to adapt a particular
situation, material, composition of matter, process, process step or steps, to the objective,
spirit and scope of the present invention. All such modifications are intended to be within the
scope of the claims appended hereto.
                                               101

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
        1.       An activatable binding polypeptide (ABP) comprising:
        a target binding moiety (TBM);
        a masking moiety (MM) capable of inhibiting binding of the TBM to a target,
wherein said MM does not have an amino acid sequence of a naturally occurring binding
partner of said TBM; and
        a cleavable moiety (CM), wherein said CM is positioned in the activatable binding
polypeptide such that in a cleaved state in the presence of a target, the TBM binds the target,
and in an uncleaved state in the presence of the target, binding of the TBM to the target is
inhibited by the MM.
        2.       The ABP of claim 1, wherein said MM is selected from a plurality of
candidate polypeptides based on its ability to inhibit binding of the TBM to the target in an
uncleaved state and allow binding of the TBM to the target in a cleaved state.
        3.       The ABP of claim 1, wherein the MM inhibits binding of the TBM to the
target via steric hindrance when the ABP is in an uncleaved state.
        4.       The ABP of claim 3, wherein the MM comprises a cysteine residue and steric
hindrance is achieved via disulfide bond linkage between said cysteine residue and an
additional cysteine residue adjacent to or within the TBM.
        5.       The ABP of claim 1, wherein the target of the TBM is an extracellular
polypeptide.
        6.       The ABP of claim 1, wherein the CM is located between the TBM and the
MM in the ABP.
        7.       The ABP of claim 1, wherein the CM is located within the MM.
        8.       The ABP of claim 1, wherein the CM comprises a protease substrate.
        9.       The ABP of claim 8, wherein the protease substrate comprises a plasmin
substrate, a caspase substrate or a matrix metalloprotease (MMP) substrate.
                                               102

         10.     The ABP of claim 9, wherein the protease substrate comprises an MMP
substrate.
         11.     The ABP of claim 10, wherein said matrix metalloprotease substrate is a
matrix metalloprotease 1 (MMP-1) substrate, a matrix metalloprotease 2 (MMP-2) substrate,
a matrix metalloprotease 9 (MMP-9) substrate, or a matrix metalloprotease 14 (MMP-14)
substrate.
         12.     The ABP of claim 8, wherein said protease substrate is a substrate for an
intracellular protease.
         13.     The ABP of claim 1, wherein the CM comprises a cysteine-cysteine disulfide
bond.
         14.     A method of selecting for an activatable binding polypeptide (ABP), said
method comprising:
         contacting a plurality of candidate activatable binding polypeptides (candidate ABPs)
with a target capable of binding a target binding moiety of the candidate ABPs and a
cleaving agent capable of cleaving a cleavable moiety (CM) of the ABPs;
         screening a first population of members of said plurality which bind to said target in
the presence of the cleaving agent;
         contacting said first population with the target in the absence of the cleaving agent;
and
         screening a second population of members from said first population by depleting
said first population for members that bind the target in the absence of the cleaving agent;
         wherein said method provides for selection of candidate ABPs which exhibit
decreased binding to the target in the absence of the cleaving agent as compared to target
binding in the presence of the cleaving agent.
         15.     The method of claim 14, wherein said cleaving agent is a protease.
         16.     The method of claim 14, wherein said cleaving agent is a disulfide bond
reducing agent.
                                                103

        17.     The method of claim 14, wherein the target comprises a detectable label.
        18.      The method of claim 14, wherein the first population is selected by detection
of the detectable label.
        19.     The method of claim 14, wherein the second population is produced by
separating from the first population members that are detectably labeled.
        20.     The method of claim 14, wherein each of said plurality of candidate
activatable binding polypeptides is presented on a surface of a replicable biological entity in
a display scaffold
        21.     A library of candidate activatable binding polypeptides (ABPs), said library
comprising a plurality of candidate ABPs displayed on the surface of a replicable biological
entity.
        22.     The library according to claim 21, wherein the replicable biological entity is a
bacterial, yeast or mammalian cell.
        23.     A composition comprising a nucleic acid construct comprising a nucleic acid
coding for the ABP of claim 1.
        24.     The composition of claim 23, wherein said nucleic acid construct further
comprises a nucleic acid coding for a display scaffold wherein the nucleic acid coding for
the ABP is operably inserted into the construct to provide for expression of a fusion protein
for presentation of the ABP in the display scaffold on the surface of a host cell.
        25.     The composition of claim 24, wherein the display scaffold is a circularly
permuted outer membrane protein X (CPX).
        26.     A composition, wherein said composition comprises a nucleic acid construct
comprising a nucleic acid encoding a candidate activatable binding polypeptide, and further
wherein said candidate activatable binding polypeptide comprises:
                                               104

        (a) a target binding moiety (TBM);
        (b) a cleavable moiety (CM); and
        (c) a candidate masking moiety (MM), wherein the TBM, CM and candidate MM are
positioned such that the ability of the candidate MM to inhibit binding of the TBM to a
target in an uncleaved state and allow binding of the TBM to the target in a cleaved state can
be determined.
        27.      The composition of claim 26, wherein said nucleic acid construct further
comprises a nucleic acid coding for a circularly permuted outer membrane protein X (CPX).
        28.      A method of making a library of candidate activatable binding polypeptides,
said method comprising:
        introducing into genomes of replicable biological entities a collection of recombinant
DNA constructs that encode a plurality of candidate activatable binding polypeptides
(ABPs), wherein each member of said plurality comprises a target binding moiety (TBM), a
cleavable moiety (CM) and a candidate masking moiety (MM), said introducing producing
recombinant replicable biological entities; and
        culturing said recombinant replicable biological entities under conditions suitable for
expression and display of the candidate ABPs.
        29.      A pharmaceutical composition, wherein said pharmaceutical composition
comprises a therapeutically effective amount of an activatable binding polypeptide (ABP)
according to claim 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
        30.      The pharmaceutical composition of claim 29, wherein the TBM of the ABP is
capable of binding VEGF to effect inhibition of VEGF activity.
        31.      A method of inhibiting angiogenesis in a mammalian subject, said method
comprising
        administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of the
pharmaceutical composition of claim 29.
        32.      The ABP of claim 1, wherein said target is any one of VCAM-1, VEGF-A,
CTLA-4 or CD40L.
                                               105

        33.      The ABP of claim 1 further comprising a detectable label.
        34.      A method of labeling a target for detection comprising
        contacting an activatable binding polypeptide (ABP) with a sample suspected of
containing both
                 a target; and
                 a cleaving agent, wherein the ABP comprises
                          a target binding moiety (TBM);
                          a detectable label;
                          a masking moiety (MM) capable of inhibiting binding of the TBM to
                 a target, wherein said MM does not have an amino acid sequence of a
                 naturally occurring binding partner of said TBM; and
                          a cleavable moiety (CM), wherein said CM is positioned in the
                 activatable binding polypeptide such that in a cleaved state in the presence of
                 a target, the TBM binds the target, and in an uncleaved state in the presence
                 of the target, binding of the TBM to the target is inhibited by the MM,
        wherein when said target and said cleaving agent are present in said sample, the
cleaving agent cleaves the CM to produce a cleaved state in which the TBM of the ABP
binds the target thereby labeling the target with the detectable label.
        35.      The method of claim 34, further comprising detecting the presence or absence
of said detectable label.
        36.      The method of claim 34, wherein said contacting occurs in vivo.
        37.      The method of claim 34, wherein said contacting occurs in vitro.
        38.      An activatable binding polypeptide (ABP) comprising:
        a first target binding moiety (TBM);
        a second TBM; and
        a cleavable moiety (CM), wherein said CM is positioned in the activatable binding
polypeptide such that in a cleaved state in the presence of a target, the first and second TBMs
bind target, and in an uncleaved state the ABP is in a conformation such that the first TBM
interferes with target binding by the second TBM.
                                                 106

         39.    The ABP of claim 38, wherein in the uncleaved state, the ABP is in a
conformation such that the first and second TBMs interfere with binding of target to the first
and second TBMs.
         40.    The ABP of claim 38, wherein the first and second TBMs are capable of
binding different targets.
         41.    The ABP of claim 40, wherein said different targets are FGF2 and VEGF.
         42.    The ABP of claim 38, wherein said first TBM is selected from a plurality of
candidate polypeptides based on the ability of said first TBM to inhibit binding of said
second TBM to a target when the ABP is in an uncleaved state and allow binding of said
second TBM to the target when the ABP is in a cleaved state.
         43.    The ABP of claim 38, wherein said first TBM interferes with target binding
by said second TBM via steric hindrance when the ABP is in an uncleaved state.
         44.    The ABP of claim 43, wherein said ABP comprises a first cysteine residue
within or adjacent to said first TBM and a second cysteine residue within or adjacent to said
second TBM, and wherein steric hindrance is achieved via disulfide bond linkage between
said first and second cysteine residue.
         45.    The ABP of claim 38, wherein the target of said first TBM and said second
TBM is an extracellular polypeptide.
         46.    The ABP of claim 38, wherein the CM is located between said first TBM and
said second TBM in the ABP.
         47.    The ABP of claim 38, wherein the CM is located within either said first TBM
or said second TBM.
         48.    The ABP of claim 38, wherein the CM comprises a protease substrate.
                                              107

         49.     The ABP of claim 48, wherein the protease substrate comprises a plasmin
substrate, a caspase substrate or a matrix metalloprotease (MMP) substrate.
         50.     The ABP of claim 48, wherein the protease substrate comprises an MMP
substrate.
         51.     The ABP of claim 50, wherein said MMP substrate is a matrix
metalloprotease 1 (MMP-1) substrate, a matrix metalloprotease 2 (MMP-2) substrate, a
matrix metalloprotease 9 (MMP-9) substrate, or a matrix metalloprotease 14 (MMP-14)
substrate.
         52.     The ABP of claim 48, wherein said protease substrate is a substrate for an
intracellular protease.
         53.     The ABP of claim 38, wherein the CM comprises a cysteine-cysteine
disulfide bond.
         54.     A method of selecting for a dual target binding activatable binding
polypeptide (ABP), said method comprising:
         contacting a plurality of candidate activatable binding polypeptides (ABPs), wherein
each member of said plurality comprises a first target binding moiety (TBM), a second TBM
and a cleavable moiety (CM), with a target capable of binding said first TBM and a cleaving
agent capable of cleaving the CM;
         selecting a first population of members of said plurality which bind to said target in
the presence of the cleaving agent;
         contacting said first population with said target in the absence of the cleaving agent;
and
         selecting a second population of members from said first population by depleting
said first population for members that bind to said target in the absence of the cleaving agent,
         wherein said method provides for selection of candidate ABPs which exhibit
decreased binding to said target in the absence of the cleaving agent as compared to binding
to said target in the presence of the cleaving agent.
         55.     The method of claim 54, wherein said cleaving agent is a protease.
                                                108

        56.     The method of claim 54, wherein said cleaving agent is a disulfide bond
reducing agent.
        57.     The method of claim 54, wherein said target comprises a detectable label.
        58.      The method of claim 57, wherein the first population is selected by detection
of the detectable label.
        59.     The method of claim 57, wherein the second population is produced by
separating from the first population members that are detectably labeled.
        60.     The method of claim 54, wherein each of said plurality of candidate
activatable binding polypeptides is presented on a surface of a replicable biological entity in
a display scaffold.
        61.     The method of claim 54, wherein binding of the second TBM to target is
assessed by providing the amino acid sequence of the second TBM in a display scaffold and
detecting binding of target to the second TBM.
        62.     A library of candidate dual target binding activatable binding polypeptides
(ABPs), said library comprising a plurality of candidate dual target binding ABPs displayed
on the surface of a replicable biological entity.
        63.     The library according to claim 62, wherein the replicable biological entity is a
bacterial, yeast or mammalian cell.
        64.     A composition comprising a nucleic acid construct comprising a nucleic acid
coding for the ABP of claim 38.
        65.     The composition of claim 64, wherein said nucleic acid construct further
comprises a nucleic acid coding for a display scaffold wherein the nucleic acid coding for
the ABP is operably inserted into the construct to provide for expression of a fusion protein
for presentation of the ABP in the display scaffold on the surface of a host cell.
                                                109

        66.      The composition of claim 65, wherein the display scaffold is a circularly
permuted outer membrane protein X (CPX).
        67.      A composition, wherein said composition comprises a nucleic acid construct
comprising a nucleic acid encoding a candidate activatable binding polypeptide, and further
wherein said candidate activatable binding polypeptide comprises:
        (a) a first target binding moiety (TBM);
        (b) a cleavable moiety (CM); and
        (c) a second TBM, wherein the first TBM, CM and second TBM are positioned such
that the ability of said first TBM to inhibit binding of said second TBM to a target in an
uncleaved state and allow binding of said second TBM to the target in a cleaved state can be
determined.
        68.      The composition of claim 67, wherein said nucleic acid construct further
comprises a nucleic acid coding for a circularly permuted outer membrane protein X (CPX).
        69.       A method of making a library of candidate activatable binding polypeptides,
said method comprising:
        introducing into genomes of replicable biological entities a collection of recombinant
DNA constructs that encode a plurality of dual target binding candidate activatable binding
polypeptides (ABPs), wherein each member of said plurality comprises a first target binding
moiety (TBM), a cleavable moiety (CM) and a second TBM, said introducing producing
recombinant replicable biological entities; and
        culturing said recombinant replicable biological entities under conditions suitable for
expression and display of the candidate dual target binding ABPs.
        70.      A pharmaceutical composition, wherein said pharmaceutical composition
comprises a therapeutically effective amount of a dual target binding activatable binding
polypeptide (ABP) according to claim 38 and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
        71.      The pharmaceutical composition of claim 70, wherein the first TBM of the
ABP binds VEGF to effect VEGF inhibition and the second TBM binds fibroblast growth
factor-2 (FGF2) to effect FGF2 inhibition.
                                                110

       72.      A method of inhibiting angiogenesis in a mammalian subject, said method
comprising
       administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of the
pharmaceutical composition of claim 70.
       73.      An activatable binding polypeptide (ABP) comprising:
                a. at least one antigen binding domain (ABD) capable of binding a target;
                b. at least one masking moiety (MM) coupled to said ABD, capable of
       interfering with specific binding of the ABD to the target; and
                c. at least one cleavable moiety (CM) coupled to said ABD, wherein said CM
       is positioned in the ABP such that in an uncleaved state the MM interferes with
       specific binding of the ABD to the target and in a cleaved state the MM does not
       interfere with specific binding of the ABD to the target.
       74.      The ABP of claim 73 wherein the ABD is from a Fab fragment, ScFv, or
SCAB.
       75.      The ABP of claim 73 wherein the CM is coupled to the C-terminus of the
ABD.
       76.      The ABP of claim 73 wherein the CM is coupled to the N-terminus of the
ABD.
       77.      The ABP of claim 76 wherein the CM is coupled to the N-terminus of a VL
chain of the ABD.
       78.      The ABP of claim 73 wherein the target is selected from the group consisting
of VEGF-A, VEGF-B, VEGF-C, VEGF-D, VEGFR1, VEGFR2, VEGFR3, EGFR, FGF-2,
FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FGFR4, HER2/neu, DLL4, NOTCHR1, ILIB, ILIR, IL2, IL2R,
IL4, IL6, IL12, IL13, IL15, IL18, IL23, IGF, IGF1R, ERBB3, VCAM-1, CXCR4, CD3,
CD11a, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD25, CD28, CD30, CD33, CD40, CD40L, CD41, CD44,
CD52, CD80, CD86, CTLA-4, TNFu, TNFR, TRAIL-Ri, TRAIL-R2, IgE, IgE Receptor,
PDGF-AA, PDGF-BB, PDGFRu, PDGFRP, GPIIB/IIIA, CLAUDIN-3, CLAUDIN-4, C5
                                                111

complement, F protein of RSV, Glyocprotein lIb/IIla receptor, a4p1 integrin, and a4p7
integrin.
        79.     The ABP of claim 73 wherein the CM is a substrate for an enzyme selected
from the group consisting of MMP-1, MMP-2, MMP-3, MMP-8, MMP-9, MMP-14,
plasmin, PSA, PSMA, CATHEPSIN D, CATHEPSIN K, CATHEPSIN S, ADAM10,
ADAM12, ADAMTS, Caspase-1, Caspase-2, Caspase-3, Caspase-4, Caspase-5, Caspase-6,
Caspase-7, Caspase-8, Caspase-9, Caspase-10, Caspase- 11, Caspase-12, Caspase-13,
Caspase-14, and TACE.
         80.    The ABP of claim 73 wherein the CM is a substrate for MMP-9.
         81.    The ABP of claim 73 further comprising a linker peptide, wherein said linker
peptide is positioned between the MM and the CM.
         82.    The ABP of claim 73 further comprising a linker peptide, wherein said linker
peptide is positioned between the ABD and the CM.
         83.    The ABP of claim 73 further comprising a detectable moiety.
         84.    The ABP of claim 83 wherein the detectable moiety is a diagnostic agent.
         85.    A composition comprising an antigen binding domain (ABD) capable of
binding a target coupled to at least one masking moiety (MM) wherein said MM interferes
with specific binding of the ABD to the target.
         86.    The composition of claim 85 further comprising a cleavable moiety (CM)
wherein said composition comprises two configurations, a first configuration wherein the
CM is in an uncleaved state and the MM interferes with specific binding of the ABD to the
target and a second configuration wherein the CM is in a cleaved state and the MM does not
interfere with specific binding of the ABD to the target.
         87.    A method of modifying a composition containing an antigen binding domain
(ABD) capable of binding a target, the method comprising coupling a masking moiety (MM)
and a cleavable moiety (CM) to said ABD such that in a uncleaved state the MM interferes
                                              112

with the ABD to specifically bind the target and in a cleaved state the MM does not interfere
with the ABD to specifically bind the target.
        88.     The method of claim 87 wherein the MM is coupled to the C-terminus of the
ABD.
        89.     The method of claim 87 wherein the MM is coupled to the N-terminus of the
ABD.
        90.     The composition of claim 87 wherein the ABD is from a Fab fragment, ScFv,
or SCAB.
        91.     The method of claim 87 wherein the target is selected from the group
consisting of VEGF-A, VEGF-B, VEGF-C, VEGF-D, VEGFR1, VEGFR2, VEGFR3,
EGFR, FGF-2, FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FGFR4, HER2/neu, DLL4, NOTCHR1, ILIB,
ILIR, IL2, IL2R, IL4, IL6, IL12, IL13, IL15, IL18, IL23, IGF, IGF1R, ERBB3, VCAM-1,
CXCR4, CD3, CD11a, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD25, CD28, CD30, CD33, CD40, CD40L,
CD41, CD44, CD52, CD80, CD86, CTLA-4, 'TNFa, TNFR, TRAIL-Ri, TRAIL-R2, IgE,
IgE Receptor, PDGF-AA, PDGF-BB, PDGFRa, PDGFRP, GPIIB/IIIA, CLAUDIN-3,
CLAUDIN-4, C5 complement, F protein of RSV, Glyocprotein Ilb/Illa receptor, a4pl
integrin, and at4p7 integrin.
        92.     The method of claim 87 wherein the ABD is from an antibody selected from
the group consisting of bevacizumab, ranibizumab, trastuzumab, infliximab, adalimumab,
efalizumab, gemtuzumab ozogamicin, tositumomab, ibritumomab tiuxetan, eculizumab,
alemtuzumab, rituximab, abiciximab, cetuximab, daclizumab, basiliximab, gemtuzumab,
panitumumab, eculizumab, natalizumab, omalizumab, ipilimumab, tremelimumab and
palivizumab.
        93.     The method of claim 87 wherein the ABD is from an antibody or an antibody
fragment to a target selected from the group consisting of VEGF, EGFR, CTLA-4, TNFa,
Integrina4, IL2R, Complement C5, CDl la, CD20, CD25, CD33, CD52, Glycoprotein
receptor Ilb/Ila, IgE, Her2, and F protein of RSV.
                                              113

        94.      The method of claim 87 wherein the ABD is from an antibody or an antibody
fragment thereof to VEGF.
        95.      The method of claim 87 wherein the ABD is from bevacizumab or
ranibizumab.
        96.      The method of claim 87 wherein the ABD is from an antibody or an antibody
fragment thereof to TNFa.
        97.      The method of claim 87 wherein the ABD is from infliximab or adalimumab.
        98.      The method of claim 87 wherein the ABD is from an antibody or an antibody
fragment thereof to CD20.
        99.      The method of claim 87 wherein the ABD is from tositumomab, ibritumomab
tiuxetan, or rituximab.
        100.     The method of claim 87 wherein the ABD is from an antibody or an antibody
fragment thereof to EGFR.
        101.     The method of claim 87 wherein the ABD is from cetuximab or
panitumumab.
        102.     The method of claim 87 wherein the CM is a substrate for an enzyme selected
from the group consisting of MMP-1, MMP-2, MMP-3, MMP-8, MMP-9, MMP-14,
plasmin, PSA, PSMA, CATHEPSIN D, CATHEPSIN K, CATHEPSIN S, ADAM10,
ADAM12, ADAMTS, Caspase-1, Caspase-2, Caspase-3, Caspase-4, Caspase-5, Caspase-6,
Caspase-7, Caspase-8, Caspase-9, Caspase-10, Caspase- 11, Caspase-12, Caspase-13,
Caspase-14, and TACE.
        103.     A method of screening candidate peptides to identify a masking moiety (MM)
peptide with specific binding affinity for an antibody or fragment thereof comprising an
antigen binding domain (ABD), said method comprising:
                                               114

                 a. providing a library of peptide scaffolds, wherein each peptide scaffolds
        comprises:
                         i. a transmembrane protein (TM);
                         ii. a candidate peptide;
                 b. contacting the antibody or fragment thereof comprising an ABD with said
        library; and
                 c. identifying a MM peptide having specific binding affinity for the antibody
        or fragment thereof comprising an ABD.
        104.     The method of claim 103 wherein the antibody or fragment thereof comprises
an ABD capable of binding a target wherein the target is selected from the group consisting
of VEGF-A, VEGF-B, VEGF-C, VEGF-D, VEGFR1, VEGFR2, VEGFR3, EGFR, FGF-2,
FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FGFR4, HER2/neu, DLL4, NOTCHR1, ILIB, ILIR, IL2, IL2R,
IL4, IL6, IL12, IL13, IL15, IL18, IL23, IGF, IGF1R, ERBB3, VCAM-1, CXCR4, CD3,
CD11a, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD25, CD28, CD30, CD33, CD40, CD40L, CD41, CD44,
CD52, CD80, CD86, CTLA-4, TNFa, TNFR, TRAIL-Ri, TRAIL-R2, IgE, IgE Receptor,
PDGF-AA, PDGF-BB, PDGFRa, PDGFRp, GPIIB/IIIA, CLAUDIN-3, CLAUDIN-4, C5
complement, F protein of RSV, Glyocprotein Ilb/Illa receptor, a4p1 integrin, and a4p7
integrin.
        105.     The method of claim 103 wherein the ABD is from an antibody selected from
the group consisting of bevacizumab, ranibizumab, trastuzumab, infliximab, adalimumab,
efalizumab, gemtuzumab ozogamicin, tositumomab, ibritumomab tiuxetan, eculizumab,
alemtuzumab, rituximab, abiciximab, cetuximab, daclizumab, basiliximab, gemtuzumab,
panitumumab, eculizumab, natalizumab, omalizumab, ipilimumab, tremelimumab, and
palivizumab.
        106.     The method of claim 103 wherein the ABD is from an antibody or an
antibody fragment to a target selected from the group consisting of VEGF, EGFR, CTLA-4,
TNFa, Integrinu4, IL2R, Complement C5, CD1 la, CD20, CD25, CD33, CD52,
Glycoprotein receptor Ilb/Ila, IgE, Her2, and F protein of RSV.
        107.     The method of claim 103 wherein the ABD is from an antibody or an
antibody fragment thereof to VEGF.
                                                  115

        108.   The method of claim 103 wherein the ABD is from bevacizumab or
ranibizumab.
        109.   The method of claim 103 wherein the ABD is from an antibody or an
antibody fragment thereof to TNFa.
        110.   The method of claim 103 wherein the ABD is from infliximab or
adalimumab.
        111.   The method of claim 103 wherein the ABD is from an antibody or an
antibody fragment thereof to CD20.
        112.   The method of claim 103 wherein the ABD is from tositumomab,
ibritumomab tiuxetan, or rituximab.
        113.   The method of claim 103 wherein the ABD is from an antibody or an
antibody fragment thereof to EGFR.
        114.   The method of claim 103 wherein the ABD is from cetuximab or
panitumumab.
        115.   The method of claim 103 wherein the library comprises viruses, cells or
spores.
        116.   The method of claim 103 wherein the library comprises E. coli.
        117.   The method of claim 103 wherein the peptide scaffold further comprises a
detectable moiety.
        118.   A method of treating a condition in a subject including administering to the
subject a composition comprising an antibody or fragment thereof containing an antigen
binding domain (ABD) capable of binding a target coupled to a masking moiety (MM) and a
cleavable moiety (CM), such that in an uncleaved state the MM interferes with the ABD to
                                             116

specifically bind the target and in a cleaved state the MM does not interfere with the ABD to
specifically bind the target.
        119.    A method of diagnosing a condition in a subject including administering to
the subject a composition comprising an antibody or fragment thereof containing an antigen
binding domain (ABD) capable of binding a target coupled to a masking moiety (MM) and a
cleavable moiety (CM), such that in a cleaved state the MM interferes with the ABD to
specifically bind the target and in an uncleaved state the MM does not interfere with the
ABD to specifically bind the target.
        120.    The method of claim 118 or 119 wherein the ABD is from a Fab fragment,
ScFv, or SCAB.
        121.    The method of claim 118 or 119 wherein the ABD is from an antibody
selected from the group consisting of bevacizumab, ranibizumab, trastuzumab, infliximab,
adalimumab, efalizumab, gemtuzumab ozogamicin, tositumomab, ibritumomab tiuxetan,
eculizumab, alemtuzumab, rituximab, abiciximab, cetuximab, daclizumab, basiliximab,
gemtuzumab, panitumumab, eculizumab, natalizumab, omalizumab, ipilimumab,
tremelimumab, and palivizumab.
        122.    The method of claim 118 or 119 wherein the target is selected from the group
consisting of VEGF-A, VEGF-B, VEGF-C, VEGF-D, VEGFR1, VEGFR2, VEGFR3,
EGFR, FGF-2, FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FGFR4, HER2/neu, DLL4, NOTCHR1, ILIB,
ILIR, IL2, IL2R, IL4, IL6, IL12, IL13, IL15, IL18, IL23, IGF, IGF1R, ERBB3, VCAM-1,
CXCR4, CD3, CD11a, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD25, CD28, CD30, CD33, CD40, CD40L,
CD41, CD44, CD52, CD80, CD86, CTLA-4, TNFa, TNFR, TRAIL-Ri, TRAIL-R2, IgE,
IgE Receptor, PDGF-AA, PDGF-BB, PDGFRa, PDGFRP, GPIIB/IIIA, CLAUDIN-3,
CLAUDIN-4, C5 complement, F protein of RSV, Glyocprotein Ilb/Illa receptor, a4pl
integrin, and a4p7 integrin.
        123.    The method of claim 118 or 119 wherein the ABD is from an antibody or an
antibody fragment to a target selected from the group consisting of VEGF, EGFR, CTLA-4,
TNFa, Integrina4, IL2R, Complement C5, CD1 la, CD20, CD25, CD33, CD52,
Glycoprotein receptor Ilb/Ila, IgE, Her2, and F protein of RSV.
                                                117

        124.  The method of claim 118 or 119 wherein the ABD is from an antibody or an
antibody fragment thereof to VEGF.
        125.  The method of claim 118 or 119 wherein the ABD is from bevacizumab or
ranibizumab.
        126.  The method of claim 118 or 119 wherein the ABD is from an antibody or an
antibody fragment thereof to TNFa.
        127.  The method of claim 118 or 119 wherein the ABD is from infliximab or
adalimumab.
        128.  The method of claim 118 or 119 wherein the ABD is from an antibody or an
antibody fragment thereof to CD20.
        129.  The method of claim 118 or 119 wherein the ABD is from tositumomab,
ibritumomab tiuxetan, or rituximab.
        130.  The method of claim 118 or 119 wherein the ABD is from an antibody or an
antibody fragment thereof to EGFR.
        131.  The method of claim 118 or 119 wherein the ABD is from cetuximab or
panitumumab.
        132.  An enzyme-activatable anti-VEGF-A antibody or fragment thereof.
        133.  The antibody of claim 132 wherein the antibody is ranibizumab.
        134.  The antibody of claim 132 wherein the antibody is activated by MMP-9.
        135.  An enzyme-activatable CTLA-4 antibody or fragment thereof.
        136.  The antibody of claim 135 wherein the antibody is activated by MMP-9.
                                          118

        137.   An enzyme-activatable VCAM-1 antibody of fragment thereof.
        138.   The antibody of claim 137 wherein the antibody is activated by MMP-9.
        139.   The enzyme of any one of claims 132, 135 and 137, wherein the enzyme
selected from the group consisting of MMP-1, MMP-2, MMP-3, MMP-8, MMP-9, MMP
14, plasmin, PSA, PSMA, CATHEPSIN D, CATHEPSIN K, CATHEPSIN S, ADAM1O,
ADAM12, ADAMTS, Caspase-1, Caspase-2, Caspase-3, Caspase-4, Caspase-5, Caspase-6,
Caspase-7, Caspase-8, Caspase-9, Caspase-10, Caspase- 11, Caspase-12, Caspase-13,
Caspase-14, and TACE.
        140.   The antibody of any one of claims 132, 135 and 137, wherein the antibody
fragment is a scFv, Fab, or SCAB.
        141.   The antibody of claim 135 wherein the antibody is ipilimumab or
tremelimumab.
        142.   The method of claim 87, 103, 118, or 119 wherein the ABD is from an
antibody or an antibody fragment thereof to CTLA-4.
        143.   The method of claim 87, 103, 118, or 119 wherein the ABD is from
ipilimumab or tremelimumab.
        144.   A reaction mixture comprising an ABP, a protease capable of cleaving said
ABP, and a target of said ABP.
                                             119

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                         SEQUENCE LISTING
<removed-date>
              <110> The Regents of the University of California
                    CytomX Therapeutics, Inc.
              <120> ACTIVATABLE BINDING POLYPEPTIDES AND METHODS OF IDENTIFICATION
              AND USE THEREOF
<removed-apn>
              <130> 174069AU01
              <140> Serial No. not yet assigned
              <141> 2018-05-03
              <150> AU <removed-apn>
              <151> 2016-08-08
              <150> AU 2013202755
              <151> 2013-04-06
              <150> AU 2008289441
              <151> 2008-08-21
              <150> PCT/US2008/009974
              <151> 2008-08-21
              <150> US 60/957,453
              <151> 2007-08-22
              <150> US 60/957,449
              <151> 2007-08-22
              <150> US 61/052,986
              <151> 2007-08-22
              <160> 141
              <170> FastSEQ for Windows Version 4.0
                                                  1

              <210> 1
<removed-date>
              <211> 5
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
<removed-apn>
              <400> 1
              Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser
               1                5
              <210> 2
              <211> 4
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 2
              Gly Gly Gly Ser
               1
              <210> 3
              <211> 4
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 3
              Gly Gly Ser Gly
               1
                                          2

<removed-date>
              <210> 4
              <211> 5
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
<removed-apn>
              <400> 4
              Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly
               1               5
              <210> 5
              <211> 5
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 5
              Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly
               1               5
              <210> 6
              <211> 5
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 6
              Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly
               1               5
                                          3

<removed-date>
              <210> 7
              <211> 5
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 7
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
               1               5
              <210> 8
              <211> 5
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 8
              Gly Ser Ser Ser Gly
               1               5
              <210> 9
              <211> 6
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 9
              Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala Gly
                                          4

               1               5
<removed-date>
              <210> 10
              <211> 21
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 10
              Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr Gly Lys Trp Leu Glu
               1               5                    10                15
              Lys Val Gly Gly Cys
                          20
              <210> 11
              <211> 6
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 11
              Pro Glu Trp Gly Cys Gly
               1               5
              <210> 12
              <211> 48
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
                                                5

<removed-date>
              <400> 12
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Met Ala Ser Met Thr Gly Gly Gln Gln Met Gly
               1                5                       10              15
              Gly Ser Gly Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Asn Phe Gly
                           20                  25                  30
              Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr Gly Lys Trp Leu Glu Lys Val Gly
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              <210> 13
              <211> 41
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 13
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Gly Cys Gly Ser Gly Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala Gly
               1                5                       10              15
              Gly Gly Ser Gly Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr Gly
                           20                  25                  30
              Lys Trp Leu Glu Lys Val Gly Gly Cys
                      35                  40
              <210> 14
              <211> 51
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 14
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly
               1                5                       10              15
                                                    6

              Ser Gly Gly Ser Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Asn Phe
<removed-date>
                             20                 25                   30
              Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr Gly Lys Trp Leu Glu Lys Val
                        35                 40                   45
              Gly Gly Gly
                   50
<removed-apn>
              <210> 15
              <211> 44
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <220>
              <221> VARIANT
              <222> 7,8,9,10,11,12
              <223> Xaa = any amino acid
              <400> 15
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Cys Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Gly Pro Leu Gly
               1                  5                      10               15
              Leu Ala Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp
                             20                 25                   30
              Asp Tyr Gly Lys Trp Leu Glu Lys Val Gly Gly Cys
                        35                 40
              <210> 16
              <211> 42
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
                                                     7

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <221> VARIANT
              <222> 6,7,8,9,10
              <223> Xaa = any amino acid
              <400> 16
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Gly Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala
               1                 5                       10            15
<removed-apn>
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr
                           20                   25                30
              Gly Lys Trp Leu Glu Lys Val Gly Gly Cys
                      35                   40
              <210> 17
              <211> 41
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <220>
              <221> VARIANT
              <222> 6,8,9,10
              <223> Xaa = any amino acid
              <400> 17
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Xaa Cys Xaa Xaa Xaa Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala Gly
               1                 5                       10            15
              Gly Gly Ser Gly Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr Gly
                           20                   25                30
              Lys Trp Leu Glu Lys Val Gly Gly Cys
                      35                   40
              <210> 18
              <211> 42
                                                     8

              <212> PRT
<removed-date>
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <220>
              <221> VARIANT
<removed-apn>
              <222> 6,7,8,9,10
              <223> Xaa = any amino acid
              <400> 18
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Gly Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala
               1                  5                      10            15
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr
                             20                 25                30
              Gly Lys Trp Leu Glu Lys Val Gly Gly Gly
                        35                 40
              <210> 19
              <211> 6
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 19
              Gly Glu Asp Glu Glu Gly
               1                  5
              <210> 20
              <211> 6
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
                                                     9

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 20
              Cys Glu Tyr Ala Phe Gly
               1               5
<removed-apn>
              <210> 21
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 21
              Cys Ser Met Tyr Trp Met Arg Gly
               1               5
              <210> 22
              <211> 6
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 22
              Glu Tyr Glu Gly Glu Gly
               1               5
              <210> 23
              <211> 5
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
                                                10

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 23
              Gly Glu Asp Glu Glu
               1               5
<removed-apn>
              <210> 24
              <211> 5
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 24
              Asp Asp Met Glu Glu
               1               5
              <210> 25
              <211> 6
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 25
              Asp Asp Met Glu Glu Gly
               1               5
              <210> 26
              <211> 15
              <212> PRT
                                          11

              <213> Artificial Sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 26
              Gly Val Val Leu Thr Thr Met Asn Phe Trp Asp Trp Ile Thr Val
               1               5                  10                  15
<removed-apn>
              <210> 27
              <211> 15
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 27
              Trp Ala Asp Trp Ala Arg Ser Trp Glu Ala Ile Val Gly Met Ala
               1               5                  10                  15
              <210> 28
              <211> 15
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 28
              Arg Gly Met Asp Met Tyr Trp Ala Glu Ile Ile Tyr Gly Ala Ala
               1               5                  10                  15
              <210> 29
              <211> 735
                                                12

              <212> DNA
<removed-date>
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic oligonucleotide: anti-VEGF scFv TBM
              <400> 29
              gatattcaac tgacccagag cccttcttcc ctgagtgcca gcgtgggtga ccgtgttacg 60
<removed-apn>
              atcacttgct cggccagcca agatatttct aactacctga attggtacca gcagaagcca 120
              ggaaaggcac caaaagtcct gatctacttc acaagttcac tgcattccgg cgtaccgtcg 180
              cgctttagcg gttctggcag tggtaccgac ttcaccctga ctatctcgag tctgcaacct 240
              gaggattttg ctacatatta ctgtcagcaa tattcgaccg tgccgtggac gttcgggcag 300
              ggcaccaaag tggagattaa ggggggtgga ggcagcgggg gaggtggctc aggcggtgga 360
              gggtctggcg aggtccagct ggtagaaagc gggggcggac tggtccaacc gggcggatcc 420
              ctgcgtctga gctgcgcggc ctcgggttac gactttactc actacggaat gaactgggtt 480
              cgccaagccc ctggtaaagg tctggaatgg gtcggatgga ttaatacata cactggagaa 540
              cctacttatg ctgctgattt caaacgtcgc tttactttct ctctggatac aagtaagtca 600
              accgcctatc tgcaaatgaa cagcctgcgt gcagaggaca cggctgtgta ctattgtgcg 660
              aaatatcctt attattatgg aacttcccac tggtatttcg atgtatgggg ccagggtact 720
              ctggttacag tgtcg                                                  735
              <210> 30
              <211> 245
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide:     anti-VEGF scFv TBM
              <400> 30
              Asp Ile Gln Leu Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Val Gly
               1                  5                    10                  15
              Asp Arg Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Ser Ala Ser Gln Asp Ile Ser Asn Tyr
                             20                  25                   30
              Leu Asn Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys Ala Pro Lys Val Leu Ile
                        35                  40                   45
              Tyr Phe Thr Ser Ser Leu His Ser Gly Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly
                   50                 55                    60
                                                      13

              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Gln Pro
<removed-date>
              65                            70                            75                            80
              Glu Asp Phe Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Tyr Ser Thr Val Pro Trp
                                      85                            90                            95
              Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Lys Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser
                                100                           105                           110
              Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Glu Val Gln Leu Val
                          115                           120                           125
<removed-apn>
              Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser
                    130                           135                           140
              Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Tyr Asp Phe Thr His Tyr Gly Met Asn Trp Val
              145                           150                           155                           160
              Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val Gly Trp Ile Asn Thr
                                      165                           170                           175
              Tyr Thr Gly Glu Pro Thr Tyr Ala Ala Asp Phe Lys Arg Arg Phe Thr
                                180                           185                           190
              Phe Ser Leu Asp Thr Ser Lys Ser Thr Ala Tyr Leu Gln Met Asn Ser
                          195                           200                           205
              Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Ala Lys Tyr Pro Tyr
                    210                           215                           220
              Tyr Tyr Gly Thr Ser His Trp Tyr Phe Asp Val Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr
              225                           230                           235                           240
              Leu Val Thr Val Ser
                                      245
              <210> 31
              <211> 17
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 31
              Ala Thr Ala Val Trp Asn Ser Met Val Lys Gln Ser Cys Tyr Met Gln
               1                      5                             10                            15
              Gly
                                                                14

<removed-date>
              <210> 32
              <211> 17
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 32
              Gly His Gly Met Cys Tyr Thr Ile Leu Glu Asp His Cys Asp Arg Val
               1               5                  10                  15
              Arg
              <210> 33
              <211> 17
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 33
              Pro Cys Ser Glu Trp Gln Ser Met Val Gln Pro Arg Cys Tyr Tyr Gly
               1               5                  10                  15
              Gly
              <210> 34
              <211> 17
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
                                                15

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 34
              Asn Val Glu Cys Cys Gln Asn Tyr Asn Leu Trp Asn Cys Cys Gly Gly
               1               5                  10                  15
              Arg
<removed-apn>
              <210> 35
              <211> 15
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 35
              Val His Ala Trp Glu Gln Leu Val Ile Gln Glu Leu Tyr His Cys
               1               5                  10                  15
              <210> 36
              <211> 17
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 36
              Gly Val Gly Leu Cys Tyr Thr Ile Leu Glu Gln Trp Cys Glu Met Gly
               1               5                  10                  15
              Arg
                                                16

              <210> 37
<removed-date>
              <211> 17
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
<removed-apn>
              <400> 37
              Arg Pro Pro Cys Cys Arg Asp Tyr Ser Ile Leu Glu Cys Cys Lys Ser
               1               5                  10                  15
              Asp
              <210> 38
              <211> 17
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 38
              Gly Ala Met Ala Cys Tyr Asn Ile Phe Glu Tyr Trp Cys Ser Ala Met
               1               5                  10                  15
              Lys
              <210> 39
              <211> 37
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
                                                17

              <400> 39
<removed-date>
              gaattcatgg gccatcacca tcaccatcac ggtgggg                         37
              <210> 40
              <211> 43
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 40
              gtgagtaagc ttttattacg acactgtaac cagagtaccc tgg                  43
              <210> 41
              <211> 71
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 41
              gtggcatgtg cacttggcca ccttggccca ctcgagctgg ccagactggc cctgaaaata 60
              cagattttcc c                                                      71
              <210> 42
              <211> 81
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 42
              gagtgggcca aggtggccaa gtgcacatgc cactgggctt cctgggtccg ggcggttctg 60
              atattcaact gacccagagc c                                           81
                                                18

              <210> 43
<removed-date>
              <211> 40
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
<removed-apn>
              <400> 43
              ttcgagctcg aacaacaaca acaataacaa taacaacaac   40
              <210> 44
              <211> 40
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 44
              gctttcaccg caggtacttc cgtagctggc cagtctggcc   40
              <210> 45
              <211> 40
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 45
              cgctccatgg gccaccttgg ccgctgccac cagaaccgcc   40
              <210> 46
              <211> 40
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
                                                19

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 46
              gcccagccgg ccatggccgg ccagtctggc cagctcgagt                      40
              <210> 47
              <211> 62
<removed-apn>
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 47
              ccagtgccaa gcttttagtg gtgatggtga tgatgcgaca ctgtaaccag agtaccctgg 60
              cc                                                               62
              <210> 48
              <211> 37
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 48
              cttgtcacga attcgggcca gtctggccag ctcgagt                         37
              <210> 49
              <211> 52
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 49
                                                20

              cagatctaac catggcgccg ctaccgcccg acactgtaac cagagtaccc tg        52
<removed-date>
              <210> 50
              <211> 860
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223> synthetic oligonucleotide: MBP/MM accepting
                      site/MMP-9 CM/Anti-VEGF scFv TBM
              <400> 50
              atgggccatc accatcacca tcacggtggg gaaaatctgt attttcaggg ccagtctggc 60
              cagctcgagt gggccaaggt ggccaagtgc acatgccact gggcttcctg ggtccgggcg 120
              gttctgatat tcaactgacc cagagccctt cttccctgag tgccagcgtg ggtgaccgtg 180
              ttacgatcac ttgctcggcc agccaagata tttctaacta cctgaattgg taccagcaga 240
              agccaggaaa ggcaccaaaa gtcctgatct acttcacaag ttcactgcat tccggcgtac 300
              cgtcgcgctt tagcggttct ggcagtggta ccgacttcac cctgactatc tcgagtctgc 360
              aacctgagga ttttgctaca tattactgtc agcaatattc gaccgtgccg tggacgttcg 420
              ggcagggcac caaagtggag attaaggggg gtggaggcag cgggggaggt ggctcaggcg 480
              gtggagggtc tggcgaggtc cagctggtag aaagcggggg cggactggtc caaccgggcg 540
              gatccctgcg tctgagctgc gcggcctcgg gttacgactt tactcactac ggaatgaact 600
              gggttcgcca agcccctggt aaaggtctgg aatgggtcgg atggattaat acatacactg 660
              gagaacctac ttatgctgct gatttcaaac gtcgctttac tttctctctg gatacaagta 720
              agtcaaccgc ctatctgcaa atgaacagcc tgcgtgcaga ggacacggct gtgtactatt 780
              gtgcgaaata tccttattat tatggaactt cccactggta tttcgatgta tggggccagg 840
              gtactctggt tacagtgtcg                                            860
              <210> 51
              <211> 918
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic oligonucleotide: MBP / 306 MM / MMP-9 CM
                      / Anti-VEGF scFv TBM
              <400> 51
                                                  21

              atgggccatc accatcacca tcacggtggg gaaaatctgt attttcaggg ccagtctggc 60
<removed-date>
              cagccgtgtt ctgagtggca gtcgatggtg cagccgcgtt gctattatgg gggcggttct 120
              ggtggcagcg gccaaggtgg ccaagtgcac atgccactgg gcttcctggg tccgggcggt 180
              tctgatattc aactgaccca gagcccttct tccctgagtg ccagcgtggg tgaccgtgtt 240
              acgatcactt gctcggccag ccaagatatt tctaactacc tgaattggta ccagcagaag 300
              ccaggaaagg caccaaaagt cctgatctac ttcacaagtt cactgcattc cggcgtaccg 360
              tcgcgcttta gcggttctgg cagtggtacc gacttcaccc tgactatctc gagtctgcaa 420
              cctgaggatt ttgctacata ttactgtcag caatattcga ccgtgccgtg gacgttcggg 480
<removed-apn>
              cagggcacca aagtggagat taaggggggt ggaggcagcg ggggaggtgg ctcaggcggt 540
              ggagggtctg gcgaggtcca gctggtagaa agcgggggcg gactggtcca accgggcgga 600
              tccctgcgtc tgagctgcgc ggcctcgggt tacgacttta ctcactacgg aatgaactgg 660
              gttcgccaag cccctggtaa aggtctggaa tgggtcggat ggattaatac atacactgga 720
              gaacctactt atgctgctga tttcaaacgt cgctttactt tctctctgga tacaagtaag 780
              tcaaccgcct atctgcaaat gaacagcctg cgtgcagagg acacggctgt gtactattgt 840
              gcgaaatatc cttattatta tggaacttcc cactggtatt tcgatgtatg gggccagggt 900
              actctggtta cagtgtcg                                                             918
              <210> 52
              <211> 306
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide: MBP / 306 MM / MMP-9 CM /
                      Anti-VEGF scFv TBM
              <400> 52
              Met Gly His His His His His His Gly Gly Glu Asn Leu Tyr Phe Gln
               1                  5                        10                       15
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Pro Cys Ser Glu Trp Gln Ser Met Val Gln Pro
                             20                      25                        30
              Arg Cys Tyr Tyr Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gln Gly Gly Gln
                        35                      40                        45
              Val His Met Pro Leu Gly Phe Leu Gly Pro Gly Gly Ser Asp Ile Gln
                   50                      55                        60
              Leu Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Val Gly Asp Arg Val
              65                      70                        75                       80
              Thr Ile Thr Cys Ser Ala Ser Gln Asp Ile Ser Asn Tyr Leu Asn Trp
                                                          22

                                      85                            90                            95
<removed-date>
              Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys Ala Pro Lys Val Leu Ile Tyr Phe Thr
                                100                           105                           110
              Ser Ser Leu His Ser Gly Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser
                          115                           120                           125
              Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Gln Pro Glu Asp Phe
                    130                           135                           140
              Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Tyr Ser Thr Val Pro Trp Thr Phe Gly
<removed-apn>
              145                           150                           155                           160
              Gln Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Lys Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly
                                      165                           170                           175
              Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Glu Val Gln Leu Val Glu Ser Gly
                                180                           185                           190
              Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala
                          195                           200                           205
              Ser Gly Tyr Asp Phe Thr His Tyr Gly Met Asn Trp Val Arg Gln Ala
                    210                           215                           220
              Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val Gly Trp Ile Asn Thr Tyr Thr Gly
              225                           230                           235                           240
              Glu Pro Thr Tyr Ala Ala Asp Phe Lys Arg Arg Phe Thr Phe Ser Leu
                                      245                           250                           255
              Asp Thr Ser Lys Ser Thr Ala Tyr Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala
                                260                           265                           270
              Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Ala Lys Tyr Pro Tyr Tyr Tyr Gly
                          275                           280                           285
              Thr Ser His Trp Tyr Phe Asp Val Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Leu Val Thr
                    290                           295                           300
              Val Ser
              305
              <210> 53
              <211> 921
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic oligonucleotide: MBP / 314 MM / MMP-9 CM
                                                                23

                      / Anti-VEGF scFv TBM
<removed-date>
              <400> 53
              atgggccatc accatcacca tcacggtggg gaaaatctgt attttcaggg ccagtctggc 60
              cagcggccgc cgtgttgccg tgattatagt attttggagt gctgtaagag tgatggcggt 120
              tctggtggca gcggccaagg tggccaagtg cacatgccac tgggcttcct gggtccgggc 180
              ggttctgata ttcaactgac ccagagccct tcttccctga gtgccagcgt gggtgaccgt 240
              gttacgatca cttgctcggc cagccaagat atttctaact acctgaattg gtaccagcag 300
<removed-apn>
              aagccaggaa aggcaccaaa agtcctgatc tacttcacaa gttcactgca ttccggcgta 360
              ccgtcgcgct ttagcggttc tggcagtggt accgacttca ccctgactat ctcgagtctg 420
              caacctgagg attttgctac atattactgt cagcaatatt cgaccgtgcc gtggacgttc 480
              gggcagggca ccaaagtgga gattaagggg ggtggaggca gcgggggagg tggctcaggc 540
              ggtggagggt ctggcgaggt ccagctggta gaaagcgggg gcggactggt ccaaccgggc 600
              ggatccctgc gtctgagctg cgcggcctcg ggttacgact ttactcacta cggaatgaac 660
              tgggttcgcc aagcccctgg taaaggtctg gaatgggtcg gatggattaa tacatacact 720
              ggagaaccta cttatgctgc tgatttcaaa cgtcgcttta ctttctctct ggatacaagt 780
              aagtcaaccg cctatctgca aatgaacagc ctgcgtgcag aggacacggc tgtgtactat 840
              tgtgcgaaat atccttatta ttatggaact tcccactggt atttcgatgt atggggccag 900
              ggtactctgg ttacagtgtc g                                            921
              <210> 54
              <211> 307
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide: MBP / 314 MM / MMP-9 CM /
                      Anti-VEGF scFv TBM
              <400> 54
              Met Gly His His His His His His Gly Gly Glu Asn Leu Tyr Phe Gln
               1                  5                     10                  15
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Arg Pro Pro Cys Cys Arg Asp Tyr Ser Ile Leu
                             20                   25                   30
              Glu Cys Cys Lys Ser Asp Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gln Gly Gly
                        35                   40                   45
              Gln Val His Met Pro Leu Gly Phe Leu Gly Pro Gly Gly Ser Asp Ile
                   50                   55                   60
                                                       24

              Gln Leu Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Val Gly Asp Arg
<removed-date>
              65                            70                            75                            80
              Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Ser Ala Ser Gln Asp Ile Ser Asn Tyr Leu Asn
                                      85                            90                            95
              Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys Ala Pro Lys Val Leu Ile Tyr Phe
                                100                           105                           110
              Thr Ser Ser Leu His Ser Gly Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser Gly
                          115                           120                           125
<removed-apn>
              Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Gln Pro Glu Asp
                    130                           135                           140
              Phe Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Tyr Ser Thr Val Pro Trp Thr Phe
              145                           150                           155                           160
              Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Lys Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly
                                      165                           170                           175
              Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Glu Val Gln Leu Val Glu Ser
                                180                           185                           190
              Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala
                          195                           200                           205
              Ala Ser Gly Tyr Asp Phe Thr His Tyr Gly Met Asn Trp Val Arg Gln
                    210                           215                           220
              Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val Gly Trp Ile Asn Thr Tyr Thr
              225                           230                           235                           240
              Gly Glu Pro Thr Tyr Ala Ala Asp Phe Lys Arg Arg Phe Thr Phe Ser
                                      245                           250                           255
              Leu Asp Thr Ser Lys Ser Thr Ala Tyr Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg
                                260                           265                           270
              Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Ala Lys Tyr Pro Tyr Tyr Tyr
                          275                           280                           285
              Gly Thr Ser His Trp Tyr Phe Asp Val Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Leu Val
                    290                           295                           300
              Thr Val Ser
              305
              <210> 55
              <211> 888
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
                                                                25

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> synthetic oligonucleotide: 306 MM / MMP-9 CM /
                      anti-VEGF scFv CHis TBM
              <400> 55
              ggccagtctg gccagccgtg ttctgagtgg cagtcgatgg tgcagccgcg ttgctattat 60
              gggggcggtt ctggtggcag cggccaaggt ggccaagtgc acatgccact gggcttcctg 120
<removed-apn>
              ggtccgggcg gttctgatat tcaactgacc cagagccctt cttccctgag tgccagcgtg 180
              ggtgaccgtg ttacgatcac ttgctcggcc agccaagata tttctaacta cctgaattgg 240
              taccagcaga agccaggaaa ggcaccaaaa gtcctgatct acttcacaag ttcactgcat 300
              tccggcgtac cgtcgcgctt tagcggttct ggcagtggta ccgacttcac cctgactatc 360
              tcgagtctgc aacctgagga ttttgctaca tattactgtc agcaatattc gaccgtgccg 420
              tggacgttcg ggcagggcac caaagtggag attaaggggg gtggaggcag cgggggaggt 480
              ggctcaggcg gtggagggtc tggcgaggtc cagctggtag aaagcggggg cggactggtc 540
              caaccgggcg gatccctgcg tctgagctgc gcggcctcgg gttacgactt tactcactac 600
              ggaatgaact gggttcgcca agcccctggt aaaggtctgg aatgggtcgg atggattaat 660
              acatacactg gagaacctac ttatgctgct gatttcaaac gtcgctttac tttctctctg 720
              gatacaagta agtcaaccgc ctatctgcaa atgaacagcc tgcgtgcaga ggacacggct 780
              gtgtactatt gtgcgaaata tccttattat tatggaactt cccactggta tttcgatgta 840
              tggggccagg gtactctggt tacagtgtcg catcatcacc atcaccac              888
              <210> 56
              <211> 296
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide: 306 MM / MMP-9 CM / anti-VEGF
                      scFv CHis TBM
              <400> 56
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Pro Cys Ser Glu Trp Gln Ser Met Val Gln Pro
               1                  5                   10                15
              Arg Cys Tyr Tyr Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gln Gly Gly Gln
                             20                 25                 30
              Val His Met Pro Leu Gly Phe Leu Gly Pro Gly Gly Ser Asp Ile Gln
                        35                 40                 45
                                                     26

              Leu Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Val Gly Asp Arg Val
<removed-date>
                    50                            55                            60
              Thr Ile Thr Cys Ser Ala Ser Gln Asp Ile Ser Asn Tyr Leu Asn Trp
              65                            70                            75                            80
              Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys Ala Pro Lys Val Leu Ile Tyr Phe Thr
                                      85                            90                            95
              Ser Ser Leu His Ser Gly Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser
                                100                           105                           110
<removed-apn>
              Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Gln Pro Glu Asp Phe
                          115                           120                           125
              Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Tyr Ser Thr Val Pro Trp Thr Phe Gly
                    130                           135                           140
              Gln Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Lys Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly
              145                           150                           155                           160
              Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Glu Val Gln Leu Val Glu Ser Gly
                                      165                           170                           175
              Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala
                                180                           185                           190
              Ser Gly Tyr Asp Phe Thr His Tyr Gly Met Asn Trp Val Arg Gln Ala
                          195                           200                           205
              Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val Gly Trp Ile Asn Thr Tyr Thr Gly
                    210                           215                           220
              Glu Pro Thr Tyr Ala Ala Asp Phe Lys Arg Arg Phe Thr Phe Ser Leu
              225                           230                           235                           240
              Asp Thr Ser Lys Ser Thr Ala Tyr Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala
                                      245                           250                           255
              Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Ala Lys Tyr Pro Tyr Tyr Tyr Gly
                                260                           265                           270
              Thr Ser His Trp Tyr Phe Asp Val Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Leu Val Thr
                          275                           280                           285
              Val Ser His His His His His His
                    290                           295
              <210> 57
              <211> 894
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
                                                                27

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> synthetic oligonucleotide: 314 MM / MMP-9 CM /
                      anti-VEGF scFv CHis TBM
              <400> 57
              ggccagtctg gccagcggcc gccgtgttgc cgtgattata gtattttgga gtgctgtaag 60
              agtgatggcg gttctggtgg cagcggccaa ggtggccaag tgcacatgcc actgggcttc 120
<removed-apn>
              ctgggtccgg gcggttctga tattcaactg acccagagcc cttcttccct gagtgccagc 180
              gtgggtgacc gtgttacgat cacttgctcg gccagccaag atatttctaa ctacctgaat 240
              tggtaccagc agaagccagg aaaggcacca aaagtcctga tctacttcac aagttcactg 300
              cattccggcg taccgtcgcg ctttagcggt tctggcagtg gtaccgactt caccctgact 360
              atctcgagtc tgcaacctga ggattttgct acatattact gtcagcaata ttcgaccgtg 420
              ccgtggacgt tcgggcaggg caccaaagtg gagattaagg ggggtggagg cagcggggga 480
              ggtggctcag gcggtggagg gtctggcgag gtccagctgg tagaaagcgg gggcggactg 540
              gtccaaccgg gcggatccct gcgtctgagc tgcgcggcct cgggttacga ctttactcac 600
              tacggaatga actgggttcg ccaagcccct ggtaaaggtc tggaatgggt cggatggatt 660
              aatacataca ctggagaacc tacttatgct gctgatttca aacgtcgctt tactttctct 720
              ctggatacaa gtaagtcaac cgcctatctg caaatgaaca gcctgcgtgc agaggacacg 780
              gctgtgtact attgtgcgaa atatccttat tattatggaa cttcccactg gtatttcgat 840
              gtatggggcc agggtactct ggttacagtg tcgcatcatc accatcacca ctaa       894
              <210> 58
              <211> 297
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide: 314 MM / MMP-9 CM / anti-VEGF
                      scFv CHis TBM
              <400> 58
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Arg Pro Pro Cys Cys Arg Asp Tyr Ser Ile Leu
               1                  5                   10                15
              Glu Cys Cys Lys Ser Asp Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gln Gly Gly
                             20                 25                 30
              Gln Val His Met Pro Leu Gly Phe Leu Gly Pro Gly Gly Ser Asp Ile
                        35                 40                 45
                                                     28

              Gln Leu Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Val Gly Asp Arg
<removed-date>
                    50                            55                            60
              Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Ser Ala Ser Gln Asp Ile Ser Asn Tyr Leu Asn
              65                            70                            75                            80
              Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys Ala Pro Lys Val Leu Ile Tyr Phe
                                      85                            90                            95
              Thr Ser Ser Leu His Ser Gly Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser Gly
                                100                           105                           110
<removed-apn>
              Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Gln Pro Glu Asp
                          115                           120                           125
              Phe Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Tyr Ser Thr Val Pro Trp Thr Phe
                    130                           135                           140
              Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Lys Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly
              145                           150                           155                           160
              Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Glu Val Gln Leu Val Glu Ser
                                      165                           170                           175
              Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala
                                180                           185                           190
              Ala Ser Gly Tyr Asp Phe Thr His Tyr Gly Met Asn Trp Val Arg Gln
                          195                           200                           205
              Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val Gly Trp Ile Asn Thr Tyr Thr
                    210                           215                           220
              Gly Glu Pro Thr Tyr Ala Ala Asp Phe Lys Arg Arg Phe Thr Phe Ser
              225                           230                           235                           240
              Leu Asp Thr Ser Lys Ser Thr Ala Tyr Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg
                                      245                           250                           255
              Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Ala Lys Tyr Pro Tyr Tyr Tyr
                                260                           265                           270
              Gly Thr Ser His Trp Tyr Phe Asp Val Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Leu Val
                          275                           280                           285
              Thr Val Ser His His His His His His
                    290                           295
              <210> 59
              <211> 1578
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
                                                                29

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> synthetic oligonucleotide: 306 MM / MMP-9 CM
                      /anti-VEGF scfv-Fc TBM
              <400> 59
              ggccagtctg gccagccgtg ttctgagtgg cagtcgatgg tgcagccgcg ttgctattat 60
              gggggcggtt ctggtggcag cggccaaggt ggccaagtgc acatgccact gggcttcctg 120
<removed-apn>
              ggtccgggcg gttctgatat tcaactgacc cagagccctt cttccctgag tgccagcgtg 180
              ggtgaccgtg ttacgatcac ttgctcggcc agccaagata tttctaacta cctgaattgg 240
              taccagcaga agccaggaaa ggcaccaaaa gtcctgatct acttcacaag ttcactgcat 300
              tccggcgtac cgtcgcgctt tagcggttct ggcagtggta ccgacttcac cctgactatc 360
              tcgagtctgc aacctgagga ttttgctaca tattactgtc agcaatattc gaccgtgccg 420
              tggacgttcg ggcagggcac caaagtggag attaaggggg gtggaggcag cgggggaggt 480
              ggctcaggcg gtggagggtc tggcgaggtc cagctggtag aaagcggggg cggactggtc 540
              caaccgggcg gatccctgcg tctgagctgc gcggcctcgg gttacgactt tactcactac 600
              ggaatgaact gggttcgcca agcccctggt aaaggtctgg aatgggtcgg atggattaat 660
              acatacactg gagaacctac ttatgctgct gatttcaaac gtcgctttac tttctctctg 720
              gatacaagta agtcaaccgc ctatctgcaa atgaacagcc tgcgtgcaga ggacacggct 780
              gtgtactatt gtgcgaaata tccttattat tatggaactt cccactggta tttcgatgta 840
              tggggccagg gtactctggt tacagtgtcg ggcggtagcg gcgccatggt tagatctgac 900
              aaaactcaca catgcccacc gtgcccagca cctgaactcc tggggggacc gtcagtcttc 960
              ctcttccccc caaaacccaa ggacaccctc atgatctccc ggacccctga ggtcacatgc 1020
              gtggtggtgg acgtgagcca cgaagaccct gaggtcaagt tcaactggta cgtggacggc 1080
              gtggaggtgc ataatgccaa gacaaagccg cgggaggagc agtacaacag cacgtaccgt 1140
              gtggtcagcg tcctcaccgt cctgcaccag gactggctga atggcaagga gtacaagtgc 1200
              aaggtctcca acaaagccct cccagccccc atcgagaaaa ccatctccaa agccaaaggg 1260
              cagccccgag aaccacaggt gtacaccctg cccccatccc gggaggagat gaccaagaac 1320
              caggtcagcc tgacctgcct ggtcaaaggc ttctatccca gcgacatcgc cgtggagtgg 1380
              gagagcaatg ggcagccgga gaacaactac aagaccacgc ctcccgtgct ggactccgac 1440
              ggctccttct tcctctacag caagctcacc gtggacaaga gcaggtggca gcaggggaac 1500
              gtcttctcat gctccgtgat gcatgagggt ctgcacaacc actacacgca gaagagcctc 1560
              tccctgtctc cgggtaaa                                               1578
              <210> 60
              <211> 526
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
                                                30

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide: 306 MM / MMP-9 CM /anti-VEGF
                      scfv-Fc TBM
              <400> 60
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Pro Cys Ser Glu Trp Gln Ser Met Val Gln Pro
               1                      5                             10                            15
<removed-apn>
              Arg Cys Tyr Tyr Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gln Gly Gly Gln
                                20                            25                            30
              Val His Met Pro Leu Gly Phe Leu Gly Pro Gly Gly Ser Asp Ile Gln
                          35                            40                            45
              Leu Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Val Gly Asp Arg Val
                    50                            55                            60
              Thr Ile Thr Cys Ser Ala Ser Gln Asp Ile Ser Asn Tyr Leu Asn Trp
              65                            70                            75                            80
              Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys Ala Pro Lys Val Leu Ile Tyr Phe Thr
                                      85                            90                            95
              Ser Ser Leu His Ser Gly Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser
                                100                           105                           110
              Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Gln Pro Glu Asp Phe
                          115                           120                           125
              Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Tyr Ser Thr Val Pro Trp Thr Phe Gly
                    130                           135                           140
              Gln Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Lys Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly
              145                           150                           155                           160
              Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Glu Val Gln Leu Val Glu Ser Gly
                                      165                           170                           175
              Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala
                                180                           185                           190
              Ser Gly Tyr Asp Phe Thr His Tyr Gly Met Asn Trp Val Arg Gln Ala
                          195                           200                           205
              Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val Gly Trp Ile Asn Thr Tyr Thr Gly
                    210                           215                           220
              Glu Pro Thr Tyr Ala Ala Asp Phe Lys Arg Arg Phe Thr Phe Ser Leu
              225                           230                           235                           240
              Asp Thr Ser Lys Ser Thr Ala Tyr Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala
                                      245                           250                           255
                                                                   31

              Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Ala Lys Tyr Pro Tyr Tyr Tyr Gly
<removed-date>
                                260                           265                           270
              Thr Ser His Trp Tyr Phe Asp Val Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Leu Val Thr
                          275                           280                           285
              Val Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Ala Met Val Arg Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr
                    290                           295                           300
              Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
              305                           310                           315                           320
<removed-apn>
              Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro
                                      325                           330                           335
              Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val
                                340                           345                           350
              Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr
                          355                           360                           365
              Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val
                    370                           375                           380
              Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys
              385                           390                           395                           400
              Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser
                                      405                           410                           415
              Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro
                                420                           425                           430
              Ser Arg Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val
                          435                           440                           445
              Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly
                    450                           455                           460
              Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp
              465                           470                           475                           480
              Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp
                                      485                           490                           495
              Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Gly Leu His
                                500                           505                           510
              Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                          515                           520                           525
              <210> 61
              <211> 1581
                                                                32

              <212> DNA
<removed-date>
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic oligonucleotide: 314 MM / MMP-9 CM /
                      anti-VEGF scfv-Fc TBM
              <400> 61
<removed-apn>
              ggccagtctg gccagcggcc gccgtgttgc cgtgattata gtattttgga gtgctgtaag 60
              agtgatggcg gttctggtgg cagcggccaa ggtggccaag tgcacatgcc actgggcttc 120
              ctgggtccgg gcggttctga tattcaactg acccagagcc cttcttccct gagtgccagc 180
              gtgggtgacc gtgttacgat cacttgctcg gccagccaag atatttctaa ctacctgaat 240
              tggtaccagc agaagccagg aaaggcacca aaagtcctga tctacttcac aagttcactg 300
              cattccggcg taccgtcgcg ctttagcggt tctggcagtg gtaccgactt caccctgact 360
              atctcgagtc tgcaacctga ggattttgct acatattact gtcagcaata ttcgaccgtg 420
              ccgtggacgt tcgggcaggg caccaaagtg gagattaagg ggggtggagg cagcggggga 480
              ggtggctcag gcggtggagg gtctggcgag gtccagctgg tagaaagcgg gggcggactg 540
              gtccaaccgg gcggatccct gcgtctgagc tgcgcggcct cgggttacga ctttactcac 600
              tacggaatga actgggttcg ccaagcccct ggtaaaggtc tggaatgggt cggatggatt 660
              aatacataca ctggagaacc tacttatgct gctgatttca aacgtcgctt tactttctct 720
              ctggatacaa gtaagtcaac cgcctatctg caaatgaaca gcctgcgtgc agaggacacg 780
              gctgtgtact attgtgcgaa atatccttat tattatggaa cttcccactg gtatttcgat 840
              gtatggggcc agggtactct ggttacagtg tcgggcggta gcggcgccat ggttagatct 900
              gacaaaactc acacatgccc accgtgccca gcacctgaac tcctgggggg accgtcagtc 960
              ttcctcttcc ccccaaaacc caaggacacc ctcatgatct cccggacccc tgaggtcaca 1020
              tgcgtggtgg tggacgtgag ccacgaagac cctgaggtca agttcaactg gtacgtggac 1080
              ggcgtggagg tgcataatgc caagacaaag ccgcgggagg agcagtacaa cagcacgtac 1140
              cgtgtggtca gcgtcctcac cgtcctgcac caggactggc tgaatggcaa ggagtacaag 1200
              tgcaaggtct ccaacaaagc cctcccagcc cccatcgaga aaaccatctc caaagccaaa 1260
              gggcagcccc gagaaccaca ggtgtacacc ctgcccccat cccgggagga gatgaccaag 1320
              aaccaggtca gcctgacctg cctggtcaaa ggcttctatc ccagcgacat cgccgtggag 1380
              tgggagagca atgggcagcc ggagaacaac tacaagacca cgcctcccgt gctggactcc 1440
              gacggctcct tcttcctcta cagcaagctc accgtggaca agagcaggtg gcagcagggg 1500
              aacgtcttct catgctccgt gatgcatgag ggtctgcaca accactacac gcagaagagc 1560
              ctctccctgt ctccgggtaa a                                           1581
              <210> 62
              <211> 527
                                                33

              <212> PRT
<removed-date>
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide: 314 MM / MMP-9 CM / anti-VEGF
                      scfv-Fc TBM
              <400> 62
<removed-apn>
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Arg Pro Pro Cys Cys Arg Asp Tyr Ser Ile Leu
               1                      5                             10                            15
              Glu Cys Cys Lys Ser Asp Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gln Gly Gly
                                20                            25                            30
              Gln Val His Met Pro Leu Gly Phe Leu Gly Pro Gly Gly Ser Asp Ile
                          35                            40                            45
              Gln Leu Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Val Gly Asp Arg
                    50                            55                            60
              Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Ser Ala Ser Gln Asp Ile Ser Asn Tyr Leu Asn
              65                            70                            75                            80
              Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys Ala Pro Lys Val Leu Ile Tyr Phe
                                      85                            90                            95
              Thr Ser Ser Leu His Ser Gly Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser Gly
                                100                           105                           110
              Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Gln Pro Glu Asp
                          115                           120                           125
              Phe Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Tyr Ser Thr Val Pro Trp Thr Phe
                    130                           135                           140
              Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Lys Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly
              145                           150                           155                           160
              Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Glu Val Gln Leu Val Glu Ser
                                      165                           170                           175
              Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Gly Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala
                                180                           185                           190
              Ala Ser Gly Tyr Asp Phe Thr His Tyr Gly Met Asn Trp Val Arg Gln
                          195                           200                           205
              Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp Val Gly Trp Ile Asn Thr Tyr Thr
                    210                           215                           220
              Gly Glu Pro Thr Tyr Ala Ala Asp Phe Lys Arg Arg Phe Thr Phe Ser
              225                           230                           235                           240
                                                                   34

              Leu Asp Thr Ser Lys Ser Thr Ala Tyr Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg
<removed-date>
                                      245                           250                           255
              Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Ala Lys Tyr Pro Tyr Tyr Tyr
                                260                           265                           270
              Gly Thr Ser His Trp Tyr Phe Asp Val Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Leu Val
                          275                           280                           285
              Thr Val Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Ala Met Val Arg Ser Asp Lys Thr His
                    290                           295                           300
<removed-apn>
              Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val
              305                           310                           315                           320
              Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr
                                      325                           330                           335
              Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu
                                340                           345                           350
              Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys
                          355                           360                           365
              Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser
                    370                           375                           380
              Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys
              385                           390                           395                           400
              Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile
                                      405                           410                           415
              Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro
                                420                           425                           430
              Pro Ser Arg Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu
                          435                           440                           445
              Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn
                    450                           455                           460
              Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser
              465                           470                           475                           480
              Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg
                                      485                           490                           495
              Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Gly Leu
                                500                           505                           510
              His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                          515                           520                           525
                                                                35

              <210> 63
<removed-date>
              <211> 19
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
<removed-apn>
              <400> 63
              Met Ile Leu Leu Cys Ala Ala Gly Arg Thr Trp Val Glu Ala Cys Ala
               1               5                  10                    15
              Asn Gly Arg
              <210> 64
              <211> 57
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 64
              atgattttgt tgtgcgcggc gggtcggacg tgggtggagg cttgcgctaa tggtagg    57
              <210> 65
              <211> 14
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 65
              Ala Glu Arg Leu Cys Ala Trp Ala Gly Arg Phe Cys Gly Ser
               1               5                  10
                                                36

<removed-date>
              <210> 66
              <211> 42
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
<removed-apn>
              <400> 66
              gctgagcggt tgtgcgcgtg ggcggggcgg ttctgtggca gc                42
              <210> 67
              <211> 15
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 67
              Trp Ala Asp Val Met Pro Gly Ser Gly Val Leu Pro Trp Thr Ser
               1               5                  10                  15
              <210> 68
              <211> 45
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 68
              tgggcggatg ttatgcctgg gtcgggtgtg ttgccgtgga cgtcg             45
              <210> 69
              <211> 20
                                                37

              <212> PRT
<removed-date>
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 69
              Ser Asp Gly Arg Met Gly Ser Leu Glu Leu Cys Ala Leu Trp Gly Arg
<removed-apn>
               1                5                 10                  15
              Phe Cys Gly Ser
                          20
              <210> 70
              <211> 60
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 70
              agtgatggtc gtatggggag tttggagctt tgtgcgttgt gggggcggtt ctgtggcagc 60
              <210> 71
              <211> 15
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 71
              Pro Cys Ser Glu Trp Gln Ser Met Val Gln Pro Arg Cys Tyr Tyr
               1                5                 10                  15
                                                38

              <210> 72
<removed-date>
              <211> 45
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
<removed-apn>
              <400> 72
              gccgtgttct gagtggcagt cgatggtgca gccgcgttgc tatta              45
              <210> 73
              <211> 55
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 73
              cgtcgatgag ctctagaatt cgcatgtgca agtccgatgg tccccccccc ccccc   55
              <210> 74
              <211> 47
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <220>
              <221> variation
              <222> 27,33
              <223> y = t or c
              <220>
              <221> variation
              <222> 36
                                                39

              <223> n = g or a or t or c
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221> variation
              <222> 39,45
              <223> r = a or g
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <221> variation
              <222> 42
              <223> d = g or a or t
              <400> 74
              cgtcatgtcg acggatccaa gcttacyttc cayttnacrt tdatrtc    47
              <210> 75
              <211> 48
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <220>
              <221> variation
              <222> 25,39,43
              <223> r = a or g
              <220>
              <221> variation
              <222> 28,31,34,37,40,46
              <223> n = g or a or t or c
              <400> 75
              cgtcatgtcg acggatccaa gcttrcangc nggngcnarn ggrtanac   48
              <210> 76
              <211> 131
                                                40

              <212> PRT
<removed-date>
              <213> Hamster
              <400> 76
              Met Glu Ser His Ile His Val Phe Met Ser Leu Phe Leu Trp Val Ser
               1                     5                          10                         15
              Gly Ser Cys Ala Asp Ile Met Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Ser Leu Ser
                               20                         25                         30
<removed-apn>
              Val Ser Ala Gly Glu Lys Ala Thr Ile Ser Cys Lys Ser Ser Gln Ser
                         35                         40                         45
              Leu Phe Asn Ser Asn Ala Lys Thr Asn Tyr Leu Asn Trp Tyr Leu Gln
                   50                          55                         60
              Lys Pro Gly Gln Ser Pro Lys Leu Leu Ile Tyr Tyr Ala Ser Thr Arg
              65                          70                         75                         80
              His Thr Gly Val Pro Asp Arg Phe Arg Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr
                                     85                         90                         95
              Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Val Gln Asp Glu Asp Leu Ala Phe Tyr Tyr Cys
                               100                        105                        110
              Gln Gln Trp Tyr Asp Tyr Pro Tyr Thr Phe Gly Ala Gly Thr Lys Val
                         115                        120                        125
              Glu Ile Lys
                   130
              <210> 77
              <211> 399
              <212> DNA
              <213> Hamster
              <400> 77
              atggaatcac atatccatgt cttcatgtcc ttgttccttt gggtgtctgg ttcctgtgca 60
              gacatcatga tgacccagtc tccttcatcc ctgagtgtgt cagcgggaga gaaagccact 120
              atcagctgca agtccagtca gagtcttttc aacagtaacg ccaaaacgaa ctacttgaac 180
              tggtatttgc agaaaccagg gcagtctcct aaactgctga tctattatgc atccactagg 240
              catactgggg tccctgatcg cttcagaggc agtggatctg ggacggattt cactctcacc 300
              atcagcagtg tccaggatga agacctggca ttttattact gtcagcagtg gtatgactac 360
              ccatacacgt tcggagctgg gaccaaggtg gaaatcaaa                                             399
                                                               41

              <210> 78
<removed-date>
              <211> 135
              <212> PRT
              <213> Hamster
              <400> 78
              Lys Met Arg Leu Leu Gly Leu Leu Tyr Leu Val Thr Ala Leu Pro Gly
               1                     5                           10                         15
<removed-apn>
              Val Leu Ser Gln Ile Gln Leu Gln Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Asn
                               20                          25                         30
              Pro Ser Gln Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Cys Ser Val Thr Gly Tyr Ser Ile
                         35                          40                         45
              Thr Ser Gly Tyr Gly Trp Asn Trp Ile Arg Gln Phe Pro Gly Gln Lys
                   50                          55                          60
              Val Glu Trp Met Gly Phe Ile Tyr Tyr Glu Gly Ser Thr Tyr Tyr Asn
              65                          70                          75                         80
              Pro Ser Ile Lys Ser Arg Ile Ser Ile Thr Arg Asp Thr Ser Lys Asn
                                     85                          90                         95
              Gln Phe Phe Leu Gln Val Asn Ser Val Thr Thr Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr
                               100                         105                        110
              Tyr Tyr Cys Ala Arg Gln Thr Gly Tyr Phe Asp Tyr Trp Gly Gln Gly
                         115                         120                        125
              Thr Met Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                   130                         135
              <210> 79
              <211> 405
              <212> DNA
              <213> Hamster
              <400> 79
              aagatgagac tgttgggtct tctgtacctg gtgacagccc ttcctggtgt cctgtcccag 60
              atccagcttc aggagtcagg acctggcctg gtgaacccct cacaatcact gtccctctct 120
              tgctctgtca ctggttactc catcaccagt ggttatggat ggaactggat caggcagttc 180
              ccagggcaga aggtggagtg gatgggattc atatattatg agggtagcac ctactacaac 240
              ccttccatca agagccgcat ctccatcacc agagacacat cgaagaacca gttcttcctg 300
              caggtgaatt ctgtgaccac tgaggacaca gccacatatt actgtgcgag acaaactggg 360
                                                                42

              tactttgatt actggggcca aggaaccatg gtcaccgtct cctca                405
<removed-date>
              <210> 80
              <211> 39
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 80
              caaggaccat agcatatgga catcatgatg acccagtct                       39
              <210> 81
              <211> 50
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 81
              acttccgcct ccacctgatc caccaccacc tttgatttcc accttggtcc           50
              <210> 82
              <211> 60
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 82
              ggatcaggtg gaggcggaag tggaggtggc ggttcccaga tccagcttca ggagtcagga 60
              <210> 83
              <211> 61
                                                43

              <212> DNA
<removed-date>
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 83
              ggccggatcc aagcttttag tggtgatggt gatgatgtga ggagacggtg accatggttc 60
<removed-apn>
              c                                                                61
              <210> 84
              <211> 40
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 84
              acaaggacca tagcatatgc agatccagct tcaggagtca                      40
              <210> 85
              <211> 54
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 85
              acttccgcct ccacctgatc caccaccacc tgaggagacg gtgaccatgg ttcc       54
              <210> 86
              <211> 63
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
                                                44

              <223> oligonucleotide
<removed-date>
              <400> 86
              ggtggatcag gtggaggcgg aagtggaggt ggcggttccg acatcatgat gacccagtct 60
              cct                                                              63
              <210> 87
              <211> 62
<removed-apn>
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 87
              cggccggatc caagctttta gtggtgatgg tgatgatgtt tgatttccac cttggtccca 60
              gc                                                               62
              <210> 88
              <211> 60
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 88
              gccagtctgg ccggtagggc tcgagcggcc aagtgcacat gccactgggc ttcctgggtc 60
              <210> 89
              <211> 60
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
                                                45

              <400> 89
<removed-date>
              gccactgggc ttcctgggtc cgggtggaag cggcggctca gacatcatga tgacccagtc 60
              <210> 90
              <211> 61
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 90
              gccactgggc ttcctgggtc cgggtggaag cggcggctca cagatccagc ttcaggagtc 60
              a                                                                 61
              <210> 91
              <211> 47
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 91
              ttcaccaaca aggaccatag catatgggcc agtctggccg gtagggc              47
              <210> 92
              <211> 61
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 92
              ggccggatcc aagcttttag tggtgatggt gatgatgtga ggagacggtg accatggttc 60
              c                                                                61
                                                46

<removed-date>
              <210> 93
              <211> 54
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
<removed-apn>
              <400> 93
              acttccgcct ccacctgatc caccaccacc tgaggagacg gtgaccatgg ttcc       54
              <210> 94
              <211> 28
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide:    MM linker-CM-anti-CTLA4 scFv
                      linker
              <400> 94
              Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Ser Gly Gln Val His Met Pro
               1                5                     10                 15
              Leu Gly Phe Leu Gly Pro Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser
                           20                  25
              <210> 95
              <211> 84
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic oligonucleotide:   MM
                      linker-CM-anti-CTLA4 scFv linker
              <400> 95
                                                    47

              ggcggttctg gtggcagcgg tggctcgagc ggccaagtgc acatgccact gggcttcctg 60
<removed-date>
              ggtccgggtg gaagcggcgg ctca                                                                      84
              <210> 96
              <211> 291
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide:                 MM187-anti-CTLA4 ScFv TBM
              <400> 96
              Met Ile Leu Leu Cys Ala Ala Gly Arg Thr Trp Val Glu Ala Cys Ala
               1                      5                             10                            15
              Asn Gly Arg Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Ser Gly Gln Val
                                20                            25                            30
              His Met Pro Leu Gly Phe Leu Gly Pro Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gln
                          35                            40                            45
              Ile Gln Leu Gln Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Asn Pro Ser Gln Ser
                    50                            55                            60
              Leu Ser Leu Ser Cys Ser Val Thr Gly Tyr Ser Ile Thr Ser Gly Tyr
              65                            70                            75                            80
              Gly Trp Asn Trp Ile Arg Gln Phe Pro Gly Gln Lys Val Glu Trp Met
                                      85                            90                            95
              Gly Phe Ile Tyr Tyr Glu Gly Ser Thr Tyr Tyr Asn Pro Ser Ile Lys
                                100                           105                           110
              Ser Arg Ile Ser Ile Thr Arg Asp Thr Ser Lys Asn Gln Phe Phe Leu
                          115                           120                           125
              Gln Val Asn Ser Val Thr Thr Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Ala
                    130                           135                           140
              Arg Gln Thr Gly Tyr Phe Asp Tyr Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Met Val Thr
              145                           150                           155                           160
              Val Ser Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly
                                      165                           170                           175
              Gly Ser Asp Ile Met Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Ser Leu Ser Val Ser
                                180                           185                           190
              Ala Gly Glu Lys Ala Thr Ile Ser Cys Lys Ser Ser Gln Ser Leu Phe
                          195                           200                           205
                                                                   48

              Asn Ser Asn Ala Lys Thr Asn Tyr Leu Asn Trp Tyr Leu Gln Lys Pro
<removed-date>
                    210                           215                           220
              Gly Gln Ser Pro Lys Leu Leu Ile Tyr Tyr Ala Ser Thr Arg His Thr
              225                           230                           235                           240
              Gly Val Pro Asp Arg Phe Arg Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr
                                      245                           250                           255
              Leu Thr Ile Ser Ser Val Gln Asp Glu Asp Leu Ala Phe Tyr Tyr Cys
                                260                           265                           270
<removed-apn>
              Gln Gln Trp Tyr Asp Tyr Pro Tyr Thr Phe Gly Ala Gly Thr Lys Val
                          275                           280                           285
              Glu Ile Lys
                    290
              <210> 97
              <211> 894
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic oligonucleotide:                  MM187-anti-CTLA4 ScFv
                      TBM
              <400> 97
              atgattttgt tgtgcgcggc gggtcggacg tgggtggagg cttgcgctaa tggtaggggc 60
              ggttctggtg gcagcggtgg ctcgagcggc caagtgcaca tgccactggg cttcctgggt 120
              ccgggtggaa gcggcggctc acagatccag cttcaggagt caggacctgg cctggtgaac 180
              ccctcacaat cactgtccct ctcttgctct gtcactggtt actccatcac cagtggttat 240
              ggatggaact ggatcaggca gttcccaggg cagaaggtgg agtggatggg attcatatat 300
              tatgagggta gcacctacta caacccttcc atcaagagcc gcatctccat caccagagac 360
              acatcgaaga accagttctt cctgcaggtg aattctgtga ccactgagga cacagccaca 420
              tattactgtg cgagacaaac tgggtacttt gattactggg gccaaggaac catggtcacc 480
              gtctcctcag gtggtggtgg atcaggtgga ggcggaagtg gaggtggcgg ttccgacatc 540
              atgatgaccc agtctccttc atccctgagt gtgtcagcgg gagagaaagc cactatcagc 600
              tgcaagtcca gtcagagtct tttcaacagt aacgccaaaa cgaactactt gaactggtat 660
              ttgcagaaac cagggcagtc tcctaaactg ctgatctatt atgcatccac taggcatact 720
              ggggtccctg atcgcttcag aggcagtgga tctgggacgg atttcactct caccatcagc 780
              agtgtccagg atgaagacct ggcattttat tactgtcagc agtggtatga ctacccatac 840
                                                                49

              acgttcggag ctgggaccaa ggtggaaatc aaacatcatc accatcacca ctaa   894
<removed-date>
              <210> 98
              <211> 37
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 98
              tcagatctaa ccatggcttt gatttccacc ttggtcc                      37
              <210> 99
              <211> 37
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 99
              tcagatctaa ccatggctga ggagacggtg accatgg                      37
              <210> 100
              <211> 37
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 100
              cacttgtcac gaattcgatg attttgttgt gcgcggc                      37
              <210> 101
              <211> 36
              <212> DNA
                                                50

              <213> Artificial Sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 101
              cacttgtcac gaattcgtgg gcggatgtta tgcctg    36
<removed-apn>
              <210> 102
              <211> 37
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 102
              cacttgtcac gaattcggct gagcggttgt gcgcgtg   37
              <210> 103
              <211> 37
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <400> 103
              cacttgtcac gaattcgagt gatggtcgta tggggag   37
              <210> 104
              <211> 38
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
                                                51

              <400> 104
<removed-date>
              cacttgtcac gaattcgccg tgttctgagt ggcagtcg   38
              <210> 105
              <211> 20
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <220>
              <221> variation
              <222> 3,15
              <223> y = t or c
              <220>
              <221> variation
              <222> 6,18
              <223> r = a or g
              <220>
              <221> variation
              <222> 9,12
              <223> n = a or g or c or t
              <400> 105
              gtyttrtgng tnacytcrca                       20
              <210> 106
              <211> 23
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> oligonucleotide
              <220>
                                                52

              <221> variation
<removed-date>
              <222> 3
              <223> d = g or a or t
              <220>
              <221> variation
              <222> 6,9,18
              <223> y = t or c
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221> variation
              <222> 12
              <223> r = a or g
              <220>
              <221> variation
              <222> 15,21
              <223> n = a or t or g or c
              <400> 106
              acdatyttyt trtcnacytt ngt                                         23
              <210> 107
              <211> 42
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 107
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Cys Met Ala Met Leu Gly Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala
               1                  5                   10               15
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr
                             20                 25                30
              Gly Lys Trp Leu Glu Lys Val Gly Gly Cys
                        35                 40
                                                     53

<removed-date>
              <210> 108
              <211> 42
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
<removed-apn>
              <400> 108
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Lys Gly Gly Gly Cys Gly Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala
               1                5                    10                15
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr
                           20                  25                 30
              Gly Lys Trp Leu Glu Lys Val Gly Gly Cys
                      35                  40
              <210> 109
              <211> 42
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 109
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Pro Glu Trp Gly Cys Gly Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala
               1                5                    10                15
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr
                           20                  25                 30
              Gly Lys Trp Leu Glu Lys Val Gly Gly Cys
                      35                  40
              <210> 110
              <211> 42
              <212> PRT
                                                    54

              <213> Artificial Sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 110
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Leu Glu Gly Glu Glu Gly Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala
               1                5                    10                15
<removed-apn>
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr
                           20                  25                 30
              Gly Lys Trp Leu Glu Lys Val Gly Gly Cys
                      35                  40
              <210> 111
              <211> 42
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 111
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Asp Asp Met Glu Glu Gly Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala
               1                5                    10                15
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr
                           20                  25                 30
              Gly Lys Trp Leu Glu Lys Val Gly Gly Cys
                      35                  40
              <210> 112
              <211> 43
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
                                                    55

<removed-date>
              <400> 112
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Cys Thr Gly Val Tyr Leu Arg Pro Leu Gly Leu
               1                5                    10                15
              Ala Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp
                           20                  25                 30
              Tyr Gly Lys Trp Leu Glu Lys Val Gly Gly Cys
                      35                  40
<removed-apn>
              <210> 113
              <211> 42
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 113
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Gly Glu Asp Glu Glu Gly Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala
               1                5                    10                15
              Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr
                           20                  25                 30
              Gly Lys Trp Leu Glu Lys Val Gly Gly Gly
                      35                  40
              <210> 114
              <211> 44
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 114
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Cys Ser Val Tyr Gly Trp Gly Gly Pro Leu Gly
               1                5                    10                15
                                                    56

              Leu Ala Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp
<removed-date>
                             20                25                 30
              Asp Tyr Gly Lys Trp Leu Glu Lys Val Gly Gly Cys
                        35                40
              <210> 115
              <211> 44
<removed-apn>
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 115
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Cys Cys Pro Lys Val Tyr Gly Gly Pro Leu Gly
               1                  5                  10                15
              Leu Ala Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp
                             20                25                 30
              Asp Tyr Gly Lys Trp Leu Glu Lys Val Gly Gly Cys
                        35                40
              <210> 116
              <211> 6
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 116
              Cys Met Ala Met Leu Gly
               1                  5
              <210> 117
              <211> 6
                                                    57

              <212> PRT
<removed-date>
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 117
              Lys Gly Gly Gly Cys Gly
<removed-apn>
               1               5
              <210> 118
              <211> 6
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 118
              Leu Glu Gly Glu Glu Gly
               1               5
              <210> 119
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 119
              Cys Thr Gly Val Tyr Leu Arg Gly
               1               5
              <210> 120
                                                58

              <211> 8
<removed-date>
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 120
<removed-apn>
              Cys Ser Val Tyr Gly Trp Gly Gly
               1               5
              <210> 121
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 121
              Cys Cys Pro Lys Val Tyr Gly Gly
               1               5
              <210> 122
              <211> 43
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 122
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Gly Cys Gly Ser Gly Pro Gln Gly Leu Leu Gly
               1               5                      10               15
              Gly Gly Ser Gly Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr Gly
                          20                    25                30
                                                     59

              Lys Trp Leu Glu Lys Val Gly Gly Cys Gly Gln
<removed-date>
                      35                    40
              <210> 123
              <211> 37
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 123
              Pro Glu Trp Gly Cys Gly Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
               1                5                      10              15
              Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr Gly Lys Trp Leu Glu
                           20                    25               30
              Lys Val Gly Gly Cys
                      35
              <210> 124
              <211> 39
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 124
              Cys Thr Gly Val Tyr Leu Arg Gly Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala Gly Gly Gly
               1                5                      10              15
              Ser Gly Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr Gly Lys Trp
                           20                    25               30
              Leu Glu Lys Val Gly Gly Cys
                      35
                                                      60

              <210> 125
<removed-date>
              <211> 39
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
<removed-apn>
              <400> 125
              Cys Val Arg Val Phe Arg Met Gly Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala Gly Gly Gly
               1                5                   10                 15
              Ser Gly Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr Gly Lys Trp
                           20                 25                  30
              Leu Glu Lys Val Gly Gly Cys
                      35
              <210> 126
              <211> 39
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 126
              Cys Phe Phe Met Pro Leu Gln Gly Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala Gly Gly Gly
               1                5                   10                 15
              Ser Gly Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr Gly Lys Trp
                           20                 25                  30
              Leu Glu Lys Val Gly Gly Cys
                      35
              <210> 127
              <211> 39
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
                                                   61

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 127
              Cys Ser Met Tyr Trp Met Arg Gly Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala Gly Gly Gly
               1                5                   10                 15
              Ser Gly Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr Gly Lys Trp
<removed-apn>
                           20                 25                  30
              Leu Glu Lys Val Gly Gly Cys
                      35
              <210> 128
              <211> 37
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 128
              Cys Glu Tyr Ala Phe Gly Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
               1                5                   10                 15
              Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr Gly Lys Trp Leu Glu
                           20                 25                  30
              Lys Val Gly Gly Cys
                      35
              <210> 129
              <211> 37
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
                                                   62

              <400> 129
<removed-date>
              Gly Gly Trp Cys Arg Gly Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
               1                5                   10                 15
              Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr Gly Lys Trp Leu Glu
                           20                 25                  30
              Lys Val Gly Gly Cys
                      35
<removed-apn>
              <210> 130
              <211> 37
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 130
              Leu Glu Gly Glu Glu Gly Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
               1                5                   10                 15
              Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr Gly Lys Trp Leu Glu
                           20                 25                  30
              Lys Val Gly Gly Cys
                      35
              <210> 131
              <211> 37
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 131
              Asp Asp Met Glu Glu Gly Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
               1                5                   10                 15
              Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr Gly Lys Trp Leu Glu
                                                   63

                           20                 25                  30
<removed-date>
              Lys Val Gly Gly Cys
                      35
              <210> 132
              <211> 37
              <212> PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 132
              Gly Glu Asp Glu Glu Gly Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
               1                5                   10                 15
              Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr Gly Lys Trp Leu Glu
                           20                 25                  30
              Lys Val Gly Gly Gly
                      35
              <210> 133
              <211> 37
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 133
              Glu Tyr Glu Gly Glu Gly Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
               1                5                   10                 15
              Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr Gly Lys Trp Leu Glu
                           20                 25                  30
              Lys Val Gly Gly Cys
                      35
                                                   64

<removed-date>
              <210> 134
              <211> 37
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
<removed-apn>
              <400> 134
              Val Val Ser Glu Glu Gly Pro Leu Gly Leu Ala Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly
               1                  5                        10                       15
              Asn Phe Gly Tyr Gly Lys Trp Glu Trp Asp Tyr Gly Lys Trp Leu Glu
                             20                      25                        30
              Lys Val Gly Gly Cys
                        35
              <210> 135
              <211> 324
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 135
              Met Lys Lys Thr Ala Ile Ala Ile Ala Val Ala Leu Ala Gly Phe Ala
               1                  5                        10                       15
              Thr Val Ala Gln Ala Asp Tyr Lys Asp Asp Asp Asp Lys Leu His His
                             20                      25                        30
              His His His His Lys Leu Gly Val Val Leu Thr Thr Met Asn Phe Trp
                        35                      40                        45
              Asp Trp Ile Thr Val Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Val Leu Val Pro
                   50                      55                        60
              Met Ala Met Met Ala Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Glu
              65                      70                        75                       80
              Val Gln Leu Val Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Arg Ser
                                                          65

                                      85                            90                            95
<removed-date>
              Leu Lys Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Asn Asp Tyr Asn
                                100                           105                           110
              Met Ala Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Lys Arg Gly Leu Glu Trp Val Ala
                          115                           120                           125
              Thr Ile Ile Tyr Asp Gly Ser Met Thr Tyr Tyr Arg Asp Ser Val Lys
                    130                           135                           140
              Gly Gln Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ala Lys Ser Thr Leu Tyr Leu
<removed-apn>
              145                           150                           155                           160
              Gln Met Asp Ser Leu Arg Ser Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Ala
                                      165                           170                           175
              Thr Glu Asp Asn Gly Ser Ser Asn Trp Phe Ala Tyr Trp Gly Gln Gly
                                180                           185                           190
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly
                          195                           200                           205
              Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Ser
                    210                           215                           220
              Leu Ser Ala Ser Pro Glu Glu Ile Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Gln Ala Ser
              225                           230                           235                           240
              Gln Asp Ile Gly Asn Trp Leu Thr Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys
                                      245                           250                           255
              Ser Pro Gln Leu Leu Ile Tyr Arg Ala Thr Asn Leu Ala Asp Gly Ile
                                260                           265                           270
              Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly Arg Ile Ser Gly Thr Gln Tyr Ser Leu Lys
                          275                           280                           285
              Ile Ser Arg Leu Gln Val Glu Asp Ile Gly Ile Tyr Tyr Cys Leu Gln
                    290                           295                           300
              Arg Tyr Ser His Pro Trp Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Leu
              305                           310                           315                           320
              Lys Arg Leu Glu
              <210> 136
              <211> 324
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
                                                                66

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 136
              Met Lys Lys Thr Ala Ile Ala Ile Ala Val Ala Leu Ala Gly Phe Ala
               1                      5                             10                            15
              Thr Val Ala Gln Ala Asp Tyr Lys Asp Asp Asp Asp Lys Leu His His
                                20                            25                            30
<removed-apn>
              His His His His Lys Leu Trp Ala Asp Trp Ala Arg Ser Trp Glu Ala
                          35                            40                            45
              Ile Val Gly Met Ala Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Val Leu Val Pro
                    50                            55                            60
              Met Ala Met Met Ala Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Glu
              65                            70                            75                            80
              Val Gln Leu Val Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Arg Ser
                                      85                            90                            95
              Leu Lys Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Asn Asp Tyr Asn
                                100                           105                           110
              Met Ala Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Lys Arg Gly Leu Glu Trp Val Ala
                          115                           120                           125
              Thr Ile Ile Tyr Asp Gly Ser Met Thr Tyr Tyr Arg Asp Ser Val Lys
                    130                           135                           140
              Gly Gln Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ala Lys Ser Thr Leu Tyr Leu
              145                           150                           155                           160
              Gln Met Asp Ser Leu Arg Ser Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Ala
                                      165                           170                           175
              Thr Glu Asp Asn Gly Ser Ser Asn Trp Phe Ala Tyr Trp Gly Gln Gly
                                180                           185                           190
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly
                          195                           200                           205
              Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Ser
                    210                           215                           220
              Leu Ser Ala Ser Pro Glu Glu Ile Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Gln Ala Ser
              225                           230                           235                           240
              Gln Asp Ile Gly Asn Trp Leu Thr Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys
                                      245                           250                           255
              Ser Pro Gln Leu Leu Ile Tyr Arg Ala Thr Asn Leu Ala Asp Gly Ile
                                260                           265                           270
                                                                   67

              Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly Arg Ile Ser Gly Thr Gln Tyr Ser Leu Lys
<removed-date>
                          275                          280                          285
              Ile Ser Arg Leu Gln Val Glu Asp Ile Gly Ile Tyr Tyr Cys Leu Gln
                    290                          295                          300
              Arg Tyr Ser His Pro Trp Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Leu
              305                          310                          315                          320
              Lys Arg Leu Glu
<removed-apn>
              <210> 137
              <211> 324
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 137
              Met Lys Lys Thr Ala Ile Ala Ile Ala Val Ala Leu Ala Gly Phe Ala
               1                      5                            10                           15
              Thr Val Ala Gln Ala Asp Tyr Lys Asp Asp Asp Asp Lys Leu His His
                                20                           25                           30
              His His His His Lys Leu Arg Gly Met Asp Met Tyr Trp Ala Glu Ile
                          35                           40                           45
              Ile Tyr Gly Ala Ala Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Val Leu Val Pro
                    50                           55                           60
              Met Ala Met Met Ala Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Glu
              65                           70                           75                           80
              Val Gln Leu Val Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Arg Ser
                                      85                           90                           95
              Leu Lys Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Asn Asp Tyr Asn
                                100                          105                          110
              Met Ala Trp Val Arg Gln Ala Pro Lys Arg Gly Leu Glu Trp Val Ala
                          115                          120                          125
              Thr Ile Ile Tyr Asp Gly Ser Met Thr Tyr Tyr Arg Asp Ser Val Lys
                    130                          135                          140
              Gly Gln Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ala Lys Ser Thr Leu Tyr Leu
                                                                  68

              145                           150                           155                           160
<removed-date>
              Gln Met Asp Ser Leu Arg Ser Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Ala
                                      165                           170                           175
              Thr Glu Asp Asn Gly Ser Ser Asn Trp Phe Ala Tyr Trp Gly Gln Gly
                                180                           185                           190
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly
                          195                           200                           205
              Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Ser
<removed-apn>
                    210                           215                           220
              Leu Ser Ala Ser Pro Glu Glu Ile Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Gln Ala Ser
              225                           230                           235                           240
              Gln Asp Ile Gly Asn Trp Leu Thr Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys
                                      245                           250                           255
              Ser Pro Gln Leu Leu Ile Tyr Arg Ala Thr Asn Leu Ala Asp Gly Ile
                                260                           265                           270
              Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly Arg Ile Ser Gly Thr Gln Tyr Ser Leu Lys
                          275                           280                           285
              Ile Ser Arg Leu Gln Val Glu Asp Ile Gly Ile Tyr Tyr Cys Leu Gln
                    290                           295                           300
              Arg Tyr Ser His Pro Trp Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Leu
              305                           310                           315                           320
              Lys Arg Leu Glu
              <210> 138
              <211> 293
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 138
              Met Gly Val Val Leu Thr Thr Met Asn Phe Trp Asp Trp Ile Thr Val
               1                      5                             10                            15
              Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Val Leu Val Pro Met Ala Met Met Ala
                                20                            25                            30
                                                                   69

              Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Glu Val Gln Leu Val Glu
<removed-date>
                          35                            40                            45
              Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Arg Ser Leu Lys Leu Ser Cys
                    50                            55                            60
              Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Asn Asp Tyr Asn Met Ala Trp Val Arg
              65                            70                            75                            80
              Gln Ala Pro Lys Arg Gly Leu Glu Trp Val Ala Thr Ile Ile Tyr Asp
                                      85                            90                            95
<removed-apn>
              Gly Ser Met Thr Tyr Tyr Arg Asp Ser Val Lys Gly Gln Phe Thr Ile
                                100                           105                           110
              Ser Arg Asp Asn Ala Lys Ser Thr Leu Tyr Leu Gln Met Asp Ser Leu
                          115                           120                           125
              Arg Ser Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Ala Thr Glu Asp Asn Gly
                    130                           135                           140
              Ser Ser Asn Trp Phe Ala Tyr Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Leu Val Thr Val
              145                           150                           155                           160
              Ser Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly
                                      165                           170                           175
              Ser Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Pro
                                180                           185                           190
              Glu Glu Ile Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Gln Ala Ser Gln Asp Ile Gly Asn
                          195                           200                           205
              Trp Leu Thr Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys Ser Pro Gln Leu Leu
                    210                           215                           220
              Ile Tyr Arg Ala Thr Asn Leu Ala Asp Gly Ile Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser
              225                           230                           235                           240
              Gly Arg Ile Ser Gly Thr Gln Tyr Ser Leu Lys Ile Ser Arg Leu Gln
                                      245                           250                           255
              Val Glu Asp Ile Gly Ile Tyr Tyr Cys Leu Gln Arg Tyr Ser His Pro
                                260                           265                           270
              Trp Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Leu Lys Arg Leu Glu His
                          275                           280                           285
              His His His His His
                    290
              <210> 139
              <211> 293
                                                                70

              <212> PRT
<removed-date>
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 139
              Met Trp Ala Asp Trp Ala Arg Ser Trp Glu Ala Ile Val Gly Met Ala
<removed-apn>
               1                      5                             10                            15
              Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Val Leu Val Pro Met Ala Met Met Ala
                                20                            25                            30
              Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Glu Val Gln Leu Val Glu
                          35                            40                            45
              Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Arg Ser Leu Lys Leu Ser Cys
                    50                            55                            60
              Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Asn Asp Tyr Asn Met Ala Trp Val Arg
              65                            70                            75                            80
              Gln Ala Pro Lys Arg Gly Leu Glu Trp Val Ala Thr Ile Ile Tyr Asp
                                      85                            90                            95
              Gly Ser Met Thr Tyr Tyr Arg Asp Ser Val Lys Gly Gln Phe Thr Ile
                                100                           105                           110
              Ser Arg Asp Asn Ala Lys Ser Thr Leu Tyr Leu Gln Met Asp Ser Leu
                          115                           120                           125
              Arg Ser Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Ala Thr Glu Asp Asn Gly
                    130                           135                           140
              Ser Ser Asn Trp Phe Ala Tyr Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Leu Val Thr Val
              145                           150                           155                           160
              Ser Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly
                                      165                           170                           175
              Ser Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Pro
                                180                           185                           190
              Glu Glu Ile Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Gln Ala Ser Gln Asp Ile Gly Asn
                          195                           200                           205
              Trp Leu Thr Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys Ser Pro Gln Leu Leu
                    210                           215                           220
              Ile Tyr Arg Ala Thr Asn Leu Ala Asp Gly Ile Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser
              225                           230                           235                           240
              Gly Arg Ile Ser Gly Thr Gln Tyr Ser Leu Lys Ile Ser Arg Leu Gln
                                                                   71

                                      245                           250                           255
<removed-date>
              Val Glu Asp Ile Gly Ile Tyr Tyr Cys Leu Gln Arg Tyr Ser His Pro
                                260                           265                           270
              Trp Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Leu Lys Arg Leu Glu His
                          275                           280                           285
              His His His His His
                    290
<removed-apn>
              <210> 140
              <211> 293
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 140
              Met Arg Gly Met Asp Met Tyr Trp Ala Glu Ile Ile Tyr Gly Ala Ala
               1                      5                             10                            15
              Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Val Leu Val Pro Met Ala Met Met Ala
                                20                            25                            30
              Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Glu Val Gln Leu Val Glu
                          35                            40                            45
              Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly Arg Ser Leu Lys Leu Ser Cys
                    50                            55                            60
              Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Asn Asp Tyr Asn Met Ala Trp Val Arg
              65                            70                            75                            80
              Gln Ala Pro Lys Arg Gly Leu Glu Trp Val Ala Thr Ile Ile Tyr Asp
                                      85                            90                            95
              Gly Ser Met Thr Tyr Tyr Arg Asp Ser Val Lys Gly Gln Phe Thr Ile
                                100                           105                           110
              Ser Arg Asp Asn Ala Lys Ser Thr Leu Tyr Leu Gln Met Asp Ser Leu
                          115                           120                           125
              Arg Ser Glu Asp Thr Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Ala Thr Glu Asp Asn Gly
                    130                           135                           140
              Ser Ser Asn Trp Phe Ala Tyr Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Leu Val Thr Val
              145                           150                           155                           160
                                                                   72

              Ser Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Gly
<removed-date>
                                      165                           170                           175
              Ser Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ala Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Pro
                                180                           185                           190
              Glu Glu Ile Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Gln Ala Ser Gln Asp Ile Gly Asn
                          195                           200                           205
              Trp Leu Thr Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys Ser Pro Gln Leu Leu
                    210                           215                           220
<removed-apn>
              Ile Tyr Arg Ala Thr Asn Leu Ala Asp Gly Ile Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser
              225                           230                           235                           240
              Gly Arg Ile Ser Gly Thr Gln Tyr Ser Leu Lys Ile Ser Arg Leu Gln
                                      245                           250                           255
              Val Glu Asp Ile Gly Ile Tyr Tyr Cys Leu Gln Arg Tyr Ser His Pro
                                260                           265                           270
              Trp Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Leu Lys Arg Leu Glu His
                          275                           280                           285
              His His His His His
                    290
              <210> 141
              <211> 45
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> synthetic peptide
              <400> 141
              Gly Gln Ser Gly Gln Pro Cys Ser Glu Trp Gln Ser Met Val Gln Pro
               1                      5                             10                            15
              Arg Cys Tyr Tyr Gly Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly Gln Gly Gly Gln
                                20                            25                            30
              Val His Met Pro Leu Gly Phe Leu Gly Pro Gly Gly Ser
                          35                            40                            45
                                                                   73

