                                                 Abstract
The use of salt bridge gold electro-win process will simplify the gold recovery process by providing a
low capital entry point for gold ore processing. This invention has the potential to increase the gold
recovery by recovering gold from the gold ore associated with the gold nuggets. This process
obviates the use of mercury which is a toxic chemical. The use of Solar Power generated direct
current for powering the electro-win process makes it easier to use this process anywhere without
the need for grid power. The salt bridge gold electro-win process can be used to strip traces of gold
present in gold plant effluent such as tailings solutions.

           Editorial Note
               <removed-apn>
There are two pages of descriptions only

Use of Salt Bridge for gold recovery by direct electrodeposition of dissolved gold as
alternate to traditional carbon in pulp or mercury amalgam process.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
            [0001] Small scale gold miners prospect for gold using metal detectors
           which locate solid gold nuggets for physical extraction. To a large extent
           only the gold nuggets are picked and the associated ore surrounding the
           gold nuggets is discarded due to lack of processing capacity. This
           innovation proposes a way of recovering this gold stream currently
           untapped.
           [0002] Finely sized gold particles found in alluvial gold ore are
           recovered by mixing the gold ore with mercury to form a gold amalgam
           from which the gold is subsequently recovered by heating the amalgam.
           Mercury is a hazardous chemical and casual use by unregulated miners
           has resulted in fatal mercury poisoning. This processing route only
           recovers pure gold only but does not recover chemically trapped gold.
          [0003] Conventional plant set up for the large scale gold miners comprise
          Milling, Cynidation and Carbon in Pulp processes which recovers both
          physical gold and the chemically bound gold achieving >90% gold
          recovery. Some processing circuits incorporate a Heavy Media Separation
          plant which recovers the bulk of the solid gold before cynidation
          in this way minimising cyanide consumption and enhancing recovery levels.
          Such processing plants are capital intensive and are beyond the reach of
          the average small scale gold operator.
          [0004] The present invention is primarily aimed at helping the small scale

gold operator by simplifying the gold recovery process enabling gold ore
processing to recover chemically bound gold in a cost effective manner.
The process comprises two main steps:
    (a) Cynidation of the gold ore to dissolve all gold i.e. physical and
        chemically bound gold.
    (b) Electrowinning of dissolved gold using a Salt Bridge which obviates
        the need for the rather cumbersome Carbon In Pulp process.
[0005] The Salt Bridge allows physical separation of the cathodic and
anodic reactions. Gold is deposited onto a cathode from the anodic section.
The gold deposit reaction at the cathode is as follows
                              2
                    4Au (CN)-   + 4e -- +   4Au + 4CN
The corresponding reaction at the anode section is as follows
                         H2 0 - 4e-- o4H+        02
The salt bridge just facilitates electron transfer from the two chambers but
does not take part in the overall electrowin reaction.
The nobility of Gold with respect to its position in the electrochemical series
 allows preferential electrodeposition of gold even at trace levels.
[0006] The gold electrodeposition is a batch process and the depletion of
gold is monitored by chemical analysis with the gold depleted solution
being replaced with fresh gold bearing solution.
[0007] Gold deposited at the cathode can be smelted to convert it into gold
bullion as standard gold room practice.
[0008] Electrowinning process uses direct current (DC). This makes the
process amenable to solar power use rendering the process applicable
even when gold is located at remote sites without the need for grid power
access.

                                              1
CLAIMS
1. The use of the salt bridge gold electrowin process will simplify the gold recovery
process by providing a low capital entry point for gold ore processing.
2. Currently small scale gold prospectors only recover gold nuggets and do not
make any attempt to recover the gold in associated ore. This is an unquantifiable
loss of opportunity as in all likelihood nugget gold is found in association with gold
ore which is just left in the ground. This invention has therefore the potential to
increase gold recovery.
3.    The process obviates the use of mercury which is a toxic chemical when used
without the necessary precautions. Availability of a practical alternative will offer a
safer alternative to artisanal gold processors.
4.    The option of using Solar Power generated direct current for powering the
electrowin process makes it easier to use anywhere where gold ore is found without
the need for grid power. This makes the process useable virtually anywhere which is
a real convenience.
5.    The salt bridge gold electrowin process can be used to strip traces of gold in
gold plant effluent such as tailings solutions. The nobility of gold would allow
deposition of low level concentrations of gold in plant tailings solution without the
need for complex plant

<removed-date>
                                        Salt Bridge Electro-win Layout diagram
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                     Cathode
              Anode
                                                    Salt Bridge
                                                    Porous Plug
                      Anodic Reaction                                            Cathodic Reaction
              H2O - 4e-         4H+ + O2                                4Au(CN)-2 + 4e-      4Au + 4CN-
              Fig 1. Diagram showing sketch of Electrowin arrangement for gold recovery using a salt
              bridge to physically separate anodic and cathodic sections,

