CAVOPULMONARY VISCOUS IMPELLER ASSIST DEVICE AND
METHOD
ABSTRACT
      An apparatus (20, 120) for pumping blood in the circulatory system of an animal,
comprising: a rotor (80, 180) symmetrical about a rotational axis and symmetrical about a plane
perpendicular to the rotational axis, said rotor (80, 180) having an outer surface adapted and
configured for pumping blood, said rotor (80, 180) having an interior and including a first
plurality of permanent magnets (81); a stator (60, 160) including a plurality of electrical
windings (64), said windings (64) being located within the interior of said rotor (80, 180) and
establishing a radial gap between the magnets (81) and the windings (64), the gap being adapted
and configured to discourage clotting of the blood therebetween; a source of electrical power;
and an electronic controller operably connecting said source to said winding (64); wherein said
rotor (80, 180) spins relative to said stator in response to said controller providing power to said
windings (64).

                                                  1
CAVOPULMONARY VISCOUS IMPELLER ASSIST DEVICE AND
METHOD
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
         This is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2012345572, the
entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
         Various embodiments of the invention relate generally to the field of pumps including
blood pumps, including non-positive displacement pumps of rotary design, and including those
suitable for permanent implantation in animals for use in circulatory support.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
          Some children are born missing half their heart. Known as single ventricle heart disease,
it is the leading cause of death in children less than one year of age from any structural birth
defect. One common anatomic variant is Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome. Until recently this
condition was not compatible with survival. Beginning in the 1970's, developments in the
surgical treatment of single ventricle heart disease have resulted in a means of not only survival,
but also reasonable quality of life for survivors at least into early adulthood. Current therapy
includes a series of 3 staged open heart procedures. While these procedures offer hope for
survival, they remain problematic and notorious for instability and mortality. The staged
surgical reconstruction of the circulatory system culminates in a univentricular Fontan
circulation, eponymous with Dr. Francis Fontan who first described the repair in 1971.
         In a univentricular Fontan circulation, the single ventricle (pumping chamber) is
committed to provide blood flow to the body. Opposed to a normal 2-ventricle circulation,
however, blood flow through the lungs is not supported by a ventricular power source; it should
rather flow through the lungs passively. Therefore, the motive force for blood flow through the
lungs rests upon systemic venous pressure alone. As a consequence, systemic venous pressure is
markedly elevated and systemic venous return is significantly altered. This sets up a new set of
hemodynamic problems, described by de Leval as the Fontan paradox, in which elevated
systemic venous pressure coexists with relative pulmonary arterial hypotension. Preload to the

                                                  2
single ventricle is reduced, as well as cardiac output. Patients with a univentricular Fontan
circulation are therefore at high risk for late Fontan failure and attrition.
        The late consequences of this circulatory arrangement are now an emerging public health
concern. Thousands of patients who survive Fontan palliation are expected to present with
Fontan failure. The insidious complications of chronically elevated systemic venous pressure
include hepatic and gut dysfunction, protein losing enteropathy, leg swelling, and collection of
fluid in the abdominal and chest cavities. The insidious complications of chronically reduced
preload include late ventricular diastolic dysfunction, and poor systemic tissue perfusion.
Targeted medical therapeutic options for Fontan failure do not exist. For example, while diuretic
therapy may improve symptoms of increased tissue/organ edema, it does so at the expense of
circulating blood volume which is helpful to Fontan circulatory homeostasis. Similarly, although
the use of inotropic support may improve myocardial contractility, this is of marginal impact in
an insufficiently filled ventricle. Heart transplantation is a poor end-stage option:
Transplantation carries morbidity of its own, and the donor pool is limited. Few patients will
ultimately be candidates or receive a donor organ for transplantation.
        The development of a permanent right-sided circulatory support device directly
addresses the Fontan paradox and will improve late quality of life and outcomes for those born
with single functional ventricle. One aspect of some embodiments has been to include power
sources to support the univentricular Fontan circulation. The placement of a power source at the
level of the total cavopulmonary connection effectively empowers the univentricular Fontan
circulation by placing a right ventricle equivalent back into a circulation that lacks one. By
simultaneously reducing systemic venous pressure and improving ventricular preload, normal 2
ventricle physiology can be effectively restored.
        Prior applications of existing blood pump technology have been contemplated to address
the problem of powering the Fontan circulation. These have consisted primarily of applying
intravascular unidirectional axial flow pumps to augment Fontan flow. The concept of
cavopulmonary assist was introduced in 2003 with the simultaneous use of 2 unidirectional axial
flow pumps (Rodefeld et al, Ann Thoracic Surg). This has limitations, however, as one-way
flow devices will cause undesirable back-pressure elevation in the opposing vena caval territory.
Other groups have followed with modifications of axial flow pump designs intended to operate
in the low-pressure systemic venous circulation. This has also included a modification of the

                                                    3
preferred TCPC Fontan venous pathway to a 3-way pathway so that the pathway better
accommodates a unidirectional pump in a s common unidirectional outflow limb. Although in
theory this is possible, the 3-way vascular configuration is not the preferred hemodynamic
pathway in an unsupported Fontan circulation.
         What follows are various improvements in the field of non-positive displacement
circulatory pumps that overcome some of the disadvantages of existing systems.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
       Accordingly, embodiments provide an improved rotary blood pump which will support
the univentricular Fontan circulation on a permanent basis.
       According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided an apparatus for
pumping blood in the circulatory system of an animal, comprising:
       a rotor symmetrical about a rotational axis and symmetrical about a plane perpendicular to
the rotational axis, said rotor having an outer surface adapted and configured for pumping blood,
said rotor having an interior and including a first plurality of permanent magnets;
       a stator including a plurality of electrical windings, said windings being located within the
interior of said rotor and establishing a radial gap between the magnets and the windings, the
gap being adapted and configured to discourage clotting of the blood therebetween;
       a source of electrical power; and
       an electronic controller operably connecting said source to said winding;
       wherein said rotor spins relative to said stator in response to said controller providing
power to said windings.
       According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided an apparatus for
pumping blood in the circulatory system of an animal, comprising:
       a rotor rotatable about a rotational axis and symmetrical about a plane perpendicular to the
rotational axis, said rotor having an interior and inner and outer surfaces;
       a stator located at least in part within the interior of said rotor, said stator supporting said
stator ;
       means for electromagnetically coupling said rotor and said stator; and

                                                   4
       a housing supporting said stator, said housing including a conductor for providing
electrical power to said coupling means, said housing having a pair of opposing inlets and an
outlet, the inlets being generally aligned along the rotational axis;
       wherein said rotor spins about said stator in response to the application of electrical power
to said coupling means.
       According to yet another aspect of the present invention, there is provided an apparatus for
pumping blood in the circulatory system of an animal, comprising:
       a rotor symmetrical about a rotational axis and having an external shape adapted and
configured for centrifugal pumping of blood, said rotor having an interior shape;
       a stator having a portion located within the interior shape of said rotor, the portion of said
stator having an external shape that cooperates with the interior shape of said rotor to define a
flow passage therebetween; and
       wherein rotation of said rotor about said stator results in flow of blood through the flow
passage that hydrodynamically supports rotation of said rotor about said stator.
       According to yet another aspect of the present invention, there is provided an apparatus for
pumping blood in the circulatory system of an animal, comprising:
       a rotor symmetrical about a rotational axis and symmetrical about a plane perpendicular to
the rotational axis, said rotor having an interior and inner and outer surfaces; and
       a stator located at least in part within the interior of said rotor, said stator having an outer
surface;
       wherein the outer surface of said stator and the inner surface of said rotor coact to form a
flow passage therebetween, a first supply of blood flows over the outer surface of said rotor
when said rotor spins about the axis, a second different supply of blood flows through the flow
passage simultaneously with flow of the first supply when the rotor spins about the axis, said
rotor being adapted and configured such that the first supply of blood induces the second supply
of blood.
       An embodiment provides a blood pump in which the rotor is external to the stator.
       An embodiment provides a means for pumping blood or other liquids having a bearingless
and sealless design.

                                                 5
        An embodiment provides a means for pumping blood or other liquids using a rotary
impeller located in the midst to the bloodstream or the fluid passageway.
      An embodiment provides a means for pumping blood or other liquids using a rotary
impeller located in the midst to the bloodstream or the fluid passageway.
      An embodiment provides a means for pumping blood or other liquids that does not use a
positive displacement pumping arrangement.
      An embodiment provides a compact rotary blood pump which has no potential to obstruct
the blood flow pathway or the fluid passageway.
      An embodiment provides a rotary pump which uses blood or the pumped fluid as a
bearing material.
      An embodiment provides a rotary pump which uses passive magnetic bearings to suspend
the rotating element in a radial and axial fashion.
      An embodiment provides hydrodynamic and thrust bearings in an arrangement in the
event of touchdown due to device external shock or imbalanced operation.
      An embodiment provides a permanent Fontan pump which will afford the opportunity to
address right/left lung blood flow disparity.
      An embodiment provides a permanent Fontan blood pump which will afford the
opportunity to address vessel stenoses at the time of device implantation.
      It will be appreciated that the various apparatus and methods described in this summary
section, as well as elsewhere in this application, can be expressed as a large number of different
combinations and subcombinations. All such useful, novel, and inventive combinations and
subcombinations are contemplated herein, it being recognized that the explicit expression of
each of these combinations is unnecessary.

                                                 6
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
      Preferred embodiments of the invention will be described hereinafter, by way of examples
only, with reference to the accompanying drawings.
      FIGS. 1A, IB, and IC are schematic representations of a known surgical method.
      FIG. 2A is a front elevational view in partial cutaway of a pump according to one
embodiment of the present invention, the pump being represented with shaded surfaces, and
with some structure removed for improved clarity.
      FIG. 2B is a front elevational view in partial cutaway of a pump according to another
embodiment of the present invention, with portions of the rotor and stator being in cutaway,
with the structure schematically restored
      FIG. 2C is an enlargement of a portion of the apparatus of FIG. 2B, showing an alternative
bearing arrangement.
      FIG. 3 is a front elevational view in partial cutaway of a pump according to another
embodiment of the present invention.
      FIG. 4 shows the apparatus of FIG. 3, with additional features being presented in partial
cutaway.
      FIG. 5 shows the apparatus of FIG. 3, with additional features being presented in partial
cutaway.
      FIG. 6 is a schematic representation of the apparatus of FIG. 3 implanted within a human
patient.
      FIG. 7 is a front elevational view in partial cutaway of a housing according to another
embodiment of the present invention.
      FIG. 8 is a front elevational view in partial cutaway of a pump according to another
embodiment of the present invention.

                                               7
      FIG. 9 is a view of the apparatus of FIG.8 as taken along line 9-9.
      FIG. 10 shows multiple configurations of an exit slot of the apparatus of FIG.8 as taken
along line 10-10: (A) showing a 1st configuration; (B) showing a 2nd configuration; (C)
showing a 3rd configuration.

                                               8
                    DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
           For the purposes of promoting an understanding of the principles of the
invention, reference will now be made to the embodiments illustrated in the drawings
and specific language will be used to describe the same. It will nevertheless be
understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended, such
alterations and further modifications in the illustrated device, and such further
applications of the principles of the invention as illustrated therein being contemplated
as would normally occur to one skilled in the art to which the invention relates. At least
one embodiment of the present invention will be described and shown, and this
application may show and/or describe other embodiments of the present invention. It is
understood that any reference to "the invention" is a reference to an embodiment of a
family of inventions, with no single embodiment including an apparatus, process, or
composition that should be included in all embodiments, unless otherwise stated.
Further, although there may be discussion with regards to "advantages" provided by
some embodiments of the present invention, it is understood that yet other
embodiments may not include those same advantages, or may include yet different
advantages. Any advantages described herein are not to be construed as limiting to
any of the claims.
         The use of an N-series prefix for an element number (NXX.XX) refers to an
element that is the same as the non-prefixed element (XX.XX), except as shown and
described thereafter The usage of words indicating preference, such as "preferably,"
refers to features and aspects that are present in at least one embodiment, but which
are optional for some embodiments. As an example, an element 1020.1 would be the
same as element 20.1, except for those different features of element 1020.1 shown and
described. Further, common elements and common features of related elements are
drawn in the same manner in different figures, and/or use the same symbology in
different figures. As such, it is not necessary to describe the features of 1020.1 and
20.1 that are the same, since these common features are apparent to a person of
ordinary skill in the related field of technology. This description convention also applies
to the use of prime ('), double prime ("), and triple prime ("') suffixed element numbers.
Therefore, it is not necessary to describe the features of 20.1, 20.1', 20.1", and 20.1"'
that are the same, since these common features are apparent to persons of ordinary
skill in the related field of technology.

                                             9
        Although various specific quantities (spatial dimensions, temperatures,
pressures, times, force, resistance, current, voltage, concentrations, wavelengths,
frequencies, heat transfer coefficients, dimensionless parameters, etc.) may be stated
herein, such specific quantities are presented as examples only, and further, unless
otherwise noted, are approximate values, and should be considered as if the word
"about" prefaced each quantity. Further, with discussion pertaining to a specific
composition of matter, that description is by example only, and does not limit the
applicability of other species of that composition, nor does it limit the applicability of
other compositions unrelated to the cited composition.
        In the text and drawings of this document reference will be made to the use of a
pump in the circulatory system of an animal. It is recognized still further that the
apparatus and methods described herein further pertain to the pumping of a fluid in any
similar arrangement of fluid passageways.
        Various embodiments of the present invention pertain to a pump adapted and
configured to provide a pressure assist to the cavopulmonary system of an animal.
Preferably, the pump is motorized and provided with electrical power from a source
outside of the animal. In some embodiments, the pump is packaged within a housing
that is adapted and configured to be placed within the circulatory system of the animal
on a permanent basis.
        In some embodiments, the pump is of the non-positive displacement variety, and
provides an increase in energy to the pump fluid by centrifugal action. Preferably, the
centrifugal assist is applied to the working fluid by a viscous operation on the surface of
a rotating element. In some embodiments, the rotating element is axisymmetrical,
whereas in other embodiments the rotor is both axisymmetrical, and further symmetrical
about a plane.
        Some embodiments include a rotor that is suspended about an internal stator by
magnetic bearings or hydrodynamic bearings, or a combination of the two. In those
embodiments having both axial and planar symmetry, there is little or no net thrust of
the rotor relative to the stator, and the negligible net thrust can be accommodated by
the hydrodynamic bearings. In some embodiments, the magnetic bearings are adapted
and configured to provide both radial support and further a magnetic force that is
resistive to any net thrust. These magnetic thrust bearings can include a second pair of
magnetic bearings, in additional to a first pair of magnetic bearings that provide radial
support of the rotor. In those embodiments in which the stator has a shape for viscously

                                             10
and centrifugally imparting energy to the fluid (such as a VIP pump), the first pair of
magnetic bearings providing radial support may be located proximate to the opposing
ends of the rotor, where the outer shape of the rotor is a relatively more parallel to the
rotational axis. The second paramagnetic bearings providing thrust support may be
located proximate to the center of such a rotor, where the outer shape of the rotor is
relatively more parallel to a central plane of symmetry.
        In some embodiments the rotating element has the general shape adapted and
configured for providing viscous and central focal action to the fluid, and further with
both axial and planar symmetry. In some of these embodiments, the rotor comprises a
thin-walled shell of a suitable biocompatible material. This rotor can be formed by any
means, including, such as by die forming or forging of sheet metal. In still further
embodiments, the rotor may be of a two-part construction, and having a joining split line
located along the central plane or along the rotational axis.
        Pumps according some embodiments of the present invention include stators
having an external shape that is substantially the same as the internal shape of the
rotor. In such embodiments, the close gap between the rotating and static members
can be provided with a cushioning fluid, such as the fluid being pumped by the rotor. In
those embodiments in which the rotor is a thin-walled shell, the outer surface of the
stator can have substantially the same shape as the external shape of the rotor, and in
those embodiments in which the rotor has VIP pumping characteristics, likewise the
bearing flowpath between rotor and stator can have VIP pumping characteristics. For
those pumps adapted and configured to pump blood in circulatory system of an animal,
the size and configuration of the separating gap is adapted and configured to
discourage clotting of the blood within the gap.
        The bioengineering considerations to accomplish cavopulmonary assist are
unique in a univentricular Fontan circulation. A chronic Fontan pump should: 1) deliver
low pressure, high volume flow similar to normal right ventricular hemodynamics; 2)
augment flow in 4 directions with axially opposed inflow and orthogonally related
bidirectional outflow; 3) avoid thrombogenicity, preferably with a bearingless and
sealless design; 4) have an expected durability of decades; 5) utilize a power source
that is realistic for such long-term use; 6) should not obstruct flow in the Fontan venous
pathway - whether the pump is functional or not.
        A chronic rotary blood pump according to one embodiment of the present
invention designed to support the Fontan circulation is surgically implanted into the total

                                             11
cavopulmonary connection (TCPC). This is the anatomic junction created between the
superior and inferior vena cavae and the right and left pulmonary arteries during Fontan
surgery. This anatomic configuration is in the shape of a '+' and is the preferred
construction for passive venopulmonary blood flow in Fontan patients. The surgical
implantation of a permanent cavopulmonary assist device in this location is technically
similar to a Fontan conversion operation, and therefore reasonable to perform. It
includes cardiopulmonary bypass, but not cardioplegic arrest. Once implanted, the
pump provides 2-5 mmHg pressure augmentation to Fontan venous flow. Accordingly,
this decreases upstream systemic venous pressure by 2-5 mmHg, and increases
pulmonary arterial pressure by 2-5 mmHg, translating to increased transpulmonary
blood flow, increased preload, and ultimately increased cardiac output. This low
pressure pumping action provides a transformative       improvement in circulatory status
by restoring more stable 2-ventricle physiology.
        One embodiment of the invention disclosed herein solves these problems. The
pump (20, 120) disclosed is designed to permanently augment Fontan venous flow. It is
modeled morphologically after the temporary percutaneous expandable von Karman
viscous impeller pump which is further described in copending US patent application
Serial No. 13/122,797, filed April 6, 2011, and titled ACTIVE OR PASSIVE
ASSISTANCE IN THE CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. This permanent pump concept is
based a spinning disk configuration in the shape of a 2-sided centrifugal pump. For
some embodiments of the permanent pump disclosed here, however, the impeller can
be rigid: It is not required to expand (open) and contract (close). The rotating impeller
(40, 140), suspended in the midst of the pump housing (30, 130), draws fluid in from the
axial direction (superior and inferior vena cava) and pumps it to the outlets (33, 133)
which lead to the left and right lungs. A single pump effectively produces a 4-way
pumping action which is useful to augment Fontan TCPC flow. Preliminary designs
have been demonstrated and published to induce pressure differential of 2-10 mmHg in
the nominal operating range (3-7K RPM, with capabilities of generating higher pressure
(up to 40 mmHg) at higher rotational speeds in the unlikely event of pulmonary
hypertension). Further, the pump has no potential to obstruct flow in the Fontan venous
pathway. Even when non-rotational, the impeller continues to serve a streamlining
function to passive flow through the TCPC, reducing the hydraulic energy loss within the
4-way junction.

                                              12
        Some embodiments use an electrical motor design which uses an "inside-out"
configuration: A blood pump is disclosed in which the central stator is stationary and the
rotor revolves externally around it. This configuration is used in brushless DC motors for
CD-ROM hard drive computer hard disks. When the central stator windings are
electronically activated, a magnetic rotor drum with passive magnetic elements is
induced to rotate around the stator. This type of electrical motor is also widely used in
the remote controlled aircraft hobby for high torque at lower speeds, a compact size, a
high power to weight ratio, and high efficiency.
        In a Fontan pump, the use of this configuration resolves the fluid flow gap
problem. The magnetic flux gap between rotor and stator is at a normal distance for
electromechanical actuation, allowing for electromagnetic power transmission. At the
same time, this leaves the blood flow path between impeller and housing unobstructed
because the housing is no longer integral to electrical operation of the pump. The pump
external housing does not necessarily include electronic components. It retains a low
profile and is dedicated to function as a flow conduit to the inlet and outlet blood
vessels. The motor is contained within the center of the impeller, in the midst of the
blood stream.
        In one embodiment, an inside-out polyphase motor configuration is disclosed as
means for it electromagnetically coupling in internal stator and in external rotor, which
allows the pump housing to be unencumbered with electromechanical drive
components. The rotor and stator are centrally located within the pump housing. At
least a portion of the stator is located within the interior of the rotor. The housing serves
as a shell to direct inflow and outflow in a predetermined manner. This provides the
aspect of narrow radial width of the outer shell of this viscous pump as compared to
more traditional centrifugal pumps. The new design is therefore compatible with
intravascular and intracardiac pumping applications because the risk of flowpath
obstruction is decreased. This inside-out motor design is similar to outrunner electrical
BLDC motors used in CD-ROM drives and in the remote control airplane hobby. These
motors have an externally rotating drum as the rotor with a central stationary stator. An
aspect of this is that they provide higher torque and lower rotational speed than more
traditional inrunner electrical motor designs. Although the use of a brushless DC motor
is shown and described herein, yet other embodiments of the present invention
contemplate other means for electromagnetically coupling the rotor and stator.

                                              13
        A blood pump disclosed according to one embodiment has a central shaft (62,
162) which is immobilized and fixed to the external housing. A strut spider (34,134) at
each inlet (32, 132) end provides rigid structural support to the shaft ends. Between the
spider and the center of the shaft, a series of sequential passive magnetic bearings (66,
166) are present, including a plurality of permanent ring magnets and pole pieces which
radially suspend the rotor around the shaft in the configuration of a Halbach Array. In
the central region of the shaft, a ferrite radial stator (60,160) is permanently affixed. The
core stator in some embodiments is comprised of iron or other suitably magnetic
materials, and in some embodiments has 9-12 poles with windings which generate
electromechanical force. The central shaft which contains the stator and passive
magnetic bearing supports for the rotor is sealed and has no moving mechanical parts.
        A rotor in some embodiments form-fits to surround the central shaft and stator.
Preferably fabricated of 2 halves which are joined as a unitary component, the rotor
contains a circular passive magnetic ring or drum built in its central region which is
circumferentially adjacent to the stator heads and at a predetermined gap from the
stator heads. The magnetic ring is induced to revolve around the stator with electrical
activation and commutation, thereby revolving the rotor body around the central stator.
        The outer surface of the rotor is at a predetermined shape and acts as the blood
contacting surface and induces flow. The rotor is magnetically suspended from the shaft
by passive magnetic bearings on both sides of the center, and is further supported by a
squeeze film effect of blood which is pumped within the gap. The inlet (84a, 184a) for
the blood film is located on the inlet ends of the shaft where the rotor axial ends are
located. The outlet (84b, 184b) for the blood film is located at or near the rotor outflow
edge. A pumping action for the thin film blood is provided by centrifugal force. This
allows for fresh blood to constantly flush through the gap and prevent clot formation
within the gap. The gap surfaces create fluid pressure in the rotor-stator gap thereby
imparting radially symmetrical forces to the rotor, which maintains the radial position of
the rotor within the impeller when the rotor is spinning. Hydrodynamic journal bearing
pads on the shaft are present as touchdown backup bearings in the event of shock to
the pump sufficient to cause a touch-down event between the rotor and stator. The rotor
is not actively electrified, nor does it have any moving or mechanical sub components.
        The rotor revolves around the axis of the shaft in a bearingless and sealless
fashion. The interface between rotor and stator incorporates a predetermined gap which
allows a layer of blood to provide rotor damping and to induce a squeeze film

                                             14
hydrodynamic layer of blood to serve as a fluid bearing and lubricant to rotor operation.
The interface is preferably devoid of seams, crevices, or sharp angulations unless
specifically intended which may lead to clot formation due to stagnation of flow or zones
of high shear stress. A series of passive magnetic bearing structures within the shaft
and the rotor (radial bearing support), and possibly centrally (axial bearing support) near
the location of the stator head provides passive magnetic levitation of the rotor above
the stator. Blood which flows into the inlet gap between rotor and stator have an outflow
in the trailing edge of the rotor, allowing constant flow and replenishment of fresh blood
within the gap to provide lubrication for rotor motion.
        The rotor-stator gap (79, 179) architecture may include widening or narrowing of
the gap at certain locations to allow a wedge effect for the blood circulating within the
gap to improve biocompatibility, stability, and thrombogenicity resistance. Some
embodiments include hydrodynamic bearing design such as a wedge shape integral to
the design to compress fluid into a high pressure thin gap flow in strategic locations
which aids in hydrodynamic lubrication and stabilization of rotating interfaces.
        The location of the rotor/impeller in the midst of the blood stream and continuous
flushing of the gap between stator (60, 160) and rotor (80, 180) allow for dissipation of
the heat generated from the electrical energy expended in powering the pump. The low
profile of the housing causes minimal disruption to adjacent organs. The large fluid gap
maintained between impeller and housing minimizes risk of blood flow obstruction in the
event of device malfunction.
        The outer surface of the rotor has a predetermined shape roughly similar to a 2
sided conical disk. This surface serves as the primary blood contacting region. Rotation
results in 4-direction flow augmentation. The surface may be modified with surface vane
structure in any arrangement including but not exclusive to straight vanes, curved
vanes, variable height vanes, protruding vanes, channel vanes - generally intended to
optimize pump hydraulic performance. This may include differential expression of
surface vane structure on one side of the impeller. The geometry of the impeller may
also take any shape or form to perform specified pumping actions. This may include
symmetric impeller geometry or asymmetric impeller geometry. Impeller asymmetry
may be useful for example in pumping blood in a 3-way configuration such as a blood
vessel bifurcation.
        The power source for the pump includes a wire and electronic controller unit
which is located remotely from the pump body. The controller unit is located in a

                                              15
subcutaneous position for transcutaneous interrogation, programming, and monitoring.
Feedback on pump performance to the controller is derived from back-EMF sensing.
The sampled back EMF provides electronic commutation control as well as an error
signal indicative of the positional error of the rotor. The wires connecting the controller
to the pump enters through the wall of the pump body at the location of a spider strut,
travel through a spider limb to the stator shaft, and from there to the stator ferrite core
and windings. The power source to the controller can be either by a percutaneous wire
which attaches directly to an external power source, or by any transcutaneous power
transmission technology which avoids a wire exiting from the skin of the body wall.
        The external housing of the pump has arm extensions from each inlet and outlet
which are seamlessly bonded to the rigid housing body. These extensions, possibly
made of expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE), can be surgically tailored by the
implanting surgeon. This allows the surgeon to address any offset of the superior and
inferior vena cava during the implantation procedure. Because both inlets lead to a
central fixed impeller and housing, uniform mixing and equal distribution of SVC and
IVC derived blood is distributed to the right and left lungs. This is helpful due to the
problem of unequal flow distribution of hepatic venous effluent to the lungs, and the lack
of hepatic factor leading to the formation of arteriovenous malformations in the deprived
lung. The adjustable limbs allow the surgeon to address any blood vessel stenoses or
length disparities which may exist in the patient as a consequence of prior surgical
procedures. It allows the inferior vena caval limb to be carried to the level of the
diaphragm for an extracardiac replacement of a previously placed Fontan conduit.
        This disclosure has a number of aspects. It can provide a permanent blood
pump concept for mechanical circulatory support of the univentricular Fontan circulation.
It can provide electrical motor drive for rotary blood pumps where the motor design is
inside-out. This allows the impeller to be placed in the midst of the bloodstream, with a
flux gap appropriate for a brushless DC motor drive system. The outer housing
functions as a passive directional flow conduit function. This reduces the bulk of the
device, and allows for a large blood flow gap to exist between the impeller and housing,
reducing or eliminating the possibility of blood flow obstruction in the event of device
mechanical failure. With this, blood pumps can be more readily implanted into the
bloodstream, whereas related art devices include para-cardiac or para-vascular
placement.

                                            16
        With regards to FIGS. 1a, 1b, and 1c there are shown several stages of repair to
a heart having a univentricular congenital defect. In the most common form,
Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome, the left ventricle fails to form in a way that is ever
functional. In the first procedure, which must be performed in the first weeks of life, the
right ventricle is converted to pump blood to the body rather than to the lungs (FIG. 1a).
Blood flow to the lungs must be secondarily derived from a high-pressure systemic
arterial source via a systemic-to-pulmonary arterial shunt to overcome the potential for
elevated pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) in newborns. Unfortunately, the use of a
shunt results in severe hypoxemia and creates an inherently unstable parallel
arrangement of the systemic and pulmonary circulations which must be delicately
balanced. Consequently, this procedure is notorious for instability and mortality of 20 to
30%. Inter-stage mortality (between 1't- and 2nd-stages) is also exceedingly high (4
24%). This high risk of death is a manifestation of an inherently unstable circulation, for
which the shunt is the common denominator. Decompensation is characteristically
sudden, unpredicted, and without discernible cause. In contrast, stability and survival
after the second- and third-stage operations is much better, which coincides with
takedown of the shunt.
        At the expense of providing a reliable source of pulmonary blood flow, the shunt
creates 4 potentially lethal physiologic consequences: the single ventricle must (1)
support both pulmonary and systemic circulations in an unstable parallel arrangement
by (2) pumping twice normal volume, and perform this doubled workload under the
harsh conditions of (3) severe hypoxemia (PaO 2 30-40 mmHg) and (4) impaired
myocardial coronary perfusion due to (a) decreased diastolic blood pressure from shunt
run-off and (b) increased myocardial wall tension due to ventricular volume overload.
Synthetic shunts also have risk of lethal thrombosis. Any change affecting the balance
of the parallel circulations requires compensation elsewhere to restore equilibrium.
Dangerous positive physiologic feedback loops escalate instability: Hypoxemia leads to
lung hypoperfusion, and thus worsening hypoxemia; conversely, "high" PaO 2 (>
40mmHg) dilates the pulmonary circulation, leading to lung overperfusion and further
elevation of PaO 2 - at the expense of systemic perfusion. Life-saving management may
require counterintuitive and harmful intervention, including further reduction of inspired
oxygen (at times below 0.21) and hypoventilation. Not surprisingly, neurocognitive
impairment subsequent to Stage-1 repair is common. Paradoxically, the shunt induces
and exacerbates the conditions that mandate its use in the first place: hypoxic

                                             17
pulmonary vasoconstriction and pulmonary hypertension. These impair postnatal
pulmonary vascular maturation, and elevate early and late basal PVR which impair
subsequent Fontan status. Ironically, shunt physiology may make the timing for Stage-2
conversion later than it might be otherwise, and may worsen candidacy for stage-2 and
-3 Fontan conversion.
        The second and third operations (FIGS. 1b and 1c collectively) represent "staged
Fontan conversion". The problematic shunt is disconnected, and blood flow to the lungs
is converted to a low pressure systemic venous source by connecting the vena cavae
directly to the pulmonary arteries (a cavopulmonary connection). Blood flow to the lungs
and body is restored to a more stable series arrangement, as found in normal two
ventricle physiology. However, the sole energy source for pulmonary blood flow is
relegated to systemic venous pressure, which must be significantly elevated (10-15
mmHg) in order for flow to occur. This introduces two new problems which are
responsible for the majority of Fontan-related health concerns: 1) systemic venous
hypertension, and 2) suboptimal ventricular filling and cardiac output. In the second
operation (FIG. 1b), the superior vena cava (SVC) is connected to the pulmonary artery
as the sole source of pulmonary blood flow. This stage is typically performed beyond 4
months of age, when the risk of elevated pulmonary vascular resistance is low. Inferior
vena caval (IVC) flow continues into the common atrium, leaving a significant right-to
left shunt and hypoxemia, which continues to exacerbate pulmonary hypertension.
Pulmonary blood flow is transitioned to nonpulsatile, steady-flow perfusion, which
increases pulmonary vascular impedance.
        In the third operation (FIG. 1c), IVC (and thus total) venous return is diverted to
the pulmonary arteries. The lower half of the body and the splanchnic circulation are
exposed to elevated venous pressure. Marginal candidates, in whom IVC pressure
exceeds 12-15 mmHg, may suffer from low cardiac output, impaired hepatic function,
and develop ascites and effusions. The ideal age and timing for this stage is unknown
and varies amongst institutions.
        In accordance with some of the illustrative embodiments of the present invention,
and referring to FIGS. 2A and 2B, a rotary blood pump 20 includes a housing 30 and an
impeller 40. The impeller includes a central stator core 60 and surrounding rotor 80. The
central stator core includes a shaft 62 and a rotary magnetic core array of windings 64
which are electronically controlled. The impeller is rigidly suspended within the housing
by non-obstructive and hydrodynamic spider struts 34 at each end of the spindle,

                                              18
although in some embodiments the struts 34 are adapted and configured to provide
some amount of flexibility in response to centrifugal and dynamic loads imposed on or
by pump 20.
        The housing 30 includes a flow diverting shell enclosing the impeller. The
housing design is predetermined to optimize flow and distribute the fluid energy from the
impeller so that flow has minimal turbulence and pressure loss within the pump. The
housing preferably includes multiple inlet 32 and outlet 33 sections, although yet other
embodiments contemplate "T" shaped housings having a pair of inlets and a single
outlet, or a pair of outlets and a single inlet. The housing may have a scroll shaped
volute in the outlets to optimize outflow patterns. The housing maintains a generally
rigid and fixed spatial relationship between the impeller surface and the housing
surface. The inlet and outlet ends of the housing are composed of a biocompatible
malleable plastic which can be sutured to blood vessels during installation of the pump.
         Referring to FIG. 2B, it can be seen that an annular gap 84 is provided between
stator 60 and rotor 80. As rotor 80 spins, a viscous pumping action occurs along the
outer surface, inducing flow from inlets 32 toward outlets 33. This flow across the outer
surface of stator 80 has a reduced static pressure proximate to flow exit 84b. Because
of this reduced outlet pressure (and in some embodiments, also due to the possibility of
configuring inlet annulus 84a for an increased static pressure) flow occurs within
bearing flowpath 79. This flow provides a hydrodynamic cushioning to rotor 80. Flow
extends along the exterior shaft 32, and then flows radially outward past the central
portion of the stator that houses the windings, and finally out of an expulsion line 79b to
exit orifice 84b.
         It can be seen in FIG. 2B that the windings 64 are adapted and configured to
provide a torque to rotor 80 relative to stator 60, by way of interaction with a plurality of
permanent magnets 81 embedded in rotor 80. In one embodiment magnets 81 include
a plurality of permanent magnets, circumferentially embedded within rotor 80. Windings
64 are provided with a rotating magnetic field by way of electrical leads 68 that receive
electrical power from a source that is operatively controlled by a controller such as a
digital computer.
         Referring to FIG. 2C, it can be seen that some embodiments of the present
invention include magnetic relationships between the rotor and the stator intending to
provide radial bearing support as well as thrust bearing support. FIG. 2C shows a stator
60 that includes a plurality of permanent magnets 64a adapted and configured for

                                             19
providing torque to rotor 80, as well as a plurality of magnets 64b being adapted and
configured to provide a reaction to any net thrust loads of the rotor, and thereby
maintain the rotor spinning freely without contact against the stator. Magnets 64b
provide repulsive forces relative to an array of magnets 81 b mounted within rotor 80.
Magnets 81 b can be permanent magnets as one example. Magnet 64b can be
permanent magnets or electromagnets, as examples. Magnet pairs 64b and 81 b coact
to repel each other, with pairs on the top of the stator (with respect to the orientation of
FIG. 2B) providing a net downward thrust, and magnet pairs 64b and 81 b on the bottom
of the stator providing a net upward thrust, these net thrusts substantially canceling one
another. Preferably, the thrust provided by a top pair or a bottom pair is large enough to
overcome any net loading on the rotor, such as by way of the weight of the rotor, net
hydraulic thrust forces resulting from pumping, vibratory imbalances, gyroscopic
moments as the rotor changes orientation, or the like.
        The rotor and stator use radial magnetic bearings of passive design to maintain
the relationship between the rotor and stator. The magnetic bearing which levitates the
rotor around the shaft includes a plurality of permanent ring magnets and pole pieces
arranged along surrounding portions of the rotor and a plurality of permanent disc
magnets and pole pieces within the shaft itself. Radially adjacent pairs of these magnets
are of like polarity. One part of the magnetic bearing near the central stator core may be
used to further maintain the rotor about the rotational axis, and may include a plurality of
permanent rod or arcuate magnets disposed in spaced, circular relation around sectors
of the stator.
        The rotor and stator are axially restrained by magnetic and hydrodynamic forces
in combination with mechanical blood-immersed thrust bearings, or touchdowns. A
predetermined amount of spacing is included between the touchdowns, so as to allow
the rotor/stator assembly to rotate without physical contact. The rotation of the rotor
relative to the stator creates a pumping action which results in constant exchange of
blood layer between rotor and stator, constantly providing a fresh source of blood. This
minimizes the likelihood of clot formation in the gap, and maintains the blood at an
acceptable temperature by shortening its residence time in the bearing gap.
        Some embodiments of the present invention allow maintenance of a large blood
flow gap between impeller and housing. It permits inflow and outflow in multiple
directions. In one embodiment, the impeller is axisymmetric with minimal axial thrust
force, which aids in reduced stress and balanced operation of the rotor. The use of

                                           20
sealed hollow chambers may reduce the density of the impeller and can be modified to
modulate center of mass in the rotor. These chambers reduce gravity induced loads on
the thrust bearings, which in turn reduces the likelihood of thrombosis of the blood used
to lubricate the bearings.
        The inside out arrangement of the rotor and stator components allows the thick
magnetic sections to be placed more centrally on the rotor and allows for a narrow flux
gap for electrical efficiency. Back-EM F sensing is used to commutate the brushless
motor stator, providing attractive and repulsive forces upon the magnetic segments. A
control unit and a portable power supply, worn on the user, power the pump drive
system. The control unit allows the speed and drive cycle of the motor either to be
programmed or interactively determined by the user's activity or condition.
        FIGS. 3-6 depict various aspects of a rotary blood pump 120 according to
another embodiment of the present invention. A blood pump 120 is shown in FIG. 3,
the pump including a housing 130 suspending an impeller assembly 140 by a pair of
spiders 134. The impeller 140 is shown having an axisymmetric shape about a
rotational axis 141, and further is symmetric about a plane of symmetry 121. A plurality
of electrical leads 168 exit housing 130 proximate to one of the legs of a spider 134.
        FIG. 3 shows a thin-walled rotor 180 that rotates about a stator 160 which is
supported along a centerline 141. Rotor 180 has an outer surface 182 that is adapted
and configured to centrifugally pump blood from inlets 132 2 outlets 133. Preferably,
the outer surface 182 has an outer diameter that monotonically increases from either
end of the rotor (these ends being supported by spiders 134) toward the middle of rotor
180. In some embodiments, rotor 180 is axisymmetrical about axis 141. In still further
embodiments, rotor 181 is further symmetric about a plane 121 that is generally
perpendicular to axis 141. With this combination of axisymmetric and planar symmetry
rotor 180 encounters no or only negligible net thrust loads along axis 141.
        The rotational axis CXLI of pump 120 preferably passes through a pair of
opposing inlets 132. The shape of rotor 182 is adapted and configured to viscously
induce fluid flow from inlets 132 and to centrifugally provide this same flow at a higher
total pressure to at least one outlet 132. At least a portion of the cross-sectional area of
outlet 132 is intersected by plane 121.
        FIG. 4 shows a partial cutaway of pump 120. FIG. 4 shows the rotor 180 of
impeller 140 in cutaway. Nested within rotor 180, and supported by spiders 134, is an
internal stator core 160. A bearing flowpath 179 (shown in crosshatch) is provided in

                                             21
the space between the inner surface of rotor 180 and the outer surface of stator 160.
Bearing flowpath 179 includes a feed line that is provided with blood from a pair of
annular entrance orifices 184a. Blood flows along the curved path toward an expulsion
line 179b, with blood exiting from a plurality of spaced apart exit orifices 184b (also seen
in FIG. 3).
        As best seen in FIG. 4, the internal surface of rotor 180 and the exterior surface
161 of stator 160 cooperate to define a flow passage 179 there between. Preferably,
the external shape of the stator is substantially the same as the internal shape of the
rotor, so as to manipulate the various hydraulic forces and provide hydrodynamic
suspension of rotor 180 about stator 160. In still further embodiments, the external
shape of the stator is substantially the same as the external shape of the rotor, so as to
encourage an internal VIP pumping effect similar to the VIP pumping effect provided by
the external shape of rotor 180.
        The gap between the outer surface of the stator and the inner surface of the rotor
is adapted and configured to discourage clotting of the blood. This discouragement can
be provided in several ways, including by surface shape, by gap size, by the use of
coatings, and the like. It is noted that the flow of blood within the gap is provided
without positive displacement of the blood. However, it is further recognized that either
the exterior surface of the stator or the internal surface of the rotor can include features
that encourage pumping within this flow passage 179. As one example, the internal
surface of the rotor can include ridges or valleys either formed or etched into the
surface, including ridges or valleys having curvature so as to encourage a central focal
action within the flow passage. As another example, the exterior shape of the stator
can include ridges or valleys formed or etched into the stator surface so as to
discourage localized recirculation.
        As best seen in FIGS. 3 and 4, pump 120 includes a plurality of surfaces having
shapes consistent with the class of pumps referred to as viscous impelling pumps (VIP).
FIG. 3 shows that the outer surface of rotor 180 preferably has such a VIP shape. FIG.
4 shows that the inner surface of rotor 180 as well as the external surface of stator 160
further have such VIP shapes. Further discussion of this shape can be found in U.S.
patent application Serial No. 13/122,797, filed April 6, 2011, incorporated herein with
regards to discussion of viscous impelling pumps.
        FIG. 5 is a cutaway of a portion of the apparatus of FIG. 4. FIG. 5 shows a
cutaway of stator 160 supported by spiders 134 within housing 130. The crosshatching

                                              22
of FIG. 5 pertains to the wall thickness of stator 160. It can be seen that stator 160
includes a plurality of internal electrical windings 164 that are provided with electrical
power by leads 168 that extend from the core of stator 160 and out of a leg of a spider
134. A source of electrical energy (not shown) provides power by leads 168 to each of
the windings 64 in order to induce rotation of rotor 180 (not shown in FIG. 5) about
rotational centerline 141. The ends of stator 160 proximate to entrance orifices 184a
include a plurality of permanent magnets 166. These permanent magnets 166 can be
incorporated on the surface of stator 160, buried within stator 160, or placed within the
wall thickness of stator 160. Further, some embodiments include placement of
permanent magnets 166 within pockets that are aligned or skewed so as to impart swirl
in the fluid passing between the rotor and stator, and to modify cogging torque between
the rotor and stator. Magnets 166 provide a magnetic field that uniformly repulses rotor
180, and thereby act as magnetic bearings.
         In operation, rotating magnetic fields are induced at each of the windings 164 by
the source of electrical power. In some embodiments, this source further receives as an
input timing signal the output of a rotational sensor (not shown) that indicates the
relative position of rotor 180 relative to stator 160. Still further, in some embodiments,
rotor 180 includes a plurality of embedded permanent magnets (not shown), such that
the interaction of the field of the embedded permanent magnets and the field created by
windings 164 interact so as to rotate rotor 180.
        The outer surface of stator 160 and the inner surface of rotor 180 interact to
provide a viscous impelling effect that results in the flow of blood inward from annular
inlet orifices 184a along rotational axis 141. The relative rotation of stator 180 and
stator 160 result in a higher pressure of this induced blood flow in gap 179 proximate to
plane 121, such that the plurality of exit orifices 184b release blood from passageway
179 through the exit orifices 184b. This flow of blood within internal passageway 179
provides hydrodynamic bearing-type support of rotor 180 about the body of stator 160.
As discussed earlier, further bearing support of rotor 180 is accomplished by magnetic
bearings 166 of stator 160. This flow of blood within passageway 179 further acts to
provide cooling to stator 160.
         Flow orifices 184 have a configuration and a location so as to induce or entrain
flow from passage 179 as a result of the low static pressure in the external flow field of
rotor 180 proximate to midplane 121. Referring to FIG. 3, it can be seen that the
centrifugal action of rotor 180 provides a pumping action with the highest fluid velocity

                                              23
(and therefore lowest static pressure) in the region of the maximum diameter of rotor
180. By careful shaping and placement of apertures 184b this low static pressure can
be communicated to the hydrodynamic bearing flow in expulsion line 179b so as to
entrain this bearing flow as it nears the apertures.
        A second path for the flow of blood is created by the external VIP shape of rotor
180 (as best seen in FIG. 3). As the rotor body 180 rotates about axis 141, blood is
induced to flow along the outer surface of rotor 180 from a position proximate to spiders
134 toward the central plane 121. This external flow of blood along the outer surface of
rotor body 180 combines with the internal flow from exit orifices 184b, such that impeller
140 provides a combined flow of viscously impelled blood along both internal and
external flowpaths.
        FIG. 6 provides a schematic representation of a pump 120 implanted in a patient
according to one embodiment o f the present invention.
        FIG. 7 is a cutaway of a housing 230 according to another embodiment of the
present invention. Housing 230 includes a plurality of inlet strakes 232b that are
intended to improve the flow characteristics of impeller 140. In some embodiments,
flow strakes 232 are projections from the inner surface of housing 230 that are adapted
and configured to reduce or eliminate internal volumes with recirculation, and further to
reduce the likelihood of blood cells or other materials in the patient's blood being
damaged by contact with the implanted pump.
        FIGS. 8, 9, and 10 depict certain aspects of a pump 220 according to another
embodiment of the present invention. Pump 220 includes a rotor 280 having a plurality
of bearing flow exit slots 286. Slots 286 extend across at least a portion of the length of
rotor 280, and in some embodiments extend along the entire length. These slots 280
are adapted and configured to provide increased flow of blood within bearing path 279,
discouragement of blood clotting in the bearing flow path, or improved hydrodynamic
suspension of the rotor by decreased sensitivity to clotting.
        FIG. 8 shows a flow exit aperture or slot 286 extending along a portion of the
surface of rotor 280. The lengthwise shape of the slots can be of any type consistent
with the viscous impelling operation of rotor 280. In one embodiment, slots 286 have a
curved shape that is generally symmetrical about midplane 221. For purposes of
providing balanced internal and external flow, and further with regards to the dynamic
balance of the rotor, it is preferable that slots 286 be arranged in a symmetrical pattern
about axis 241, as shown in FIG. 9.

                                              24
        FIG. 10 includes diagrams of three different configurations of exit slots 286, flow
path 279, and rotor 280. Each of these three figures is an enlargement of the bearing
flow path proximate to the exit slots, and further showing the gap between the outer
surface 261 of stator 260 and the inner surface of rotor 280. FIG. 1OA shows a first
configuration of slot 286a for a rotor 280a that maintains a fixed maximum diameter in
the vicinity of the slot. As the noted by arrow F, the flow of fluid over the external
surface of rotor 280a is at a relatively fixed diameter for any particular axial location of
the slot. The leading edge of the slot is generally flat, but the trailing edge of the slot
extends below the surface and into flow path 279a. It can be seen that bearing flow
within flow path 279a bifurcates as it encounters the trailing edge.
        FIG. 10C shows a second configuration in which the leading edge of slot 286c
extends radially outward, so as to create a local area of rotor 280c having a maximum
diameter greater than the mean maximum diameter. As indicated by arrow F, the
externally pumped flow moves, radially outward as it encounters the leading edge of the
slot, and then returns to the mean maximum diameter. After passing the slot trailing
edge, flow within the bearing flow path 279c can be seen to bifurcate, with a portion of
the bearing flow extending radially outward to exit from the slot. FIG. 1OB shows a slot
configuration 286b that is intermediate of configurations 286a and 286c.
        X1.     One aspect of the present invention pertains to an apparatus for pumping
fluid. The method preferably includes a rotor symmetrical about a rotational axis and
having an outer surface adapted and configured for pumping fluid, the rotor interior
including a first plurality of permanent magnets. The apparatus preferably includes a
stator including a plurality of electrical windings, the windings being located within the
interior of the rotor and establishing a radial gap between the magnets and the windings
adapted and configured to discourage clotting of the fluid therebetween. .
        X2.     Another aspect of the present invention pertains to an apparatus for
pumping fluid. The apparatus preferably includes a symmetrical rotor rotatable about a
rotational axis and having an interior and inner and outer surfaces. The apparatus
preferably includes a stator located at least in part within the interior of the rotor and
supporting the stator. The apparatus preferably includes means for electromagnetically
coupling the rotor and the stator. The apparatus preferably includes a housing
supporting the stator, the housing including a conductor for providing electrical power to
the coupling means, the housing having a pair of opposing inlets, the inlets being

                                            25
generally aligned along the rotational axis, wherein the rotor spins about the stator in
response to the application of electrical power to the coupling means.
        X3.    Another aspect of the present invention pertains to an apparatus for
pumping fluid. The apparatus preferably includes a rotor symmetrical about a rotational
axis and having an internal shape adapted and configured for centrifugal pumping of
fluid and having an interior shape. The apparatus preferably includes a stator having a
portion located within the interior shape of the rotor, the portion of the stator having an
external shape that cooperates with the interior shape of the rotor to define a flow
passage therebetween, wherein rotation of the rotor about the stator results in flow of
fluid through the flow passage that may or may not hydrodynamically support rotation of
the rotor about the stator.
        X4.    Another aspect of the present invention pertains to an apparatus for
pumping fluid. The apparatus preferably includes a centrifugal rotor having an interior
and inner and outer surfaces. The apparatus preferably include a stator having an outer
surface, wherein a surface of the stator and a surface of the rotor coact to form a flow
passage therebetween, a first supply of fluid flows over another surface of the rotor
when the rotor spins about the axis, a second different supply of fluid flows through the
flow passage simultaneously with flow of the first supply when the rotor spins about the
axis, the rotor being adapted and configured such that the first supply of fluid induces
the second supply of fluid.
        Yet other embodiments pertain to any of the previous statements X1, X2, X3, or
X4 which are combined with one or more of the following other aspects:
        Which further comprises a source of electrical power and an electronic controller
operably connecting the source to the winding, wherein the rotor spins relative to the
stator in response to the controller providing power to the windings
        Wherein the rotor and the stator electromagnetically coact as a brushless motor.
        Wherein the stator and the rotor include a second plurality of permanent magnets
for magnetic levitation of the rotor about the stator.
        Wherein the rotor and the stator establish a flow path therebetween in which the
fluid provides hydrodynamic support of the rotor.
        Wherein the rotor includes a thin walled shell.
        Wherein the rotor includes opposite ends along the axis and a middle
therebetween, and the outer diameter of the rotor increases monotonically from each
end toward the middle.

                                              26
        Which further comprises a housing that supports the stator, the housing including
two inlets and an outlet, the housing being adapted and configured to be attached to the
circulatory system of the animal proximate each of the inlets.
        Wherein the outlet is a first outlet and which further comprises a second outlet,
the first and second outlets being located to receive fluid flowing within the plane.
        Wherein the stator supports the rotor hydrodynamically with fluid.
        Wherein the rotor extends between opposing ends along a length, of the axis and
which further comprises a pair of magnetic bearings, one bearing being located at one
end and the other bearing being located at the other end.
        Wherein each the magnetic includes a Halbach array.
        Wherein each inlet of the housing includes a strut that locates the stator
generally on the axis.
        Wherein the motor includes a plurality of permanent magnets attached to the
rotor.
        Wherein the portion of the stator has an external shape substantially the same as
the external shape of the rotor.
        Wherein the external shape of the rotor is adapted and configured for centrifugal
pumping of fluid.
        Which further comprises a plurality of apertures in the rotor, the apertures being
adapted and configured to permit the flow of fluid out of the flow passage.
        Wherein the stator and the rotor combine to pump fluid from the external shape
of the rotor without positive displacement of the fluid.
        Wherein the stator and the rotor combine to pump fluid from the flow passage
without positive displacement of the fluid.
        Wherein the fluid pumped by the external shape of the rotor is first received by
the rotor at the same position along the axis as the fluid first received and then pumped
from the flow passage.
        Wherein the rotor includes a plurality of flow apertures providing fluid
communication between the first fluid supply and the second fluid supply.
        Wherein the apertures are located proximate to the plane of symmetry.
        Wherein flow passage has an entry that is annular in shape.
        Wherein the stator is magnetically coupled to the rotor.
        Wherein the direction of fluid flowing within the flow passage is toward the plane
of symmetry.

                                             27
        Wherein the direction of fluid flowing over the outer surface is toward the plane of
symmetry.
        Wherein the outer surface of the rotor provides the first supply of fluid by
centrifugal operation.
        Which further comprises means for electromagnetically coupling the rotor and the
stator, the coupling means providing one of more of the following: driving torque to the
rotor, thrust support, radial support, vibratory support, or gyroscopic support.
        Wherein the stator is supported from a housing by a plurality of struts, and the
struts are adapted and configured to limited elastic movement of the rotor and stator
relative to the housing.
        While the inventions have been illustrated and described in detail in the drawings
and foregoing description, the same is to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive
in character, it being understood that only certain embodiments have been shown and
described and that all changes and modifications that come within the spirit of the
invention are desired to be protected.

                                                  28
CLAIMS
1.     An apparatus for pumping blood in the circulatory system of an animal, comprising:
       a rotor symmetrical about a rotational axis and symmetrical about a plane perpendicular to
the rotational axis, said rotor having an outer surface adapted and configured for pumping blood,
said rotor having an interior and including a first plurality of permanent magnets;
       a stator including a plurality of electrical windings, said windings being located within the
interior of said rotor and establishing a radial gap between the magnets and the windings, the gap
being adapted and configured to discourage clotting of the blood therebetween;
       a source of electrical power; and
       an electronic controller operably connecting said source to said winding;
       wherein said rotor spins relative to said stator in response to said controller providing
power to said windings.
2.     The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said rotor and said stator electromagnetically coact as a
brushless motor.
3.     The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said stator and said rotor include a second plurality of
permanent magnets for magnetic levitation of said rotor about said stator.
4.     The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said rotor and said stator establish a flow path
therebetween in which the blood provides hydrodynamic support of said rotor.
5.     The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said rotor includes a thin walled shell.
6.     The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said rotor includes opposite ends along the axis and a
middle therebetween, and the outer diameter of said rotor increases monotonically from each end
toward the middle.
7.     The apparatus of claim 1, which further comprises a housing that supports said stator, said
housing including two inlets and an outlet, said housing being adapted and configured to be
attached to the circulatory system of the animal proximate each of the inlets.

                                                   29
8.     An apparatus for pumping blood in the circulatory system of an animal, comprising:
       a rotor rotatable about a rotational axis and symmetrical about a plane perpendicular to the
rotational axis, said rotor having an interior and inner and outer surfaces;
       a stator located at least in part within the interior of said rotor, said stator supporting said
stator ;
       means for electromagnetically coupling said rotor and said stator; and
       a housing supporting said stator, said housing including a conductor for providing
electrical power to said coupling means, said housing having a pair of opposing inlets and an
outlet, the inlets being generally aligned along the rotational axis;
       wherein said rotor spins about said stator in response to the application of electrical power
to said coupling means.
9.     The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the outlet is a first outlet and which further comprises a
second outlet, the first and second outlets being located to receive fluid flowing within the plane.
10.    The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said stator supports said rotor hydrodynamically with
blood.
11.    The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said rotor extends between opposing ends along a
length, of the axis and which further comprises a pair of magnetic bearings, one bearing being
located at one end and the other bearing being located at the other end.
12.    The apparatus of claim 8, wherein each said magnetic includes a Halbach array.
14.    The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said coupling means includes a brushless motor.
15.    The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the motor includes a plurality of permanent magnets
attached to said rotor.
16.    An apparatus for pumping blood in the circulatory system of an animal, comprising:
       a rotor symmetrical about a rotational axis and having an external shape adapted and
configured for centrifugal pumping of blood, said rotor having an interior shape;
       a stator having a portion located within the interior shape of said rotor, the portion of said
stator having an external shape that cooperates with the interior shape of said rotor to define a
flow passage therebetween; and

                                                    30
       wherein rotation of said rotor about said stator results in flow of blood through the flow
passage that hydrodynamically supports rotation of said rotor about said stator.
17.     The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the portion of said stator has an external shape
substantially the same as the external shape of said rotor.
18.     The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the external shape of said rotor is adapted and
configured for centrifugal pumping of blood.
20.     The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said stator and said rotor combine to pump blood from
the external shape of said rotor without positive displacement of the blood.
21.     The apparatus of claim 20, wherein said stator and said rotor combine to pump blood from
the flow passage without positive displacement of the blood.
22.     The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the blood pumped by the external shape of the rotor is
first received by the rotor at the same position along the axis as the blood first received and then
pumped from the flow passage.
23.    An apparatus for pumping blood in the circulatory system of an animal, comprising:
        a rotor symmetrical about a rotational axis and symmetrical about a plane perpendicular to
the rotational axis, said rotor having an interior and inner and outer surfaces; and
        a stator located at least in part within the interior of said rotor, said stator having an outer
surface;
       wherein the outer surface of said stator and the inner surface of said rotor coact to form a
flow passage therebetween, a first supply of blood flows over the outer surface of said rotor
when said rotor spins about the axis, a second different supply of blood flows through the flow
passage simultaneously with flow of the first supply when the rotor spins about the axis, said
rotor being adapted and configured such that the first supply of blood induces the second supply
of blood.
25.     The apparatus of claim 24, wherein said apertures are located proximate to the plane of
symmetry.
26.     The apparatus of claim 23, wherein flow passage has an entry that is annular in shape.

                                               31
27.   The apparatus of claim 23, wherein said stator is magnetically coupled to said rotor.
28.   The apparatus of claim 23, wherein said rotor includes a thin-walled shell, with the interior
being on one side of the wall and the exterior being on the other side of the wall.
29.   The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the direction of blood flowing within the flow passage
is toward the plane of symmetry.
30.   The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the direction of blood flowing over the outer surface is
toward the plane of symmetry.
31.   The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the outer surface of said rotor provides the first supply
of blood by centrifugal operation.
                  Indiana University Research and Technology Corporation
                    Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
