                                               ABSTRACT
   An objective is achieved by an airborne electromagnetic survey system configured for
   geophysical prospecting (2) of an underground formation (3), which airborne electromagnetic
   survey system comprises a transmitter arrangement T, (10), comprising at least one current
 5 source (15) connected to at least one transmitter coil arrangement (24) covering an area A for
   generating a magnetic moment (5) for building up a primary electromagnetic field (11) inducing
   a secondary electromagnetic field (12) in the underground formation (3) and a switch
   arrangement comprising at least one switch inserted in between the at least one current source
   (15) and the at least one transmitter coil arrangement (24).
 0
   The switch arrangement (20) is configured to connect (30) the at least one current source (15)
   with the at least one transmitter coil arrangement (24) to build up a connecting secondary
   electromagnetic field (38), which connect (30) is at a connection time (32) at a connection
   voltage (34) at a connection current (36). The switch arrangement (2) is furthermore arranged to
 5 disconnect (40) the at least one current source (15) from the at least one transmitter coil
   arrangement (20) to build up a disconnecting secondary electromagnetic field (48); which
   disconnect (40) is at a disconnection time (42) at a disconnection voltage (44) at a disconnection
   current (46). The connecting secondary electromagnetic field (38) and disconnecting secondary
   electromagnetic field (48) provide a combined secondary electromagnetic field (50).
 0
   The airborne geophysical prospecting system further comprises a receiver arrangement R,
   comprising at least one receiver coil configured to receive the combined connecting and
   disconnecting secondary electromagnetic fields (50). The airborne electromagnetic survey
   system comprises multiple transmitter arrangements Tx (101, ..., ION) generating a total
25 secondary electromagnetic field (55) comprising a sum of individual combined secondary
   electromagnetic fields (501), ..., 50N).

          419
101
                          501
              51
10N  IA
                         5011
                  Mr
              511         55
                    AS
 iON
                     NMO
        Figure 4

           AIRBORNE ELECTROMAGNETIC SURVEY SYSTEM WITH MULTIPLE
                                 TRANSMITTER ARRANGEMENTS
   Cross-reference to other applications
   This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2015233917.
 5 Australian Patent Application No. 2015233917 is a national phase application from International
   Application No. PCT/DK2015/050051, having an application date of 16 March 2015, and
   claiming priority from Danish Patent Application No. PA 2014 70130. The full disclosure of
   these applications is incorporated herein by reference.
 o Field of invention
   An objective is achieved by an airborne electromagnetic survey system configured for
   geophysical prospecting of an underground formation, which airborne electromagnetic survey
   system comprises a transmitter arrangement T, comprising at least one current source connected
   to at least one transmitter coil arrangement covering an area A for generating a magnetic moment
 5 for building up a primary electromagnetic field inducing a secondary electromagnetic field in the
   underground formation and a switch arrangement comprising at least one switch inserted in
   between the at least one current source and the at least one transmitter coil arrangement.
   The switch arrangement is configured to connect the at least one current source with the at least
 0 one transmitter coil arrangement to build up a connecting secondary electromagnetic field in a
   underground formation, which connect is at a connection time at a connection voltage at a
   connection current. The switch arrangement is furthermore arranged to disconnect the at least
   one current source from the at least one transmitter coil arrangement to build up a disconnecting
   secondary electromagnetic field in a underground formation; which disconnect is at a
25 disconnection time at a disconnection voltage at a disconnection current. The connecting
   secondary electromagnetic field and disconnecting secondary electromagnetic fields form a
   combined secondary electromagnetic field.
   Background of the invention
30 Geophysical prospecting by application of electromagnetic surveys where a primary
   electromagnetic field is generated to induce a secondary electromagnetic field in an underground
   formation has become widespread. During the last decades, survey systems for performing such
   prospecting have become airborne. An airborne electromagnetic system may comprise a tow
   assembly connected to an aircraft, typically a helicopter, and further comprising a transmitter
                                                     1

   system for generating the primary electromagnetic field that induces the secondary
   electromagnetic field in the underground formation. The secondary electromagnetic field is
   detected by a receiver system.
 5 Achieving a high magnetic moment has been a goal achieved by increasing the current or the
   area of the transmitter. Such straight forward improvements have previously resulted in larger
   frames or larger current sources, which have proven difficult to implement or operate in airborne
   systems.
 o Larger frames with larger transmitter coils and thus a larger area have proven much more
   difficult to handle operationally than foreseen.
   Simply increasing the current has also proven difficult due to appearance of higher order
   electromagnetic effects becoming significant and thus imposing limitation on how early
 5 measurements can be made in transient electromagnetic (TEM) systems. This implies longer
   wait times, basically a "dead-time" before the current has decayed in a transmitter coil. One way
   to reduce the wait time is to use a conductor or wire where each core is isolated, such as a Litz
   Wire. It is an objective to able to measure at event earlier times or to provide an alternative way
   than using special conductors.
 0
   Likewise, increasing the number of turns in a transmitter coil has proven difficult due to higher
   voltages when switching on and off the current source from the transmitter coil. Higher voltages
   may cause devastating and dangerous voltage breakthroughs or simply reduce quality of the
   measurements.
25
   US Patent 5,796,253 relates to time domain electromagnetic mapping technique for geophysical
   prospecting and discloses techniques where a sequence or succession of multiple half sinusoids
   transmitter pulses replaces a single half sinusoid waveform to achieve steeper decays of the or
   fall time of the current in the transmitter coil. The letter discloses circuits for generating
30 sequences or pulse trains of such half sinusoids in uncoupled transmitter coils.
   It is an objective of this disclosure to improve upon such limitations.
                                                       2

   Summary
   An objective is achieved by an airborne electromagnetic survey system configured for
   geophysical prospecting of an underground formation, which airborne electromagnetic survey
   system comprises a transmitter arrangement T, comprising at least one current source connected
 5 to at least one transmitter coil arrangement covering an area A for generating a magnetic moment
   for building up a primary electromagnetic field inducing a secondary electromagnetic field in the
   underground formation and a switch arrangement comprising at least one switch inserted in
   between the at least one current source and the at least one transmitter coil arrangement.
 o The switch arrangement is configured to connect the at least one current source with the at least
   one transmitter coil arrangement to build up a connecting secondary electromagnetic field, which
   connect is at a connection time at a connection voltage at a connection current. The switch
   arrangement is furthermore arranged to disconnect the at least one current source from the at
   least one transmitter coil arrangement to build up a disconnecting secondary electromagnetic
 5 field; which disconnect is at a disconnection time at a disconnection voltage at a disconnection
   current. The connecting secondary electromagnetic field and disconnecting secondary
   electromagnetic field provide or form a combined secondary electromagnetic field.
   The airborne geophysical prospecting system further comprises a receiver arrangement Rx
   comprising at least one receiver coil configured to receive the combined connecting and
 0 disconnecting secondary electromagnetic fields. The airborne electromagnetic survey system
   comprises multiple transmitter arrangements T, generating a total secondary electromagnetic
   field comprising a sum of individual combined secondary electromagnetic fields.
   Thereby is achieved a significant increase in the magnetic moment by applying several
25 transmitter arrangements Tx.
   "Connect" or "disconnect" may be understood an event or an action.
   Alternatively, a much smaller frame can be used and thus allow for operation either at places or
30 during circumstances otherwise excluded or cumbersome. Furthermore, using smaller systems or
   frames will result in faster survey times and/or at reduced operational costs.
   One effect is that the turn off or disconnect voltage in this manner can be reduced for the
   individual transmitter coil arrangement, whilst maintaining the turn off time, and thereby reduce
35 the risk for current penetration and hazard for operation personal.
                                                     3

   Another effect or advantage is that smaller coils or thinner wires can be used to achieve the same
   magnetic moments without the disadvantages of otherwise larger coils or thicker wires required
   to carry required currents and/or to mitigate undesirable electromagnetic effects such as
 5 coupling, self-inductance and/or eddy currents.
   A transmitter arrangement may have separate transmitter coils. The transmitter coils may be in
   series, in parallel or in groups in parallel being in series and/or in groups in series being in
   parallel.
 0
   In an embodiment, the airborne electromagnetic survey system may further comprise a switch
   arrangement controller configured to control each switch arrangement of the system.
   Thus, the electromagnetic system will be able to control each switch arrangement according to
 5 operational circumstances and provide a means to perform switching as precisely as required.
   The switch arrangement controller may be programmable or hard wired with adjustable timing
   means for providing timely control signals. In an embodiment the switch arrangement controller
   may be connected to each switch arrangement by cables adjusted in length or otherwise to
 o compensate for time of flight of signals from the location of the controller to each switch
   arrangement.
   In an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system, the switch arrangement
   controller and each switch arrangement is configured to control each switch arrangement to
25 disconnect each current source from each transmitter coil arrangement at substantially the same
   time.
   By disconnecting at the same time is understood that each switch is configured to be switched to
   disconnect the current source from the transmitter coil generating the secondary field
30 contribution so that the characteristics of the secondary field is desired.
   Ideally the switch arrangements should disconnect at the same time or simultaneously.
   The secondary field contributions should in practice be synchronised to within 50 ts, to within
35 10 ps; or more preferably to within 1 pLs.
                                                       4

   In an embodiment where transmitter coils and transmitter arguments are identical, the controller
   may be arranged to provide switching signals, and switching arrangements may be configured to
   switch individual switches to within 50 ts, preferably within 10 ts or more preferably to within
 5 1 ps.
   A starting point may be to use identical components extending to the length of cables.
   Alternatively, each transmitter arrangement may be adjusted so as to synchronize. Such
   synchronisation may require introduction of delays in components, in between components or
 o adjustment of the signals from the controller.
   A person skilled in the art will acknowledge the need for some systematic calibration and
   synchronising work.
 5 A further advantage of disconnecting to the same time or simultaneously is that the
   electromagnetic field generated or induced when the system is synchronised will be as pure or
   identical as possible and thus result in less need for post-processing of measured data.
   In an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system, the switch arrangement
 0 controller is configured to record each disconnection time of each disconnect by each switch
   arrangement.
   To further improve or advance the survey system or to compensate for time lags or time
   differences, recording of the time of disconnection time of each disconnect has been observed to
25 be valuable. The time of disconnect may be provided by measuring currents or voltages or fields
   occurring from the transmitter coils. Alternatively, recordings of controller signals may provide
   measurements of disconnection time. In either case, the times of each disconnection time may be
   recorded and stored along with recordings from the receiver arrangement.
30 This will allow for measured data to be post processed and taking effects of time differences into
   account in a corrective fashion.
   In an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system, the switch arrangement
   controller and each switch arrangement is configured to control each switch arrangement to
35 connect each current source to each transmitter coil arrangement at substantially the same time.
                                                      5

   Configuration of the controller is essentially the same as for the disconnection outlined.
   However, the person skilled in the art will appreciate differences in current management when
   disconnecting and when connecting. Attempts to apply simple configurations that are identical or
 5 symmetrical for providing current and leading currents away may result in undesirable results
   such as remaining electromagnetic fields.
   In an embodiment the controller is configured to ramp up the current in a transmitter coil
   arrangement directly by connecting a voltage source through a connecting switch and to let the
 0 current ramp up - essentially exponentially - to the more or less maximal value in steady state
   given Ohm's law as the voltage across a transmitter coil over the resistance in the transmitter
   coil.
   In another embodiment the current in a transmitter coil is cut-off and used to charge a capacitor
 5 as long as charge from the transmitter coil is available. The remaining current is drained by a
   resistor. The stored charge in the capacitor is then used to ramp up the current in a transmitter
   coil again and the high voltage results in a very fast ramp-up of the current. When the voltage
   across the capacitor has been lowered to a given value, the connection between the transmitter
   coil and the capacitor is switched off and a connection between the transmitter coil and a
 o generator is switched on, possibly through a capacitor. The generator then maintains the current
   until the next switch-off or cycle.
   This switching method has the advantage that is ramps-up the current in the transmitter coil very
   fast. Likewise this switching method can ramp-down the current equally fast.
25
   In an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system, the switch arrangement
   controller may be configured to record each connection time of each connect by each switch
   arrangement.
30 Likewise, recording of the connections may be advantageous. A person skilled in the art
   implements the same type of logic in recording the disconnect and connect based on the logic of
   a controller. Making recording of changes in the currents or voltages or fields in the transmitter
   arrangements may require different implementations of the sensing of disconnect and connect
   due to differences in the voltages or currents during switching off and during switching on.
35
                                                      6

   Besides the logic of the controller, the switch arrangements including actual switches may be
   properly configured. A switch arrangement may be configured to handle disconnect voltages of
   between 0 - 6 kV. In particular, a switch arrangement may be configured to handle voltage
   breakthroughs from 500 V, 1800 V upward to about 5kV.
 5
   Also, the switch arrangements may be configured to operate with disconnect currents below
   about 100 mA. Ideally, the arrangement may be configured to disconnect with zero amperage.
   Likewise, the switch arrangements may be configured to connect at voltages of between 1 V to 5
 0 kV. Also the switch arrangements may be configured to connect currents in the order of 5A, or
   even in the range of 50 A to 500 A.
   The lower voltage in the order of 1 V may be applicable when the current ramp-up is direct and
   the larger voltage is when the generator may take over or when switched from a capacitor to a
 5 generator.
   Ideally, the system may be able to connect at as high amperage as possible and disconnect to
   zero amperage without any effect of the voltage. However, the above mentioned ranges have
   been observed to be adequate in practice and be configurable by using available components at
 o tolerable sizes and weights of equipment. This to a degree where configuring a system using
   multiple transmitter arrangements become advantageous or necessary to overcome deficiencies
   of the prior art.
   In an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system, there is only a single current
25 source.
   This embodiment may be advantageous since it allows for relatively simple configuration where
   power handling is required only at one place or in one system.
30 In an embodiment a power generator feeds one or more current sources. The power generator
   may feed the current sources in parallel, in series or sequentially.
   In an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system, a current source comprises a
   capacitor, a super capacitor, or a battery; or a bank of such.
35
                                                      7

   Capacitors are advantageous since they can be easily recharged and configured to deliver a
   certain quantified amount of power.
   Super capacitors or ultra capacitors are further advantageous due to the higher energy storage as
 5 compared to capacitors.
   In an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system, the current source comprises a
   generator being a motor generator or a fuel cell.
 0 In an embodiment mechanical energy storage may be usedin between a transmitter arrangement
   and a generator. In an embodiment the mechanical energy storage is a flywheel configuration.
   An advantage of a flywheel is that the weight may be reduced compared to a capacitor / super
   capacitor embodiment. A further advantage may be that otherwise complicated electronics may
   be eliminated.
 5
   The generator may be configured to charge or recharge capacitors or batteries or combinations
   thereof. A person skilled in the art will appreciate the design options provided by a Ragone
   representation to configure that current source according to operational requirements in terms of
   power requirements, i.e. energy density and power density. Whilst conventional capacitors may
 o have a high power density (W/kg) and fast charge and de-charge times (in the order oft
   seconds), conventional capacitors may have a low energy density. Ultra capacitors will have
   slower charge and de-charge times (eg. seconds), but higher energy densities. Batteries in the
   other end will have charge time of hours much higher energy densities. Finally, fuel cells
   (including fuel) will have even higher energy densities, but lower power densities, as will motor
25 generators.
   In an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system, a switch arrangement
   comprises at least two switches.
30 In an embodiment, each switch may be connected to a transmitter arrangement and the control of
   switches may be as follows. First a connection from a first transmitter coil to a current source is
   established and the current is cut off. Second a connection from a second transmitter coil to a
   current source is established and the current is cut off. Thus one is active and another is inactive.
   This is repeated. In this embodiment the transmitter coils may be placed on top of each other to
35 couple the two coils. The direction of currents may be opposite in the two coils and thus the
                                                      8

   primary magnetic field can be reversed. Such configuration may require less electronics and less
   power losses. Compared to the double switch arrangement, two transmitter coils are required and
   thus the system weighs more.
   In another embodiment four switches in a bridge configuration may be used. Compared to the
 5 double switch arrangement, only transmitter coils is required and thus the system weighs less.
   Thereby is provided a switch for connection and a switch for disconnection.
   In an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system, a switch arrangement is
 0 arranged with switches in a bridge configuration.
   Thereby is provided a switch arrangement type that allows for connection as well as
   disconnection and in particular handling currents to achieve even sharper or more precise
   transitions.
 5
   In an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system, a switch is a semiconductor
   type switch. Although the working of the disclosed switch arrangement may use other types of
   switches such as contacts or configurations of contacts, a semiconductor type switch has showed
   to provide adequate switching times and characteristics as well as being easily controllable.
 0
   In an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system, the transmitter coil
   arrangements are placed on top of each other thus providing an essentially 100% coupling
   between the transmitter coils.
25 In an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system, each combined secondary
   electromagnetic fields are essentially identical.
   The placement of a receiver arrangement in relation to transmitter arrangements may be
   performed according to design. The receiver arrangement may be located in the centre of the
30 transmitter arrangement. The receiver arrangement may be in the same plane or shifted to
   another plane. Alternatively, the receiver arrangement may be placed in a location where the
   magnetic field strength from the transmitter coil is minimal if not eliminated.
   In an aspect of the invention, an objective is achieved by a method of geophysical prospecting
35 comprising use of an airborne electromagnetic survey system configured for geophysical
                                                     9

   prospecting of an underground formation. The method of geophysical prospecting comprises
   generating a total secondary electromagnetic field comprising a sum of individually combined
   (connecting and disconnecting)secondary electromagnetic fields using multiple transmitter
   arrangements T,. A transmitter arrangement may comprise at least one current source connected
 5 to at least one transmitter coil arrangement covering an area A for generating a magnetic moment
   for building up a primary electromagnetic field inducing a secondary electromagnetic field in the
   underground formation. This may be achieved by switching a switch arrangement comprising at
   least one switch inserted in between the at least one current source and the at least one
   transmitter coil arrangement and configured to connect the at last one current source with the at
 0 least one transmitter coil arrangement to build up a connecting secondary electromagnetic field,
   which connect is at a connection time at a connection voltage at a connection current. The
   switching arrangement may furthermore be configured to disconnect the at least one current
   source from the at least one transmitter coil arrangement to build up a disconnecting secondary
   electromagnetic field; which disconnect is at a disconnection time at a disconnection voltage at a
 5 disconnection current.
   The method of geophysical prospecting may also comprise receiving a combined, connecting
   and disconnecting, secondary electromagnetic field using a receiver arrangement Rx comprising
   at least one receiver coil configured to receive the combined, connecting and disconnecting,
 o secondary electromagnetic fields.
   In a further embodiment a method of geophysical prospecting encompasses switching of each
   switch arrangement that comprises disconnecting the at least one current source from the at least
   one transmitter coil arrangement to build up a disconnecting secondary electromagnetic field;
25 which disconnecting is at a disconnection time at a disconnection voltage at a disconnection
   current; which disconnecting of each current source from each transmitter coil arrangement is at
   substantially the same time.
   In a further embodiment a method of geophysical prospecting encompasses switching of each
30 switch arrangement that comprises connecting the at least one current source to the at least one
   transmitter coil arrangement to build up a connecting secondary electromagnetic field; which
   connecting is at a connection time at a connection voltage at a connection current; which
   connecting of each current source to each transmitter coil arrangement is at substantially the
   same time.
35
                                                     10

   The methods solve the same problems as described for the systems. Furthermore, a person
   skilled in the art will appreciate that further steps or processes in the method can be
   accomplished by making use of system features as disclosed, or equivalents. As such, a person
   skilled in the art will appreciate transforming a system feature to a method step having the same
 5 functionality. As such carrying out steps may not be limited to making use of the herein
   disclosed system components, but also be achieved by performing steps having the same or
   equivalent functionality.
   Brief Description of Drawings
 0 Embodiments of the invention will be described in the figures, whereon:
   Figure 1 illustrates an airborne electromagnetic system for geophysical prospecting of an
   underground;
 5 Figure 2 illustrates a transmitter arrangement for inducing a secondary electromagnetic field in
   the underground and a receiver arrangement for receiving a combined secondary electromagnetic
   field;
   Figure 3 illustrates a transmitter arrangement and a switch arrangement for connecting and
 0 disconnecting a transmitter coil to a current source building up a connecting secondary
   electromagnetic field and a disconnecting secondary electromagnetic field;
   Figure 4 illustrates N-multiple transmitter arrangements;
25 Figure 5 illustrates a controller arrangement configured to control multiple transmitter
   arrangements;
   Figure 6 illustrates a controller arrangement configured to control switch controls in a switch
   arrangement of a transmitter arrangement;
30
   Figure 7 illustrates switch arrangements; including a bridge arrangement;
   Figure 8 illustrates multiple transmitter arrangements, each with a single current source and a
   pair of switch arrangements and transmitter coils; and
35
                                                       11

Figure 9 illustrates a method of geophysical prospecting using multiple transmitter arrangements.
Detailed Description
Item                                                      No
Airborne electromagnetic survey system                    1
Geophysical prospecting                                   2
Underground formation                                     3
Magnetic moment                                           5
Transmitter arrangement, Tx                               10
Primary electromagnetic field                             11
Secondary electromagnetic field                           12
Current Source                                            15
Switch arrangement                                        20
Switch                                                    22
Transmitter coil arrangement                              24
Connect                                                   30
Connection time                                           32
Connection voltage                                        34
Connection current                                        36
Connecting secondary electromagnetic field                38
Disconnect                                                40
Disconnection time                                        42
Disconnection voltage                                     44
Disconnection current                                     46
Disconnecting secondary electromagnetic field             48
Combined (connecting and disconnecting) secondary         50
electromagnetic field
Total secondary electromagnetic field                     55
Receiver arrangement                                      60
Receiver coil                                             62
Switch arrangement controller                             70
Switch control                                            72
Same time                                                 75
                                                12

   Generator                                                 80
   Bridge Configuration                                      90
   Method of geophysical prospecting                          100
   Generating                                                200
   Switching                                                 300
   Connecting                                                320
   Disconnecting                                             340
   Receiving                                                 400
   Figure 1 illustrates an airborne electromagnetic system 1 for geophysical prospecting 2 of an
   underground 3. The system is configured to provide a magnetic moment 5 by means of a
   transmitter arrangement 10.
 5
   Figure 2 illustrates a transmitter arrangement 10 for inducing a secondary electromagnetic field
   12 in the underground 3 and a receiver arrangement 60for receiving a combined secondary
   electromagnetic field 50.
 0 The airborne electromagnetic survey system comprises a transmitter arrangement T, 10
   comprising at least one current source 15 possibly fed by a generator 80 and connected to at least
   one transmitter coil arrangement 24 covering an area A for generating a magnetic moment 5 for
   building up a primary electromagnetic field 11 inducing a secondary electromagnetic field 12 in
   the underground formation and a switch arrangement 20 (not shown).
15
   The airborne geophysical prospecting system further comprises a receiver arrangement 60 R,
   comprising at least one receiver coil 62 configured to receive the secondary electromagnetic field
   12 or the combined connecting and disconnecting secondary electromagnetic fields 50, where the
   connection and disconnection will be exemplified in the following.
20
   Figure 3 illustrates a transmitter arrangement 10 with a switch arrangement 20 for connecting
   and disconnecting a transmitter coil arrangement24 to a current source 15 building up a
   connecting secondary electromagnetic field 38 and a disconnecting secondary electromagnetic
   field 48; both as induced secondary electromagnetic fields 12.
25
                                                    13

   The airborne electromagnetic survey system comprises a transmitter arrangement 10 Tx
   comprising at least one current source 15 connected to at least one transmitter coil arrangement
   24 covering an area A for generating a magnetic moment 5 for building up a primary
   electromagnetic field inducing a secondary electromagnetic field 12 in the underground
 5 formation. The switch arrangement 20 comprises at least one switch 22 inserted in between the
   at least one current source 15 and the at least one transmitter coil arrangement 24.
   The switch arrangement 20 is configured to connect 30 the at least one current source 15 with the
   at least one transmitter coil arrangement 24 to build up a connecting secondary electromagnetic
 0 field 38, which connect 30 is at a connection time 32 at a connection voltage 34 at a connection
   current 36, which voltage and currents are illustrated by the pulse with a square pulse with an
   onset and an offset. The switch arrangement 20 is furthermore arranged to disconnect 40 the at
   least one current source 15 from the at least one transmitter coil arrangement 24 to build up a
   disconnecting secondary electromagnetic field 48; which disconnect 40 is at a disconnection
 5 time 42 at a disconnection voltage 44 at a disconnection current 46. The connecting secondary
   electromagnetic field 38 and disconnecting secondary electromagnetic field 48 form a combined
   secondary electromagnetic field 50.
   The airborne geophysical prospecting system further comprises a receiver arrangement Rx
 0 comprising at least one receiver coil configured to receive the combined 50 connecting 38 and
   disconnecting 48 secondary electromagnetic fields 12.
   Features described on figure 3 will be applicable to the following figures, without explicitly
   being shown in each figure.
25
   Figure 4 illustrates N-multiple transmitter arrangements 101, 10II, ... 1ON building up a total
   secondary electromagnetic field 55 by contributions from combined secondary electromagnetic
   fields 501, 5011, ... 5ON, respectively as induced due to individual magnetic moments 5I, 5II,  ...
   5N.
30
   Figure 5 illustrates a switch arrangement controller 70 configured to control switch arrangements
   201, 2011, ... 20N of multiple transmitter arrangements 101, 10II, ... ION so as to generate
   magnetic moments 5I, 511, ... 5N for inducing a total secondary electromagnetic field. The
   control to connect and to disconnect may be understood with reference to figure 3.
35
                                                     14

   In particular the switch arrangement controller 70 and each switch arrangement 201, 2011, ...
   20N are configured to control each switch arrangement 201, 2011, ... 20N to disconnect 401, 4011,
   ... 40Neach current source 151, 1511, ... 15N from each transmitter coil arrangement 241, 2411,
   ... 24N at substantially the same time 75 (not shown). With reference to figure 3 this is to say
 5 that each disconnect 401, 4011, ... 40Nare essentially simultaneous.
   Likewise, the switch arrangement controller 70 and each switch arrangement 201, 2011, ... 20N
   are configured to control each switch arrangement 201, 2011, ... 20N to connect 301, 3011, ... 30N
   each current source 151, 1511, ... 15N from each transmitter coil arrangement 241, 2411, ... 24N
 0 at substantially the same time 75 (not shown). With reference to figure 3 this is to say that each
   connect 301, 3011, ... 30N are essentially simultaneous.
   In an embodiment where transmitter coils and transmitter arguments are identical, the controller
   may be arranged to provide switching signals, and switching arrangements may be configured to
   switch individual switches to within 50 us, preferably within 10 us or more preferably to within 1
 5 us. As such it is understood that simultaneously or 'at the same time' may be within a period of
   less than those times.
   Figure 6 illustrates a switch controller arrangement 70 configured to control switch controls 72
   in a switch arrangement 20 of a transmitter arrangement 10. In this particular embodiment there
 0 is a switch arrangement 20 with four individual switches (1), (2), (3) and (4), which individual
   switches are controlled by corresponding switch controller arrangements 70 control lines (1), (2),
   (3) and (4). In an embodiment with identical switch arrangements 201, ... 20N, the control logic
   of the controller is to control individual switches (1), (2), (3) and (4) simultaneously. Possibly
   with adjustments to compensate for delays in different switch arrangements 30.
25
   Figure 7 illustrates switch arrangements 20. The top figure shows a switch arrangement 20 with
   a switch 22 controlling a transmitter coil arrangement 24. The bottom figure illustrates a bridge
   arrangement 90 with four individual switches 22 configured to connect 30 and disconnect 40 the
   transmitter coil arrangement 24.
30
   Figure 8 illustrates multiple transmitter arrangement 101, 10II, each with a single current source
   151, 1511, respectively, and each a pair of switch arrangement 201A, 201B and 20IIA, 2011B and
   transmitter coil arrangements 241A, 241B and 2411A, 2411B, respectively.
                                                     15

   In this embodiment identical switch arrangements 20 are used and switches configured to operate
   to connect transmitter coils 241A, 241B to the current source 151 at the same time as to connect
   transmitter coils 2411A, 2411B to the current source 1511. Similarly, the switch arrangements are
   configured to disconnect at the same time, but later time than the connect time.
 5 Furthermore, the figure illustrates the embodiment, where the transmitter coils 241A, 241B,
   2411A, 2411B are aligned on top of each other to form essentially a coil structure spanning
   essentially the same space.
   Figure 9 illustrates a method of geophysical prospecting 100 using multiple transmitter
 0 arrangements 10 (not shown).
   The method 100 comprises steps of generating 200 a total secondary electromagnetic field.
   The total secondary electromagnetic field 55 may compromise, with reference to previous
   figures, a sum of individual combined secondary electromagnetic fields 50 using multiple
 5 transmitter arrangements Tx 10 which transmitter arrangement Tx 10 comprises at least one
   current source 15 connected to at least one transmitter coil arrangement 24 covering an area A
   for generating a magnetic moment 5 for building up a primary electromagnetic field 11 inducing
   a secondary electromagnetic field 12 in the underground formation 3.
 0 This may be achieved by switching 300, again with references to previous figures, a switch
   arrangement 20 comprising at least one switch 22 inserted in between the at least one current
   source 15 and the at least one transmitter coil arrangement 24 and configured to connect 30 the
   at last one current source 15 with the at least one transmitter coil arrangement 24 to build up a
   connecting secondary electromagnetic field 38, which connect 30 is at a connection time 32 at a
25 connection voltage 34 at a connection current 36; and to disconnect 40 the at least one current
   source 15 from the at least one transmitter coil arrangement 24 to build up a disconnecting
   secondary electromagnetic field 48; which disconnect 40 is at a disconnection time 42 at a
   disconnection voltage 44 at a disconnection current 46.
30 The method 100 also encompasses receiving 400 a combined connecting and disconnecting
   secondary electromagnetic field 50 using a receiver arrangement Rx 60 comprising at least one
   receiver coil 62 configured to receive the combined connecting and disconnecting secondary
   electromagnetic fields 50.
                                                     16

   CLAUSES
   Clause 1. Airborne electromagnetic survey system configured for geophysical prospecting (2) of
   an underground formation (3), which airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) comprises
 5 - a transmitter arrangement T, (10) comprising
            -at least one current source (15) connected to at least one transmitter coil arrangement
            (24) covering an area A for generating a magnetic moment (5) for building up a primary
            electromagnetic field (11) inducing a secondary electromagnetic field (12) in the
            underground formation (3) and
 0          - a switch arrangement (20) comprising at least one switch (22) inserted in between the at
            least one current source (15) and the at least one transmitter coil arrangement (24) and
            configured
                     -to connect (30) the at last one current source (15) with the at least one transmitter
                     coil arrangement (24) to build up a connecting secondary electromagnetic field
 5                   (38), which connect (30) is at a connection time (32) at a connection voltage (34)
                     at a connection current (36); and
                     -to disconnect (40) the at least one current source (15) from the at least one
                     transmitter coil arrangement (24) to build up a disconnecting secondary
                     electromagnetic field (48); which disconnect (40) is at a disconnection time (42)
zo                   at a disconnection voltage (44) at a disconnection current (46); which
                     - connecting secondary electromagnetic field (38) and disconnecting secondary
                     electromagnetic field (48) provide a combined secondary electromagnetic field
                     (50);
   - a receiver arrangement Rx(60) comprising at least one receiver coil (62) configured to receive
25 the combined connecting and disconnecting secondary electromagnetic fields (50);
   characterised in that the airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) comprises multiple
   transmitter arrangements T, (101, ... ION) and comprises a switch arrangement controller (70)
   configured to control each switch arrangement (20) to disconnect (40) each current source (15)
30 from each transmitter coil arrangement (24) at substantially the same time (75) generating
                                                        17

   individual secondary electromagnetic fields (501, ... , 50N) whose sum generates a total
   secondary electromagnetic field (55).
   Clause 2. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to clause 1 wherein at least two
 5 transmitter coil arrangement (24) essentially are coupled by being placed on top of each other.
   Clause 3. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to clause 1 or 2 wherein the
   switch arrangement controller (70) is configured to record each disconnection time (42) of each
   disconnect (40) by each switch arrangement (20).
 0
   Clause 4. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any of clause s I to 3 wherein
   the switch arrangement controller (70) and each switch arrangement (20) is configured to control
   each switch arrangement (20) to connect (30) each current source (15) to each transmitter coil
   arrangement (24) at substantially the same time (75).
 5
   Clause 5. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any of clause s I to 4 wherein
   each individual combined secondary electromagnetic field (12) is essentially identical to one
   another.
 o Clause 6. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to clause s 4 to 5 wherein the
   switch arrangement controller (70) is configured to record each connection time (32) of each
   connect (30) by each switch arrangement (20).
   Clause 7. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any of clause I to 6 wherein
25 there is only a single current source (15).
   Clause 8. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any of clause s 1 to 7,
   wherein a current source (15) comprises a capacitor, a super capacitor, a mechanical storage, a
   flywheel, or a battery; or a bank of such.
30
   Clause 9. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any of clause s 1 to 8,
   wherein the current source comprises a generator (80) being a motor generator or a fuel cell.
   Clause 10. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any of clause s 1 to 9,
35 wherein a switch arrangement comprises least two switches (22), preferably four switches (22).
                                                    18

   Clause 11. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any of clause s 1 to 10,
   wherein a switch arrangement (10) is arranged with switches (22) in a bridge configuration (90).
 5 Clause 12. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any of clause s I to 11,
   wherein a switch (22) is a semiconductor type switch.
   Clause 13. A method of geophysical prospecting (100) comprising use of an airborne
   electromagnetic survey system (1) configured for geophysical prospecting of an underground
 o formation (3), the method of geophysical prospecting (100) comprising
   - generating (200) a total secondary electromagnetic field (55) comprising a sum of individual
   combined secondary electromagnetic fields (50) using multiple transmitter arrangements T, (10)
   which transmitter arrangement Tx (10) comprises
 5                 -at least one current source (15) connected to at least one transmitter coil
                   arrangement (24) covering an area A for generating a magnetic moment (5) for
                   building up a primary electromagnetic field (11) inducing a secondary
                   electromagnetic field (12) in the underground formation (5) by
   - switching (300) a switch arrangement (20) comprising at least one switch (22) inserted in
 o between the at least one current source (15) and the at least one transmitter coil arrangement (24)
   and configured
                            -to connect (30) the at last one current source (15) with the at least one
                            transmitter coil arrangement (24) to build up a connecting secondary
                            electromagnetic field (38), which connect (30) is at a connection time (32)
25                          at a connection voltage (34) at a connection current (36); and
                            -to disconnect (40) the at least one current source (15) from the at least
                            one transmitter coil arrangement (24) to build up a disconnecting
                            secondary electromagnetic field (48); which disconnect (40) is at a
                            disconnection time (42) at a disconnection voltage (44) at a disconnection
30                          current (46);
   - receiving (400) a combined connecting and disconnecting secondary electromagnetic field (50)
   using a receiver arrangement Rx (60) comprising at least one receiver coil (62) configured to
                                                       19

  receive the combined connecting and disconnecting secondary electromagnetic fields (50); and
  wherein
  switching (300) of each switch arrangement (20) comprises:
          -disconnecting (340) the at least one current source (15) from the at least one transmitter
5         coil arrangement (24) to build up a disconnecting secondary electromagnetic field (48);
          which disconnecting (340) is at a disconnection time (42) at a disconnection voltage (44)
          at a disconnection current (46); which disconnecting (340) of each current source (15)
          from each transmitter coil arrangement (24) is at substantially the same time (75).
o Clause 14. Method of geophysical prospecting (100) according to clause 13, wherein switching
  (300) of each switch arrangement (20) comprises:
          - connecting (320) the at least one current source (15) to the at least one transmitter coil
          arrangement (24) to build up a connecting secondary electromagnetic field (38); which
          connecting (320) is at a connection time (32) at a connection voltage (34) at a connection
5         current (36); which connecting (320) of each current source (15) to each transmitter coil
          arrangement (24) is at substantially the same time (75).
  Clause 15. Method of geophysical prospecting (100) according to clause 14 or 15, wherein at
  least two transmitter coil arrangement (24) essentially are coupled by being placed on top of each
0 other.
                                                    20

   CLAIMS
   1. Airborne electromagnetic survey system configured for geophysical prospecting (2)of an
   underground formation (3), which airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) comprises
   - a transmitter arrangement T, (10) comprising
 5          -at least one current source (15) connected to at least one transmitter coil arrangement
            (24) covering an area A for generating a magnetic moment (5) for building up a primary
            electromagnetic field (11)inducing a secondary electromagnetic field (12) in the
            underground formation (3) and
            - a switch arrangement (20) comprising at least one switch (22) inserted in between the at
 0          least one current source (15) and the at least one transmitter coil arrangement (24) and
            configured
                     -to connect (30) the at last one current source (15) with the at least one transmitter
                     coil arrangement (24) to build up a connecting secondary electromagnetic field
                     (38), which connect (30) is at a connection time (32) at a connection voltage (34)
 5                   at a connection current (36); and
                     -to disconnect (40) the at least one current source (15) from the at least one
                     transmitter coil arrangement (24) to build up a disconnecting secondary
                     electromagnetic field (48); which disconnect (40) is at a disconnection time (42)
                     at a disconnection voltage (44) at a disconnection current (46); which
zo                   - connecting secondary electromagnetic field (38) and disconnecting secondary
                     electromagnetic field (48) providea combined secondary electromagnetic field
                     (50);
   - a receiver arrangement Rx(60) comprising at least one receiver coil (62) configured to receive
   the combined connecting and disconnecting secondary electromagnetic fields (50);
25
   characterised in that the airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) comprises multiple
   transmitter arrangements Tx (101, ... ION) generating a total secondary electromagnetic field
   (55) comprising a sum of individual combined secondary electromagnetic fields (501,..., 50N).
30 2. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to claim 1 further comprising a switch
   arrangement controller (70) configured to control each switch arrangement (20).
                                                        21

   3. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to claim 2 wherein the switch
   arrangement controller (70) and each switch arrangement (20) are configured to control each
   switch arrangement (20) to disconnect (40) each current source (15) from each transmitter coil
 5 arrangement (24) at substantially the same time (75).
   4. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to claim 2 to 3 wherein the switch
   arrangement controller (70) is configured to record each disconnection time (42) of each
   disconnect (40) by each switch arrangement (20).
 0
   5. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any of claim 2 to 4 wherein the
   switch arrangement controller (70) and each switch arrangement (20) is configured to control
   each switch arrangement (20) to connect (30) each current source (15) to each transmitter coil
   arrangement (24) at substantially the same time (75).
 5
   6. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to claims2 to 5 wherein the switch
   arrangement controller (70) is configured to record each connection time (32) of each connect
   (30) by each switch arrangement (20).
 o 7. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any of claim I to 6 wherein there is
   only a single current source (15).
   8. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any of claims I to 7, wherein a
   current source (15) comprises a capacitor, a super capacitor, a mechanical storage, a flywheel, or
25 a battery; or a bank of such.
   9. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any of claims I to 8, wherein the
   current source comprises a generator (80) being a motor generator or a fuel cell.
30 10. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any of claims 1 to 9, wherein a
   switch arrangement comprises least two switches (22), preferably four switches (22).
   11. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any of claims 1 to 10, wherein a
   switch arrangement (10) is arranged with switches (22) in a bridge configuration (90).
35
                                                   22

   12. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any of claims 1 to 11, wherein a
   switch (22) is a semiconductor type switch.
   13. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any of claims 1 to 12, wherein
 5 transmitter coil arrangements (10) are placed on top of each other.
   14. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any of claims 1 to 13, wherein each
   individual combined secondary electromagnetic field (12) essentially identical.
 o 15. A method of geophysical prospecting (100) comprising use of an airborne electromagnetic
   survey system (1) configured for geophysical prospecting of an underground formation (3), the
   method of geophysical prospecting (100) comprises
   - generating (200) a total secondary electromagnetic field (55) comprising a sum of individual
 5 combined secondary electromagnetic fields (50) using multiple transmitter arrangements T, (10)
   which transmitter arrangement T, (10) comprises
                   -at least one current source (15) connected to at least one transmitter coil
                   arrangement (24) covering an area A for generating a magnetic moment (5) for
                   building up a primary electromagnetic field (11) inducing a secondary
 o                 electromagnetic field (12) in the underground formation (5) by
   - switching (300) a switch arrangement (20) comprising at least one switch (22) inserted in
   between the at least one current source (15) and the at least one transmitter coil arrangement (24)
   and configured
                            -to connect (30) the at last one current source (15) with the at least one
25                          transmitter coil arrangement (24) to build up a connecting secondary
                            electromagnetic field (38), which connect (30) is at a connection time (32)
                            at a connection voltage (34) at a connection current (36); and
                            -to disconnect (40) the at least one current source (15) from the at least
                            one transmitter coil arrangement (24) to build up a disconnecting
30                          secondary electromagnetic field (48); which disconnect (40) is at a
                            disconnection time (42) at a disconnection voltage (44) at a disconnection
                            current (46);
                                                       23

  - receiving (400) a combined connecting and disconnecting secondary electromagnetic field (50)
  using a receiver arrangement R, (60) comprising at least one receiver coil (62) configured to
  receive the combined connecting and disconnecting secondary electromagnetic fields (50).
  16. Method of geophysical prospecting (100) according to claim 15, wherein switching (300) of
5 each switch arrangement (20) comprises:
          -disconnecting (340) the at least one current source (15) from the at least one transmitter
          coil arrangement (24) to build up a disconnecting secondary electromagnetic field (48);
          which disconnecting (340) is at a disconnection time (42) at a disconnection voltage (44)
          at a disconnection current (46); which disconnecting (340) of each current source (15)
o         from each transmitter coil arrangement (24) is at substantially the same time (75).
  17. Method of geophysical prospecting (100) according to claim 15 or 16, wherein switching
  (300) of each switch arrangement (20) comprises:
          - connecting (320) the at least one current source (15) to the at least one transmitter coil
5         arrangement (24) to build up a connecting secondary electromagnetic field (38); which
          connecting (320) is at a connection time (32) at a connection voltage (34) at a connection
          current (36); which connecting (320) of each current source (15) to each transmitter coil
          arrangement (24) is at substantially the same time (75).
0
                                                    24

                            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   3   10
                                                       1/9
Figure 1
               M
                                         1
           5                  2

                             2/9
<removed-date>
                   60
                                                            62
<removed-apn>
               Rx
                                                       12,50
                            80
                                         15
              10
                                 G                               24
                                                   5
               Tx                    M        I
                        A                              11
               3
                                                  12,50
                            Figure 2

                                     3/9
<removed-date>
              10                     20
<removed-apn>
                                 22
              I            15
                                                    A
                                24
                                                         M
                                                5
                   30,34,36
                                                         40,44,46
              I
                                     Time
                      38                   32
                                                    48
                                                          42
                                           50
              12
                                Figure 3

                           4/9
<removed-date>
              10I
                                            50I
                     I           A
<removed-apn>
                                     MI
                             5I
              10II
                                           50II
                     I           A
                                     MII
                             5II            55
               10N
                                           50N
                     I           A
                                     MN
                             5N
                         Figure 4

                                 5/9                               10I
                                            20I
<removed-date>
                          15I
                                I                      A
<removed-apn>
                                                           MI
                                                  5I
                                                                 10II
                                           20II
              70                I                      A
                   15II
                                                           MII
                                                  5II
                                                                 10N
                                              20N
                   15N          I                      A
                                                           MN
                                                    5N
                                Figure 5

                         6/9
<removed-date>
                                       I                 A
                   10
                                                              M
<removed-apn>
                                                   20
              70
                                               1
                                           2
                                   3
                               4
                                           1                      2
                           72
                                           3                      4
                                                        72N
                                               1
                                           2
                                   3
                               4
                        Figure 6

                                  7/9
<removed-date>
              20
                                            22
                   22                   +
<removed-apn>
                        24
                                                 24
                                        -
                             24
                                            20
                                        +
                   90
                        22
                                                 22
                   22
                                                 22
                                        -
                              Figure 7

                                         8/9
              10I                                  20IA            24IA
<removed-date>
                                                           -
                     T
<removed-apn>
                                                                   24IB
                     T   I
                                                           -
                                 15I                      20IB
              10II                                 20IIA           24IIA
                                                           -
                     T                                             24IIB
                     T       I
                                                               -
                                 15II                     20IIB
                                        Figure 8

                9/9
                         100
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                 200
                 300
                 400
              Figure 9

