                              ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
         The subject matter disclosed herein is directed to stable, highly-effective topical
formulations comprising permethrin, fipronil and a solvent system that is sufficient to
solubilize these two active ingredients and limit degradation of fipronil to its sulfone, and
their uses in topical applications on animals and the environment. Useful formulations
comprise from about 30 % to about 55 % (w/w) permethrin and about 2 to 15 % (w/w)
fipronil and a solvent system that comprises N-methyl pyrrolidone and a glycol, glycol ether,
glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil, wherein the N-methyl pyrrolidone and glycol,
glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil are present in a weight : weight ratio
of from about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.5, glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral
oil to n-methyl pyrrolidone. These two actives when combined in the described amounts
have been found to have unexpected enhanced repellent activity against stable fly. However,
it is the formulations described herein that provide solvency and stability that maintain
synergistic concentrations after application on an animal.

         TOPICAL COMPOSITIONS COMPRISING FIPRONIL AND PERMETHRIN AND
                                           METHODS OF USE
                             CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
            This is a divisional application of Australian Application No. <removed-apn>, which is a
  5 divisional application of Australian Application No. 2013222249, which is the Australian
    National Phase of International Application No. PCT/US2013/027312, which claims priority
    to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/602,472, filed 23 February 2012, the contents
    of which are hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
                                      FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 .0         The subject matter disclosed herein is directed to pharmaceutical and veterinary
    formulations that provide an unexpected enhanced repellant activity and superior parasiticidal
    efficacy. The solvent system of the formulations provide excellent solvency and reduce the
    amount of fipronil sulfone formation over a wide range of conditions.
                                 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
 .5         Animals, such as mammals and birds are often susceptible to parasite infestations.
    These parasites may be ectoparasites, such as fleas, ticks, mosquitos, mites, flies, sand flies
    and lice and endoparasites such as roundworms, hookworms, flukes and heartworms.
    Domesticated animals including farm animals are particularly susceptible to parasite
    infections and infestations.
20          Parasitic diseases may be caused by either endoparasites or ectoparasites.
    Endoparasites refer to those parasites living inside the body of the host (such as in the
    stomach, lungs, heart, intestines, etc.). Ectoparasites are those parasites that live on the outer
    surface of the host but still draw nutrients from the host. Endoparasitic infections may further
    be subdivided based on class of parasite involved in the infection. These parasitic infections
25  and infestations are often associated with illness and death or reduced productivity.
            Examples of endoparasites which infect animals include but are not limited to gastro
    intestinal parasites of the genera Ancylostoma, Necator, Ascaris, Strongyloides, Trichinella,
    Capillaria,Toxocara, Toxascaris, Trichuris,Enterobius, Haemonchus, Trichostrongylus,
    Ostertagia,Cooperia,Oesophagostomum, Bunostomum, Strongylus, Cyathostomum and
30  Parascarisamong others, and those that are found in the blood vessels or other tissues and
                                                     1

    WO 2013/126694                                                                  PCT/US2013/027312
   organs include Wuchereria, Brugia, Onchocerca, Dirofilaria and the extra-intestinal stages of
   Strongyloides, Toxocara and Trichinella.
            Ectoparasites which infest man and domestic animals include arthropods, such as
   ticks, fleas, mites, mosquitoes, lice, and the like and infestations by these parasites can result
 5 in transmission of pathogens that can cause serious and even fatal diseases.
            Infestations by ectoparasitic arthropods including but not limited to ticks, mites, lice,
   stable flies, horn flies, blowflies, face flies, fleas, mosquitoes and the like are also a serious
   problem. Infestation by these parasites may result not only in loss of blood and skin lesions,
   but also can interfere with normal eating habits thus causing weight loss. Ectoparasitic
10 infestations of a host can also result in transmission of pathogenic agents that cause serious
   diseases including but not limited to encephalitis, anaplasmosis, Babesiosis, Rocky Mountain
   spotted fever, Lyme disease, ehrlichiosis, West Nile virus, swine pox, malaria, yellow fever,
   and others, many of which can be fatal to the host. Animals may be infected by several
   species of parasites at the same time since infection by one parasite may weaken the animal
15 and make it more susceptible to infection by a second species of parasites.
            A parasite which is prevalent among domesticated animals is Stomoxys calcitrans
   (stable fly). Stable flies will feed on blood from practically any warm blooded animal,
   including humans, pets, and livestock. During periods of high stable fly activity, humans can
   be severely annoyed and this insect has been called the biting house fly. Individual flies may
20 feed more than once per day. Peaks of feeding activity commonly occur during the early
   morning and again in the late afternoon. Stable flies prefer feeding on lower parts of the
   hosts such as the legs.
            Both male and female stable flies feed on blood. The female requires blood meals to
   produce viable eggs. Females deposit their eggs in a variety of decaying animal and plant
25 wastes. Stable flies breed in soggy hay, grasses or feed, piles of moist fermenting weed or
   grass cuttings, spilled green chop, peanut litter, and seaweed deposits among beaches, in
   soiled straw bedding and sometimes in hay ring feeding sites. Each female fly may lay 500
   600 eggs in 4 separate batches. Eggs hatch in 2-5 days into larvae which feed and mature in
    14-26 days. The average life cycle is 28 days, ranging from 22-58 days, depending on the
30 weather conditions.
                                                       2

    WO 2013/126694                                                                PCT/US2013/027312
           Farm animals can be severely affected by the stable fly. Since the fly takes blood
   meals, animals are weakened from blood loss and continual irritation. Animals such as
   swine, cattle, and horses infested with stable flies may show reduced weight gains, among
   other harmful effects. While one stable fly does not cause significant damage, 50-100 of
 5 these blood-sucking pests together with 500 horn flies cause a significant loss of blood. This
   can result in a significant loss of milk and beef production from animals each year.
           Another important parasite is the tick genus Rhipicephalus, especially those of the
   species microplus (cattle tick), decoloratusand annulatus. Ticks, such as Rhipicephalus
   microplus, are particularly difficult to control because they live in the pasture where the farm
10 animals graze. Other important parasites of cattle and sheep are listed as follows: myiases
   such as Dermatobiahominis (known as Berne in Brazil) and Cochliomyia hominivorax
   (greenbottle); sheep myiases such as Lucilia sericata,Lucilia cuprina(known as blowfly
   strike in Australia, New Zealand and South Africa). These are flies whose larva constitute
   the animal parasite; flies proper, namely those whose adult constitutes the parasite, such as
15 Haematobiairritans(horn fly); lice such as Linognathus vitulorum, etc.; and mites such as
   Sarcoptes scabiei and Psoroptes ovis.
           More prevalent among domesticated animals, such as cats and dogs, are the following
   ectoparasites: cat and dog fleas (Ctenocephalidesfelis,C. canis. and the like), ticks
   (Rhipicephalusspp., Ixodes spp., Dermacentorspp., Amblyoma spp. and the like), and mites
20 (Demodex spp., Sarcoptes spp., Cheyletiella spp., Otodectes spp. and the like), lice
   (Trichodectes spp., Lignonathus spp., and the like), mosquitoes (Aedes spp., Culex spp.,
   Anopheles spp., and the like) and flies (Hematobiaspp., Musca spp., Stomoxys spp.,
   Dermatobiasp., Cochliomyia spp., and the like).
           Fleas are a particular problem because not only do they adversely affect the health of
25 the animal or human, but they also cause a great deal of psychological stress. Moreover,
   fleas are also vectors of pathogenic agents in animals, such as dog tapeworm (Dipylidium
   caninum), and humans.
            Similarly, ticks are also harmful to the physical and psychological health of the
   animal. However, the most serious problem associated with ticks is that they are the vector
30 of pathogenic agents, agents which cause diseases in both humans and animals. Major
   diseases which are caused by ticks include borrelioses (Lyme disease caused by Borrelia
   burgdorferi), Babesioses (or piroplasmoses caused by Babesia sp.) and rickettsioses (also
                                                     3

    WO 2013/126694                                                                  PCT/US2013/027312
   known as Rocky Mountain spotted fever). Ticks also release toxins which cause
   inflammation or paralysis in the host. Occasionally, these toxins are fatal to the host.
            Moreover, mites and lice are particularly difficult to combat since there are very few
   active substances which act on these parasites and they require frequent treatment.
 5          The above list is not exhaustive and other ectoparasites are well known in the art to be
   harmful to animals and humans.
            While it is known in the art that it is sometimes possible to combine various
   parasiticides in order to broaden the parasiticidal spectrum, it is not possible to predict, a
   priori,with any reasonable certainty which combinations will work for a particular animal or
10 disease state. For this reason, the results of various combinations are not always successful
   and there is a need in the art for more effective formulations which may be easily
   administered to the animal and have the required solvency, stability and bioavailability.
            Formulations comprising different actives are especially difficult to successfully
   formulate because of the challenges in achieving the required solvency, stability and
15 bioavailability. Thus, there is a need in the art for combination antiparasitic formulations that
   meet the required solvency, stability and bioavailability of the parasiticides to be formulated
   therein.
                                   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
20          The subject matter disclosed herein is directed to stable, highly-effective topical
   formulations comprising a pyrethroid, such as permethrin, a N-arylpyrazole, such as fipronil
   and a solvent system that is sufficient to solubilize these two active ingredients and limit the
   oxidation of fipronil to fipronil sulfone, but that is safe for topical application. In one
   embodiment, the topical formulation is in the form of a spot-on formulation. In another
25 embodiment, the topical formulation is in the form of a pour-on formulation. In one
   embodiment, formulations comprise about 30 to about 55 % (w/w) permethrin and about 2 to
    15 % (w/w) fipronil and a solvent system that comprises N-methyl pyrrolidone (NMP) and a
   glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil. In some embodiments, the
   formulations of the invention comprise at least about 40% (w/w) permethrin and at least
30 about 5% (w/w) fipronil in a solvent system comprising NMP and a glycol, glycol ether,
   glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil, wherein the NMP and glycol, glycol ether, glycol
                                                      4

    WO 2013/126694                                                                  PCT/US2013/027312
   ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil are present in a ratio of from about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.5
   (weight : weight), glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil to NMP. In
   other embodiments, the ratio of glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil
   to NMP is about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.0, about 1:2.5 to about 1:3.5, or about 1:2.5 to about 1:3.0
 5 (weight : weight).
            These two actives when combined in the described amounts in the solvents described
   herein have been found to have excellent parasiticidal activity and unexpected enhanced
   repellency against stable flies. However, it is the particular combination of solvents in the
   formulations described herein that provide the required solvency and physical stability and
10 limit the oxidation of fipronil to its sulfone that maintain concentrations of the actives that
   result in the unexpected enhanced repellency and superior efficacy against stable flies after
   application on an animal. Additionally, as described herein, the selection of the diluent to be
   combined with NMP is critical to limiting the oxidation of fipronil to fipronil sulfone in the
   formulations and maintaining effective concentrations.
15          In some embodiments of the invention, additional active agents may be combined in
   the topical formulations comprising fipronil and permethrin. The additional active agents
   include, but are not limited to, an avermectin, a milbemycin, a spinosyn, a spinosoid, a
   benzimidazole, levamisole, pyrantel, morantel, praziquantel, closantel, clorsulon, an amino
   acetonitrile active agent, an insect growth regulator, a neonicotinoids or an aryloazol-2-yl
20 cyanoethylamino active agent, or a combination of thereof.
            The subject matter disclosed herein is also directed to methods of use of the
   formulations to combat infestations of ectoparasites, including, but not limited to, fleas, ticks,
   mosquitoes, and various types of parasitic flies, such as stable flies, on or around mammals or
   birds and in the environments where they reside. The methods comprise administering an
25 effective amount of a formulation described herein, in particular a spot-on or pour-on
   formulation, to the mammal or bird. Animals include mammals, such as dogs, zebras and
   horses, cattle, pigs, yaks, rodents, deer, goats, sheep and llamas and birds, such as chickens,
   turkeys and quail. Environments include animal houses, such as dog bedding, horse stables
   and chicken litter.
30          The present subject matter is also directed to a method of preparing the compositions
   described herein. The method comprises contacting one or both of the actives with one or
   more of the solvents selected from N-methyl pyrrolidone and a glycol, glycol ether, glycol
                                                      5

    WO 2013/126694                                                                PCT/US2013/027312
   ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil, wherein the final formulation contains N-methyl
   pyrrolidone and glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil. In one
   embodiment, the glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil and NMP are
   combined in a ratio of from about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.5, about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.0, about 1:2.5
 5 to about 1:3.5, or about 1:2.5 to about 1:3.0 (weight : weight), glycol, glycol ether, glycol
   ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil to NMP. The formulations described herein are stable and
   exhibit unexpected enhanced repellency and efficacy against stable flies.
                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            The following detailed description, given by way of example, but not intended to limit
10 the invention solely to the specific embodiments described, may best be understood in
   conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:
            Figure 1 depicts sulfone formation at 50 'C for formulations containing N
   methylpyrrolidone (NMP) and diethyleneglycol monoethyl ether (DGME,
   TRANSCUTOL@) or MIGLYOL* 812 (a neutral oil). The data show that the DGME
15 containing formulation contains more than 10% higher concentration of fipronil sulfone
   compared to the neutral oil-containing formulation. Each formulation contains about 6%
   (w/w) fipronil, 45% (w/w) permethrin and 33% (w/w) NMP. Formulation A contains
   (DGME), QS to 100 % (~ 14-15 % w/w); formulation B contains MIGLYOL@ 812, QS to
    100 % (~ 14-15 % w/w). The formulations in this study do not contain an added antioxidant.
20          Figure 2 depicts formulations which all contain MIGLYOL@ 812 and either no
   antioxidant or a different level of antioxidant. The data show that all formulations have
   fipronil sulfone levels below about 2.950 %. The formulation containing 0.10 % BHT has a
   fipronil sulfone level of about 2.800 %.
            Figure 3 depicts sand fly repellency of formulations containing fipronil/permethrin
25 and NMP/DGME or NMP/ MIGLYOL* 812.
            Figure 4 depicts efficacy against fleas of formulations containing fipronil/permethrin
   and NMP/DGME, NMP/ MIGLYOL* 812 or N,N-dimethyldecanamide (DMDA)/butyl
   CELLOSOLVE TM acetate(BCA), or permethrin alone. NMP/DGME formulations are more
   susceptible to fipronil degradation
                                                      6

    WO 2013/126694                                                                 PCT/US2013/027312
           Figure 5 depicts efficacy against ticks of formulations containing fipronil/permethrin
   and NMP/DGME, NMP/ MIGLYOL* 812 or DMDA/BCA, or permethrin alone.
           Figure 6 depicts efficacy against stable fly on rats with a formulation comprising
   permethrin alone or fipronil/permethrin.
 5         Figure 7 depicts repellency against stable fly on rats with a formulation comprising
   permethrin alone or fipronil/permethrin.
           Figure 8 depicts repellency against stable fly on dogs of a formulation comprising
   fipronil and permethrin one hour post exposure.
           Figure 9 depicts the efficacy against stable fly on dogs of a formulation comprising
10 fipronil and permethrin one hour post exposure.
           Figure 10 depicts the repellency against Culexpipiens mosquitoes of a formulation
   comprising fipronil and permethrin one hour post exposure.
                                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION
           The presently disclosed subject matter will be described more fully herein. However,
15 many modifications and other embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter set forth
   herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which the presently disclosed subject
   matter pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing description.
   Therefore, it is to be understood that the presently disclosed subject matter is not to be limited
   to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are
20 intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims.
           It is well-known that formulating an active into a spot-on or pour-on formulation is
   challenging. Even more challenging is successfully formulating two different actives into a
   composition, whereby both actives remain in solution and are available in the desired
   amounts. Since it has been shown herein that the combination has an unexpected enhanced
25 repellency against stable flies, it is critical that the formulation provide the required solubility
   and physical and chemical stability to ensure that the concentrations resulting in enhanced
   repellency are maintained even after administration of the formulation to the animal.
           Disclosed herein is a unique combination of a solvent system for use with the
   combination of permethrin and fipronil, whereby the formulation components are present in
                                                       7

    WO 2013/126694                                                                PCT/US2013/027312
   specified ranges and particular ratios relative to one another. Such enumerated ratios are not
   broadly generalized amounts, but are specific values of effective ranges and ratios for fipronil
   and permethrin. Advantageously, the solvent systems described herein solubilize a high
   concentration of permethrin and are compatible with fipronil. Consequently, the actives stay
 5 in solution, are not substantially degraded and are available to combat pest infestations at
   effective concentrations at the loci where infestations can occur. As used herein, the term
   "physical stability" and "physically stable" refers to a property of a formulation wherein no
   significant amount permethrin or fipronil crystals form at low temperatures (including -20'C,
   40 C and 100 C), the active ingredients remain in solution even after application. The
10 physical stability of the compositions may be described in terms of crystal formation when
   the formulation is stored at a particular temperature for a period of days, weeks, months or
   even years.    The solvent system also provides the required safety profile for its intended
   uses.
           Formulations that contain permethrin and an additional active ingredient often suffer
15 from physical instability. Permethrin, especially in high concentrations above 20 % (w/w),
   tends to form crystals in the formulation. When a second active is added to the formulation,
   the physical instability problems can increase exponentially since the physical properties and
   requirements for formulation of an additional ingredient must also be considered. The second
   preferred active disclosed herein is fipronil. However, when fipronil is combined with N
20 methylpyrrolidone (NMP), which is an effective solvent for high concentrations of
   permethrin, significant levels of oxidation of fipronil to fipronil sulfone is observed.
           Fipronil sulfone is also a principal in vivo metabolite of fipronil. It has the following
   structure:
                                                     8

    WO 2013/126694                                                                 PCT/US2013/027312
   Fipronil used to prepare the formulations can contain fipronil sulfone at the time of
   formulation. In other words, it is possible that useful grades of fipronil have some amount of
   fipronil sulfone already present as a byproduct of its preparation. In one embodiment fipronil
   has below about 3.5 % fipronil sulfone at the time of formulation with NMP. Some grades of
 5 fipronil may have lower levels of fipronil sulfone, even 0%. However, once fipronil is
   contacted with NMP, it is believed that fipronil sulfone may continue to form in solution.
   Further, it is significantly more costly to use fipronil that is completely free of fipronil
   sulfone. However, the formulation described herein advantageously minimize or
   substantially slow further fipronil sulfone formation compared to formulations with other
10 common solvents used in topical compositions no matter how much is present at the time of
   formulation.
           The solvent system described herein was designed after the finding that fipronil is
   susceptible to fipronil sulfone formation in the presence of NMP. While not being bound to
   any particular theory, it is believed that peroxides present in NMP can facilitate the formation
15 of fipronil sulfone. Furthermore, it is known that NMP can generate peroxides in the
   presence of oxygen (see Drago and Riley, J.Am. Chem. Soc. 1990, 112, 215-218; Reynolds et
   al., JournalofPharmaceuticalSciences, 2012, 101(2), pp. 761-776). Thus, it has been found
   that NMP, while a useful solvent, poses technical hurdles when used as a solvent for fipronil
   in a concentrated topical formulation, such as a spot-on formulation. The oxidation of
20 fipronil in NMP must be addressed since NMP is an effective solvent for permethrin at the
   concentration levels present in the formulations disclosed herein. However, the required
   amount of NMP in the formulations of the invention was unexpectedly observed to result in
   the oxidation of fipronil to fipronil sulfone at levels that were higher than desired.
           N-methylpyrrolidone (NMP) is a chemical compound with a 5-membered lactam
25 structure. It is a clear to slightly yellow liquid soluble in water and conventional organic
   solvents. It is a polar aprotic solvent and a very weak base. Other names for this compound
   are: 1-methyl-2-pyrrolidone, N-methyl-2-pyrrolidinone, and m-pyrrole, and
   PHARMASOLVE*. Despite its usefulness, its use for topical application may pose problems
   for the skilled formulator. In some cases NMP may cause skin irritation, redness or
30 dermatitis. Accordingly, although it is acceptable in topical formulations, it is preferred that
   the level be as low as possible.
                                                      9

    WO 2013/126694                                                               PCT/US2013/027312
           The oxidation of fipronil to fipronil sulfone was observed at higher than desired levels
   when NMP was diluted with traditional solvents used in combination with fipronil in topical
   formulations, such as diethyleneglycol monoethyl ether (TRANSCUTOL* or DGME).
   Diethyleneglycol monoethyl ether is commonly used in many topical formulations and has
 5 been found to be a very effective solvent for use in formulating topical fipronil formulations.
   When DGME and other diluents are used in combination with NMP, the amount of NMP can
   be reduced so long as the necessary physical properties of the composition remain unaltered.
   However, it has been found that when NMP is combined with co-solvents normally used with
   fipronil, such as DGME, fipronil is oxidized to its sulfone at higher than desired rates.
10 Consequently, to minimize the formation of fipronil sulfone, the use of an antioxidant at
   about 10-times the level of antioxidant that is effective in the formulations described herein
   was required.
           It has been surprisingly found that a solvent system containing NMP in combination
   with a neutral oil, including MIGLYOL* 812 (caprylic/capric triglyceride), results in
15 significantly lower sulfone formation compared with other solvents typically used in fipronil
   topical formulations. Neutral oils are known in the art. They are light to colorless liquids of
   neutral odor and taste.
           MIGLYOL@-type neutral oils are clear, slightly yellowish esters of saturated coconut
   and palm kernel oil-derived caprylic and capric fatty acids and glycerin or propylene glycol.
20 Some neutral oils are triglycerides of fractionated plant fatty acids with chain lengths of C8 to
   CIO. Two commercially available products are known as MIGLYOL* 810 and
   MIGLYOL*812. Another useful neutral oil is a triglyceride of fractionated plant fatty acids
   with chain lengths of Cs and C10 combined with linoleic acid (about 4-5 %). A commercially
   available product is known as MIGLYOL* 818. Another useful neutral oil is a glycerin ester
25 of fractionated plant fatty acids with chain lengths of C8 and C10 combined with succinic acid.
   A commercially available product is known as MIGLYOL* 829. Another useful neutral oil
   is a propylene glycol diester of saturated plant fatty acids with chain lengths of CS and C10
   combined with succinic acid. A commercially available product is known as MIGLYOL*
   840 (propylene glycol dicaprylate/dicaprate). Other fatty acids include stearyl stearate,
30 palmitate, and myristate. Other examples of suitable neutral oils and fatty acid esters include
   hydrocarbonaceous vegetable oils, such as liquid triglycerides of fatty acids comprising from
   4 to 24 carbon atoms (such as triglycerides, heptanoic acid and octanoic acid), sunflower oil,
   maize oil, soybean oil, gourd oil, grape seed oil, sesame oil, hazelnut oil, apricot oil,
                                                   10

    WO 2013/126694                                                                PCT/US2013/027312
   macadamia oil, castor oil, avocado oil, jojoba oil and karite butter; synthetic esters, such as
   synthetic esters of fatty acids such as, for example, purcellin oil, isononyl isononanoate,
   isopropyl myristate, 2-ethylhexyl palmitate, 2-octyldodecyl stearate, 2-octyldodecyl erucate,
   and isostearyl isostearate. As described fully herein, the requirement of the diluent is that it
 5 does not substantially introduce additional peroxide species into the NMP/co-solvent system.
   Consequently, fipronil sulfone formation is mitigated and substantially lower levels of
   antioxidants can be used to yield long-term stability of the permethrin, fipronil combination
   formulation.
           The fipronil/permethrin compositions described herein containing NMP in
10 combination with neutral oils will have significantly less fipronil sulfone growth compared to
   fipronil/permethrin compositions that use a different NMP/co-solvent system. It is useful that
   the present compositions inhibit fipronil sulfone formation such that the level of fipronil
   sulfone present at about 3 months after formulation has not increased by more than about 50
   % of the original fipronil sulfone present at the time of formulation, e.g., the amount present
15 in neat fipronil raw material, as measured by area % of the fipronil sulfone peak relative to
   the fipronil peak by HPLC. In one embodiment, the solvent system of the invention inhibit
   the formation of fipronil sulfone to an extent that at three months after formulation, the
   fipronil sulfone has not increased by more than about 45 % of the original fipronil sulfone
   present at the time of formulation; or the fipronil sulfone has not increased by more than
20 about 40 % of the original fipronil sulfone present at the time of formulation; or the fipronil
   sulfone has not increased by more than about 35 % of the original fipronil sulfone present at
   the time of formulation; or the fipronil sulfone has not increased by more than about 30 % of
   the original fipronil sulfone present at the time of formulation; or the fipronil sulfone has not
   increased by more than about 25 % of the original fipronil sulfone present at the time of
25 formulation. In another embodiment, at three month after formulation, the fipronil sulfone
   has not increased by more than about 20 % of the original fipronil sulfone present at the time
   of formulation; or the fipronil sulfone has not increased by more than about 15 % of the
   original fipronil sulfone present at the time of formulation. In yet another embodiment, at
   three month after formulation, the fipronil sulfone has not increased by more than about 10 %
30 of the original fipronil sulfone present at the time of formulation.
           The purpose of the antioxidant in the compositions is largely to combat any peroxides
   found in NMP. It has been found that when a diluent is carefully selected to limit additional
   introduction of harmful oxidative species, such as peroxide species, into the composition, the
                                                     11

    WO 2013/126694                                                                PCT/US2013/027312
   amount of antioxidant can be preferably kept at GRAS (generally regarded as safe) levels or
   substantially lower. In some embodiments, an effective amount of antioxidant is not more
   than about 0.25 % (w/w). In another embodiment, the antioxidant is present at a
   concentration of not more than about: 0.2 % (w/w); 0.19 % (w/w); 0.18 % (w/w); 0.17 %
 5 (w/w); 0.16 % (w/w); 0.15 % (w/w); 0.14 % (w/w); 0.13 % (w/w); 0.12 % (w/w) or 0.11 %
   (w/w). In still another embodiment, the antioxidant is present at a concentration of not more
   than about 0.1 % (w/w).
           Another problem with concentrated topical formulations is that any amount of crystals
   in the formulation may lead to a concentration of active(s) in the precipitated material that is
10 too high for safe, point-of-application topical use. Further, since precipitation effectively
   removes active(s) from solution, the concentration of active(s) remaining in solution can be
   too low, and thus not provide the efficacy described herein. Additionally, once crystals begin
   to form, they behave as seeds for further crystal formation. This process results in increasing
   precipitation of components out of the solvent system, and deleterious effects on the
15 concentration of active(s) in the formulation.
           It is evident that should one or both of the actives form crystals or otherwise
   precipitate from the solution either before or after application, the relative amounts of the
   active agents would be altered. Accordingly, the amounts of actives would be expected to
   deviate from the amounts required for enhanced repellent activity. Therefore, the property of
20 the present compositions whereby each active remains in solution even after application on
   the animal also contributes to the enhanced activity against stable flies observed. As reported
   in W02007/143298, incorporated herein in its entirety, it is difficult to form a high
   concentration solution of permethrin. However, the present compositions contain about 30 %
   (w/w) permethrin at the lowest concentration, and in some embodiments contain about 40 to
25 about 45 % (w/w). The difficulty of successfully formulating permethrin in these
   concentrations is exponentially greater when formulating a second, different active. This is
   especially true if the actives are of different physical properties. Surprisingly, the
   compositions described herein have been shown to exhibit surprising enhanced repellency
   and excellent insecticidal efficacy against stable flies when applied to a localized area on an
30 animal. Thus, the enhanced repellency observed would be expected to result from the
   concentration of each active as the composition spreads over the animal's coat and skin. The
   unexpected enhanced repellency would not be limited to the loci where the composition is
   directly applied to the animal, and this is important for effective control of stable flies and
                                                     12

    WO 2013/126694                                                                 PCT/US2013/027312
   other ectoparasites since these ectoparasites will feed on different locations on the animal.
   The formulations described herein provide effective amounts of the active agents of the
   compositions even as the composition translocates over the animal.
            Although many solvent systems are available, a skilled formulator cannot predict
 5 which system will effectively work for a given combination of active ingredients.         However,
   the presently described solvent system solves the problems of formulating fipronil and
   permethrin together in effective amounts that result in surprising enhanced repellency against
   certain parasitic flies, including stable flies, wherein the effective concentrations of fipronil
   and permethrin resulting in the enhanced repellency are maintained.
10          Fipronil (5-amino-3-cyano-1-(2,6-dichloro-4-trifluoromethylphenyl)-4
   trifluoromethylsulfinylpyrazole) is a 1-N-arylpyrazole insecticide. It has the following
   structure:
                                                                F F
                                                                       F
                                        F                  C1
                                    F,                NH2
                                            S
                                     F         0
   It is a member of a class of chemicals that are well known in the art, as well as methods for
15 their use in controlling parasites including insect pests, such as fleas, stable flies, horn flies,
   or mosquitoes, and acarid pests, such as ticks, mites, and lice, in mammals, such as
   domesticated livestock or companion animals or birds, either alone or in combination with
   other pesticides such as insect growth regulators. See, e.g., EP-A-295,217, EP 295 177, EP
   A-840-686, EP-A-352,944, WO 00/35844, WO 98/39972, U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,122,530
20 5,236,938, 5,232,940, 5,576,429 5,814,652, 5,567,429, 6,090,751 and 6,096,329. These
   references are hereby incorporated herein in their entirety. The compounds of the families
   defined in these patents are extremely active. Fipronil is particularly effective, but not
   exclusively effective, against fleas and ticks. However, fipronil is not known to have any
   repellent activity against ectoparasites.
25          Permethrin is a member of the pyrethroids. It has the following structure:
                                                     13

    WO 2013/126694                                                                PCT/US2013/027312
                                    C            O                    O
   The pyrethroids are a class of synthetically derived insecticides. These compounds are
   particularly effective against the mosquito (Culex spp.) that transmits West Nile virus.
   Pyrethroids are structurally related to naturally occurring pyrethrins, pyrethrin I and pyrethrin
 5 II. Synthetic pyrethroids include permethrin (U.S. Pat. No. 4,113,968), resmethrin, and
   sumithrin (U.S. Pat. Nos. 3,934,023 and 2,348,930). Permethrin is well known for its
   repellent efficacy against various arthropods. These references are hereby incorporated herein
   in their entirety.
            Combinations of fipronil and pyrethroids, such as permethrin, are known (in
10 particular, EPA Registration submission materials available from a PDMS, searchable
   database; submitter name: Virbac AH, Inc.) The product sold by the trade name EFFITIX*
   was approved in the U.S. on November 18, 2011. A material safety data sheet (MSDS) of the
   product indicates that it contains fipronil, permethrin and diethyleneglycol monoethyl ether.
   WO 2001/065941 Al and EP 1013170 Al propose the combination of an N-arylpyrazole and
15 a pyrethroid in applications against plant pests. JP 11049618 A2 uses similar mixtures to
   prevent feeding damage on timber constructions. WO 95/22902 Al uses such mixtures for
   the direct control of termites. GB2396557 Al teaches that the treatment of ectoparasites with
   mixtures of N-arylpyrazoles and pyrethroids (if appropriate also with addition of synergists,
   such as MGK264 or piperonyl butoxide) is possible when concentrated powder formulations
20 are used. All of these references are hereby incorporated herein in their entirety.
           However, in order for the actives to function, it is critical to employ a solvent system
   that provides the necessary solubility and chemical and physical stability to ensure that
   effective concentrations responsible for the enhanced repellent efficacy remain in solution
   after administration and up until the actives cover the animal effectively or reach a locus of
25 infestation. There has been no report of the formulation components required to successfully
   formulate fipronil and permethrin in combination where permethrin is present at high
   concentrations in a spot-on or pour-on formulation that maintains concentrations under a
   variety of conditions that result in enhanced repellency against certain ectoparasites
                                                    14

    WO 2013/126694                                                              PCT/US2013/027312
   including, but not limited to, stable flies. Even skilled formulators cannot predict with
   reasonable certainty which combinations and solvents will ultimately work together.
            In an embodiment, the present subject matter is directed to a formulation comprising
   permethrin in a concentration of from about 30 % w/w to about 55 % w/w; fipronil in a
 5 concentration of from about 2 % w/w to about 15 % w/w; and a) one or more neutral oils and
   b) N-methyl pyrrolidone (NMP).
            In another embodiment, the invention provides a formulation comprising permethrin
   in a concentration of from about 30 % w/w to about 55 % w/w; fipronil in a concentration of
   from about 2 % w/w to about 15 % w/w; and a) one or more neutral oils and b) NMP,
10 wherein the a) one or more neutral oils and b) NMP are present in a weight:weight ratio of
   from about 1:18 to about 1:2.8, neutral oil(s) to NMP. In this embodiment, if an antioxidant
   is present, it may be present in a concentration of not more than about 0.25 % (w/w).
            In still another embodiment, the invention provides a formulation comprising
   permethrin in a concentration of from about 30 % w/w to about 55 % w/w; fipronil in a
15 concentration of from about 2 % w/w to about 15 % w/w; and a) one or more neutral oils and
   b) NMP, wherein the a) one or more neutral oils and b) NMP are present in a weight:weight
   ratio of from about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.5, neutral oil(s) to NMP. In this embodiment, if an
   antioxidant is present, it may be present in a concentration of not more than about 0.25 %
   (w/w).
20          In one embodiment, the invention provides a formulation comprising permethrin in a
   concentration of at least about 40 % w/w; fipronil in a concentration of at least about 5 %
   w/w; and a) one or more neutral oils and b) NMP, wherein the a) one or more neutral oils and
   b) NMP are present in a weight:weight ratio of from about 1:1.18 to about 1:2.8 or about
    1:2.0 to about 1:3.5, neutral oil(s) to NMP. In this embodiment, if an antioxidant is present, it
25 may be present in a concentration of not more than about 0.25 % (w/w).
            In another embodiment, the invention provides a formulation comprising permethrin
   in a concentration of at least about 40 % w/w; fipronil in a concentration of at least about 5 %
   w/w; and a) one or more neutral oils and b) NMP, wherein the a) one or more neutral oils and
   b) NMP are present in a ratio of from about 1:2.5 to about 1:3.5, neutral oil(s) to NMP. In
30 this embodiment, if an antioxidant is present, it may be present in a concentration of not more
   than about 0.25 % (w/w).
                                                   15

    WO 2013/126694                                                              PCT/US2013/027312
           In still another embodiment, the invention provides a formulation comprising
   permethrin in a concentration of from about 40% w/w to about 55 %w/w; fipronil in a
   concentration of from about 5 % w/w to about 15 % w/w; and a) one or more neutral oils and
   b) NMP, wherein the a) one or more neutral oils and b) NMP are present in a weight:weight
 5 ratio of from about 1:1.8 to about 1:2.8 or about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.5, neutral oil(s) to NMP.
   In this embodiment, if an antioxidant is present, it may be present in a concentration of not
   more than about 0.25 % (w/w).
           In still another embodiment, the invention provides a formulation comprising
   permethrin in a concentration of from about 40% w/w to about 55 %w/w; fipronil in a
10 concentration of from about 5 % w/w to about 15 % w/w; and a) one or more neutral oils and
   b) NMP, wherein the a) one or more neutral oils and b) NMP are present in a ratio of from
   about 1:2.5 to about 1:3.5, neutral oil(s) to NMP. In this embodiment, if an antioxidant is
   present, it may be present in a concentration of not more than about 0.25 % (w/w).
           In yet another embodiment, the invention provides a formulation comprising
15 permethrin in a concentration of from about 40% w/w to about 50 %w/w; fipronil in a
   concentration of from about 5 % w/w to about 10 % w/w; and a) one or more neutral oils and
   b) NMP, wherein the a) one or more neutral oils and b) NMP are present in a ratio of from
   about 1:2.5 to about 1:3.0, neutral oil(s) to NMP. In this embodiment, if an antioxidant is
   present, it may be present in a concentration of not more than about 0.25 % (w/w).
20         In one embodiment of the invention, the level of fipronil sulfone in the compositions
   described herein is below about 6 % by area relative to the area of the fipronil peak measured
   by high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) at about three months after formulation. In
   other embodiments fipronil sulfone levels will be below about 5 % at about three months
   after formulation or below about 4 % at about three months after formulation. In still other
25 embodiments fipronil sulfone levels will be below about 3 .5% at about three months after the
   formulation is prepared. In another embodiment, the fipronil sulfone level will be below
   about 3.2 % at about three months formulation, below about 3.1 % at about three months
   formulation, below about 3.0 % at about three months formulation, below about 2.9 % at
   about three months after formulation or below about 2.8 % at about three months
30 formulation. In other embodiments, fipronil sulfone levels will be below about 2.7 % at about
   three months after formulation, below about 2.6 % at about three months formulation, or
   below about 2.5 % at about three months after formulation. In yet other embodiments,
                                                   16

    WO 2013/126694                                                               PCT/US2013/027312
   fipronil sulfone levels will be below about 2.4 % at about three months after formulation,
   below about 2.3 % at about three months after formulation, below about 2.2 % at about three
   months after formulation. In yet another embodiment, fipronil sulfone levels will be below
   about 2.1 % at about three months after formulation or below about 2.0 % at about three
 5 months formulation. As used herein, "about three months after formulation" means a period
   of from 10 weeks to 14 weeks from the time that the fipronil is contacted with other
   components in the formulation. Typically, it is the time from contact of the fipronil with
   NMP. The fipronil sulfone level is determined by HPLC relative to the area of the fipronil
   peak in the sample.
10          It is the ratio of one or more neutral oils to NMP that provides unique stability of the
   two active ingredients, permethrin and fipronil in the present formulations, particularly since
   the neutral oil(s) will be selected so as to not introduce significant amounts of peroxide
   species. Unlike distinct formulations known in the art for different actives, the formulations
   disclosed herein are capable of solubilizing permethrin and inhibiting or preventing its
15 crystallization, while also limiting the formation of fipronil sulfone in solution.
   Consequently, both active ingredients are available in the desired concentrations, which are
   shown herein to have unexpected enhanced efficacy against stable flies.
            A useful concentration of fipronil in the compositions is from about 2 % (w/w) to
   about 15 % (w/w). In one embodiment, fipronil is present in a concentration of from about 3
20 % (w/w) to about 10 % (w/w). In another embodiment, fipronil is present in a concentration
   of from about 4 % (w/w) to about 8 % (w/w). In yet another embodiment fipronil is present
   at a concentration of about 6 % (w/w).
            A useful concentration of permethrin in the compositions of the invention is from
   about 35 % (w/w) to about 50 % (w/w). In one embodiment, permethrin is present at a
25 concentration of from about 40 % (w/w) to about 48 % (w/w). In another embodiment,
   permethrin is present in a concentration of about 42 % (w/w) to about 47 % (w/w). In still
   another embodiment, permethrin is present at a concentration of about 45% (w/w).
            In some embodiments, the invention provides the following formulations:
   Formulation A) fipronil about 6 % (w/w); permethrin about 45 % (w/w); NMP about 35 %
30 (w/w); DGME (diethyleneglycol monoethyl ether or TRANSCUTOL*) in an amount
   sufficient to complete the formulation (QS or quantum sufficit) about 10-15 % (w/w) and
   about 0.1 % (w/w) BHT; Formulation B) fipronil about 6 % (w/w); permethrin about 45 %
                                                      17

    WO 2013/126694                                                                    PCT/US2013/027312
   (w/w); NMP about 35 % (w/w); MIGLYOL@ 812 in an amount sufficient to complete the
   formulation (QS) about 10-15 % (w/w) and about 0.1 % (w/w) BHT. In some embodiments,
   the amount of DGME in Formulation A) will be about 12 -14%, about 12% (w/w), about 13%
   (w/w) or about 14% (w/w). In other embodiments, the amount of MIGLYOL@ in
 5 Formulation B) will be about 12% (w/w), about 13%(w/w) or about 14% (w/w).
            Dosages of the actives can be readily determined by those of skill in the art.
   However, in general terms, a dose of from about 0.001 to about 100 mg per kg of body
   weight, more typically from about 0.01 mg to about 50 mg/kg of body weight, given as a
   single dose or in divided doses for a period of from 1 to 5 days may be satisfactory but, of
10 course, there can be instance where higher or lower dosage ranges are indicated and such are
   within the scope of this specific administration period for a particular situation. It will be
   understood that the dosing volume of a formulation can also be determined and then adjusted
   as desired.
            In some embodiments, the composition comprises fipronil at about 6.0 % (w/w) and
15 permethrin at about 45 % (w/w). This composition also comprises the N-methyl pyrrolidone
   and neutral oil solvent system described herein.
            The neutral oil(s) and N-methyl pyrrolidone components can be quantified in terms of
   the relative amounts of each. In some embodiments, useful weight:weight ratios of neutral
   oil(s) to NMP are from 1:1.8 to about 1:3.5; or about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.5. In other
20 embodiments, ratios include from about 1:1.9 to about 1:2.7; about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.0; and
   about 1:2.5 to about 1:3.0, neutral oil(s) to NMP. In other embodiments ratio values include:
    1:1.9, 1:2, 1:2.1, 1:2.2, 1:2.4, 1:2.5, 1:2.6, 1:2.7, 1:2.8, 1:2.9, 1:3.0, 1:3.1, 1:3.2, 1:3.3, 1:3.4
   and 1:3.5, neutral oil(s) to NMP. In yet other embodiments, ratios include from about 1:2.2
   to about 1:2.4, neutral oil(s) to NMP. In another embodiment, the ratio is about 1:2.3 to
25 about 1:3.0, neutral oil(s) to NMP. These ratios are relative amounts, but are suitably based
   on a useful amount of neutral oil(s) or NMP.
            Useful concentrations of NMP in the compositions are from about 25 % (w/w) to
   about 44 % (w/w). In one embodiment, the concentration of NMP is from about 28 % (w/w)
   to about 42 % (w/w) or from about 31 % (w/w) to about 39 % (w/w). In still other
30 embodiments, the concentration of NMP is from 33 % (w/w) to about 37 % (w/w). In yet
   another embodiment, NMP is present at a concentration of about 35 % (w/w). From the level
   of NMP present or intended, a corresponding amount of diluent can be calculated.
                                                       18

    WO 2013/126694                                                               PCT/US2013/027312
            The compositions contain an amount of neutral oil that minimizes fipronil sulfone
   formation in the formulation comprising fipronil and NMP. The amount of the neutral oil
   used in the formulations may vary slightly as it is used in an amount to complete the
   formulation (QS). Useful concentrations of neutral oil(s) in the compositions of the invention
 5 include, but are not limited to, about 11 % (w/w) to about 18 % (w/w). In some
   embodiments, concentrations of neutral oil(s) include from about 12 % (w/w) to about 17 %
   (w/w) and from about 13 % (w/w) to about 16 % (w/w). In other embodiments, the neutral
   oil(s) are present in a concentration of from about 12% (w/w) to about 14% (w/w), about 13
   % (w/w) to about 15 % (w/w). In another embodiment, the neutral oil is present at a
10 concentration of about 14 % (w/w).
            When present in preferred embodiments, an antioxidant is beneficially present at a
   concentration of not more than about 0.25 % (w/w), although higher concentrations could be
   added. In some embodiments, the concentration is not more than about: 0.2 % (w/w); 0.19 %
   (w/w); 0.18 % (w/w); 0.17 % (w/w); 0.16 % (w/w); 0.15 % (w/w); 0.14 % (w/w); 0.13 %
15 (w/w); 0.12 % (w/w) or 0.11 % (w/w). In another embodiment, if present, the antioxidant is
   present at a concentration of not more than about 0.1 % (w/w). Suitable inorganic
   antioxidants are, for example, the sulphites and bisulphites, in particular sodium bisulphite.
   In one embodiment, the antioxidant is a phenolic antioxidant, such as anisole, butylated
   hydroxytoluene and butylated hydroxyanisole, and their mixtures with one another. In other
20 embodiments, the antioxidizing agents are those conventional in the art and include, for
   example, ascorbic acid, sodium metabisulphite, propyl gallate, sodium thiosulphate or a
   mixture of not more than two of them. When used in formulations containing NMP and a
   diluent that does not significantly add peroxide species to the formulation, the amount of
   antioxidant can be beneficially kept substantially below the amount required in formulations
25 that do not contain the beneficial solvent systems of the invention.
            In other embodiments, the present subject matter is directed to a pesticidal
   composition that exhibits surprising and unexpected repellency against parasites, including
   stable flies, comprising from about 2 % (w/w) to about 15 % (w/w) fipronil; from about 30 %
   (w/w) to about 55 % (w/w) permethrin; a glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester or fatty acid ester
30 and N-methyl pyrrolidone, wherein said glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, or fatty acid ester
   and N-methyl pyrrolidone are present in a weight : weight ratio of about 1:1.8 to about 1:2.8,
   about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.5, about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.0, about 1:2.5 to about 1:3.5, or about
    1:2.5 to about 1:3.0; and optionally an antioxidant.
                                                   19

    WO 2013/126694                                                               PCT/US2013/027312
           In another embodiment, the present subject matter is directed to a pesticidal
   composition comprising at least about 5% (w/w) fipronil; at least about 40% (w/w)
   permethrin; a glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester or fatty acid ester and N-methyl pyrrolidone,
   wherein said glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester or fatty acid ester and N-methyl pyrrolidone are
 5 present in a weight:weight ratio of about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.5, about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.0,
   about 1:2.5 to about 1:3.5, or about 1:2.5 to about 1:3.0; and optionally an antioxidant,
   wherein the composition provides unexpected enhanced repellency against parasitic flies,
   including stable flies.
           In another embodiment, the present subject matter is directed to a pesticidal
10 composition comprising about 5% (w/w) to about 15% (w/w) fipronil; about 4 0% (w/w) to
   about 55% (w/w) permethrin; a glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester or fatty acid ester and N
   methyl pyrrolidone, wherein said glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester or fatty acid ester and N
   methyl pyrrolidone are present in a ratio of about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.5; and optionally an
   antioxidant.
15         In another embodiment, the present subject matter is directed to a pesticidal
   composition comprising about 5% (w/w) to about 10% (w/w) fipronil; about 40% (w/w) to
   about 50% (w/w) permethrin; a glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester or fatty acid ester and N
   methyl pyrrolidone, wherein said glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester or fatty acid ester and N
   methyl pyrrolidone are present in a ratio of about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.5; and optionally an
20 antioxidant.
           In another embodiment, the present subject matter is directed to a pesticidal
   composition comprising about 6% (w/w) (w/w) fipronil; about 45% (w/w) permethrin; a
   glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester or fatty acid ester and N-methyl pyrrolidone, wherein said
   glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester or fatty acid ester and N-methyl pyrrolidone are present in a
25 ratio of about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.5; and optionally an antioxidant.
           Useful amounts of permethrin and fipronil in these formulations are as described
   above. In some embodiments, the formulations described above provide unexpected
   enhanced repellency against parasitic flies, including stable flies, and superior insecticidal
   efficacy.
30         In these embodiments, the antioxidant may be present at concentrations of from about
   0.005 to about 1 % (w/w) or from about 0.01 to about 0.05 % (w/w). In some embodiments,
                                                    20

    WO 2013/126694                                                                 PCT/US2013/027312
   the antioxidant may be present in a concentration of about 0.01 to about 1%by weight, or
   from about 0.05% to about 0.5% by weight. In another embodiment, the antioxidant is
   present in a concentration of from about 0.075 to about 0.2 % by weight. Amounts lower
   than 0.2 % by weight are useful depending on the peroxide levels in the diluent that is
 5 selected or the NMP.
            Glycols useful in the compositions include of diethylene glycol, polyethylene glycol
   (PEG, including all low molecular weight to high molecular weight PEG), propylene glycol
   and polypropylene glycol. Glycol ethers include, but are not limited to, methyl diglycol,
   ethyl diglycol, propyl diglycol, butyl diglycol, methyl glycol, ethyl glycol, ethylene glycol
10 monomethyl ether, diethylene glycol monomethyl ether, diethylene glycol monoethyl ether,
   propylene glycol monomethyl ether and tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol polyethylene glycol ether
   (tetraglycol or glycofurol). In one embodiment, the glycol ether is diethylene glycol
   monoethyl ether. Glycol esters that may be used in the formulations include carboxylic acid
   esters of glycols or glycol ethers including, but are not limited to, acetates of glycols and
15 glycol ethers such as ethylene glycol monoethyl ether acetate (ethyl CELLOSOLVETM
   acetate), ethyleneglycol monobutyl ether acetate (butyl CELLOSOLVETM acetate),
   ethyleneglycol monomethyl ether acetate, and the like.
            In the embodiment described above comprising a glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester or
   fatty acid ester and NMP, concentrations of NMP in the compositions of the invention may
20 be from about 25 % (w/w) to about 44 % (w/w). In other embodiments, NMP may be present
   in a concentration of about 28 % (w/w) to about 42 % (w/w) or from about 31 % (w/w) to
   about 39 % (w/w). In still other embodiments, NMP may be present at a concentration of
   about 33 % (w/w) to about 37 % (w/w). In another embodiment, NMP may be present at a
   concentration of about 35 % (w/w). From the level of NMP present or intended, a
25 corresponding amount of diluent can be calculated.
            The glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester or fatty acid ester and N-methyl pyrrolidone
   components can be quantified in terms of the relative amounts of each. Useful weight :
   weight ratios of glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester or fatty acid ester to NMP include a ratio of
   from 1:2.0 to about 1:3.5. In other embodiments, the ratios include from about 1:1.18 to
30 about 1:1.28, about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.0; about 1:1.9 to about 1:2.7; about 1:2.0 to about
    1:2.6; and about 1:2.5 to about 1:3.0, glycol, glycol ether or fatty acid ester to NMP. In still
   other embodiments, the weight : weight ratio of glycol, glycol ether or fatty acid ester to
                                                    21

    WO 2013/126694                                                                 PCT/US2013/027312
   NMP will be 1:1.9, 1:2, 1:2.1, 1:2.2, 1:2.4, 1:2.5, 1:2.6, 1:2.7, 1:2.8, 1:2.9, 1:3.0, 1:3.1, 1:3.2,
    1:3.3, 1:3.4 or 1:3.5. In other embodiments of the invention, the weight : weight ratio of
   glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester or fatty acid ester to NMP will be from about 1:2.5 to about
    1:3.0 or about 1:2.5 to about 1:3.5. These ratios are relative amounts, but are suitably based
 5 on a useful amount of glycol, glycol ether or fatty acid ester, or NMP.
            In certain embodiments, the compositions contain an amount of glycol, glycol ether,
   glycol ester or fatty acid ester that minimizes fipronil sulfone formation in the formulation
   comprising fipronil and NMP. Typically, the amount of glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester or
   fatty acid ester used in the formulations will an amount sufficient to complete the formulation
10 (QS) and will thus vary slightly. Useful concentrations of glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester or
   fatty acid ester include from about 11 % (w/w) to about 18 % (w/w). In other embodiments,
   the concentration of a glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester or fatty acid ester are from about 12 %
   (w/w) to about 17 % (w/w) or from about 13 % (w/w) to about 16 % (w/w). In yet other
   embodiments of the invention, the concentration of the glycol, glycol ether or fatty acid ester
15 are from about 12% (w/w) to about 14% (w/w) or from about 13 % (w/w) to about 15 %
   (w/w). In another embodiment, the glycol, glycol ether or fatty acid ester is present at a
   concentration of about 14% (w/w).
            In all embodiments, other solvents and/or diluents may be used in the formulations of
   the invention. In one embodiment, long-chain alkyl amides may also be used so long as they
20 provide the necessary solubility and physical and chemical stability to maintain the desired
   concentrations of fipronil and permethrin before and after application. These include systems
   which employ glycerol formal, decanamides and octanamides, such as N,N
   dimethyldecanamide (DMDA). Glycerol formal is a mixture of 5-hydroxy-1,3-dioxane and
   4-hydroxymethyl-1,3-dioxolane (60:40). In one embodiment, the glycerol formal that is
25 added to a formulation of the invention is stabilized glycerol formal. Stabilized glycerol
   formal typically contains 0.02% disodium EDTA, 0.02% N-propyl gallate, and 0.01%
   thiopropionic acid. However, in certain embodiments for topical applications, the
   compositions will include neutral oils as the diluent.
   Additional Active Agents
30          In one embodiment, the invention provides topical compositions comprising fipronil
   and permethrin in combination with one or more additional active agents. In some
   embodiments, the additional active agents combined with fipronil and permethrin may
                                                    22

    WO 2013/126694                                                                   PCT/US2013/027312
   include, but are not limited to, acaricides, anthelmintics, insecticides and other parasiticides
   of various classes presented herein.
            In another embodiment, the topical compositions may also include veterinary
   therapeutic    agents. Veterinary pharmaceutical agents that may be included in the
 5 compositions of the invention are well-known in the art (see e.g. Plumb' Veterinary Drug
   Handbook, 5      Edition, ed. Donald C. Plumb, Blackwell Publishing, (2005) or The Merck
    Veterinary Manual, 9th Edition, (January 2005)) and include but are not limited to acarbose,
   acepromazine maleate, acetaminophen, acetazolamide, acetazolamide sodium, acetic acid,
   acetohydroxamic acid, acetylcysteine, acitretin, acyclovir, albendazole, albuterol sulfate,
10 alfentanil, allopurinol, alprazolam, altrenogest, amantadine, amikacin sulfate, aminocaproic
   acid,     aminopentamide      hydrogen      sulfate,    aminophylline/theophylline,       amiodarone,
   amitriptyline,    amlodipine     besylate,    ammonium       chloride,   ammonium        molybdenate,
   amoxicillin, clavulanate potassium, amphotericin B desoxycholate, amphotericin B lipid
   based, ampicillin, amprolium, antacids (oral), antivenin, apomorphione, apramycin sulfate,
15 ascorbic acid, asparaginase, aspiring, atenolol, atipamezole, atracurium besylate, atropine
   sulfate,   aurnofin,    aurothioglucose,    azaperone,     azathioprine,   azithromycin,     baclofen,
   barbituates,    benazepril,    betamethasone,       bethanechol    chloride,    bisacodyl,    bismuth
   subsalicylate, bleomycin sulfate, boldenone undecylenate, bromides, bromocriptine mesylate,
   budenoside, buprenorphine, buspirone, busulfan, butorphanol tartrate, cabergoline, calcitonin
20 salmon, calcitrol, calcium salts, captopril, carbenicillin indanyl sodium, carbimazole,
   carboplatin,    carnitine, carprofen,    carvedilol, cefadroxil,     cefazolin    sodium,    cefixime,
   clorsulon, cefoperazone sodium, cefotaxime sodium, cefotetan disodium, cefoxitin sodium,
   cefpodoxime      proxetil,   ceftazidime,    ceftiofur   sodium,    ceftiofur,   ceftiaxone   sodium,
   cephalexin, cephalosporins, cephapirin, charcoal (activated), chlorambucil, chloramphenicol,
25 chlordiazepoxide, chlordiazepoxide +/- clidinium bromide, chlorothiazide, chlorpheniramine
   maleate, chlorpromazine, chlorpropamide, chlortetracycline, chorionic gonadotropin (HCG),
   chromium, cimetidine, ciprofloxacin, cisapride, cisplatin, citrate salts, clarithromycin,
   clemastine fumarate, clenbuterol, clindamycin, clofazimine, clomipramine, claonazepam,
   clonidine, cloprostenol sodium, clorazepate dipotassium, clorsulon, cloxacillin, codeine
30 phosphate, colchicine, corticotropin (ACTH), cosyntropin, cyclophosphamide, cyclosporine,
   cyproheptadine, cytarabine, dacarbazine, dactinomycin/actinomycin D, dalteparin sodium,
   danazol, dantrolene sodium, dapsone, decoquinate, deferoxamine mesylate, deracoxib,
   deslorelin    acetate,   desmopressin     acetate,    desoxycorticosterone     pivalate,  detomidine,
                                                      23

    WO 2013/126694                                                                     PCT/US2013/027312
   dexamethasone,      dexpanthenol,      dexraazoxane,      dextran,    diazepam,      diazoxide      (oral),
   dichlorphenamide,       diclofenac      sodium,     dicloxacillin,      diethylcarbamazine         citrate,
   diethylstilbestrol   (DES),    difloxacin,    digoxin,     dihydrotachysterol      (DHT),      diltiazem,
   dimenhydrinate,      dimercaprol/BAL,        dimethyl       sulfoxide,     dinoprost      tromethamine,
 5 diphenylhydramine,      disopyramide      phosphate,     dobutamine,       docusate/DSS,       dolasetron
   mesylate,    domperidone,      dopamine,      doramectin,       doxapram,     doxepin,      doxorubicin,
   doxycycline,     edetate    calcium      disodium.calcium         EDTA,      edrophonium        chloride,
   enalapril/enalaprilat, enoxaparin      sodium, enrofloxacin, ephedrine sulfate, epinephrine,
   epoetin/erythropoietin, eprinomectin, epsiprantel, erythromycin, esmolol, estradiol cypionate,
10 ethacrynic    acid/ethacrynate    sodium,    ethanol    (alcohol),    etidronate    sodium,     etodolac,
   etomidate, euthanasia agents w/pentobarbital, famotidine, fatty acids (essential/omega),
   felbamate, fentanyl, ferrous sulfate, filgrastim, finasteride, fipronil, florfenicol, fluconazole,
   flucytosine,   fludrocortisone     acetate,  flumazenil,       flumethasone,    flunixin     meglumine,
   fluorouracil (5-FU), fluoxetine, fluticasone propionate, fluvoxamine maleate, fomepizole (4
15 MP), furazolidone, furosemide, gabapentin, gemcitabine, gentamicin sulfate, glimepiride,
   glipizide, glucagon, glucocorticoid agents, glucosamine/chondroitin sulfate, glutamine,
   glyburide, glycerine (oral), glycopyrrolate, gonadorelin, grisseofulvin, guaifenesin, halothane,
   hemoglobin glutamer-200 (OXYGLOBIN@@), heparin, hetastarch, hyaluronate sodium,
   hydrazaline, hydrochlorothiazide, hydrocodone bitartrate, hydrocortisone, hydromorphone,
20 hydroxyurea, hydroxyzine, ifosfamide, imidacloprid, imidocarb dipropinate, impenem
   cilastatin sodium, imipramine, inamrinone lactate, insulin, interferon alfa-2a (human
   recombinant), iodide (sodium/potassium), ipecac (syrup), ipodate sodium, iron dextran,
   isoflurane, isoproterenol, isotretinoin, isoxsuprine, itraconazole, ivermectin, kaolin/pectin,
   ketamine,    ketoconazole,     ketoprofen,    ketorolac      tromethamine,     lactulose,     leuprolide,
25 levamisole, levetiracetam, levothyroxine sodium, lidocaine, lincomycin, liothyronine sodium,
   lisinopril, lomustine (CCNU), lufenuron, lysine, magnesium, mannitol, marbofloxacin,
   mechlorethamine, meclizine, meclofenamic acid, medetomidine, medium chain triglycerides,
   medroxyprogesterone       acetate, megestrol     acetate, melarsomine, melatonin, meloxican,
   melphalan,      meperidine,      mercaptopurine,        meropenem,          metformin,       methadone,
30 methazolamide,        methenamine         mandelate/hippurate,          methimazole,         methionine,
   methocarbamol, methohexital sodium, methotrexate, methoxyflurane,                     methylene blue,
   methylphenidate,      methylprednisolone,       metoclopramide,         metoprolol,       metronidaxole,
   mexiletine,    mibolerlone,    midazolam      milbemycin        oxime,   mineral     oil,   minocycline,
   misoprostol, mitotane, mitoxantrone, morphine sulfate, moxidectin, naloxone, mandrolone
                                                     24

    WO 2013/126694                                                                   PCT/US2013/027312
   decanoate, naproxen, narcotic (opiate) agonist analgesics, neomycin sulfate, neostigmine,
   niacinamide, nitazoxanide, nitenpyram, nitrofurantoin, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside sodium,
   nizatidine, novobiocin sodium, nystatin, octreotide acetate, olsalazine sodium, omeprozole,
   ondansetron, opiate antidiarrheals, orbifloxacin, oxacillin sodium, oxazepam, oxibutynin
 5 chloride, oxymorphone, oxytretracycline, oxytocin, pamidronate disodium, pancreplipase,
   pancuronium bromide, paromomycin sulfate, parozetine, pencillamine, general information
   penicillins, penicillin G, penicillin V potassium, pentazocine, pentobarbital sodium, pentosan
   polysulfate sodium, pentoxifylline, pergolide mesylate, phenobarbital, phenoxybenzamine,
   pheylbutazone,      phenylephrine,    phenypropanolamine,        phenytoin    sodium, pheromones,
10 parenteral phosphate, phytonadione/vitamin            K-1, pimobendan, piperazine, pirlimycin,
   piroxicam, polysulfated glycosaminoglycan, ponazuril, potassium chloride, pralidoxime
   chloride,    prazosin,   prednisolone/prednisone,       primidone,    procainamide,     procarbazine,
   prochlorperazine, propantheline bromide, propionibacterium acnes injection, propofol,
   propranolol,      protamine    sulfate,  pseudoephedrine,       psyllium    hydrophilic     mucilloid,
15 pyridostigmine      bromide, pyrilamine      maleate,     pyrimethamine,     quinacrine,    quinidine,
   ranitidine,    rifampin,    s-adenosyl-methionine       (SAMe),      saline/hyperosmotic      laxative,
   selamectin, selegiline /1-deprenyl, sertraline, sevelamer, sevoflurane, silymarin/milk thistle,
   sodium bicarbonate, sodium polystyrene sulfonate, sodium stibogluconate, sodium sulfate,
   sodum thiosulfate,       somatotropin,    sotalol,    spectinomycin,    spironolactone,    stanozolol,
20 streptokinase, streptozocin, succimer, succinylcholine chloride, sucralfate, sufentanil citrate,
   sulfachlorpyridazine sodium, sulfadiazine/trimethroprim,            sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim,
   sulfadimentoxine,       sulfadimethoxine/ormetoprim,         sulfasalazine,    taurine,    tepoxaline,
   terbinafline, terbutaline sulfate, testosterone, tetracycline, thiacetarsamide sodium, thiamine,
   thioguanine, thiopental sodium, thiotepa, thyrotropin, tiamulin, ticarcilin disodium, tiletamine
25 /zolazepam, tilmocsin, tiopronin, tobramycin sulfate, tocainide, tolazoline, telfenamic acid,
   topiramate, tramadol, trimcinolone acetonide, trientine, trilostane, trimepraxine tartrate
   w/prednisolone, tripelennamine, tylosin, urdosiol, valproic acid, vanadium, vancomycin,
   vasopressin, vecuronium bromide, verapamil, vinblastine sulfate, vincristine sulfate, vitamin
   E/selenium, warfarin sodium, xylazine, yohimbine, zafirlukast, zidovudine (AZT), zinc
30 acetate/zinc sulfate, zonisamide and mixtures thereof.
           In one embodiment of the invention, additional arylpyrazole compounds such as
   phenylpyrazoles may be included in the topical compositions of the invention. The
   arylpyrazoles are known in the art and are suitable for combination with the isoxazoline
   compounds in the soft chewable compositions of the invention. Examples of such
                                                      25

   WO 2013/126694                                                             PCT/US2013/027312
   arylpyrazole compounds include but are not limited to those described in U.S. Patent Nos.
   6,001,384; 6,010,710; 6,083,519; 6,096,329; 6,174,540; 6,685,954, 6,998,131 and 7,759,381
   (all of which are incorporated herein by reference).
            In another embodiment of the invention, one or more macrocyclic lactones or lactams,
 5 which act as an acaricide, an anthelmintic agent and/or an insecticide, can be included in the
   compositions of the invention. For the avoidance of doubt, the term "macrocyclic lactone" as
   used herein includes both naturally occurring and synthetic or semi-synthetic avermectin and
   milbemycin compounds.
            The macrocyclic lactones that may be used in the compositions of the invention
10 include, but are not limited to, the naturally produced avermectins (e.g. including the
   components designated as Aia, Aib, A 2a, A 2b, Bia, Bib, B2a and B2b) and milbemycin
   compounds,     semisynthetic    avermectins and milbemycins, avermectin       monosaccharide
   compounds and avermectin          aglycone compounds. Examples       of macrocyclic lactone
   compounds that may be used in the compositions include, but are not limited to, abamectin,
15 dimadectin, doramectin,       emamectin,   eprinomectin, ivermectin, latidectin,     lepimectin,
   selamectin, ML-1,694,554 and milbemycins including, but not limited to, milbemectin,
   milbemycin D, milbemycin A 3 , milbemycin A 4 , milbemycin oxime, moxidectin and
   nemadectin. Also included are the 5-oxo and 5-oxime derivatives of said avermectins and
   milbemycins.
20          The macrocyclic lactone compounds are known in the art and can easily be obtained
   commercially or through synthesis techniques known in the art. Reference is made to the
   widely available technical and commercial literature.      For avermectins, ivermectin and
   abamectin, reference may be made, for example, to the work "Ivermectin and Abamectin",
   1989, by M.H. Fischer and H. Mrozik, William C. Campbell, published by Springer Verlag.,
25 or Albers-Sch6nberg et al. (1981), "Avermectins Structure Determination", J. Am. Chem.
   Soc., 103, 4216-4221. For doramectin, "Veterinary Parasitology", vol. 49, No. 1, July 1993,
   5-15 may be consulted. For milbemycins, reference may be made, inter alia, to Davies H.G.
   et al., 1986, "Avermectins and Milbemycins", Nat. Prod. Rep., 3, 87-121, Mrozik H. et al.,
   1983, Synthesis of Milbemycins from Avermectins, Tetrahedron Lett., 24, 5333-5336, U.S.
30 Patent No. 4,134,973 and EP 0 677 054, both incorporated herein by reference.
            The structure of the avermectins and milbemycins are closely related, e.g., by sharing
   a complex 16-membered macrocyclic lactone ring. The natural product avermectins are
                                                   26

    WO 2013/126694                                                           PCT/US2013/027312
   disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,310,519 and the 22,23-dihydro avermectin compounds are
   disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,199,569. Mention is also made of U.S. Patent Nos. 4,468,390,
   5,824,653, EP 0 007 812 Al, U.K. Patent Specification 1 390 336, EP 0 002 916, and New
   Zealand Patent No. 237 086, inter alia. Naturally occurring milbemycins are described in
 5 U.S. Patent No. 3,950,360 as well as in the various references cited in "The Merck Index"
    12th ed., S. Budavari, Ed., Merck & Co., Inc. Whitehouse Station, New Jersey (1996).
   Latidectin is described in the "International Nonproprietary Names for Pharmaceutical
   Substances    (INN)", WHO Drug Information, vol. 17, no. 4, pp. 263-            286, (2003).
   Semisynthetic derivatives of these classes of compounds are well known in the art and are
10 described, for example, in U.S. Patent Nos. 5,077,308, 4,859,657, 4,963,582, 4,855,317,
   4,871,719, 4,874,749, 4,427,663, 4,310,519, 4,199,569, 5,055,596, 4,973,711, 4,978,677,
   4,920,148 and EP 0 667 054, all incorporated herein by reference.
            In one embodiment, the topical compositions of the invention comprise an effective
   amount of at least one of abamectin, dimadectin, doramectin, emamectin, eprinomectin,
15 ivermectin, latidectin, lepimectin, selamectin, milbemectin, milbemycin D, milbemycin A 3 ,
   milbemycin A 4 , milbemycin oxime, moxidectin or nemadectin, or a combination thereof. In
   another embodiment, the topical veterinary compositions of the invention may comprise an
   effective amount of at least one of abamectin, emamectin, eprinomectin, ivermectin,
   doramectin or selamectin, or a combination thereof. In still another embodiment, the topical
20 compositions of the invention may comprise an effective amount of at least one of
   ivermectin, milbemectin, milbemycin oxime or moxidectin, or a combination thereof.
            In another embodiment of the invention, the topical composition comprising fipronil
   and permethrin may include a class of active agents known as insect growth regulators
   (IGRs). Compounds belonging to this group are well known to the practitioner and represent
25 a wide range of different chemical classes. These compounds all act by interfering with the
   development or growth of the insect pests.        Insect growth regulators are described, for
   example, in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,748,356, 3,818,047, 4,225,598, 4,798,837, 4,751,225, EP 0
    179 022 or U.K. 2 140 010 as well as U.S. Patent Nos. 6,096,329 and 6,685,954 (all
   incorporated herein by reference).
30          In one embodiment the compositions of the invention may include an IGR compound
   that mimics juvenile hormone or that modulates levels of juvenile hormones in insects.
   Examples     of juvenile hormone mimics       include azadirachtin,  diofenolan, fenoxycarb,
                                                  27

    WO 2013/126694                                                               PCT/US2013/027312
   hydroprene, kinoprene, methoprene, pyriproxyfen, tetrahydroazadirachtin and 4-chloro-2(2
   chloro-2-methyl-propyl)-5-(6-iodo-3-pyridylmethoxy)pyridazine-3(2H)-one.
            In another embodiment, the compositions of the invention include an IGR compound
   that is a chitin synthesis inhibitor. Chitin synthesis inhibitors include chlorofluazuron,
 5 cyromazine,        diflubenzuron,  fluazuron,   flucycloxuron,     flufenoxuron,   hexaflumoron,
   lufenuron, tebufenozide, teflubenzuron, triflumoron, 1-(2,6-difluorobenzoyl)-3-(2-fluoro-4
   (trifluoromethyl)phenylurea,                     1-(2,6-difluoro-benzoyl)-3-(2-fluoro-4-(1,1,2,2
   tetrafluoroethoxy)-phenylurea               and            1-(2,6-difluorobenzoyl)-3-(2-fluoro-4
   trifluoromethyl)phenylurea.
10          In some embodiments, the compositions of the invention may include one or more
   antinematodal agents including, but not limited to, active agents in the benzimidazoles,
   imidazothiazoles, tetrahydropyrimidines and the organophosphate class of compounds. In
   some embodiments, benzimidazoles including, but not limited to, thiabendazole,
   cambendazole, parbendazole, oxibendazole, mebendazole, flubendazole, fenbendazole,
15 oxfendazole, albendazole, cyclobendazole, febantel, thiophanate and its o,o-dimethyl
   analogue may be included in the compositions.
            In other embodiments, the compositions may include an imidazothiazole compounds
   including, but not limited to, tetramisole, levamisole and butamisole.
            In still other embodiments, the compositions of the invention may include
20 tetrahydropyrimidine active agents including, but not limited to, pyrantel, oxantel, and
   morantel.
            Suitable organophosphate active agents include, but are not limited to, coumaphos,
   trichlorfon, haloxon, naftalofos and dichlorvos, heptenophos, mevinphos, monocrotophos,
   TEPP, and tetrachlorvinphos.
25          In other embodiments, the compositions may include the antinematodal compounds
   phenothiazine, piperazine as the neutral compound and in various salt forms,
   diethylcarbamazine, phenols such as disophenol, arsenicals such as arsenamide,
   ethanolamines such as bephenium, thenium closylate, and methyridine; cyanine dyes
   including pyrvinium chloride, pyrvinium pamoate and dithiazanine iodide; isothiocyanates
30 including bitoscanate, suramin sodium, phthalofyne, and various natural products including,
   but not limited to, hygromycin B, a-santonin and kainic acid.
                                                    28

    WO 2013/126694                                                              PCT/US2013/027312
           In other embodiments, the compositions of the invention may include antitrematodal
   agents. Suitable antitrematodal agents include, but are not limited to, the miracils such as
   miracil D and mirasan; praziquantel, clonazepam and its 3-methyl derivative, oltipraz,
   lucanthone, hycanthone, oxamniquine, amoscanate, niridazole, nitroxynil, various bisphenol
 5 compounds known in the art including hexachlorophene, bithionol, bithionol sulfoxide and
   menichlopholan; various salicylanilide compounds including tribromsalan, oxyclozanide,
   clioxanide, rafoxanide, nitroxynil, brotianide, bromoxanide and closantel; triclabendazole,
   diamfenetide, clorsulon, hetolin and emetine.
           Anticestodal compounds may also be advantageously used in the compositions of the
10 invention including, but not limited to, arecoline in various salt forms, bunamidine,
   niclosamide, nitroscanate, paromomycin, paromomycin II, praziquantel and epsiprantel.
           In yet other embodiments, the compositions of the invention may include other active
   agents that are effective against arthropod parasites. Suitable active agents include, but are
   not limited to, bromocyclen, chlordane, DDT, endosulfan, lindane, methoxychlor, toxaphene,
15 bromophos, bromophos-ethyl, carbophenothion, chlorfenvinphos, chlorpyrifos, crotoxyphos,
   cythioate, diazinon, dichlorenthion,, diemthoate, dioxathion, ethion, famphur, fenitrothion,
   fenthion, fospirate, iodofenphos, malathion, naled, phosalone, phosmet, phoxim,
   propetamphos, ronnel, stirofos, allethrin, cyhalothrin, cypermethrin, deltamethrin,
   fenvalerate, flucythrinate, permethrin, phenothrin, pyrethrins, resmethrin, benzyl benzoate,
20 carbon disulfide, crotamiton, diflubenzuron, diphenylamine, disulfiram, isobornyl
   thiocyanato acetate, methoprene, monosulfiram, pirenonylbutoxide, rotenone, triphenyltin
   acetate, triphenyltin hydroxide, deet, dimethyl phthalate, and the compounds 1,5a,6,9,9a,9b
   hexahydro-4a(4H)-dibenzofurancarboxaldehyde (MGK- 11), 2-(2-ethylhexyl)-3 a,4,7,7a
   tetrahydro-4,7-methano-1H-isoindole-1,3(2H)dione (MGK-264), dipropyl-2,5
25 pyridinedicarboxylate (MGK-326) and 2-(octylthio)ethanol (MGK-874).
           In another embodiment, an antiparasitic agent that can be included in the topical
   veterinary composition can be a biologically active peptide or protein including, but not
   limited to, depsipeptides, which act at the neuromuscular junction by stimulating presynaptic
   receptors belonging to the secretin receptor family resulting in the paralysis and death of
30 parasites.   In one embodiment of the depsipeptide, the depsipeptide is emodepside (see
   Wilson et al., Parasitology,Jan. 2003, 126(Pt 1):79-86).
           In another embodiment, the topical compositions of the invention may comprise an
                                                   29

    WO 2013/126694                                                              PCT/US2013/027312
   active agent from the neonicotinoid class of parasiticides. The neonicotinoids bind and inhibit
   insect specific nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. In one embodiment, the neonicotinoid
   insecticidal agent that can be included in the topical compositions of the invention is
   imidacloprid. Agents of this class are described, for example, in U.S. Patent No. 4,742,060
 5 or in EP 0 892 060 (both incorporated herein by reference). In another embodiment, the
   compositions of the invention may comprise nitenpyram, another active agent of the
   neonicotinoid class of pesticides. The use of nitenpyram for controlling fleas is described in
   U.S. Patent No. 5,750,548, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
            In other certain embodiments of the invention, an insecticidal agent that can be
10 combined with the compositions of the invention is a semicarbazone, such as metaflumizone.
            In another embodiment, the compositions of the invention may advantageously
   include one or more other isoxazoline compounds known in the art. These active agents,
   which are very effective against ectoparasites, are described in US 7,964,204 and WO
   2007/079162; US 2010/0254960 Al, US2011/0159107, US2012/0309620, US2012/0030841,
15 US2010/0069247, WO 2007/125984, WO 2012/086462, US 8,318,757, US 2011/0144349,
   US 8,053,452; US 2010/0137612, US 2010/0254959, US 2011/152081, WO 2012/089623,
   WO 2012/089622, US 8,119,671; US 7,947,715; WO 2102/120135, WO 2012/107533, WO
   2011/157748, US 2011/0245274, US 2011/0245239, US 2012/0232026, US 2012/0077765,
   US     2012/0035122,    US   2011/0251247,      WO     2011/154433,    WO 2011/154434,        US
20 2012/0238517, US 2011/0166193, WO 2011/104088, WO 2011/104087, WO 2011/104089,
   US 2012/015946, US 2009/0143410, WO 2007/123855 A2, US 2011/0118212, US7951828
   & US7662972, US 2010/0137372 Al, US 2010/0179194 A2, US 2011/0086886 A2, US
   2011/0059988 Al, US 2010/0179195 Al, US 7,897,630, U.S. 7,951,828; WO 2011/075591
   and US 2011/0152312, and US 7,662,972, all of which are incorporated herein by reference
25 in their entirety.
            In another embodiment of the invention, nodulisporic acid and its derivatives may be
   added to the compositions of the invention. These compounds are used to treat or prevent
   infections in humans and animals and are described, for example, in U.S. Patent No.
   5,399,582, 5,962,499, 6,221,894 and 6,399,786, all of which are hereby incorporated by
30 reference in their entirety.   The compositions may include one or more of the known
   nodulisporic acid derivatives in the art, including all stereoisomers, such as those described in
   the literature cited above.
                                                   30

    WO 2013/126694                                                              PCT/US2013/027312
           In another embodiment, anthelmintic compounds of the amino acetonitrile class
   (AAD) of compounds such as monepantel (ZOLVIX) and the like may be added to the
   compositions of the invention.        These compounds are described, for example, in US
   7,084,280 to Ducray et al. (incorporated herein by reference); Sager et al., Veterinary
 5 Parasitology, 2009, 159, 49-54; Kaminsky et al., Nature vol. 452, 13 March 2008, 176-181.
           The compositions of the invention may also include aryloazol-2-yl cyanoethylamino
   compounds such as those described in US Patent No. 8,088,801 and US 2010/0125089 to
   Soll et al., which is incorporated herein by reference, and thioamide derivatives of these
   compounds, as described in U.S. Patent No. 7,964,621 to Le Hir de Fallois, which is also
10 incorporated herein by reference.
           The compositions of the invention may also include paraherquamide compounds and
   derivatives of these compounds, including derquantel (see Ostlind et al., Research in
    Veterinary Science, 1990, 48, 260-61; and Ostlind et al., Medical and Veterinary
   Entomology, 1997, 11, 407-408). The paraherquamide family of compounds is a known class
15 of compounds that include a spirodioxepino indole core with activity against certain parasites
   (see Tett. Lett. 1981, 22, 135; J. Antibiotics 1990, 43, 1380, and J. Antibiotics 1991, 44, 492).
   In addition, the structurally related marcfortine family of compounds, such as marcfortines A
   C, are also known and may be combined with the formulations of the invention (see J. Chem.
   Soc. - Chem. Comm. 1980, 601 and Tet. Lett. 1981, 22, 1977). Further references to the
20 paraherquamide derivatives can be found, for example, in WO 91/09961, WO 92/22555, WO
   97/03988, WO 01/076370, WO 09/004432 and US 2010/0197624, U.S. Patent 5,703,078 and
   U.S. Patent 5,750,695, all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
           In another embodiment of the invention, the compositions may include a spinosyn
   active agent produced by the soil actinomycete Saccharopolysporaspinosa (see, for example
25 Salgado V.L. and Sparks T.C., "The Spinosyns: Chemistry, Biochemistry, Mode ofAction,
   and Resistance," in Comprehensive Molecular Insect Science, vol. 6, pp. 137-173, 2005) or a
   semi-synthetic spinosoid active agent. The spinosyns are typically referred to as factors or
   components A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, J, K, L, M, N, 0, P,   Q, R, S, T, U, V, W,  or Y, and any of
   these components, or a combination thereof, may be used in the compositions of the
30 invention. The spinosyn compound may be a 5,6,5-tricylic ring system, fused to a 12
   membered macro cyclic lactone, a neutral sugar (rhamnose), and an amino sugar
   (forosamine). These and other natural spinosyn compounds, including 21 -butenyl spinosyn
                                                   31

    WO 2013/126694                                                             PCT/US2013/027312
   produced by Saccharopolysporapagona, which may be used in the compositions of the
   invention, may be produced via fermentation by conventional techniques known in the art.
   Other spinosyn compounds that may be used in the compositions of the invention are
   disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 5,496,931; 5,670,364; 5,591,606; 5,571,901; 5,202,242;
 5 5,767,253; 5,840,861; 5,670,486; 5,631,155 and 6,001,981, all incorporated by reference
   herein in their entirety. The spinosyn compounds may include, but are not limited to,
   spinosyn A, spinosyn D, spinosad, spinetoram, or combinations thereof. Spinosad is a
   combination of spinosyn A and spinosyn D, and spinetoram is a combination of 3'-ethoxy
   5,6-dihydro spinosyn J and 3'-ethoxy spinosyn L.
10         In general, the additional active agent is included in the dosage units of the invention
   in an amount of between about 0.1 pg and about 1000 mg. Typically, the active agent may be
   included in an amount of about 10 pg to about 500 mg, about 10 pg to about 400 mg, about 1
   mg to about 300 mg, about 10 mg to about 200 mg or about 10 mg to about 100 mg. More
   typically the active agent will be present in an amount of about 5 mg to about 50 mg in the
15 compositions of the invention.
           The concentration of the additional active agent(s) in the topical compositions of the
   invention will typically be from about 0.01% to about 30% (w/w) depending on the potency
   of the active agent. In certain embodiments for very potent active agents including, but not
   limited to a macrocyclic lactone active agent, the concentration of the active agent will
20 typically be from about 0.01% to about 10% (w/w), from about 0.01 to about 1% (w/w), from
   about 0.01% to about 0.5% (w/w), from about 0.1% to about 0.5% (w/w) or from about
   0.010% to about 0.1o% (w/w). In other embodiments, the concentration of the active agent will
   typically be from about 0.1% to about 2% (w/w) or about 0.1% to about 1% (w/w).
           In other embodiments, the additional active agent(s) will typically be present at higher
25 concentrations to achieve the desired efficacy. In some embodiments, the active agent will be
   present in a concentration of about 1% to about 3 0% (w/w), about 1%to about 2 0% (w/w) or
   about 1% to about 15% (w/w). In still other embodiments, the active agent will be present in
   a concentration of about 5% to about      2 0% (w/w) or about 5% to about 15% (w/w) in the
   composition.
30         In various embodiments of the invention, an additional active agent may be included
   in the composition to deliver a dose of about 0.001 mg/kg to about 50 mg/kg or about 0.5
                                                   32

    WO 2013/126694                                                              PCT/US2013/027312
   mg/kg to about 50 mg/kg of body weight of the animal. In other embodiments, the active
   agent will typically be present in an amount sufficient to deliver a dose of about 0.05 mg/kg
   to about 30 mg/kg, about 0.1 mg/kg to about 20 mg/kg. In other embodiments, the active
   agent will be present in an amount sufficient to deliver a dose of about 0.1 mg/kg to about 10
 5 mg/kg, about 0.1 mg/kg to about 1 mg/kg or about 0.5 mg/kg to about 50 mg/kg per body
   weight of the animal.
           In certain embodiments of the invention where the additional active agent is a very
   potent compound such as a macrocyclic lactone or other potent compounds, the active agent
   will be present in a concentration to provide a dose of about 0.001 mg/kg to about 5 mg/kg,
10 about 0.001 mg/kg to about 0.1 mg/kg or about 0.001 mg/kg to about 0.01 mg/kg. In still
   other embodiments, the active agent is present in an amount sufficient to deliver a dose of
   about 0.01 mg/kg to about 2 mg/kg or about 0.1 mg/kg to about 1 mg/kg per body weight of
   the animal. In still other embodiments, the additional active agent may be present in an
   amount to deliver a dose of about 1 pg/kg to about 200 pg/kg or about 0.1 mg/kg to about 1
15 mg/kg of weight of animal.
   Methods and Uses
           In an embodiment, the present subject matter is directed to a method of treating and/or
   controlling a parasite infestation in an animal. The method comprises administering an
   effective amount of a formulation described herein to the animal. Surprisingly, it has been
20 found and disclosed herein that at particular concentrations, fipronil and permethrin have
   surprisingly enhanced repellent activity against stable fly. In one embodiment, the
   formulations of the invention having a combination of fipronil and permethrin were
   unexpectedly found to have a significantly higher repellent efficacy against stable flies
   compared to a formulation containing permethrin alone at the same concentration
25 administered to deliver the same dose. The observed enhanced repellent efficacy is surprising
   because fipronil, although a very potent insecticidal agent, is not known to have repellent
   efficacy against ectoparasites. Accordingly, one method of the invention is directed to
   combatting pest infestations of parasitic flies including stable fly (Stomoxys calcitrans)and
   horn fly (Haematobiairritans),among other fly species.
30         In other embodiments, the uses and methods of the invention are for treating and/or
   preventing parasite infestations and/or infections from pests including those from the order of
   the Anoplura, for example, Haematopinusspp., Linognathus spp., Solenopotes spp.,
                                                    33

    WO 2013/126694                                                            PCT/US2013/027312
   Pediculus spp., Pthirus spp.; from the order of the Mallophaga, for example, Trimenopon
   spp., Menopon spp., Eomenacanthusspp., Menacanthus spp., Trichodectes spp., Felicola
   spp., Damalinea spp., Bovicola spp.; from the order of the Diptera, suborder Brachycera, for
   example, Chrysops spp., Tabanus spp., Musca spp., Hydrotaea spp., Muscina spp.,
 5 Haematoboscaspp., Haematobiaspp., Stomoxys spp., Fanniaspp., Glossina spp., Lucilia
   spp., Calliphoraspp., Auchmeromyia spp., Cordylobia spp., Cochliomyia spp., Chrysomyia
   spp., Sarcophaga spp., Wohlfahrtia spp., Gasterophilusspp., Oedemagena spp., Hypoderma
   spp., Oestrus spp., Rhinoestrus spp., Melophagus spp., Hippobosca spp.; from the order of
   the Diptera, suborder Nematocera, for example, Culex spp., Aedes spp., Anopheles spp.,
10 Culicoides spp., Phlebotomus spp., Simulium spp.; from the order of the Siphonaptera, for
   example, Ctenocephalidesspp., Echidnophagaspp., Ceratophyllus spp., Pulex spp.; from the
   order of the Metastigmata, for example, Hyalomma spp., Rhipicephalus spp., Boophilus spp.,
   Amblyomma spp., Haemaphysalis spp., Dermacentorspp., Ixodes spp., Argas spp., Otobius
   spp.; from the order of the Mesostigmata, for example, Dermanyssus spp., Ornithonyssus
15 spp., Pneumonyssus spp.; from the order of the Prostigmata, for example, Cheyletiella spp.,
   Psorergatesspp., Myobia spp., Demodex spp., Neotrombicula spp.; from the order of the
   Astigmata, for example, Acarus spp., Myocoptes spp., Psoroptes spp., Chorioptes spp.,
   Otodectes spp., Sarcoptes spp., Notoedres spp., Knemidocoptes spp., Neoknemidocoptes spp.,
   Cytodites spp., Laminosioptes spp.; and fleas (Siphonaptera, for example, Ctenocephalides
20 spp., Echidnophaga spp., Ceratophyllusspp., Pulex spp.), ticks (Hyalomma spp.,
   Rhipicephalus spp., Boophilus spp., Amblyomma spp., Haemaphysalisspp., Dermacentor
   spp., Ixodes spp., Argas spp., Ornithodorusspp., Otobius spp.) and in particular the Diptera
   mentioned above (Chrysops spp., Tabanus spp., Musca spp., Hydrotaea spp., Muscina spp.,
   Haematoboscaspp., Haematobiaspp., Stomoxys spp., Fanniaspp., Glossina spp., Lucilia
25 spp., Calliphoraspp., Auchmeromyia spp., Cordylobia spp., Cochliomyia spp., Chrysomyia
   spp., Sarcophaga spp., Gasterophilusspp., Oedemagena spp., Hypoderma spp., Oestrus spp.,
   Rhinoestrus spp., Melophagus spp., Hippobosca spp.).
           In another embodiment, the subject matter disclosed herein is directed to a method for
   cleaning the coats and the skin of animals by removal of the parasites which are present and
30 of their waste and excreta and administering to the animal a formulation as described herein.
   The animals treated thus exhibit a coat which is more pleasing to the eye and more pleasant
   to the touch.
                                                  34

    WO 2013/126694                                                                  PCT/US2013/027312
            The term "animal" as used herein refers to any mammal or bird. In particular, cattle,
   sheep, horses, pigs, chicken, and dogs would benefit from administration of the compositions
   disclosed herein as they may be infested by parasites that are effectively controlled by the
   compositions . The useful and breeding animals include mammals, such as, for example,
 5 cattle, horses, zebras, sheep, pigs, goats, camels, yaks, water buffalo, donkeys, fallow deer,
   reindeer, rodents, fur-bearing animals, such as, for example, mink, chinchilla, raccoon, birds,
   such as, for example, hens, chickens, geese, turkeys, quails and ducks. Domesticated animals
   include dogs, and particular emphasis is given to the treatment of dogs.
            Various methods of formulating parasiticidal formulations are known in the art.
10 These include oral formulations, dietary supplements, powders, skin solutions (pour-on or
   spot-on), sprays, drenches, baths, showers, jets, powders, greases, shampoos and creams.
            Of particular interest are formulations for localized topical applications of
   parasiticidal active agents known in the art as spot-on or pour-on formulations. Each type of
   formulation has distinct properties. For example, pour-on solutions comprising 1-N
15 phenylpyrazole derivatives, such as fipronil, are known in the art and are described in, for
   example, U.S. Pat. No. 6,010,710, U.S. Pat. No. 6,413,542, U.S. Pat. No. 6,001,384 and U.S.
   Pat. No. 6,413,542. Spot-on formulations are well known techniques for topically delivering
   certain antiparasitic agents with the required physicochemical properties to a limited area of
   the host. For example, U.S. Pat. No. 5,045,536 describes such formulations for ectoparasites.
20 Other spot-on formulations include U.S. Pat. No. 6,426,333 and U.S. Pat. No. 6,482,425. All
   of these references are hereby incorporated herein in their entirety.
            In one embodiment, the composition is a spot-on formulation comprising from about
   2 % (w/w) to about 10 % (w/w) fipronil; from about 30 % (w/w) to about 55 % (w/w)
   permethrin; and a glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil and N
25 methyl pyrrolidone, wherein said glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral
   oil and N-methyl pyrrolidone are present in a ratio of from about 1:1.8 to about 1:2.8 or about
    1:2.0 to about 1:3.5, glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil to NMP,
   and further wherein said composition is a liquid having a volume of from about 0.5 mL to
   about 10 mL. In another embodiment, the volume of the spot-on composition is from about 1
30 mL to about 6 mL.
            In another embodiment, the composition is a spot-on formulation comprising at least
   about 5% (w/w) fipronil; at least about 40 % (w/w) permethrin; and a glycol, glycol ether,
                                                    35

   WO 2013/126694                                                                 PCT/US2013/027312
   glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil and N-methyl pyrrolidone, wherein said glycol,
   glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil and N-methyl pyrrolidone are present
   in a weight : weight ratio of from about 1:1.8 to about 1:2.8 or about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.5,
   glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil to NMP, and further wherein
 5 said composition is a liquid having a volume of from about 0.5 mL to about 10 mL. In
   another embodiment, the volume of the spot-on composition is from about 1 mL to about 6
   mL.
           In one embodiment, the composition is a spot-on formulation comprising at least
   about 5% (w/w) fipronil; at least about 40 % (w/w) permethrin; and a glycol, glycol ether,
10 glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil and N-methyl pyrrolidone, wherein said glycol,
   glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil and N-methyl pyrrolidone are present
   in a weight : weight ratio of from about 1:2.5 to about 1:3.5 or about 1:25 to about 1:3.0,
   glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil to NMP, and further wherein
   said composition is a liquid having a volume of from about 0.5 mL to about 10 mL. In
15 another embodiment, the volume of the spot-on composition is from about 1 mL to about 6
   mL.
           In still another embodiment, the composition is a spot-on formulation comprising
   about 5% (w/w) to about 15% (w/w) fipronil; about 40 % (w/w) to about 55% (w/w)
   permethrin; and a glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil and N
20 methyl pyrrolidone, wherein said glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral
   oil and N-methyl pyrrolidone are present in a weight : weight ratio of from about 1:1.8 to
   about 1:2.8 or about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.5, glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or
   neutral oil to NMP, and further wherein said composition is a liquid having a volume of from
   about 0.5 mL to about 10 mL. In another embodiment, the volume of the spot-on
25 composition is from about 1 mL to about 6 mL.
           In still another embodiment, the composition is a spot-on formulation comprising
   about 5% (w/w) to about 15% (w/w) fipronil; about 40 % (w/w) to about 55% (w/w)
   permethrin; and a glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil and N
   methyl pyrrolidone, wherein said glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral
30 oil and N-methyl pyrrolidone are present in a weight : weight ratio of from about 1:2.5 to
   about 1:3.0 or about 1:2.5 to about 1:3.5, glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or
   neutral oil to NMP, and further wherein said composition is a liquid having a volume of from
                                                     36

    WO 2013/126694                                                                 PCT/US2013/027312
   about 0.5 mL to about 10 mL. In another embodiment, the volume of the spot-on
   composition is from about 1 mL to about 6 mL.
           In another embodiment, the composition is a spot-on formulation comprising about
   5% (w/w) to about 10% (w/w) fipronil; about 40 % (w/w) to about 50% (w/w) permethrin;
 5 and a glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil and N-methyl
   pyrrolidone, wherein said glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil and
   N-methyl pyrrolidone are present in a weight : weight ratio of from about 1:1.8 to about 1:2.8
   or about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.5, glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil to
   NMP, and further wherein said composition is a liquid having a volume of from about 0.5 mL
10 to about 10 mL. In another embodiment, the volume of the spot-on composition is from
   about 1 mL to about 6 mL.
           In another embodiment, the composition is a spot-on formulation comprising about
   5% (w/w) to about 10% (w/w) fipronil; about 40 % (w/w) to about 50% (w/w) permethrin;
   and a glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil and N-methyl
15 pyrrolidone, wherein said glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil and
   N-methyl pyrrolidone are present in a weight : weight ratio of from about 1:2.5 to about 1:3.5
   or about 1:2.5 to about 1:3.0, glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil to
   NMP, and further wherein said composition is a liquid having a volume of from about 0.5 mL
   to about 10 mL. In another embodiment, the volume of the spot-on composition is from
20 about 1 mL to about 6 mL.
           The topical composition of the invention can be administered in several ways.
   Administering comprises contacting the coat and/or skin of said animal with said
   composition. In one embodiment, the formulation is a spot-on or pour-on formulation.
   These formulations are applied to the animal's back, along the line of the back for a pour-on
25 formulation or at one or two spots on the back for a spot-on product. In one embodiment, the
   formulation will be administered to the animal over a highly localized region of the animal,
   preferably between the shoulder blades. In another embodiment, this localized region has a
   surface area of less than 10 cm2 , especially between 5 and 10 cm2 area. Such contacting or
   application can take place both prophylactically and therapeutically.
30         Administration of the formulations may be intermittent in time and may be
   administered daily, weekly, biweekly, monthly, bimonthly, quarterly, or even for longer
   durations of time. The time period between treatments depends upon factors such as the
                                                    37

    WO 2013/126694                                                                PCT/US2013/027312
   target parasite(s), the degree of infestation, the type of mammal or bird being treated and the
   environment where it resides. It is well within the skill level of the practitioner to determine
   a specific administration period for a particular situation. The presently described methods
   are directed to permanently combating a parasite in an environment in which the animal is
 5 subjected to strong parasitic pressure where the administration is at a frequency far below a
   daily administration in this case. For example, in one embodiment the treatment according to
   the invention will be carried out monthly on mammals such as dogs.
           In certain embodiments, the liquid formulations according to the invention are
   suitable for spray application, where the spray application may be carried out, for example,
10 using a pump spray or an aerosol spray (pressurized spray). For specific indications, the
   formulations may also be used after dilution with water as a dip; in this case, the formulation
   should contain emulsifying additives. In one embodiment, the compositions are applied as
   pour-on and spot-on formulations. The spot-on application is particularly preferred. The
   formulations according to the invention are distinguished by their excellent compatibility
15 with customary "single-dose" plastic pipettes and by their storage stability in various climate
   zones. They have low viscosity and can be easily applied.
           The liquid formulations according to the invention can be prepared by mixing
   appropriate amounts of the components with one another, using, for example, conventional
   stirring tanks or other suitable instruments. If required by the ingredients, it is also possible
20 to operate under a protective atmosphere or with other methods of excluding oxygen. Spot
   on formulations may be prepared by dissolving the active ingredients into the
   pharmaceutically or veterinary acceptable vehicle. Alternatively, the spot-on formulation can
   be prepared by encapsulation of the active ingredient to leave a residue of the therapeutic
   agent on the surface of the animal. These formulations will vary with regard to the weight of
25 the therapeutic agent in the combination depending on the species of host animal to be
   treated, the severity and type of infection and the body weight of the host.
           In certain embodiments, compositions described herein do not contain visible solids
   and are clear, but not necessarily water-clear, solutions having the described synergistic
   amounts of fipronil and permethrin fully solubilized therein. The two-component solvent
30 system secures the objectives of absence of crystallization on the coat and of maintenance of
   the cosmetic appearance of the fur, without a tendency towards sticking or towards a sticky
   appearance, despite the high concentration of actives in the composition.
                                                     38

    WO 2013/126694                                                                 PCT/US2013/027312
            In some embodiments the formulations disclosed herein can also comprise synergists.
   Synergists in the sense of this application are to be understood as meaning compounds which
   for their part do not have the desired activity, but which, as mixing partners, increase the
   activity of the active compounds. Piperonyl butoxide, MGK264, verbutin, S,S,S-tributyl
 5 phosphorotrithioate may be mentioned here in an exemplary manner.
            Though not required, the compositions may further include a stability enhancer. A
   "stability enhancer" is a compound that enhances the stability of an active agent compared to
   the stability of the active agent in the absence of the stability enhancer. Examples of stability
   enhancers include glycerol formal and polyethylene glycol (e.g., PEG 200). Other stability
10 enhancers are well-known in this field. In particular embodiments, a small amount of
   glycerol formal, e.g., 5% or less, can be added. In some embodiments, it may be desirable to
   add PEG 200 to the formulations of the invention to support the stability enhancement and
   solvency function of the glycerol formal.
            The invention further provides for titration of the amount of stability enhancer that is
15 added to the formulations of the invention. For example, in embodiments where the stability
   enhancer is glycerol formal, the amount of glycerol formal can be titrated, such that an
   optimal stability of the fipronil and permethrin composition is achieved in the formulation.
   The amount of stability enhancer present in a formulation of the invention may be low, such
   as about 5% w/v or less (e.g., 1.5% w/v). In other embodiments, the stability enhancer will
20 be present in an amount of about 5- 2 5 % w/v, such as, for example, 15% w/v.
            In some embodiments the solutions according to the invention which are oily, in
   addition to a glycol ether, may comprise a diluent or vehicle and also a solvent (organic
   solvent) for the active agent(s). However, due to the ability of the two-component solvent
   system described herein to solubilize both permethrin and fipronil, the use of addition
25 solubility enhancers would suitably be minimal.
            Further, though not required, if desired, crystallization inhibitors can be used in the
   compositions. These include: polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyvinyl alcohols, copolymers of vinyl
   acetate and of vinylpyrrolidone, polyethylene glycols, benzyl alcohol, mannitol, glycerol,
   sorbitol or polyoxyethylenated esters of sorbitan; lecithin or sodium carboxymethylcellulose;
30 or acrylic derivatives, such as methacrylates and others, anionic surfactants, such as alkaline
   stearates, in particular sodium, potassium or ammonium stearate; calcium stearate or
   triethanolamine stearate; sodium abietate; alkyl sulphates, in particular sodium lauryl
                                                    39

   WO 2013/126694                                                                  PCT/US2013/027312
   sulphate and sodium cetyl sulphate; sodium dodecylbenzenesulphonate or sodium dioctyl
   sulphosuccinate; or fatty acids, in particular those derived from coconut oil, cationic
   surfactants, such as water-soluble quaternary ammonium salts of formula NR'R"R"'R""Y-, in
   which the R', R", R'" and R"" radicals are identical or different optionally hydroxylated
 5 hydrocarbon radicals and Y- is an anion of a strong acid, such as halide, sulphate and
   sulphonate anions; cetyltrimethylammonium bromide is one of the cationic surfactants which
   can be used, amine salts of formula N+HR'R"R"' Y, in which the R', R", and R'" radicals are
   identical or different optionally hydroxylated hydrocarbon radicals and Y- is as defined
   above; octadecylamine hydrochloride is one of the cationic surfactants which can be used,
10 non-ionic surfactants, such as optionally polyoxyethylenated esters of sorbitan, in particular
   Polysorbate 80, or polyoxyethylenated alkyl ethers; polyethylene glycol stearate,
   polyoxyethylenated derivatives of castor oil, polyglycerol esters, polyoxyethylenated fatty
   alcohols, polyoxyethylenated fatty acids or copolymers of ethylene oxide and of propylene
   oxide, amphoteric surfactants, such as substituted lauryl compounds of betaine, or a mixture
15 of at least two of the compounds listed above.
           A crystallization inhibitor pair can be used. Such pairs include, for example, the
   combination of a film-forming agent of polymeric type and of a surface-active agent. These
   agents will be selected in particular from the compounds mentioned above as crystallization
   inhibitor. In certain embodiments of the invention, film-forming agents of polymeric type
20 include the various grades of polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyvinyl alcohols, polyethylene glycols
   and copolymers of vinyl acetate and of vinylpyrrolidone. In one embodiment, surface-active
   agents include those made of non-ionic surfactants, including polyoxyethylenated esters of
   sorbitan and polyoxyethylenated derivatives of castor oil, and in particular the various grades
   of polysorbate, for example Polysorbate 80.
25         The film-forming agent and the surface-active agent can in particular be incorporated
   in similar or identical amounts within the limit of the total amounts of crystallization inhibitor
   mentioned elsewhere.
           Alternative or additional organic solvents which can be used in the invention include
   acetyltributyl citrate, fatty acid esters such as the dimethyl ester, diisobutyl adipate, acetone,
30 acetonitrile, benzyl alcohol, butyl diglycol, dimethylacetamide, dimethylformamide,
   dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO), diethyl sebacate, dimethyl isosorbide, dipropylene glycol n-butyl
   ether, ethanol, isopropanol, methanol, ethylene glycol monoethyl ether, ethylene glycol
                                                     40

    WO 2013/126694                                                                  PCT/US2013/027312
   monomethyl ether, monomethylacetamide, dipropylene glycol monomethyl ether, liquid
   polyoxyethylene glycols, propylene glycol, 2-pyrrolidone, ethylene glycol; glycol esters
   including ethylene glycol monoethyl ether acetate, ethylene glycol monobutyl ether acetate,
   ethylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate, and the like; and diethyl phthalate, or a mixture of
 5 at least two of these solvents.
            In addition, mention may be made in particular of other possible ingredients such as
   plant oils: soybean oil, groundnut oil, castor oil, corn oil, cotton oil, olive oil, grape seed oil,
   sunflower oil, etc.; mineral oils such as petrolatum, paraffin, silicone, etc.; aliphatic or cyclic
   hydrocarbons or alternatively, for example, medium-chain (C8 to C12 in particular)
10 triglycerides.
            An emollient and/or spreading and/or film-forming agent may additionally be added,
   this agent being selected in particular from: polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyvinyl alcohols,
   copolymers of vinyl acetate and vinylpyrrolidone, polyethylene glycols, benzyl alcohol,
   mannitol, glycerol, sorbitol, polyoxyethylenated sorbitan esters; lecithin, sodium
15 carboxymethylcellulose, silicone oils, polydiorganosiloxane oils, in particular
   polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) oils, for example those containing silanol functionalities, or a
   45V2 oil, anionic surfactants such as alkaline stearates, in particular sodium, potassium or
   ammonium stearates; calcium stearate, triethanolamine stearate; sodium abietate; alkyl
   sulphates, in particular sodium lauryl sulphate and sodium cetyl sulphate; sodium
20 dodecylbenzenesulphonate, sodium dioctylsulphosuccinate; fatty acids, in particular those
   derived from coconut oil, cationic surfactants such as water-soluble quaternary ammonium
   salts of formula N+R'R"R'"R"".., Y- in which the radicals R', R", R'" and R"".. are optionally
   hydroxylated hydrocarbon radicals and Y- is an anion of a strong acid such as the halide,
   sulphate and sulphonate anions; cetyltrimethylammonium bromide is among the cationic
25 surfactants which can be used, amine salts of formula N+HR"R."R"" , Y- in which the radicals
   the R", R'" and R"" are optionally hydroxylated hydrocarbon radicals and Y- is as defined
   above; octadecylamine hydrochloride is among the cationic surfactants which can be used,
   nonionic surfactants such as sorbitan esters, which are optionally polyoxyethylenated, in
   particular polysorbate 80, polyoxyethylenated alkyl ethers; polyoxypropylated fatty alcohols
30 such as polyoxypropylene-styrol ether; polyethylene glycol stearate, polyoxyethylenated
   derivatives of castor oil, polyglycerol esters, polyoxyethylenated fatty alcohols,
   polyoxyethylenated fatty acids, copolymers of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide,
   amphoteric surfactants such as the substituted lauryl compounds of betaine; or a mixture of at
                                                    41

    WO 2013/126694                                                                  PCT/US2013/027312
   least two of these agents. The emollient may be used in a proportion of from 0.1 to 10%, in
   particular from 0.25 to 5%, by volume.
           In some embodiments, the liquid carrier will contain an organic solvent and optionally
   an organic co-solvent. In one embodiment, the organic solvent for the liquid carrier vehicle
 5 will have a dielectric constant of between about 10 and about 35. In another embodiment, the
   organic solvent will have a dielectric constant of between about 20 and about 30, the content
   of this solvent in the overall composition representing the remainder to 100% of the
   composition. It is well within the skill level of the practitioner to select a suitable solvent on
   the basis of these parameters.
10         In some embodiments, the organic co-solvent for the liquid carrier vehicle will have a
   boiling point of less than about 1000 C. In another embodiment, the organic co-solvent will
   have a boiling point of less than about 80' C., and will have a dielectric constant of between
   about 10 and about 40. In still another embodiment, the organic co-solvent will have a
   dielectric constant of between about 20 and about 30. This co-solvent can advantageously be
15 present in the composition according to a weight/weight (w/w) ratio with respect to the
   solvent of between about 1/15 and about 1/2. In one embodiment, the co-solvent will be
   volatile in order to act in particular as drying promoter and is miscible with water and/or with
   the solvent. Again, it is well within the skill level of the practitioner to select a suitable
   solvent on the basis of these parameters.
20         The organic solvent for the liquid carrier includes the commonly acceptable organic
   solvents known in the formulation art. These solvents may be found, for example, in
   Remington Pharmaceutical Science, 16th Edition (1986). These solvents include, for
   example, acetone, ethyl acetate, methanol, ethanol, isopropanol, dimethylformamide or
   dichloromethane. Those solvents which are suitable for topical application are preferred.
25         In another embodiment, the subject matter disclosed herein is directed to a solvent
   system comprising A) NMP and B) a glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or
   neutral oil, wherein the N-methyl pyrrolidone and glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid
   ester or neutral oil are present in a weight : weight ratio of from about 1:1.8 to about 1:2.8 ,
   glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil to NMP, wherein dissolved in
30 the solvent system are two active agents selected from one N-arylpyrazole and one
   pyrethroid. In one such embodiment, the present subject matter is directed to a formulation
   comprising, one pyrethroid in a concentration of from about 30 % w/w to about 55 % w/w;
                                                     42

    WO 2013/126694                                                                PCT/US2013/027312
   one N-arylpyrazole in a concentration of from about 2 % w/w to about 10 % w/w; and A)
   glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil and B) NMP, wherein the
   glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil and NMP are present in a
   weight : weight ratio of from about 1:1.8 to about 1:2.8, glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester,
 5 fatty acid ester or neutral oil to NMP.
           In another embodiment, the formulation comprises one pyrethroid in an concentration
   of at least about 40 % w/w; one N-arylpyrazole in a concentration of at least about 5% w/w;
   and A) glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil and B) NMP, wherein
   the glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil and NMP are present in a
10 weight : weight ratio of from about 1:1.8 to about 1:2.8 or about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.5, glycol,
   glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil to NMP.
           In another embodiment, the formulation comprises one pyrethroid in an concentration
   of at least about 40 % w/w; one N-arylpyrazole in a concentration of at least about 5% w/w;
   and A) glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil and B) NMP, wherein
15 the glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil and NMP are present in a
   weight : weight ratio of from about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.0, glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester,
   fatty acid ester or neutral oil to NMP.
           In another embodiment, the formulation comprises one pyrethroid in an concentration
   of at least about 40 % w/w; one N-arylpyrazole in a concentration of at least about 5% w/w;
20 and A) glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil and B) NMP, wherein
   the glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil and NMP are present in a
   weight : weight ratio of from about 1:2.5 to about 1:3.5, glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester,
   fatty acid ester or neutral oil to NMP.
           In another embodiment, the formulation comprises one pyrethroid in an concentration
25 of at least about 40 % w/w; one N-arylpyrazole in a concentration of at least about 5% w/w;
   and A) glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil and B) NMP, wherein
   the glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil and NMP are present in a
   ratio of from about 1:2.5 to about 1:3.0, glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or
   neutral oil to NMP.
30         In specific aspects of this embodiment, the present subject matter is directed to a
   pesticidal composition comprising: from about 2 % (w/w) to about 15 % (w/w) N
                                                     43

    WO 2013/126694                                                                PCT/US2013/027312
   arylpyrazole; from about 30 % (w/w) to about 55 % (w/w) pyrethroid; A) a glycol, glycol
   ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil, and B) NMP, wherein said a glycol, glycol
   ether, glycol ester, fatty acid ester or neutral oil, and NMP are present in a weight : weight
   ratio of about 1:1.8 to about 1:2.8 or about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.5, about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.0,
 5 about 1:2.5 to about 1:3.5 or about 1:2.5 to about 1:3.0, glycol, glycol ether, glycol ester, fatty
   acid ester or neutral oil to NMP; and optionally an antioxidant.
           A useful concentration of N-arylpyrazole in the composition is from about 2 % (w/w)
   to about 15 % (w/w). In another embodiment, the concentration of the N-arylpyrazole is
   from about 3 % (w/w) to about 10 % (w/w) or about 4 % (w/w) to about 8 % (w/w). In still
10 another embodiment, the concentration of the N-arylpyrazole is about 6 % (w/w).
           A useful concentration of the pyrethroid in the compositions of the invention is from
   about 35 % (w/w) to about 50 % (w/w). In another embodiment, the pyrethroid is present at a
   concentration of from about 40 % (w/w) to about 48 % (w/w). In yet another embodiment,
   the concentration of the pyrethroid is from about 42 % (w/w) to about 47 % (w/w). In
15 another embodiment, the concentration of the pyrethroid in the composition is about 45 %
   (w/w).
           N-Arylpyrazoles and their parasiticidal and acaricidal activity are known from US
   20060014802 Al, W02005090313 Al, FR2834288 Al, W09828277, US6069157,
   W00031043, DE19824487, W09804530, W09962903, EP0933363, EPO911329,
20 W09856767, US5814652, W09845274, W09840359, W09828279, W09828278,
   DE19650197, W09824767, EP0846686, EP0839809, W09728126, EP0780378,
   GB2308365, US5629335, W09639389, US5556873, EP0659745, US5321040, EP0511845,
   and EP0234119, EP0295117, and WO 98/24769. These references are hereby incorporated
   herein in their entirety.
25         Pyrethroids likewise have a relatively broad parasiticidal action, and some
   representatives may also show good acaricidal effects. As discussed above, the different
   physicochemical properties of the materials used require special formulations. However, the
   solvent system described herein has been shown to solubilize a high concentration of
   permethrin in combination with fipronil.
30         In some embodiments the compositions comprising a combination of N-arylpyrazoles
   and pyrethroids may contain one or more of a cyanopyrethroid (for example flumethrin), a
                                                     44

    WO 2013/126694                                                                  PCT/US2013/027312
   type-I pyrethroid (for example permethrin) or non-ester pyrethroid (etofenprox) type. In
   other embodiments, the compositions may include one or more of the pyrethroids a
   cyanopyrethroids (for example alpha-cypermethrin, cyfluthrin, beta-cyfluthrin, cyhalothrin,
   cypermethrin, deltamethrin, fenvalerate, flucythrinate, flumethrin, tau-fluvalinate); type-i
 5 pyrethroids (for example allethrin, bioallethrin, permethrin, phenothrin, resmethrin,
   tetramethrin, transfluthrin); and non-ester pyrethroids (for example etofenprox, halfenprox,
   silafluofen).
           It is furthermore also possible to use the active compounds in the form of their
   solvates, in particular hydrates. Solvates are to be understood as meaning both the solvates, in
10 particular hydrates, of the active compounds themselves and the solvates, in particular
   hydrates, of their salts.
           Also contemplated are the pharmaceutically or veterinarily acceptable acid or base
   salts, where applicable, of the active compounds provided for herein. The term "acid"
   contemplates all pharmaceutically or veterinarily acceptable inorganic or organic acids.
15 Inorganic acids include mineral acids such as hydrohalic acids, such as hydrobromic and
   hydrochloric acids, sulfuric acids, phosphoric acids and nitric acids. Organic acids include all
   pharmaceutically or veterinarily acceptable aliphatic, alicyclic and aromatic carboxylic acids,
   dicarboxylic acids, tricarboxylic acids, and fatty acids. Preferred acids are straight chain or
   branched, saturated or unsaturated C1-C20 aliphatic carboxylic acids, which are optionally
20 substituted by halogen or by hydroxyl groups, or C6-C12 aromatic carboxylic acids.
   Examples of such acids are acetic acid, carbonic acid, formic acid, fumaric acid, acetic acid,
   propionic acid, isopropionic acid, valeric acid, a-hydroxy acids, such as glycolic acid and
   lactic acid, chloroacetic acid, benzoic acid, methane sulfonic acid, and salicylic acid.
   Examples of dicarboxylic acids include oxalic acid, malic acid, succinic acid, tartaric acid
25 and maleic acid. An example of a tricarboxylic acid is citric acid. Fatty acids include all
   pharmaceutically or veterinary acceptable saturated or unsaturated aliphatic or aromatic
   carboxylic acids having 4 to 24 carbon atoms. Examples include butyric acid, isobutyric
   acid, sec-butyric acid, lauric acid, palmitic acid, stearic acid, oleic acid, linoleic acid,
   linolenic acid, and phenylsteric acid. Other acids include gluconic acid, glycoheptonic acid,
30 lactobionic acid, methanesulphonic acid, 4-toluenesulphonic acid, galacturonic acid, embonic
   acid, glutamic acid or aspartic acid.
                                                    45

    WO 2013/126694                                                               PCT/US2013/027312
            The term "base" contemplates all pharmaceutically or veterinary acceptable inorganic
   or organic bases. Such bases include, for example, the alkali metal and alkaline earth metal
   salts, such as the lithium, sodium, potassium, magnesium or calcium salts. Organic bases
   include the common hydrocarbyl and heterocyclic amine salts, which include, for example,
 5 the morpholine and piperidine salts.
            In one embodiment, the liquid carrier may also comprise a microemulsion.
   Microemulsions are also well suited as the liquid carrier vehicle. Microemulsions are
   quaternary systems comprising an aqueous phase, an oily phase, a surfactant and a co
   surfactant. They may be translucent and isotropic liquids.
10          Microemulsions are composed of stable dispersions of microdroplets of the aqueous
   phase in the oily phase or conversely of microdroplets of the oily phase in the aqueous phase.
   The size of these microdroplets is less than 200 nm (1000 to 100,000 nm for emulsions). The
   interfacial film is composed of an alternation of surface-active (SA) and co-surface-active
   (Co-SA) molecules which, by lowering the interfacial tension, allows the microemulsion to
15 be formed spontaneously.
            The oily phase can in particular be formed from mineral or vegetable oils, from
   unsaturated polyglycosylated glycerides or from triglycerides, or alternatively from mixtures
   of such compounds. The oily phase may comprise triglycerides including medium-chain
   triglycerides, for example C8-C1O caprylic/capric triglyceride. In some embodiments the
20 oily phase will represent, in particular, in a concentration of about 2 to about 15%, about 7 to
   about 10%, or from about 8 to about 9%, v/v of the microemulsion.
            In some embodiments, the aqueous phase includes, for example water or glycol
   derivatives, such as propylene glycol, glycol ethers, polyethylene glycols or glycerol.
   Propylene glycol, diethylene glycol monoethyl ether and dipropylene glycol monoethyl ether
25 are especially preferred. Generally, the aqueous phase will represent a proportion from about
    1 to about 4% v/v in the microemulsion.
            Surfactants for the microemulsion include diethylene glycol monoethyl ether,
   dipropyelene glycol monomethyl ether, polyglycolized C8-C1O glycerides or polyglyceryl-6
   dioleate. In addition to these surfactants, the co-surfactants include short-chain alcohols, such
30 as ethanol and propanol.
                                                    46

    WO 2013/126694                                                                  PCT/US2013/027312
            Some compounds are common to the three components discussed above, e.g.,
   aqueous phase, surfactant and co-surfactant. However, it is well within the skill level of the
   practitioner to use different compounds for each component of the same formulation.
            In one embodiment, the co-surfactant to surfactant ratio will be from about 1/7 to
 5 about 1/2. In another embodiment, the concentration of surfactant will be from about 25 to
   about 75% v/v and the concentration of the co-surfactant will be from about 10 to about 55%
   v/v in the microemulsion.
            Likewise, the co-solvents are also well known to a practitioner in the formulation art.
   In some embodiments, co-solvents are those that promote drying and include, for example,
10 absolute ethanol, isopropanol (2-propanol) or methanol.
            For the chemical preparation of the products of the invention, a person skilled in the
   art is regarded as having at his or her disposal, inter alia, the entire contents of "Chemical
   Abstracts" and of the documents that are cited therein.
            Depending on the nature and arrangement of the substituents, the active compounds
15 may, if appropriate, be present in various stereoisomeric forms, in particular as enantiomers
   and racemates. According to the invention, it is possible to use both the pure stereoisomers
   and mixtures thereof.
           The present subject matter is further described herein by the following non-limiting
   examples which further illustrate the invention, and are not intended, nor should they be
20 interpreted to, limit the scope of the invention.
                                              EXAMPLES
   Example 1: Stable Fly Repellency and Parasiticidal Efficacy in Rats
            This study evaluated the effectiveness of a formulation of the invention containing
25 fipronil and permethrin to repel and kill Stomoxys calcitranson rats after a single
   administration. Rats in the treatment group (Group 2) were treated once on Day 0 with a
   topical formulation of the invention containing 9.2 (w/w) fipronil and 41.5% (w/w)
   permethrin in a solvent system containing DMDA and DGME in a ratio of 0.73:1, DMDA to
   DGME, to deliver a dose of 30 mg/kg permethrin and 6.7 mg/kg fipronil. Rats in Group 3
30 were treated with a formulation containing permethrin alone to deliver a dose of 30 mg/kg.
                                                   47

    WO 2013/126694                                                               PCT/US2013/027312
   The two treatment groups were compared with a control group treated with a solvent system
   placebo.
           Flies are exposed to the treated rats for 1 hr., then removed. Dead flies are counted at
   the end of the exposure period and at 4 hr and 24 hr post-exposure. The fipronil + permethrin
 5 group exhibited a very high level of efficacy at all time points measured. Furthermore, the
   fipronil i- permethrin group exhibited significantly higher repellency measured 24 hours after
   exposure compared with the permethrin only group at the same dose level. This finding is
   significant because fipronil is not known to have repellent activity.
           The diptericidal efficacy of the formulations is shown in Table 1 and represented in
10 Figure 6. The data for repellency are shown in Table 2 and are represented in Figure 7.
   Table 1.
       Treatment             Dose                 EOE                  4 hr              24 hr
                            (mg/kg)            % efficacy           % efficacy         % efficacy
      Permethrin              30.0                 74.2                82.0               74.7
       Fipronil +              6.7                 95.8               95.7                95.6
      Permethrin              30.0
   EOE = end of exposure period
   Table 2.
               Treatment                     Dose (mg/kg)                      % Repellency
               Permethrin                          30.0                            41.2
               Fipronil +                           6.7                            55.9
               Permethrin                          30.0
15
   Example 2: Stable Fly Repellency and Parasiticidal Efficacy on Dogs
           This study evaluated the effectiveness of Fipronil + pernethrin to repel and kill
   Stomoxys calcitranson dogs after a single administration.
           The fly repellency and parasiticidal activity of a formulation of the invention was
20 evaluated on ten dogs. Dogs were randomly allocated to one of two groups by lottery. Dogs
   in Group 1 were not treated: Dogs in Group 2 received the topical formulation of the
   invention containing a combination of fipronil and permethrin described in Table 3 below,
                                                    48

    WO 2013/126694                                                               PCT/US2013/027312
   administered topically once on Day 0 in a single spot to deliver a dose of approximately 6.70
   mg fipronil/kg and 30.15 mg permethrin/kg.
   Table 3: Formulation
              Ingredient                     % w/v               % w/w
                fipronil                        10                 9.2
              Permethrin                        45                41.5
        Dimethyl decanamide                    QS                  ~49
     (DMDA):Diethylene glycol
     monoethyl ether (DGME) at
            0.7:3:1 (w/w)
 5         On Days 1, 14, 21 and 28, dogs were exposed to approximately 100 three to seven
   day old S. calcitrans.After approximately 60 minutes, live flies were aspirated into a vial and
   dead flies were collected from the cages. After all flies were collected, the live flies were
   killed and the flies (live and dead) were counted and crushed to determine feeding status (fed
   vs. unfed). Due to inadequate fly emergence, fly exposures could not be conducted on Day 7
10         Fly repellency was based on the number of flies that fed in the treated group
   compared to the control group during each exposure period. Repellency was 99% in treated
   dogs on Day 1 and was 85.9%, 84.6%, and 61.7% on Days 14, 21, and 28, respectively.
           Parasiticidal efficacy was based on the number of live flies in the treated group
   compared to the control group at the end of each exposure period. Parasiticidal efficacy in
15 treated dogs was 100% on Day 1 and was 98.7%, 95.5%, and 81.3% on Days 14, 21 and 28,
   respectively. The percent efficacy is listed in Table 3.
           In this study, a composition comprising Fipronil + pernethrin provided >84.60/0
   repellency and    >95.5%     parasiticidal efficacy against S. calcitrans (stable flies) for three
   weeks following treatment.
20 Summary Data are shown for the fipronil + permethrin composition in Table 4:
   Table 4. Summary data
          Day                 1               7              14             21               28
      Repellency            99.0            N/A             85.9           84.6             61.7
          Day                 1               7              14             21               28
     Parasiticidal         100.0             N/A            98.7           95.5             81.3
        Activity
                                                     49

   WO 2013/126694                                                               PCT/US2013/027312
   Example 3: Crystallization of Actives
           Four experimental formulations were prepared with 6%w/w Fipronil and 44.9%w/w
   permethrin and varying amounts of excipients N-dimethyldecanamide (DMDA) and
   diethylene glycol monoethyl ether (DGME). The DMDA concentration was varied between
 5 5-20%w/w. These formulations were subjected to different low temperature conditions
   including -20'C, 4'C, and 100 C; some samples were seeded with crystals that had grown in
   previous batches. Crystallization was seen among all the formulations in various conditions.
           A DMDA-containing formulation of fipronil and permethrin as described herein was
   subjected to low temperatures. Some samples were seeded with crystals. Crystals were seen
10 in the DMDA formulation.
            Solvents were screened for their compatibility with permethrin and ability to maintain
   permethrin in solution. The summary of the testing and results are shown in Table 5.
   Table 5.
15
                       Solvent                                          Crystals
          Captex 170 (Caprylic/Capric acid                                100 %
                        Ester)
                      Oleic acid                                          100%
                  Propylene glycol                                     Immiscible
                   Benzyl benzoate                                    Less than 5 %
                 Propylene carbonate                                      1000%
                   Glycerol formal                                        1000%
                       Ethanol                                            40 %
                  Isopropyl alcohol                                    Immiscible
    Diethylene glycol monoethyl ether (DGME)                              100 %
        N,N-Dimethyldecanamide (DMDA)                                 Less than 5 %
           The screening indicates benzyl benzoate and N,N-Dimethyldecanamide are most
   compatible with permethrin from the experimental set.
20         In addition to screening solvents for their compatibility with permethrin, several
   experimental batches were prepared all containing 44.9% w/w permethrin and 6% w/w
   fipronil. The results of the preparations are shown in Tables 6 and 7.
                                                   50

   WO 2013/126694                                                              PCT/US2013/027312
   Table 6.
                        Solvent                                         Result
        DGME, ethanol, polysorbate 80, PVP          seeded and unseeded samples stored at 4' C
                                                         crystallized 100% within 24 hours
                 N-methylpyrrolidone                seeded and unseeded samples stored at 4'C
                                                        have not grown crystals after 5 days
      Dimethyl Isosorbide/Diisopropyl adipate         Solution turned hazy after all ingredients
                                                                        added
        Dimethyl Isosorbide/Benzyl benzoate                     Fipronil was insoluble
             Triacetin/diisopropyl adipate                      Fipronil was insoluble
              Triacetin/benzyl benzoate                         Fipronil was insoluble
           The formulation containing N-methylpyrrolidone has the best physical stability of the
   set.
 5 Table 7.
   Formulation (% w/w or grams per 100 g of solution)                     Crystallization on day 8
   Solvent system                 Fipronil Permethrin    Prepared       Without         With seeding
                                                             on         seeding
   DGME                24.5          6         45         Day 1            No               Yes
   Diisopropyl Adipate 24.5
   Polysorbate 80            3.0     6         45         Day 1            No               Yes
   DGME                 23.0
   Diisopropyl Adipate 23.0
   DGME                   32         6         45         Day 2            No               Yes
   Diisopropyl Adipate        17
   DMDA                    23.5      6         45         Day 3            No               Yes
   Diisopropyl Adipate 25.5
   DMDA                      16      6         45         Day 3            No               Yes
   Diisopropyl Adipate       33
   NMP                      14.5     6         45         Day 4            No         Yes, very small
   Diisopropyl Adipate      34.5                                                        amounts of
                                                                                          crystals
   NMP                        49     6         45         Day 5            No               No
   NMP                        44     6         45         Day5             No               No
   Diisopropyl Adipate         5
   NMP                        44     6         45         Day5             No               No
   Triacetin                   5
   Note: 1) These results are approximate and based on lab screening data. 2) Amount of
   DGME, DMDA, NMP is approximate and will depend on assay of actives. 3) Assay of all
   actives is assumed 100% in these experiments and calculations.
10
                                                 51

    WO 2013/126694                                                             PCT/US2013/027312
   Example 4: One formulation of the invention described fully herein is shown in Table 8.
   Table 8.
             Ingredient                        % W/W                            % W/V
                NMP                              35                              39.4
                 BHT                            0.10                             0.11
               Fipronil                          6.0                              6.8
             Permethrin                         44.9                             50.5
          MIGLYOL* 812                        QS (~ 14)                       QS (~ 15)
   Example 5: Efficacy of Against Fleas (Ctenocephalidesfelis)and Ticks (Rhipicephalus
 5 sanguineus) on Dogs.
           A study was conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of three different formulations of
   the invention containing fipronil and permethrin in amounts to deliver doses of > 6.7 mg/kg
   and > 50.3 mg/kg, respectively, compared with a formulation containing permethrin alone in
   an amount to deliver a dose of > 50.3 mg/kg.
10         Five treatment groups of six dogs each were formed. Dogs in Group 1 were untreated.
   On Day 0 dogs in Groups 2, 3 and 4 received a spot-on formulation of the invention
   containing 6.0 % (w/w) fipronil and 44.9% (w/w) permethrin in different solvent systems.
   Dogs in Group 5 were treated on Day 0 with a spot-on formulation containing 44.9% (w/w)
   permethrin alone. The efficacy of the treatments was measured against the control Group 1
15 for each observation point. The formulation components are shown in Table 9 below.
   Table 9
                         Group 2       Group 3       Group 4       Group 5
       Ingredient        (% w/w)       (% w/w)       (% w/w)       (% w/w)
        Fipronil            6.0           6.0           6.0
      Permethrin           44.9          44.9          44.9          44.9
          NMP               35            35                          35
         DGME           QS (- 12.5)                              QS (~ 18.7)
   MIGLYOL* 812                      QS (~ 12.4)
                                                 52

    WO 2013/126694                                                             PCT/US2013/027312
          BCA                                            25
         DMDA                                        QS (~ 22.6)
          BHT                0.1          0.1                         0.1
           All dogs were infested with approximately 100 C. felis on Days -1, 8, 15, 22 and 29.
   Flea counts were performed on Days 1, 9, 16, 23 and 30. All dogs were also infested with
   approximately 50 Rhipicephalus sanguineus on Days -1, 14 and 28. Ticks were thumb
 5 counted on Days 15 and 29 and counted and removed on Days 1, 16 and 30.
           The efficacy against fleas was similar for Groups 2, 3 and 4, ranging from 95-100%
   through Day 30. The efficacy for Group 5 was 510% on Day 1 and reached a peak of 96% on
   Day 9, then dropped to 13% by Day 30.
                                                                       69
           The efficacy against ticks at 24 hours after treatment was     .1%, 89.9%, 94.7% and
10 70.2% for Groups 2, 3, 4 and 5, respectively. Efficacy against ticks at 24 hours following
   infestation ranged from 91-99% across all treated groups on Day 15 and from 56-81% on
   Day 29. Efficacy against ticks at 48 hours after infestation ranged from 96-100% across all
   treated groups on Day 16 and from 7 4 - 8 5 % on Day 30.
           This study demonstrates that the formulations of the invention provided superior
15 efficacy against C. felis and R. sanguineus compared to a formulation containing permethrin
   alone. The efficacy data is also presented in Figures 4 and 5.
   Example 6: Repellency and Efficacy Against Phlebotomusperniciosus Sand Flies on Dogs
           This study evaluated the effectiveness of two formulations of the invention containing
   fipronil and permethrin to repel and kill Phlebotomusperniciosuson dogs after a single
20 administration.
           Following a procedure very similar to that described in Example 2, the repellency and
   insecticidal efficacy of the formulations was studied. Three treatment groups of five dogs
   each were formed. Dogs in Group 1 were untreated. Dogs in Groups 2 and 3 were treated
   once on Day 0 with the formulations of the invention described in Table 10 below to deliver
25 doses of > 6.7 mg/kg fipronil and > 50.3 mg/kg permethrin.
                                                   53

    WO 2013/126694                                                             PCT/US2013/027312
   Table 10
                         Group 2       Group 3
       Ingredient        (% w/w)       (% w/w)
        Fipronil            6.0           6.0
       Permethrin          44.9          44.9
          NMP               35            35
         DGME          QS (~ 12.5)
   MIGLYO*L 812                      QS (~ 12.4)
          BCA
        DMDA
          BHT               0.1           0.1
           Dogs were exposed to eighty ( 5) P. perniciosus female sand flies on Days 1, 7, 14,
   21, 29 and 35. After 60 minutes, sand flies were removed and categorized as live (engorged
 5 or non-engorged), dead (engorged or non-engorged). Efficacy was determined by
   determining the number of dead flies approximately four hours after exposure and on days 2,
   8, 15, 22 and 29 approximately twenty four hours after exposure. Repellency was measured
   by comparing the number of engorged flies (live or dead) in the treatment groups compared
   with the number of engorged flies in the control group.
10         The repellency observed for dogs in treatment Group 2 on days 1, 7, 14, 21, 29 and 35
   was measured to be 97.0%, 90.1%, 96.0%, 80.0%, 96.4% and 79.6%, respectively. The
   repellency for dogs in Group 3 on days 1, 7, 14, 21, 29 and 35 was found to be 94.4%, 94.7%,
   99.3%, 88.6%, 97.3% and 82.5%, respectively.
           The efficacy for Group 2 at 4 hours after exposure on days 1, 7, 14, 21, 29 and 35 was
15 99.8%, 100.0%, 94.0%, 63.2%, 91.1% and 65.8%, respectively. The efficacy for Group 3 at 4
                                                             99 6            92 3
   hours after exposure on days 1, 7, 14, 21, 29 and 35 was     . %, 100.0%,     . %, 5 6 .3 %,
   90.6% and 70.0%, respectively.
           The efficacy for Group 2 at 24 hours after exposure on days 2, 8, 15, 22, 30 and 36
   was 100.0%, 99.4%, 94.4%, 66.3%, 91.7% and 69.6%, respectively. The efficacy for Group 3
20 at 4 hours after exposure on days 2, 8, 15, 22, 30 and 36 was 99.6%, 100.0%, 92.6%, 58.0%,
   93.10%and 70.7%, respectively.
                                                   54

    WO 2013/126694                                                                PCT/US2013/027312
           This study demonstrates that the formulations of the invention provide excellent
   repellency for at least 35 days and excellent insecticidal efficacy for at least 30 days against
   Phlebotomusperniciosuson dogs after a single treatment. The data is also presented in
   Figure 3.
 5 Example 7: Repellency and Efficacy Against Stable Flies (Stomoxys calcitrans)on Dogs
           This study was conducted to evaluate the repellency and efficacy of a spot-on
   formulation of the invention described in Table 8 above comprising a combination of fipronil
   and permethrin against Stomoxys calcitransstable flies after a single topical administration.
           Following a procedure very similar to that described in Example 2 above, two groups
10 of eight dogs each were formed. The dogs in Group 1 were untreated and served as a control
   group. Dogs in Group 2 were treated once on Day 0 with the formulation of Table 8 to
   deliver doses of 6.8 mg/kg fipronil and 50.5 mg/kg permethrin. Dogs were exposed to
   approximately 100 stable flies on days 1, 7, 14, 21, 28 and 35 for approximately 60 minutes,
   after which the flies (both live and dead) were collected and examined to determine feeding
15 status. Repellency of the formulation administered to Group 2 dogs was measured to be
    100.0%, 100.0%, 99.2%, 97.3%, 96.6% and 88.7% on days 1, 7, 14, 21, 28 and 35,
   respectively. The insecticidal efficacy of the formulation applied to Group 2 dogs was
   measured to be 100.0%, 99.9%, 99.4%, 99.6%, 98.3% and 98.3% on Days 1, 7, 14, 21, 28
   and 35 respectively. The repellency and efficacy data is presented in Figures 8 and 9.
20         The very high level of repellency and insecticidal efficacy against Stomoxys
   calcitranswith a duration of action of at least 35 days for the formulation of Example 8 is
   surprising for a topical formulation comprising permethrin at the dose level applied. For
   example, Fourie et al. reported that a topical formulation comprising 10% imidacloprid and
   50% permethrin (the same concentration of permethrin in the formulation used in the present
25 example) only prevented 82% of S. calcitrans from feeding on dogs for 4 weeks after
   treatment and exhibited an average efficacy of 85.6% over the evaluation period of 29 days.
   (see "The Efficacy of a Topically Applied Combination of Imidacloprid and Permethrin
   Against Stomoxys calcitrans on Dogs," Intern. J Appl. Res. Vet. Med., 2006, vol. 4(1), pp.
   29-33). In this study, the highest repellency observed over the whole 29 day assessment
30 period was 90.2% 1 day post treatment while the repellency at all other time points were
   below 90%. The repellency and efficacy exhibited by the formulation of the invention is
   surprisingly superior to another topical formulation comprising the same concentration of
   permethrin in combination with a different pesticidal active agent. The superior repellency is
   particularly surprising because fipronil is not known to have any repellent activity.
                                                   55

    WO 2013/126694                                                               PCT/US2013/027312
   Example 8: Repellency Against Mosquitoes (Culexpipiens) on Dogs.
            This study was conducted to evaluate the repellency and efficacy of a spot-on
   formulation of the invention described in Table 8 above against Culexpipiens after a single
   topical administration.
 5          Following a procedure very similar to that described in Example 2 above, two groups
   of eight dogs each were formed. The dogs in Group 1 were untreated and served as a control
   group. Dogs in Group 2 were treated once on Day 0 with the formulation of Table 8 to
   deliver doses of 6.8 mg/kg fipronil and 50.5 mg/kg permethrin. Dogs were exposed to
   approximately 100 Culexpipiens female mosquitoes per dog on days 1, 7, 14, 21 and 28 for
10 approximately 60 minutes, after which the mosquitoes (both live and dead) were collected
   and examined to determine feeding status.
            Repellency of the formulation administered to Group 2 dogs was measured to be
   99.4%, 98.9%, 94.7%, 91.7% and 90.4% for days 1, 7, 14, 21 and 28, respectively. The
   repellency data is presented in Figure 10.
15          Throughout this specification and the claims, the words "comprise," "comprises," and
   "comprising" are used in a non-exclusive sense, except where the context requires otherwise.
            As used herein, the term "about," when referring to a value is meant to encompass
   variations of, in some embodiments  20%, in some embodiments  10%, in some
   embodiments  5%, in some embodiments  1%, in some embodiments  0.5%, and in some
20 embodiments  0.l1% from the specified amount, as such variations are appropriate to
   perform the disclosed methods or employ the disclosed compositions.
            All publications, patent applications, patents, and other references are herein
   incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication, patent
   application, patent, and other reference was specifically and individually indicated to be
25 incorporated by reference. It will be understood that, although a number of patent
   applications, patents, and other references are referred to herein, such reference does not
   constitute an admission that any of these documents forms part of the common general
   knowledge in the art.
            Although the foregoing subject matter has been described in some detail by way of
30 illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding, it will be understood by
   those skilled in the art that certain changes and modifications can be practiced within the
   scope of the appended claims.
            Having thus described in detail certain embodiments of the present invention, it is to
   be understood that the invention defined by the above paragraphs is not to be limited to
                                                    56

WO 2013/126694                                                               PCT/US2013/027312
particular details set forth in the above description as many apparent variations thereof are
possible without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention.
                                                 57

WO 2013/126694                                                            PCT/US2013/027312
CLAIMS
     That which is claimed:
     1.      A topical composition for the treatment and prevention of an ectoparasitic
             infestation comprising:
             from about 2 % (w/w) to about 15 % (w/w) fipronil;
             from about 30 % (w/w) to about 55 % (w/w) permethrin; and
             a neutral oil(s) and N-methyl pyrrolidone, wherein said neutral oil(s) and N
             methyl pyrrolidone are present in a weight : weight ratio of from about 1:2.0
             to about 1:3.5, neutral oil(s) to N-methyl pyrrolidone.
     2.      The composition of claim 1, wherein said fipronil is present in a concentration
             of from about 4 % (w/w) to about 8 % (w/w).
     3.      The composition of claim 1, wherein said fipronil is present at a concentration
             of about 6% (w/w).
     4.      The composition of claim 1, wherein said permethrin is present in a
             concentration of from about 35 % (w/w) to about 50 % (w/w).
     5.      The composition of claim 1, wherein said permethrin is present in a
             concentration of from about 40 % (w/w) to about 48 % (w/w).
     6.      The composition of claim 1, wherein said permethrin is present at a
             concentration of about 45% (w/w).
     7.      The composition of claim 1, wherein said fipronil is present at a concentration
             of about 6.0 % (w/w) and said permethrin is present at a concentration of
             about 45 % (w/w).
     8.      The composition of claim 1, wherein said neutral oil(s) and said N-methyl
             pyrrolidone are present in a weight : weight ratio of about 1:2.0 to about 1:3.0,
             neutral oil(s) to N-methyl pyrrolidone.
                                               58

WO 2013/126694                                                            PCT/US2013/027312
     9.      The composition of claim 1, wherein said neutral oil(s) is present in a
             concentration of about 12 % (w/w) to about 14% (w/w) and said N-methyl
             pyrrolidone is present in a concentration of about 35 % (w/w).
     10.     The composition of claim 1, wherein said neutral oil(s) and said N-methyl
             pyrrolidone are present in a weight : weight ratio of about 1:2.5 to about 1:3.0,
             neutral oil(s) to N-methyl pyrrolidone.
     11.     The composition of claim 1, wherein said neutral oil(s) and said N-methyl
             pyrrolidone are present in a weight : weight ratio of about 1:2.5 to about 1:
             3.5, neutral oil(s) to N-methyl pyrrolidone.
     12.     The composition of claim 1, wherein said neutral oil(s) and said N-methyl
             pyrrolidone are present in a weight : weight ratio of about 1:2.2 to about 1:2.4,
             neutral oil(s) to N-methyl pyrrolidone.
     13.     The composition of claim 1, wherein said neutral oil(s) and said N-methyl
             pyrrolidone are present in a weight : weight ratio of about 1:2.5 to about 1:2.8,
             neutral oil(s) to N-methyl pyrrolidone.
     14.     The composition of claim 1, wherein said neutral oil(s) is a triglyceride of
             fractionated plant fatty acids having chain lengths of C8 and C10 .
     15.     The composition of claim 1, comprising
             about 6 % (w/w) fipronil;
             about 45 % (w/w) permethrin;
             about 12% to about 14 % (w/w) of triglycerides of fractionated plant fatty
             acids having chain lengths of Cs and C10 (w/w);
             about 35 % (w/w) N-methyl pyrrolidone; and
             about 0.1 % (w/w) butylated hydroxytoluene.
     16.     The composition of any one of claims 1, further comprising an antioxidant.
                                              59

WO 2013/126694                                                             PCT/US2013/027312
     17.     The composition of claim 16, wherein said antioxidant is butylated
             hydroxytoluene.
     18.     The composition of any one of claims 1 to 17 further comprising one or more
             additional active agents.
     19.     The composition of claim 18, wherein the one or more additional active agent
             is an avermectin, a milbemycin, a spinosyn, a spinosoid, a benzimidazole,
             levamisole, pyrantel, morantel, praziquantel, closantel, clorsulon, an amino
             acetonitrile active agent, an insect growth regulator, a neonicotinoids or an
             aryloazol-2-yl cyanoethylamino active agent, or a combination of thereof.
     20.     A spot-on composition, comprising
             from about 2 % (w/w) to about 15 % (w/w) fipronil;
             from about 30 % (w/w) to about 55 % (w/w) permethrin; and
             a neutral oil(s) and N-methyl pyrrolidone, wherein said neutral oil(s) and N
             methyl pyrrolidone are present in a weight : weight ratio of from about 1:2.5
             to about 1:3.5,
             wherein said composition is a liquid having a volume of from about 1 mL to
             about 10 mL.
     21.     The composition of claim 1 or 20, further comprising fipronil sulfone below
             about 3.5 % by area relative to the peak area for fipronil as measured by
             HPLC at about three months after formulation.
     22.     The composition of claim 1 or 20, further comprising fipronil sulfone wherein
             said amount of fipronil sulfone at about three months after formulation has not
             increased by more than 50 % of the original amount of said fipronil sulfone
             present at the time of formulation.
     23.     A composition comprising,
             from about 2 % (w/w) to about 15 % (w/w) fipronil;
             from about 30 % (w/w) to about 55 % (w/w) permethrin;
             a neutral oil(s) and N-methyl pyrrolidone;
                                              60

WO 2013/126694                                                              PCT/US2013/027312
             and fipronil sulfone, wherein said neutral oil(s) is present in an amount
             wherein said amount of fipronil sulfone at about three months after
             formulation has not increased by more than 50 % of the original amount of
             said fipronil sulfone present at the time of formulation.
     24.     A method for the treatment and/or protection of a parasite infestation in an
             animal, comprising administering an effective amount of the composition of
             claim 1 to the animal.
     25.     The method of claim 24, wherein said administering comprises contacting the
             coat and/or skin of said animal with said composition.
     26.     Use of a combination of fipronil and permethrin together with NMP and one
             or more neutral oil(s) in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment
             and prevention of a parasitic infestation in an animal.
     27.     Use of the composition of claim 1 for the treatment and prevention of a
             parasitic infestation in an animal.
                                              61

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
