                                      10
                "Slip ring asynchronous electric motor"
                                 ABSTRACT
       Slip ring asynchronous electric motor comprising, on the rotor, for
each phase, a variable starting assistance resistance consisting of an
electrolyte in which are placed two electrodes (13, 14), of which at least
one (14) is mobile, characterized in that each of the electrodes (13, 14)
comprises relief elements (15, 16; 17, 18) of triangular section.
       Figure for the abstract: Figure 4

            3/3
     29
24
             31
   2k,  ~ 36    3
           4131

                                          1
                    "Slip ring asynchronous electric motor"
          FIELD OF THE INVENTION
          The invention relates to a slip ring asynchronous electric motor, of
   use in particular in the mining or cementing industry. This industry uses,
   in particular for ball mills, motors of high power (several MW). To ensure
 5 the starting thereof, these motors require the insertion of a three-phase
   resistance on the rotor. The initial value of this resistance determines the
   starting torque. The starting sequence lasts a few tens of seconds during
   which the resistance on the rotor is progressively reduced to a final value
   close to zero, before being short-circuited.
10        PRIOR ART
          The patent GB 131 590 describes a control device for a lifting
   apparatus motor, using electrolyte-based variable resistances. A first
   resistance consists of an electrolyte placed in a cylinder, a fixed electrode
   constituting all or part of the cylinder, the other electrode being
15 cylindrical and displaced in said cylinder. A second resistance consists of
   an electrolyte placed in a cylinder, a fixed electrode being placed at the
   bottom of the cylinder, the other electrode being displaced in said
   cylinder. At the end of movement, the resistance must be short-circuited
   and the electrodes are brought into contact.
20        For the contact to be more effective, provision is made for the
   electrodes to be conformed with bearing surface elements of conical
   form.
          The patent US 2 719 256 describes a device for controlling the
   starting of a slip ring asynchronous electric motor for the mining industry,
25 with, between the rotor and the ground, variable resistances. For each
   phase of the rotor, the variable resistance consists of an electrolyte
   placed in a vertical cylinder, between a fixed electrode at the bottom of
   the cylinder, and a mobile electrode. The mobile electrode is displaced
   between an initial position at the top of the cylinder and a final position at
30 the bottom of the cylinder, close to the fixed electrode. In this document,
   the electrodes consist of substantially identical discs. The resistance R
   between the electrodes is approximated by the formula:

                                          2
                                         R = p.d/S
           p is the resistivity of the electrolyte, d the distance between the
   electrodes and S the facing surface area of the electrodes. To ensure the
   starting of the motor, the initial resistance Ri has to be great, and the
 5 mobile electrode is placed at the top of the cylinder. At the end of
   starting, the resistance Rf has to be as low as possible and the mobile
   electrode is brought closer to the fixed electrode, at the bottom of the
   cylinder. To improve the Ri/Rf ratio, the manufacturers have used not
   only the variation of d, but also the variation of S. To this end, the fixed
10 and mobile electrodes have been each constructed in the form of coaxial
   cylinders. Thus, at the end of the descent of the mobile electrode, the
   cylinders of the mobile electrode are inserted between the cylinders of
   the fixed electrode and the surface area S to be taken into account for
   the evaluation of the final resistance Rf is the facing surface area of the
15 electrodes. In this embodiment, where the final distance between the
   cylinders of the two electrodes is approximately 15 mm, it is difficult to
   achieve the value of 100 for the ratio Ri/Rf.
          AIMS AND SUMMARY
           One aim of the invention is to propose a slip ring asynchronous
20 electric motor for the mining industry, equipped with electrolyte-based
   variable resistances, exhibiting a ratio Ri/Rf significantly higher than 100.
          Another aim of the invention is to propose a slip ring asynchronous
   electric motor for the mining industry, equipped with electrolyte-based
   variable resistances, comprising provisions for augmenting the value of
25 the ratio Ri/Rf and the operational safety of the motor starting control
   device.
          The subject of the invention is a slip ring asynchronous electric
   motor comprising, on the rotor, for each phase, a variable starting
   assistance resistance consisting of an electrolyte in which are placed two
30 electrodes, of which at least one is mobile, characterized in that each of
   the electrodes comprises relief elements of triangular section.
           Preferably, the triangular section of the relief elements is an
   isosceles triangle whose vertex angle lies between 3 and 150.

                                           3
          Advantageously,     the   relief elements of the      electrodes   have
   interpenetrating forms.
          According to an embodiment, the relief elements of the electrodes
   are prisms.
 5        According to an embodiment, the relief elements of the electrodes
   are coaxial rings.
          Advantageously, the radii of the coaxial rings of each electrode
   differ by a constant pitch.
          Advantageously, the radii of the coaxial rings of the mobile
10 electrode differ from the radii of the coaxial rings of the fixed electrode
   by a half-pitch.
          According to an embodiment, the fixed and mobile electrodes are
   arranged in a cylindrical insulating tank of a diameter close to that of the
   electrodes.
15         Preferably, the insulating tank is vertical, the fixed electrode is at
   the bottom of the insulating tank and the mobile electrode is displaced in
   the insulating tank from a high position in which its lateral surface is
   partly covered by the insulating tank.
          According    to  an   embodiment,      a  pump    ensures   the  forced
20 circulation of the electrolyte in the insulating tank.
          Advantageously, the       height of the    insulating tank is around
   750 mm.
          Advantageously, the travel of the mobile electrode is around
   600 mm.
25         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           Figure 1 is a simplified representation of an electrolyte-based
   resistance for an asynchronous motor of the prior art;
           Figure 2 is a representation in schematic cross section of cylinder
   electrodes of an asynchronous motor of the prior art, after reciprocal
30 insertion;
           Figure 3 is a schematic view of electrodes according to an
   embodiment of the invention, in the close position;
           Figure 4 is a schematic view of the electrodes of Figure 3 during
   reciprocal insertion;

                                           4
           Figure 5 is a view in radial cross section of the fixed electrode of an
   asynchronous motor according to an embodiment of the invention;
           Figure 6 is a plan view of the electrode of Figure 5;
           Figure 7 is a view in radial cross section of two electrodes in the
 5 final position of insertion according to an embodiment of the invention;
           Figure 8 is a schematic view in cross section of an electrolyte
   based resistance according to an embodiment of the invention;
           Figure 9 is a perspective view of two electrodes according to an
   embodiment of the invention, before insertion;
10         Figure 10 is a perspective view of two electrodes according to
   another embodiment of the invention.
           DETAILED DESCRIPTION
           In a slip ring asynchronous motor, for the mining or cementing
   industry, it is common practice to use, for each phase of the rotor, a
15 variable resistance to ensure the starting of the motor. Normally, this
   resistance consists of a tank of electrolyte in which are arranged a fixed
   electrode and a mobile electrode. In Figure 1, the tank 1 is filled with
   electrolyte 2. The fixed electrode 3, arranged at the bottom of the tank 1,
   is linked to the rotor of the motor. The mobile electrode 4, that can be
20 displaced vertically, is linked to the ground. During the starting sequence,
   the mobile electrode 4, initially at the top of the tank 1, is lowered and
   brought closer to the fixed electrode 3, without coming into contact.
           According to a known embodiment (Figure 2), the fixed electrode 3
   comprises two coaxial cylinders 5, 6, and the mobile electrode 4
25 comprises an axis 7 and a cylinder 8 that are coaxial. When the mobile
   electrode 4 is lowered into the vicinity of the fixed electrode 3, the axis 7
   is inserted into the axis of the internal cylinder 5, and the cylinder 8 is
   inserted between the cylinders 5 and 6.
           In the case of Figure 1, the value of the resistance is a function of
30 the distance d between the two electrodes 3 and 4, and of the surface
   area of each of the disc-shaped electrodes. Between the initial position in
   which the mobile electrode is at the top of the tank, and the final
   position, in which it is at the bottom just facing the fixed electrode, the

                                          5
   resistance varies from Ri to Rf as a function of the only distance d
   between the two electrodes.
          In the case of Figure 2, when the mobile electrode 4 is at the top
   of the tank, its apparent surface area, seen from the fixed electrode 3, is
 5 the base surface area of the cylinder 8, substantially equal to the surface
   area of the electrode 4 of Figure 1. The distance between the two
   electrodes is the distance between the free edges of the cylinders 8 and
   6. When the mobile electrode 4 is inserted into the fixed electrode 3
   (Figure 2), the distance between the electrodes 3 and 4 is the radial
10 distance between the cylinders 8 and 6, or 8 and 5, or between the axis 7
   and the cylinder 5. The surface area to be taken into account is then the
   sum of the facing surface areas of the axis 7 and of the cylinder 5 (inner
   face), of the cylinder 5 (outer face) and of the cylinder 8 (inner face),
   and of the cylinder 8 (outer face) and of the cylinder 6 (inner face). The
15 greater this surface area, the lower the resistance Rf. With this coaxial
   cylindrical ring arrangement of the fixed and mobile electrodes, the
   values of the ratio Ri/Rf usually lie between 80 and 100.
          According to the invention, in Figure 3, the electrodes consist of
   rings with triangular section. The fixed electrode 13 comprises two
20 coaxial rings 15, 16. The mobile electrode 14 comprises a central cone 17
   and a ring 18. In an axial plane, the section of the rings 15, 16, 18, and
   of the cone 17, is an isosceles triangle, the vertex angle of which
   preferably lies between 3 and 100. In the close position (Figure 3), the
   distance d between the electrodes 13 and 14 is the distance between the
25 vertices of the triangles corresponding to the rings 16 and 18 for
   example. This distance is of the order of 16 mm. When the mobile
   electrode 14 is inserted into the fixed electrode 13 (Figure 4), the
   distance between the electrodes, which is the distance between two
   facing faces of the rings with triangular section, decreases to be of the
30 order of 3 mm, because of the triangular form of the section of the rings.
   The facing surface areas of the electrodes are substantially of the same
   order of magnitude as in the case of the cylindrical rings of the prior art,
   but, because of the decreased distance between the electrodes, the value
   of the final resistance is lower and the ratio Ri/Rf is practically doubled

                                         6
   compared to the prior art. Furthermore, the coaxial structure with several
   rings of triangular cross section ensures an increase of the facing surface
   areas in the close position of the electrodes.
          In the practical exemplary embodiment of Figures 5 and 6, the
 5 fixed electrode 24 comprises a cross-shaped base 25 onto which are fixed
   coaxial rings 26, with a section in the general form of an isosceles
   triangle, separated    by spaces     27 allowing   the   circulation   of the
   electrolyte. The centre 28 of the electrode is assigned to the electrical
   connection with the rotor of the motor. In this exemplary embodiment,
10 the fixed electrode 24 comprises five coaxial rings 26. The corresponding
   mobile electrode 29 comprises four rings. The relative arrangement of
   the electrodes as they are brought closer together is represented in
   Figure 9. At the end of insertion, the two fixed 24 and mobile 29
   electrodes according to another embodiment are represented in Figure 7.
15        In the embodiment of Figure 8, the assembly of the fixed 31 and
   mobile 32 electrodes and the electrolyte 33 is housed in an outer
   reservoir 34. Inside the reservoir 34, there is a cylindrical insulating tank
   35 of vertical axis and of a diameter close to that of the electrodes 31,
   32. The height of the tank 35 is around 750 mm. The mobile electrode 32
20 is displaced in the tank 35 between a high position, in which its lateral
   surface is partly covered by the insulating tank 35, and a low position in
   which it is inserted into the fixed electrode 31. The insulating tank 35
   ensures a channelling of the current lines between the electrodes. Below
   the fixed electrode 31, there is a pump 36 which ensures a forced
25 circulation of the electrolyte 33 in the tank 35 to extract the power
   dissipated between the electrodes, particularly when they are brought
   closer together. In this exemplary embodiment, the travel of the mobile
   electrode 32 is around 600 mm, whereas, in the prior art, this travel is
   around 300 mm.
30        Thus, with electrodes with triangular profile, a high insulating tank
   and a long travel of the mobile electrode, the ratio Ri/Rf reaches a value
   of approximately 300.
          In the embodiment of Figure 10, the fixed 41 and mobile 42
   electrodes are not of circular base, but rectangular. The rings are

                                          7
   replaced   by prisms of triangular section, arranged       parallel to one
   another.
          The reciprocal insertion of the electrodes proceeds in the same way
   as in the preceding embodiments.
 5        In another embodiment,        the movement of the electrodes is
   organized according to an axis that is not vertical but horizontal. The
   bringing closer together of the electrodes is performed either between a
   fixed electrode and a mobile electrode, or between two mobile electrodes.
   The amplitude of the relative movement of the electrodes can be greater,
10 of the order of 1000 mm, and the electrolyte reservoir still has a smaller
   depth.

                                          8
                                      CLAIMS
          1-     Slip ring asynchronous electric motor comprising, on the
   rotor, for each phase, a variable starting assistance resistance consisting
   of an electrolyte in which are placed two electrodes (13, 14), of which at
   least one (14) is mobile, characterized in that each of the electrodes (13,
 5 14) comprises relief elements (15, 16; 17, 18) of triangular section.
          2-     Motor according to Claim 1, characterized         in that the
   triangular section of the relief elements (15, 16; 17, 18) is an isosceles
   triangle whose vertex angle lies between 3 and 150.
          3-     Motor according to one of Claims 1 or 2, characterized in
10 that the relief elements of the electrodes have interpenetrating forms.
          4-     Motor according to one of Claims 1 to 3, characterized in
   that the relief elements of the electrodes are prisms.
          5-     Motor according to one of Claims 1 to 3, characterized in
   that the relief elements of the electrodes are coaxial rings (26).
15        6-     Motor according to Claim 5, characterized in that the radii of
   the coaxial rings (26) of each electrode differ by a constant pitch.
          7-     Motor according to Claim 6, characterized in that the radii of
   the coaxial rings of the mobile electrode (14, 29) differ from the radii of
   the coaxial rings of the fixed electrode (13, 24) by a half-pitch.
20        8-     Motor according to one of Claims 1 to 7, characterized in
   that the fixed (31)     and mobile (32)      electrodes are arranged in a
   cylindrical insulating tank (35)     of a diameter close to that of the
   electrodes.
          9-     Motor according to Claim 8,        characterized  in that the
25 insulating tank (35) is vertical, the fixed electrode (31) is at the bottom
   of the insulating tank and the mobile electrode (32) is displaced in the
   insulating tank (35) from a high position in which its lateral surface is
   partly covered by the insulating tank (35).
          10-    Motor according to one of Claims 8 to 9, characterized in
30 that a pump (36) ensures the forced circulation of the electrolyte (33) in
   the insulating tank (35).

                                        9
         11-   Motor according to one of Claims 8 to 10, characterized in
  that the height of the insulating tank (35) is around 750 mm.
         12-   Motor according to one of Claims 8 to 11, characterized in
  that the travel of the mobile electrode (32) is around 600 mm.
5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/3

