   POLYSACCHARIDE AND PROTEIN-POLYSACCHARIDE CROSS
      LINKED HYDROGELS FOR SOFT TISSUE AUGMENTATION
Abstract:
Disclosed herein are cohesive soft tissue fillers, for example, dermal and subdermal fillers, based
on hyaluronic acids and optionally including proteins. In one aspect, hyaluronic crosslinked
acid-based compositions described herein include zero-length cross-linked moieties and
optionally at least one active agent. The present hyaluronic acid-based compositions have
enhanced flow characteristics, hardness, and persistence compared to known hyaluronic acid
based compositions.     Methods and processes of preparing such hyaluronic acid-based
compositions are also provided.

     WO 2011/119468                                                  PCT/US2011/029150
       POLYSACCHARIDE AND PROTEIN-POLYSACCHARIDE CROSS-LINKED
                    HYDROGELS FOR SOFT TISSUE AUGMENTATION
                   INVENTORS: KARINA HEREDIA GUILLEN AND AHMET TEZEL
                                     RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]       This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
61/316,283, filed on March 22, 2010, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated
herein by this reference.
                                        BACKGROUND
[0002]       Various injectable dermal filler products have been developed for treating or
correcting facial imperfections, for example, wrinkles and volume loss due to the natural
effects of aging.      Injectable "dermal fillers" temporarily restore a smoother, more
youthful appearance.
[0003]       Ideally, dermal fillers are long-lasting, soft, smooth and natural appearing
when introduced into or beneath the skin. Further, these products are preferably easy
to introduce into a patient using a fine gauge needle and a low extrusion force such that
there will be minimal discomfort to the patient.
[0004]       Collagen based soft tissue fillers were developed over 20 years ago, and for
some time, bovine collagen-based fillers were the only U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA)-approved dermal fillers. Because these early dermal fillers were
bovine-based, one of the main disadvantages to their use has been the potential for
allergic reaction in patients.
[00051       In February 2003, human-derived collagen filler compositions received FDA
approval.     These collagens provide the advantage of a significantly reduced risk of
allergic reactions.     Unfortunately, such human-derived collagen filler compositions
tended to rapidly degrade shortly after injection.
[00061       In December 2003, the first hyaluronic acid (HA)-based dermal filler dermal
filler was approved by the FDA. This was rapidly followed by the development of many
other HA-based dermal fillers.
[00071       HA, also known as hyaluronan, is a naturally occurring, water soluble
polysaccharide, specifically a glycosaminoglycan, which is a major component of the
                                               1

    WO 2011/119-168                                                       PCT/US20111029150
extra-cellular matrix and is widely distributed in animal tissues.             HA has excellent
blocompatibility and does not cause allergic reactions when implanted into a patient. In
addition, HA has the ability to bind to large amounts of water, making it an excellent
volumizer of soft tissues.
[0008]      The development of HA-based fillers which exhibit ideal in vivo properties as
well as ideal surgical usability has proven difficult. For example, HA-based fillers that
exhibit desirable stability properties in vivo, can be so highly viscous that injection
through fine gauge needles is difficult. Conversely, HA-based fillers that are relatively
easily injected through fine gauge needles often have relatively inferior stability
properties in vivo.
[0009]      Current hydrogel synthesis strategies perform cross-linking of HA under
basic conditions using small molecules to link the respective chains together. However,
under these conditions the HA chains hydrolyze into shorter fragments and small
molecule linkers are introduced into the hydrogel.
It is an objective of the present invention to provide stable, elastic soft tissue fillers with
improved rheological properties.
                                                SUMMARY
[0010]      The present invention relates to soft tissue fillers, for example, dermal and
subdermal filler compositions, hereinafter, sometimes, interchangeably referred to as
"dermal fillers", "soft tissue fillers" or "fillers".
[0011]      In one aspect of the invention, a composition is provided which is a hydrogel
comprising a cross-linked biocompatible polymer having zero-length cross-linked
moieties. In some embodiments, the composition further comprises at least one other
active ingredient incorporated into the cross-linked biocompatible polymer.
[0012]      The hydrogel may be formed by reacting at least one cross-linkable
biocompatible polymer with at least one zero-length cross-lining agent at neutral pH.
For example, the neutral pH can be between about 6.0 and about 8.0, such as for
example, between about 6.5 and about 7.5, such as for example about 7.0.
[0013]      In some        embodiments,        the    cross-linkable biocompatible   polymer    is
hyaluronic acid      (HA)    and     the zero-length       cross-linking agent   is 1-ethyl-3-(3
dimethylaminopropyl) carbodiimide (EDC).

[0014]       In some embodiments, the zero-length cross-linking agent is reacted with the
HA in the presence of N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS), sulfo-NHS (or sulfonyl-NHS) or 4
dimethylaminopyridine (DMAP).
[0015]       In some embodiments, the hydrogel further includes at least one second
cross-linked biocompatible polymer. The second cross-linked biocompatible polymer can
be, for example, a protein such as elastin.
[0016]       In some embodiments, the hydrogel can include an active agent selected
from the group consisting of enzyme inhibitors, anesthetic agents, medicinal
neurotoxins, antioxidants, anti-infective agents, anti-inflammatory agents, ultraviolet (UV)
light blocking agents, dyes, hormones, immunosuppressants, and combinations thereof.
[0016a]      Hydrogels of the present invention may be used in treating or correcting facial
imperfections such as wrinkles and/or volume loss due to ageing, for example in the
form of dermal filler compositions.
[0017]      The present invention further provides a method for making a hydrogel for soft
tissue augmentation. The method includes providing at least one cross-linkable
biocompatible polymer; dissolving the at least one cross-linkable biocompatible polymer
in a buffered solution wherein the buffered solution maintains a pH from approximately
6.0 to approximately 8.0; adding at least one zero-length cross-linking agent to the
buffered solution to form a reaction mixture; and allowing the reaction mixture to stand
for a time appropriate to form a hydrogel suitable for soft tissue augmentation.
[0018]       Embodiments of the method of the invention can include one or more of the
following features. The at least one cross-linkable biocompatible polymer can be HA.
The buffered solution can be a phosphate buffered saline having a pH of between about
6.5 and about 7.5. The at least one zero-length cross-linking agent can be EDC.
[0019]       In some embodiments, NHS is included in the adding step.
[0020]       In some embodiments, the method includes a dialyzing step after the adding
step.
[0021]       In some embodiments, the method includes at least one second crosslinkable
biocompatible polymer. The second cross-linked biocompatible polymer can be, for
example, a protein such as elastin.
[0022]       In one aspect of the invention, the method includes adding an active agent.
The active agent may be an active agent selected from the group consisting of enzyme
inhibitors, anesthetic agents, medicinal neurotoxins, antioxidants, anti-infective agents,
                                              3

    WO 2011/119468                                                      PCT/US2011/029150
anti-inflammatory     agents,    ultraviolet   light blocking    agents,    dyes,   hormones,
immunosuppressants, and combinations thereof.
[0023]       In a specific embodiment of the invention, a method for making a hydrogel
for soft tissue augmentation is provided which comprises the steps of providing a 0.1 M
phosphate buffered saline (PBS) solution having a pH between approximately 6.5 and
approximately 7.5; dissolving from about 20 to about 80 mg/mL HA from about 2 to
about 20 weight percent soluble elastin in the PBS to form a polymer mixture; adding
about 5 to about 30 mol percent EDC and NHS to the polymer mixture to form a
reaction mixture; allowing the reaction mixture to react for about 12 to about 48 hours at
about 220 to about 600 C to form a gel; dialyzing the gel against PBS to form a purified
gel; and sizing the purified gel to form a hydrogel for soft tissue augmentation. In some
embodiments, the method includes adding an active agent selected from the group
consisting of enzyme inhibitors, anesthetic agents, medicinal neurotoxins, antioxidants,
anti-infective agents, anti-inflammatory agents, ultraviolet light blocking agents, dyes,
hormones, immunosuppressants, and combinations thereof.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0024]       Figure 1 graphically illustrates the elasticity and viscosity of EDC/NHS cross
linked HA and HA-elastin in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
[0025]       Figure 2 graphically illustrates the resistance of HA and HA-elastin to
enzyme degradation.
[00261       Figure 3 graphically illustrates the extrusion force of EDC/NHS cross-linked
HA and HA-elastin in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[00271       Where the definition of terms as used in the specification departs from the
commonly used meaning of the term, applicant intends to utilize the definitions provided
herein, unless specifically indicated.
[0028]       The present description generally relates to soft tissue fillers, for example,
dermal and subdermal fillers, based on cross-linked biocompatible polymers.             In one
aspect, the compositions described herein include hydrogels comprising at least one
cross-linked biocompatible polymer having zero-length cross-linked moieties and
                                                 4

   WO 2011/119468                                                     PCT/US2011/029150
optionally at least one other active ingredient incorporated into the cross-linked
biocompatible polymer. The present compositions, which include HA-based hydrogels,
have enhanced rheology (i.e., flow characteristics), elasticity, and persistence relative to
known HA-based hydrogels. Methods or processes of preparing such compositions are
also provided, as well as products made by such methods or processes.
[0029]      A surprising advantage of the compositions and methods of the present
description is that the molecular weight of the polymer chains, such as HA, remains
high and the resultant hydrogels have improved rheological properties while at the
same time have low extrusion forces. Hydrogels with fine-tuned hardness and elasticity
are beneficial for the development of biomaterials suitable for soft tissue augmentation.
[0030]      In various embodiments, hydrogels of the present description include HA as
a biocompatible polymer and are therefore HA-based. HA-based as used herein refers
to compositions including cross-linked HA and compositions including cross-linked HA
plus one or more other cross-linked polymers. In addition, HA can refer to hyaluronic
acid and any of its hyaluronate salts, including, but is not limited to, sodium hyaluronate
(NaHA), potassium hyaluronate, magnesium hyaluronate, calcium hyaluronate, and
combinations thereof. The use of more than one biocompatible polymer is specifically
not excluded from the present description.      Hydrogels of the present description can
include more than one biocompatible polymer, such as, for example, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
9, 10, or more biocompatible polymers. Suitable biocompatible polymers include
polysaccharides        (e.g.,   HA,     chitosan,      chondroitin       sulfate,   alginate,
carboxymethylcellulose),           poly(ethyleneglycol),            poly(lactic         acid),
poly(hydroxyethylmethacrylate), poly(methylmethacrylate), proteins (e.g., elastin and
collagen).
[0031]      Generally, the HA concentration in the compositions described herein is
preferably at least 10 mg/mL and up to about 100 mg/mL.                   For example, the
concentration of HA in some of the compositions is in a range between about 15 mg/mL
and about 80 mg/mL, or about 15 mg/mL to about 30 mg/mL. In some embodiments,
the concentration of HA is about 26 mg/mL.         In some embodiments, hydrogels are
formed by reacting at least one cross-linkable biocompatible polymer, such as HA
and/or protein, with at least one zero-length cross-linking agent. Generally, zero-length
cross-linking agents couple polymers without adding any additional spacer arm atoms
and therefore zero-length cross-linking agents are not incorporated into the cross-linked
polymer matrix. Suitable zero-length cross-linking agents include carbodiimides, such

    WO 2011/119468                                                      PCT/US2011/029150
as, for example, 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl) carbodiimide (EDC).              Non-water
soluble       carbodiimides       include       dicyclohexylcarbodiide          (DCC)      and
diisopropylcarbodiimide (DIC), which may also be suitable.
[0032]       Carbodiimide-mediated coupling between carboxylates and alcohol or amine
functional groups proceeds readily at ambient temperature, neutral pH and under
aqueous conditions. Neutral pH can be, for example, between about 6.0 and about 8.0,
such as between about 6.5 and about 7.5, such as about 7.0. Typically in water, 1
ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl) carbodiimide hydrochloride (EDC)            can be used to
mediate esterification between carboxylates and alcohols or amidation between
carboxylates and amines.         Thus, cross-linked HA is formed by exploiting reactive
groups present on HA (e.g, carboxylate and alcohol). In addition, by taking advantage
of the high reactivity of amine groups on proteins, amidation between lysine side-chains
of proteins with carboxylate groups of HA is achieved to form HA-protein cross-linked
hydrogels. Cross-linking agents and unreacted polymers can be removed by dialysis.
[0033]       In   some     embodiments,        EDC      is  used  in   conjunction   with   N
hydroxysuccinimide (NHS) or sulfonyl-NHS (sulfo-NHS), collectively referred to as
"NHS" herein. NHS stabilizes reactive intermediates formed by EDC; thus, the addition
of   NHS     can    increase    the   coupling     efficiency  of  EDC.     Alternatively,   4
dimethylaminopyridine (DMAP) can be used to catalyze the coupling reaction.
[0034]       Without being limited thereto, the HA-based compositions in accordance with
the present description include cross-linked HA-based compositions and at least
partially cross-linked HA-based compositions. Uncross-linked HA as used herein refers
to both truly uncross-linked (e.g., "free") HA chains as well as lightly cross-linked chains
and fragments thereof that are generally in soluble liquid form.
[0035]       The soft tissue fillers of the present description can include an active agent
selected from the group consisting of enzyme inhibitors, anesthetic agents, medicinal
neurotoxins (e.g., botulinum toxin and clostridium toxin), antioxidants, anti-infective
agents (e.g., antibiotics), anti-inflammatory agents, ultraviolet (UV) light blocking
agents, dyes, hormones, immunosuppressants, and combinations thereof.
[0036]       In addition, the soft tissue fillers of the present invention can include one or
more anesthetic agents in an amount effective to mitigate pain experienced upon
injection of the composition. The local anesthetic can be selected from the group of
ambucaine,       amolanone,       amylocaine,       benoxinate,   benzocaine,     betoxycaine,
                                                  A

   WO 2011/119468                                                   PCT/US2011/029150
biphenamine,      bupivacaine,    butacaine,   butamben,    butanilicaine,   butethamine,
butoxycaine, carticaine, chloroprocaine, cocaethylene, cocaine, cyclomethycaine,
dibucaine, dimethysoquin, dimethocaine, diperodon, dycyclonine, ecgonidine, ecgonine,
ethyl chloride, etidocaine, beta-eucaine, euprocin, fenalcomine, formocaine, hexylcaine,
hydroxytetracaine,    isobutyl  p-aminobenzoate,    leucinocaine mesylate,      levoxadrol,
lidocaine, mepivacaine, meprylcaine, metabutoxycaine, methyl chloride, myrtecaine,
naepaine, octacaine, orthocaine, oxethazaine, parethoxycaine, phenacaine, phenol,
piperocaine, piridocaine, polidocanol, pramoxine, prilocaine, procaine, propanocaine,
proparacaine, propipocaine, propoxycaine, psuedococaine, pyrrocaine, ropivacaine,
salicyl alcohol, tetracaine, tolycaine, trimecaine, zolamine, and salts thereof.     In one
embodiment, the anesthetic agent is lidocaine, such as in the form of lidocaine HCI.
The compositions described herein may have a lidocaine or other anesthetic in a
concentration of between about 0.1% and about 5% by weight of the composition, for
example, about 0.2% to about 1.0% by weight of the composition. In one embodiment,
the composition has a lidocaine concentration of about 0.3% by weight (w/w %) of the
composition. The concentration of lidocaine in the compositions described herein can
be therapeutically effective meaning the concentration is adequate to provide a
therapeutic benefit.
[0037]      The present description also provides methods for making hydrogels. The
methods can include providing at least one cross-linkable biocompatible polymer, such
as HA. The initial step of providing raw HA material can be in the form of dry HA fibers
or powder. The raw HA material may be HA, its salts and/or mixtures thereof. The HA
material can comprise, for example, NaHA fibers or powder of bacterial-sourced NaHA.
In some aspects of the present description, the HA material may be animal derived.
The HA material may be a combination of raw materials including HA and at least one
other polysaccharide, for example, glycosaminoglycan (GAG).
[00381      In some embodiments, the HA material in the compositions nearly entirely
comprises or consists of high molecular weight HA. That is, nearly 100% of the HA
material in the present compositions may be high molecular weight HA.              In other
embodiments, the HA material in the compositions comprises a combination of high
molecular weight HA and low molecular weight HA.
[0039]      The HA material of the compositions may comprise between about 5% to
about 95% high molecular weight HA with the balance of the HA material including low
molecular weight HA. In a typical composition according to the present description, the
                                             7

    WO 2011/119468                                                     PCT/US2011/029150
ratio of high molecular weight to low molecular weight HA is at least about, and
preferably greater than 2 (w/w > 2) with the high molecular weight HA having a
molecular weight of above about 1.0 MDa.
[0040]       It will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that the selection of
high and low molecular weight HA material and their relative percentages or ratios is
dependent upon the desired characteristics, for example, extrusion force, elastic
modulus, viscous modulus and persistence of the final HA-based product.                     For
additional information that may be helpful in understanding this and other aspects of the
present description, see U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2006/0194758, the
entire description of which is incorporated herein by this reference.
[0041]       HA-based gels can be prepared according to the present description by first
cleaning and purifying dry or raw HA material having a desired high/low molecular
weight ratio. These steps generally involve hydrating the dry HA fibers or powder in the
desired high/low molecular weight ratio, for example, using pure water, and filtering the
material to remove large foreign matters and/or other impurities. The filtered, hydrated
material is then dried and purified.        The high and low molecular weight HA may be
cleaned and purified separately, or may be mixed together, for example, in the desired
ratio, just prior to cross-linking.
[0042]       Methods of making hydrogels in accordance with the present description can
include the step of dissolving the cross-linkable biocompatible polymer in a buffered
solution.   In some embodiments, the buffered solution is maintained at a pH between
about 6.0 and about 8.0, such as between about 6.5 and about 7.5, such as at about
7.0.    In a preferred embodiment, the biocompatible polymer is HA and the buffer is
phosphate buffered saline (PBS).           In some embodiments, a second biocompatible
polymer is added. When more than one biocompatible polymer is used, the polymers
can be added in ratios which yield suitable flow characteristics, elasticity, viscosity, and
persistence. In a preferred embodiment, the second biocompatible polymer is a protein
such as elastin.      In a particularly preferred embodiment, about 20 to about 80 mg/mL
HA is dissolved in the buffer solution, and about 2 to about 20 weight percent of soluble
elastin is dissolved in the buffer solution.
[0043]       The methods of making hydrogels in accordance with the present description
can include the step of adding at least one zero-length cross-linking agent to the
buffered solution. The use of more than one cross-linking agent or a different cross
linking agent is not excluded from the scope of the present description. In a preferred
                                                 R

   WO 2011/119468                                                  PCT/US2011/029150
embodiment, the zero-length cross-linking agent is EDC.       NHS can be added to the
reaction mixture before, or together with EDC to increase cross-linking efficiency. EDC
and NHS can be added in any ratio, such as 10:1, 5:1, 2:1, 1:1, 1:2, 1:5, and 1:10. In a
preferred embodiment, EDC and NHS are added in one portion (i.e., 1:1 ratio). EDC
and NHS can be prepared at any suitable concentration, such as between about 1 to
about 50 mol percent, and more preferably between about 5 to about 30 mol percent.
[0044]      The reaction mixture is allowed to stand for a time appropriate to form a
hydrogel suitable for soft tissue implantation. In some embodiments, the time is from
between about 12 hours to about 72 hours, such as between about 12 and about 48
hours, such as about 24 hours.         In some embodiments, the reaction mixture is
maintained at an appropriate temperature, such as between about 22 to about 60
degrees Celsius.
[00451      The step of cross-linking may be carried out using any means known to
those of ordinary skill in the art. Those skilled in the art appreciate how to optimize
conditions of cross-linking according to the nature of the biocompatible polymers, and
how to carry out cross-linking to an optimized degree.       A degree of cross-linking is
preferably sufficient for the final hydrogel composition obtained from the present
methods to remain implanted at the injection site without excessive diffusion away from
the injection site. In some embodiments, the degree of cross-linking is at least about
2% to about 20%, and more preferably is about 4% to about 12%, wherein the degree
of cross-linking is defined as the percent weight ratio of the cross-linking agent to HA
monomeric units in the composition.      The degree of cross-linking can be less than
about 6% or more preferably less than about 5%.
[0046]      The method of making a hydrogel can include the step of dialyzing the
hydrogel after the hydrogel is formed to remove cross-linking agents, unreacted starting
materials, and by-products such as N-acylurea. In some embodiments, the dialysis is
performed using a buffer solution.    In a preferred embodiment, the buffer solution is
PBS. The purified hydrogel can then be sized using any suitable method, such as by
passing through a stainless steel screen having the desired mesh size.
[0047]      The cross-linked, HA-based gels can comprise a cross-linked HA component
capable of absorbing at least about one time its weight in water. When neutralized and
swollen, the cross-linked HA component and water absorbed by the cross-linked HA
component is in a weight ratio of about 1:1.
                                             Q

    WO 2011/119468                                                 PCT/US2011/029150
[0048]      The compositions described herein display an elastic modulus and viscous
modulus which is dependent on the specific biocompatible polymers used and the
presence and/or absence of at least one active agent.       In some embodiments, the
elastic modulus of the HA-based compositions can be at least about 50 Pa, but is more
preferably between about 150 Pa and about 1500 Pa, such as between about 500 Pa to
about 1200 Pa. In some embodiments, the viscous modulus can be between about 50
Pa to about 500 Pa, such as between about 50 Pa to about 200 Pa. In one exemplary
embodiment, the viscous modulus is about 160 Pa.
[00491      In some embodiments, the method includes the step of adding an active
ingredient to the hydrogel.    As discussed in more detail above, the active ingredient
can be selected from the group consisting of enzyme inhibitors, anesthetic agents,
medicinal neurotoxins, antioxidants, anti-infective agents, anti-inflammatory agents,
ultraviolet  light  blocking   agents,  dyes,   hormones,   immunosuppressants,       and
combinations thereof.      The use of more than one active agent is specifically not
excluded from the present description.      In some embodiments, one or more active
agents are added to the purified hydrogel. In other embodiments, one or more active
agents are added to the reaction buffer and are cross-linked with the biocompatible
polymer and/or the active agents are entrapped or encased by the cross-linked
biocompatible polymer.
[0050]      Syringes useful for administering the hydrogels of the present description
include any syringe known in the art capable of delivering viscous dermal filler
compositions. The syringes generally have an internal volume of about 0.4 mL to about
3 mL, more preferably between about 0.5 mL and about 1.5 mL or between about 0.8
mL and about 2.5 mL. This internal volume is associated with an internal diameter of
the syringe which affects the extrusion force needed to inject high viscosity dermal filler
compositions. The internal diameters are generally about 4 mm to about 9 mm, more
preferably from about 4.5 mm to about 6.5 mm or from about 4.5 mm to about 8.8 mm.
Further, the extrusion force needed to deliver the HA-based compositions from the
syringe is dependent on the needle gauge. The gauges of needles used generally
include gauges between about 18G and about 40G, more preferably about 25G to
about 33G or from about 16G to about 25G. A person of ordinary skill in the art can
determine the correct syringe dimensions and needle gauge required to arrive at a
particular extrusion force requirement.
                                            10

    WO 2011/119468                                                   PCT/US2011/029150
[0051]      The extrusion forces displayed by the HA-based compositions described
herein using the needle dimensions described above are applied using injection speeds
that are comfortable to a patient. Comfortable to a patient is used to define a rate of
injection that does not injure or cause excess pain to a patient upon injection to the soft
tissue. One skilled in the art will appreciate that comfortable as used herein includes
not only patient comfort, but also comfort and ability of the physician or medical
technician injecting the HA compositions. Although certain extrusion forces may be
achievable with the HA compositions of the present description, one skilled in the art
understands that high extrusion forces can lead to lack of control during injection and
that such lack of control may result in additional pain to the patient. Extrusion forces of
the present HA compositions can be from about 8 N to about 40 N, or more preferably
from about 10 N to about 30 N, or about 15 N to about 20 N.
[0052]        Sterilization, as used herein comprises any method known in the art to
effectively kill or eliminate transmissible agents, preferably without substantially altering
or degrading the HA-based compositions and any active agents.
[0053]      One preferable method of sterilization of the filled syringes is by autoclave.
Autoclaving can be accomplished by applying a mixture of heat, pressure and moisture
to a sample in need of sterilization. Many different sterilization temperatures, pressures
and cycle times can be used for this step. For example, the filled syringes may be
sterilized at a temperature of at least about 1200C to about 1300C or greater. Moisture
may or may not be utilized. The pressure applied is in some embodiments depending
on the temperature used in the sterilization process. The sterilization cycle may be at
least about 1 minute to about 20 minutes or more.
[0054]      Another method of sterilization incorporates the use of a gaseous species
which is known to kill or eliminate transmissible agents. Preferably, ethylene oxide is
used as the sterilization gas and is known in the art to be useful in sterilizing medical
devices and products.
[0055]      A further method of sterilization incorporates the use of an irradiation source
which is known in the art to kill or eliminate transmissible agents. A beam of irradiation
is targeted at the syringe containing the HA solution, and the wavelength of energy kills
or eliminates the unwanted transmissible agents. Preferable energy useful include, but
is not limited to ultraviolet light, gamma irradiation, visible light, microwaves, or any
other wavelength or band of wavelengths which kills or eliminates the unwanted
                                              11

   WO 2011/119468                                                    PCT/US2011/029150
transmissible agents, preferably without substantially altering of degrading the HA
based composition or any active agent.
                                         Example 1
                          EDC-Mediated Cross-Linked Polysaccharide
[0056]      Polysaccharide hydrogels were generated by cross-linking HA using EDC
and NHS (or sulfo-NHS, collectively "NHS").
[0057]      Carbodiimide-mediated coupling of HA is performed in 0.1 M PBS at neutral
pH (6.5-7.5). HA is dissolved in buffer (20-80 mg/mL). 5-30 mol % EDC and NHS are
then added in one portion. Next, the polymer is allowed to cross-link over 12-72 hours
at 22-60   0C.  The resulting gel may be diluted and is then dialyzed extensively at
ambient temperature against PBS to remove N-acylurea byproducts and any unused
starting materials. Sizing of the purified gel is then performed through a stainless steel
screen.
                                         Example 2
                     EDC-Mediated Cross-Linked Polysaccharide-Protein
[00581      Polysaccharide-protein hydrogels were generated by cross-linking HA and
elastin using EDC and NHS.
[0059]      Carbodiimide-mediated      coupling of HA and proteins (e.g. elastin) is
performed in 0.1 M PBS at neutral pH (6.5-7.5). HA (20-80 mg/mL) and soluble elastin
(2-20 wt %) are dissolved in PBS. 5-30 mol % EDC and NHS are added in one portion.
Next, the polysaccharide and protein are allowed to cross-link at ambient temperature
over 12-48 hours at 22-60     0C. The resultant gel is then dialyzed extensively at ambient
temperature against PBS to remove the N-acylurea byproducts and starting materials.
Sizing of the purified gel is then performed through a stainless steel screen.
                                              12

    WO 2011/119468                                                 PCT/US2011/029150
                                         Example 3
                      Rheology of Cross-Linked HA and HA-Elastin
[0060]       The flow characteristics of the hydrogels prepared according to Examples I
and 2 were evaluated in order to assess their elasticity and viscosity.
[0061]       A strain sweep analysis provides information about a gel's elastic modulus
(G') and viscous modulus (G"). A large value of G' compared to G" indicates a very
elastic gel.    Figure 1 depicts typical strain sweep data for a hydrogel comprised of
EDC/NHS cross-linked HA and HA-elastin. The G' for the two gels is 1100 Pa and 505
Pa, respectively where as that of BDDE crosslinked HA is 150 Pa. The G'/G" of the
EDC/NHS cross-linked HA is 6.9 and that of HA-elastin is 3.7, respectively.             In
comparison, the G'IG" of BDDE-crosslinked HA is approximately 2.5. Taken together,
these data suggest that the resulting gels from EDC/NHS mediated cross-linking have
higher elasticity and hardness compared to BDDE-crosslinked hydrogel. Accordingly,
EDC/NHS cross-linked HA and HA-proteins have improved properties suitable for soft
tissue augmentation, such as, for example, dermal filling.
                                         Example 4
                 Enzyme Degradation of Cross-Linked HA and HA-Elastin
[0062]       Hydrogels prepared according to Examples 1 and 2 were subjected to
enzyme degradation in vitro to assess resistance to enzymatic degradation.
[0063]       It is generally understood that improved resistance to enzyme degradation
correlates to improved in vivo persistence. A superior gel resists degradation and
therefore has a smaller difference of free HA before and after enzyme degradation.
First, the percentage of uncross-linked (i.e., "free" HA) before and after enzymatic
degradation with bovine testicular hyaluronidase (HAse) is measured by size exclusion
chromatography (SEC) on an Agilent (Santa Clara, CA) HPLC system equipped with
multi-angle laser light scattering (MALS) and refractive index detectors.        Figure 2
depicts enzymatic degradation of EDC/NHS cross-linked HA and HA-elastin, and
BDDE-crosslinked HA hydrogel. As shown in Figure 2, the increase in soluble HA is 37
% and 4% for the EDC/NHS cross-linked HA and HA-elastin, respectively.                The
increase in soluble HA for BDDE crosslinked HA is 41%.           Thus, HA-elastin resists
enzymatic degradation more than the EDC/NHS cross-linked HA, and both HA and HA
                                              1I

   WO 2011/119468                                                    PCT/US2011/029150
elastin resist degradation more than BDDE crosslinked HA.           As a result, EDC/NHS
cross-linked HA and HA-proteins are expected to have improved in vivo persistence.
                                         Example 5
                      Extrusion of Cross-Linked HA and HA-Elastin
[00641       The extrusion force of hydrogels prepared according to Examples 1 and 2
were determined to evaluate the feasibility of administering the hydrogels through a
needle.
[00651       Extrusion force analysis was performed on an INSTRON@ (Norwood, MA)
instrument using a 0.8 mL syringe equipped with a 30 gauge (G) needle. The hydrogel
was extruded at a constant rate of 50 mm/min.            Shown in Figure 3 is a graph of
compressive extension plotted against compressive force for EDC/NHS cross-linked HA
and HA-elastin as compared to        BDDE crosslinked HA.      These data show that the
maximum average compressive force of the EDC/NHS cross-linked HA and HA elastin
are 37 N and 13 N, respectively, while that of BDDE crosslinked HA is 38 N.
Accordingly, EDC/NHS cross-linked HA and HA-elastin can be administered via
injection through a 30 G needle.
                                         Example 6
                                Total Uncross-Linked HA
[0066]       Total uncross-linked HA (i.e., free HA) was determined in the hydrogels
prepared according to Examples 1 and 2.
[0067]       The percentage of uncross-linked         HA is an    important parameter     in
evaluating relative cross-linking efficiency, as well as to predict the in vivo persistence
of a hydrogel. It is well documented that uncross-linked HA is rapidly degraded in vivo;
therefore, hydrogels with a larger percentage of uncross-linked HA are likely to have
less in vivo persistence. Total uncross-linked HA is measured by diluting the gel 20x in
PBS, and then allowing the gel to swell over 1 week with constant agitation.            The
solution is then filtered through a 0.22 pm filter to remove particulate and gel matter,
and is then analyzed by SEC-MALS to measure the percentage of recovered HA. In
this specific example, the       EDC/NHS       cross-linked HA and     HA-elastin   contain
approximately 10 % and 41%         total uncross-linked HA, respectively.      These data
                                              14

   WO 2011/119468                                                     PCT/US2011/029150
indicate that both EDC/NHS cross-linked HA and HA-elastin are expected to have
suitable in vivo persistence.
[0068]      Unless otherwise indicated, all numbers expressing quantities of ingredients,
properties such as molecular weight, reaction conditions, and so forth used in the
specification and claims are to be understood as being modified in all instances by the
term "about." Accordingly, unless indicated to the contrary, the numerical parameters
set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations that may vary
depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention.
At the very least, and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of
equivalents to the scope of the claims, each numerical parameter should at least be
construed in light of the number of reported significant digits and by applying ordinary
rounding techniques.
[00691      Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the
broad scope of the invention are approximations, the numerical values set forth in the
specific examples are reported as precisely as possible.             Any numerical value,
however, inherently contains certain errors necessarily resulting from the standard
deviation found in their respective testing measurements.
[0070]      Groupings of alternative elements or embodiments of the invention disclosed
herein are not to be construed as limitations. Each group member may be referred to
and claimed individually or in any combination with other members of the group or other
elements found herein. It is anticipated that one or more members of a group may be
included in, or deleted from, a group for reasons of convenience and/or patentability.
When any such inclusion or deletion occurs, the specification is deemed to contain the
group as modified thus fulfilling the written description of all Markush groups used in the
appended claims.
[00711      Certain embodiments of this invention are described herein, including the
best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Of course, variations
on these described embodiments will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the
art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventor expects skilled artisans to
employ such variations as appropriate, and the inventors intend for the invention to be
practiced otherwise than specifically described herein.          Accordingly, this invention
includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims
appended hereto as permitted by applicable law.         Moreover, any combination of the
                                              15

   WO 2011/119468                                                     PCT/US2011/029150
above-described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the
invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.
[0072]     Although the invention has been described and illustrated with a certain
degree of particularity, it is to be understood that the present disclosure has been made
only by way of example, and that numerous changes in the combination and
arrangement of parts can be resorted to by those skilled in the art without departing
from the scope of the invention, as hereinafter claimed
                                              16;

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
       1.    A sterile hydrogel composition for soft tissue augmentation, comprising:
       a hyaluronic acid polymer crosslinked with elastin via a zero-length
crosslinking agent;
       wherein the hydrogel is sterilized without substantially altering or degrading the
crosslinked hyaluronic acid/elastin-based composition.
       2.    The sterile hydrogel according to claim 1, wherein the hydrogel is
sterilized by use of a gaseous agent or an irradiation source.
       3.    The sterile hydrogel according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the hydrogel is
sterilized by ultraviolet light, visible light or microwaves.
       4.    The sterile hydrogel according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the
hydrogel is sterilized by ultraviolet light, visible light, or a combination thereof.
       5.    The sterile hydrogel according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the
hydrogel is sterilized by ultraviolet light.
       6.    The sterile hydrogel according to any one of claims 1 to 5, further
comprising an active agent selected from the group consisting of an enzyme inhibitor,
an anesthetic agent, a medicinal neurotoxin, an antioxidant, an anti-infective agent,
an anti-inflammatory agent, an ultraviolet light blocking agent, a dye, a hormone, an
immunosuppressant and combinations thereof.
       7.    The sterile hydrogel according to claim 6, wherein the active agent is an
anesthetic agent.
       8.    The sterile hydrogel according to claim 7, wherein the anesthetic agent is
lidocaine.
       9.    The sterile hydrogel according to any one of claims 6 to 8, wherein the
medicinal neurotoxin is a botulinum toxin or clostridium toxin.
                                               17

        10.   The sterile hydrogel according to any one of claims 1 to 9, having a
hyaluronic acid concentration of about 15 mg/mL to about 80 mg/mL.
        11.   The sterile hydrogel according to any one of claims 1 to 10, having a
hyaluronic acid concentration of about 15 mg/mL to about 30 mg/mL.
        12.   The sterile hydrogel according to any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein said
zero-length cross-linking agent is 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl) carbodiimide
(EDC).
        13.   The sterile hydrogel according to any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein said
zero-length cross-linking agent is reacted with said hyaluronic acid polymer and said
elastin in the presence of N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS).
        14.   The sterile hydrogel according to any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein said
zero-length cross-linking agent is reacted with said hyaluronic acid polymer and said
elastin at neutral pH.
        15.   The sterile hydrogel composition according to claim 14, wherein said
neutral pH is between 6.0 and 8.0.
        16.   A sterile dermal filler composition comprising a hydrogel according to any
one of claims 1 to 15.
        17.   The dermal filler composition according to claim 16, wherein the dermal
filler composition is injectable.
        18.   A method for producing a sterile hydrogel composition, the method
comprising crosslinking a hyaluronic acid polymerwith elastin via a zero-length cross
linking agent, followed by sterilization; wherein the sterilization does not substantially
alter or degrade the crosslinked hyaluronic acid/elastin-based composition.
        19.   The method according to claim 18, wherein the sterilization is by use of a
gaseous agent or irradiation source.
                                             18

       20.    The method according to claim 18 or 19, wherein the sterilization is by
ultraviolet light, visible light or microwaves.
       21.    The method according to any one of claims 18 to 20, wherein the
sterilization is by ultraviolet light, visible light, or a combination thereof.
       22.    The method according to any one of claims 18 to 21, wherein the
sterilization is by ultraviolet light.
       23.    The method according to any one of claims 18 to 22, wherein said zero
length cross-linking agent is 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl) carbodiimide (EDC).
       24.    The method according to any one of claims 18 to 23, wherein said
hyaluronic acid polymer and said elastin are crosslinked via said zero-length
crosslinking agent in the presence of N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS).
       25.    The method according to any one of claims 18 to 24, wherein said
hyaluronic acid polymer and said elastin are crosslinked via said zero-length
crosslinking agent at neutral pH.
       26.    The method according to claim 25, wherein said neutral pH is between
6.0 and 8.0.
       27.    A method of treating or correcting facial imperfections, the method
comprising the step of administering to a patient in need thereof an effective amount
of the sterile hydrogel according to any one of claims 1 to 15 or the dermal filler
composition of claim 16 or 17.
       28.    The method of claim 27, wherein the facial imperfections comprise
wrinkles and/or volume loss due to ageing.
       29.    A method of soft tissue augmentation comprising administering to a
patient in need thereof an effective amount of the sterile hydrogel according to any
one of claims 1 to 15 or the dermal filler composition of claim 16 or 17.
                                                19

    30.    Use of a hydrogel according to any one of claims 1 to 15 in the
manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of facial imperfections.
    31.    Use according to claim 30, wherein the medicament is a dermal filler.
    32.    Use according to claim 30 or 31, wherein the facial imperfections
comprise wrinkles and/or volume loss due to ageing.
    33.    Use of a hydrogel according to any one of claims 1 to 15 in the
manufacture of a medicament for soft tissue augmentation.
                                        20

   WO 2011/119468                                                    PCT/US2011/029150
What is claimed is:
        1.     A hydrogel for soft tissue augmentation comprising:
a cross-linked biocompatible polymer having zero-length cross-linked moieties and
optionally at least one other active ingredient incorporated into said cross-linked
biocompatible polymer.
        2.      A hydrogel for soft tissue augmentation comprising:
        a cross-linked biocompatible polymer having zero-length cross-linked moieties
and optionally at least one other active ingredient incorporated into said hydrogel;
       wherein said hydrogel is formed by reacting at least one cross-linkable
biocompatible polymer with at least one zero-length cross-linking agent at neutral pH.
        3.     The hydrogel for soft tissue augmentation comprising according to claim 2
wherein said at least one cross-linkable biocompatible polymer is hyaluronic acid (HA)
and said zero-length cross-linking agent is 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)
carbodiimide (EDC).
        4.     The hydrogel for soft tissue augmentation according to claim 3 wherein
said zero-length cross-linking agent is reacted with said HA in the presence of N
hydroxysuccinimide (NHS).
        5.     The hydrogel for soft tissue augmentation according to any one of claims
2-5 further comprising at least one second cross-linked biocompatible polymer.
        6.     The hydrogel for soft tissue augmentation according to claim 5 wherein
said at least one second cross-linked biocompatible polymer is a protein.
        7.     The hydrogel for soft tissue augmentation according to claim 5 wherein
said protein is elastin.
        8.     The hydrogel for soft tissue augmentation according to claim 2 wherein
said neutral pH is between 6.0 and 8.0.
                                                21

    WO 2011/119468                                                   PCT/US2011/029150
        9.     The hydrogel for soft tissue augmentation according to claim 8 wherein
said neutral pH is between 6.5 and 7.5.
        10.    The hydrogel for soft tissue augmentation according to claim 9 wherein
said neutral pH is 7.0.
        11.    The hydrogel for soft tissue augmentation according to claim 2 further
comprising an active agent selected from the group consisting of enzyme inhibitors,
anesthetic agents, medicinal neurotoxins, antioxidants, anti-infective agents, anti
inflammatory agents, ultraviolet (UV) light blocking agents, dyes, hormones,
immunosuppressants, and combinations thereof.
        12.    A method for making hydrogel for soft tissue augmentation comprising:
        providing at least one cross-linkable biocompatible polymer;
        dissolving said at least one cross-linkable biocompatible polymer in a buffered
solution wherein said buffered solution maintains a pH from approximately 6.0 to 8.0;
        adding at least one zero-length cross-linking agent to said buffered solution to
form a reaction mixture; and
        allowing said reaction mixture to stand for a time appropriate to form a hydrogel
suitable for soft tissue augmentation.
        13.    The method according to claim 12 further wherein said at least one cross
linkable biocompatible polymer is HA.
        14.    The method according to claim 12 further wherein said buffered solution is
phosphate buffered saline having a pH of between 6.5 and 7.5.
        15.    The method according to claim 12 further wherein said at least one zero
length cross-linking agent is EDC.
        16.    The method according to claim 12 further comprising including NHS in
said adding step.
        17.    The method according to claim 12 further comprising a dialyzing step after
said allowing step.

    WO 2011/119468                                                    PCT/US2011/029150
        18.     The method according to claim 12 further comprising at least one second
cross-linkable biocompatible polymer.
        19.     The method according to claim 18 further comprising at least one second
cross-linkable biocompatible polymer is a protein.
        20.     The method according to claim 19 further comprising at least one second
cross-linkable protein is elastin.
        21.     The method according to any one of claim 12 to 20 further comprising
adding an active agent selected from the group consisting of enzyme inhibitors,
anesthetic agents, medicinal neurotoxins, antioxidants, anti-infective agents, anti
inflammatory agents, ultraviolet (UV) light blocking agents, dyes, hormones,
immunosuppressants, and combinations thereof.
        22.    A method for making hydrogel for soft tissue augmentation comprising:
        providing a 0.1 M phosphate buffered saline (PBS) solution having a pH between
approximately 6.5 and 7.5;dissolving from about 20 to 80 mg/mL HA and from about 2
to 20 weight percent soluble elastin in said PBS to form a polymer mixture;
        adding 5 to 30 mol percent EDC and NHS to said polymer mixture to form a
reaction mixture;
        allowing said reaction mixture to react for 12 to 48 hours at 220 to 600 C to form a
gel;
        dialyzing said gel against PBS to form a purified gel; and
        sizing said purified gel to form a hydrogel for soft tissue augmentation.
        23.     The method according to claim 22 further comprising adding an active
agent selected from the group consisting of enzyme inhibitors, anesthetic agents,
medicinal neurotoxins, antioxidants, anti-infective agents, anti-inflammatory agents,
ultraviolet (UV) light blocking agents, dyes, hormones, immunosuppressants, and
combinations thereof.
                                                23

 06 Mar
 30     2016
    Dec 2017
 <removed-apn>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number <removed-apn>, is current as of 2017-11-26 21:00 AEST

 06 Mar
 30     2016
    Dec 2017
 <removed-apn>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number <removed-apn>, is current as of 2017-11-26 21:00 AEST

 06 Mar
 30     2016
    Dec 2017
 <removed-apn>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number <removed-apn>, is current as of 2017-11-26 21:00 AEST

