                                        ABSTRACT
         An emulsified composition comprising a dairy product, an emulsifier, and a
magnesium material, wherein the dairy product has a total solid content of 20 mass% or
more, and has the ratio of milk fat to total solids of 30 mass% or more, and the mass ratio
between fat and magnesium in the emulsified composition (fat : magnesium) is 1 : 0.0003 to
1: 0.01.
                                              42

                                          DESCRIPTION
 Title of the Invention: EMULSIFIED COMPOSITION AND MILK BEVERAGE
 Technical Field
 [0001]
           The present invention relates to an emulsified composition containing a dairy
product and an emulsifier, more specifically to an emulsified composition further containing
a magnesium material.
Background Art
 [0002]
           In milk beverages, which are preference beverages with a large market, the
technique      of using an     emulsified    composition   for beverage     use employing a
cost-advantageous dairy product, such as fresh cheese, in place of conventionally used dairy
products (cow's milk, fresh cream, whole milk powder, skimmed milk powder, evaporated
milk, sweetened condensed milk, unsweetened condensed milk, degreased condensed milk,
etc.) is known.
[0003]
           For example, an emulsified composition having improved dispersibility and
emulsification stability, in which solid fresh cheese having a high content of milk fat is used
with an organic acid monoglyceride, an emulsifier having an HLB of 10 or more, and
sodium caseinate (PTL 1), an emulsified composition, in which a high-HLB emulsifier and a
low-HLB emulsifier are combined such that the proportion of the former used is higher than
the latter, and which thus has excellent emulsification stability even when the proportion of
fresh cheese relative to water used in the composition is high (PTL 2), a cheese emulsion
using fresh cheese at a high concentration, preferably at a concentration of 50% or more, and
having excellent flavor and excellent storage stability, which contains an emulsifier having
an HLB of 8 to 14, fresh cheese, and water, and is prepared by a first step of dispersing the
emulsifier in water to form a vesicle having an average particle size of 10 to 600 nm, and a
second step of adding fresh cheese to the emulsifier-dispersed aqueous solution prepared in
the first the step to cause emulsification (PTL 3), and the like are known.
[0004]
           These conventional emulsified compositions certainly have excellent emulsification
                                                1

 stability. However, in the case where such a composition is actually used in a food or
 beverage, particularly in the case where it is used at a low concentration or in the case where,
 as milk components, a dairy product such as fresh cheese is used as a main component, and
 milk components other than the dairy product such as fresh cheese are added in small
 amounts or not used at all, as compared with conventional foods and beverages, the resulting
 food or beverage is insufficient in richness or milky flavor and gives a watery feel, for
 example.     Thus, as a substitute of a conventional dairy product, it has been difficult to
 reproduce the same level of quality of taste.
 [0005]
           Meanwhile, techniques related to foods and beverages having a reduced content of
milk components but having the same level of milky flavor are known.
           For example, a condensed-milk-like composition having a low content of non-fat
milk solids but having excellent milky flavor, in which the content of non-fat milk solids in
the condensed-milk-like composition is 15 wt% or less, the condensed-milk-like
composition contains 0.3 wt% or more potassium and sodium, and the weight ratio between
sodium and potassium is 1 : 1 to 10 (PTL 4), a beverage having a low content of dairy
products but having a milk-like thick texture imparted thereto, which is a beverage
containing a dairy product and a salt added thereto (at least one kind selected from the group
consisting of sodium salts, potassium salts, calcium salts, and magnesium salts),
characterized in that the content of added salts in the total amount of the beverage is 0.0005
to 0.1 mass% (PTL 5), a novel milk-flavored beverage containing no milk protein or milk fat
but having milk-like flavor, which contains a whey mineral, preferably a whey mineral
whose calcium content in solids is less than 2 mass%, preferably in an amount (as solids) of
0.1 to 5 mass%, and more preferably 0.3 to 2.5 mass%, and a sweetener, preferably a
sweetener that is partially or fully lactose or a high-intensity sweetener, preferably in an
amount of 0.08 to 12%, and more preferably 0.2 to 6%, in terms of sucrose as the degree of
sweetness, as well as a food or beverage using the milk-flavored beverage (PTL 6), and the
like are known.
Citation List
Patent Literature
[0006]
           PTL 1: JP-A-2004-267013
           PTL 2: JP-A-2011-45364
                                                 2

           PTL 3: JP-A-2011-234697
           PTL 4: JP-A-2002-223697
           PTL 5: JP-A-2007-215451
           PTL 6: WO 2010/101143
 Summary of Invention
Technical Problem
 [0007]
           However, with these conventional techniques, in the case of application to an
emulsified composition using a milk component, particularly a dairy product having a high
total solid content, wherein the ratio of fat to total solids is high, such as fresh cheese, or to a
milk beverage using the same, it has still been difficult to reproduce the original richness and
natural milky flavor of milk.
[0008]
          An object of the invention is, in an emulsified composition using a dairy product
such as fresh cheese and also a milk beverage using the same, to improve the quality of taste,
including richness, milky flavor, etc.
Solution to Problem
[0009]
          As a result of extensive research, the present inventors have found that the above
problems can be solved by mixing a specific material together with a dairy product such as
fresh cheese, and thus accomplished the invention.
[0010]
          That is, the invention is as follows.
[1]   An emulsified composition comprising a dairy product, an emulsifier, and a magnesium
material, wherein
          the dairy product has a total solid content of 20 mass% or more, and has the ratio of
milk fat to total solids of 30 mass% or more, and
          the mass ratio between fat and magnesium in the emulsified composition (fat
magnesium) is 1 : 0.0003 to 1 : 0.01.
[2]
          The emulsified composition according to the [1], wherein in the emulsified
composition, the mass ratio between fat and sodium (fat : sodium) is 1 : 0.0001 to 1 : 0.02,
and the mass ratio between fat and potassium (fat : potassium) is 1 : 0.0001 to 1 : 0.04.
                                                 3

 [3]   The emulsified composition according to the [1] or [2], wherein the dairy product is
 fresh cheese or cream.
 [4]   The emulsified composition according to any one of the [1] to [3], further comprising
 at least one of casein and casein salt.
 [5]   The emulsified composition according to any one of the [1] to [4], wherein the
magnesium material is a material selected from the group consisting of whey minerals,
magnesium chloride, magnesium oxide, magnesium carbonate, magnesium sulfate, bittern,
dolomite, raw salt, magnesium stearate, magnesium monohydrogen phosphate,
trimagnesium phosphate, magnesium silicate, magnesium hydroxide, magnesium acetate,
magnesium citrate, magnesium malate, magnesium benzoate, magnesium gluconate,
magnesium L-glutamate, sepiolite, talc and phytin, or an organic acid or inorganic acid salt
of the material.
 [6]   A milk beverage produced using the emulsified composition according to any one of
the [1] to [5].
[7]    The milk beverage according to the [6], comprising a coffee extract or a tea extract.
[8]    A method for producing an emulsified composition, comprising mixing a dairy product,
an emulsifier, and a magnesium material, wherein
           the dairy product has a total solid content of 20 mass% or more, and has the ratio of
milk fat to total solids of 30 mass% or more, and
           the mass ratio between fat and magnesium in the emulsified composition (fat
magnesium) is 1: 0.0003 to 1 : 0.01.
Advantageous Effects of Invention
[0011]
           According to the invention, even when a dairy product other than cow's milk, such
as fresh cheese, is used in an emulsified composition or a milk beverage, the same level of
quality of taste, including richness, milky flavor, etc., as in the case of using conventional
milk components, such as cow's milk, can be obtained.
Description of Embodiments
[0012]
           Hereinafter, embodiments of the invention will be described in detail.     However,
the constituent elements described below are examples (typical examples) of embodiments
of the invention, and the invention is not limited thereto.
                                                  4

          As used herein, "mass%" and "wt%" have the same meaning.
          The emulsified composition of the invention is an emulsified composition
containing a dairy product, an emulsifier, and a magnesium material, characterized in that
the dairy product has a total solid content of 20 mass% or more and the ratio of milk fat to
total solids of 30 mass% or more, and the mass ratio between fat and magnesium (fat
magnesium) in the composition is 1 : 0.0003 to 1 : 0.01.
 [0013]
<Dairy Product>
          First, the dairy product used in the invention will be described.
          The dairy product used in the invention is a dairy product having a total solid
content of 20 mass% or more, with the ratio of milk fat to total solids being 30 mass% or
more.    A total solid content herein means a value obtained by subtracting the moisture
content from the total weight of the dairy product.
         The total solid content of the dairy product should be 20 mass% or more.           It is
preferably 30 mass% or more, more preferably 40 mass% or more, particularly preferably 50
mass% or more, and most preferably 55 mass% or more, and is preferably 99 mass% or less,
more preferably 95 mass% or less, and particularly preferably 90 mass% or less.          Within
this range, the dairy product, which is a main raw material of the emulsified composition,
contains a suitable amount of moisture.          Accordingly, a more condensed, thicker, and
lower-cost emulsified composition can be efficiently produced with fewer problems of
viscosity, etc.; therefore, this is preferable.
         In addition, the ratio of milk fat to total solids should be 30 mass% or more.     It is
preferably 35 mass% or more, more preferably 40 mass% or more, particularly preferably 45
mass% or more, and most preferably 50 mass% or more, and is preferably 99 mass% or less,
more preferably 95 mass% or less, and particularly preferably 90 mass% or less.          Within
this range, the emulsified composition is rich in milk fat and thus has thick flavor, the cost is
reduced, and also the flavor-enhancing effect of the addition of the below-mentioned
magnesium material is sufficiently exerted; therefore, this is preferable.      Milk fat herein
means a value measured in accordance with the analysis method specified in the Ministerial
Ordinance on Milk and Milk Products Concerning Compositional Standards, etc.
(Ministerial Ordinance Concerning Milk) in Japan.
[0014]
         The dairy product used in the invention is the milk of an animal, or a processed
                                                 5

product thereof. The dairy product having a total solid content of 20 mass% or more, with
the ratio of milk fat to total solids being 30 mass% or more, is a dairy product selected from,
for example, cheese such as fresh cheese, cream (fresh cream, double cream, clotted cream,
etc.), butter, butter oil, and the like. Cream, butter, fresh cheese, and the like are preferable,
and cream and fresh cheese are the most preferable.
          Incidentally, it is also possible to use a combination of two or more kinds of dairy
products.     In that case, the total solid content and the ratio of milk fat are calculated from
the total amount of two or more kinds of dairy products.
 [0015]
          In addition, although the dairy product content in the emulsified composition is not
particularly limited, it is preferably 1 mass% or more, more preferably 10 mass% or more,
and still more preferably 20 mass% or more, and is preferably 99 mass% or less, more
preferably 90 mass% or less, and still more preferably 80 mass% or less.          When the dairy
product content in the emulsified composition is within this range, an emulsified
composition that is easy to produce, has high stability, and is optimal in terms of cost can be
provided.
[0016]
[Fresh Cheese]
          Fresh cheese will be described.      Fresh cheese in the invention is a kind of natural
cheese, and is non-matured cheese that does not undergo a maturing process.
[0017]
          Fresh cheese can be classified into a fermented type and a non-fermented type.        It
is preferable that the fresh cheese used in the invention is a non-fermented type because, as a
result, mild and light flavor can be obtained.           Incidentally, non-fermented cheese is
produced from milk, buttermilk, or fresh cream using a production technique including a
coagulation effect without fermentation by lactic acid bacteria, and has the same chemical,
physical, and sensual characteristics as those fermented by lactic acid bacteria.
[0018]
          Specific examples of fresh cheese include cream cheese, mozzarella cheese, cottage
cheese, ricotta, mascarpone, fromage blanc, paneer, and rubing.            Among them, cream
cheese, which hardly affects the flavor of the food or beverage, is preferable, and
non-fermented cream cheese is particularly preferable.
[0019]
                                                 6

           The total solid content of the fresh cheese is not particularly limited, but is
preferably 90 mass% or less, more preferably 80 mass% or less, and most preferably 75
mass% or less. In addition, the lower limit thereof is usually 20 mass%, preferably 30
mass%, and more preferably 40 mass%.          When the total solid content is within this range,
the characteristic taste and flavor of the cheese are enhanced, resulting in improved flavor.
A total solid content herein means a value obtained by subtracting the moisture content from
the total mass of the fresh cheese.
 [0020]
           In addition, the ratio of milk fat to total solids of the fresh cheese used in the
invention is usually 30 mass% or more, preferably 40 mass% or more, and still more
preferably 50 mass% or more, and the upper limit thereof is usually 90 mass%.          When the
ratio of milk fat is within this range, the cost per milk fat is reduced, and the production of
the fresh cheese itself is easy; therefore, this is preferable.    Incidentally, milk fat herein
means a value measured in accordance with the processed cheese analysis method specified
in the Ministerial Ordinance on Milk and Milk Products Concerning Compositional
Standards, etc..
[0021]
<Emulsifier>
          The emulsifier to be used is not particularly limited as long as it is an emulsifier
usable in foods.    Examples thereof include fatty acid esters such as sucrose fatty acid esters,
polysorbate (polyoxyethylene sorbitan acid ester), glycerol fatty acid esters (monoglyceride,
organic acid monoglycerides, and polyglycerol fatty acid esters), sorbitan fatty acid esters,
and propylene glycol fatty acid esters, sodium stearoyl lactylate, calcium stearoyl lactylate,
enzymatically decomposed lecithin, lecithin, and saponin.       They may be used alone, and it
is also possible to use two or more kinds together.
          Among them, sucrose fatty acid esters, organic acid monoglycerides, polyglycerol
fatty acid esters, and sorbitan fatty acid esters are preferable, and sucrose fatty acid esters,
organic acid monoglycerides, and polyglycerol fatty acid esters are still more preferable
because, as a result, the emulsified composition and a milk beverage using the same have
excellent emulsification stability.
[0022]
          In addition, in the above emulsifier, food emulsifiers effective against heat-resistant
bacteria, which are harmful bacteria in a beverage, may also be used alone or in combination.
                                                 7

 Food emulsifiers effective against heat-resistant bacteria to be used are not particularly
 limited as long as they are food emulsifiers having such effects, but sucrose fatty acid esters,
 polyglycerol fatty acid esters, and organic acid monoglycerides are preferable. In particular,
 sucrose fatty acid esters, polyglycerol fatty acid esters, and organic acid monoglycerides,
 wherein the constituent fatty acids have 14 to 22 carbon atoms, are more preferable, and
 sucrose fatty acid esters and polyglycerol fatty acid esters, wherein the constituent fatty acids
 have 16 to 18 carbon atoms, are still more preferable.     They have high effectiveness against
 bacteria and thus are preferable.
          As sucrose fatty acid esters or polyglycerol fatty acid esters used, the monoester
content thereof is usually 50 mass% or more, preferably 60 mass% or more, and still more
preferably 70 mass% or more.         Such esters have high effectiveness against bacteria and
thus are preferable.    As polyglycerol fatty acid esters, the average polymerization degree of
polyglycerol is preferably 2 to 5, and still more preferably 2 to 3.      Such esters have high
effectiveness against bacteria and thus are the most preferable.
 [0023]
          The amount of emulsifier used (the content in the emulsified composition) is
usually 0.01 mass% or more, preferably 0.05 mass% or more, and more preferably 0.1
mass% or more, and is usually 10 mass% or less, preferably 5 mass% or less, and more
preferably 3 mass% or less.
          When the emulsifier content in the emulsified composition is within this range,
without affecting the taste or excessively increasing the viscosity, the
emulsification-stabilizing effect of the emulsifier can be effectively obtained with excellent
handleability.
          The content ratio between the dairy product and the emulsifier in the emulsified
composition (dairy product : emulsifier, mass ratio) is 1 : 0.0001 to 1 : 10, preferably 1
0.001 to 1 : 1, and more preferably 1 : 0.005 to 1 : 0.1.
          The content ratio between milk fat and the emulsifier in the emulsified composition
(milk fat: emulsifier, mass ratio) is 1 : 0.0001 to 1 :100, preferably 1 : 0.001 to 1 : 10, more
preferably 1 : 0.005 to 1 : 1 , and most preferably 1 :0.01 to 1 : 0.1.
          The content ratio between the emulsifier and the magnesium material in the
emulsified composition (emulsifier : magnesium material, mass ratio) is 1 : 0.00001 to 1 :
100, preferably 1 : 0.0001 to 1 : 10, more preferably 1 : 0.001 to 1 : 1, and particularly
preferably 1 : 0.01 to 1 : 0.5.
                                                8

 [0024]
 <Magnesium Material>
          The invention is characterized in that a magnesium material, which is a mineral
 ingredient, is used.
          A mineral ingredient is prepared by chemically or physically treating, purifying, or
 concentrating, for example, an edible mineral, water such as river water or sea water, or a
 mineral source of animal, vegetable, or like biological origin into a form easy to use in
 foods.
          Examples of magnesium materials include materials selected from whey minerals,
magnesium chloride, magnesium oxide, magnesium carbonate, magnesium sulfate, bittern
 (crude seawater magnesium chloride), dolomite, raw salt, magnesium stearate, magnesium
monohydrogen       phosphate, trimagnesium       phosphate, magnesium        silicate, magnesium
hydroxide, magnesium acetate, magnesium citrate, magnesium malate, magnesium benzoate,
magnesium gluconate, magnesium L-glutamate, sepiolite, tale, and phytin.             Examples also
include, using them as raw materials, materials formed into other edible organic acid or
inorganic acid salts and materials powdered using cyclodextrin, trehalose, and the like.
 [0025]
          A whey mineral herein is obtained from a mineral contained in the milk of an
animal, whose contents of milk fat, protein, lactose, and the like are reduced by a specific
operation, and which thus has a higher mineral content than the raw material used.              For
example, temperature changes, such as heating and cooling, and separation operations using
centrifugal force, a film, a resin, and the like can be applied alone or in combination to milk
itself or whey (substance resulting from the production of casein or cheese from milk) to
give a whey mineral.       Specific examples of whey minerals include whey minerals and
concentrates thereof, mineral-concentrated whey and powders thereof, and whey permeate
(containing partially purified lactose).    In addition, it is also possible to use that a specific
mineral is further purified, fractionated, concentrated, or powdered.           Further, it is also
possible to use a composition prepared by mixing a whey mineral with other auxiliary
materials.    As a low-cost whey mineral with excellent addition efficiency, it is preferable
that the mass ratio of mineral to solids of the whey mineral is usually at least 1.5 times the
mass ratio of mineral to solids of the used raw material, preferably at least 2.0 times, more
preferably at least 2.5 times, particularly preferably at least 3.0 times, and most preferably at
least 4.0 times.
                                                 9

 [0026]
          Among magnesium materials, whey minerals, magnesium chloride, magnesium
 sulfate, magnesium gluconate, magnesium acetate, magnesium citrate, magnesium malate,
 bittern (crude seawater magnesium chloride), and magnesium L-glutamate are preferable
 because they have high solubility in water and easy to add to the emulsified composition.
 In particular, magnesium chloride, magnesium sulfate, and bittern (crude seawater
magnesium chloride) are preferable, and magnesium chloride is the most preferable.
 [0027]
          Incidentally, a magnesium material is a material containing magnesium, and refers
to, for example, a material containing magnesium in an amount of 0.01 mass% or more,
preferably 0.1 mass% or more, particularly preferably 1 mass% or more, and most preferably
5 mass% or more.
          The amount      of magnesium   material used (the content in the emulsified
composition) is, in terms of magnesium, usually 0.0001 mass% or more, preferably 0.001
mass% or more, more preferably 0.005 mass% or more, and most preferably 0.01 mass% or
more, and is usually 1 mass% or less, preferably 0.5 mass% or less, and more preferably
0.25 mass% or less.
          When the magnesium content in the emulsified composition is within this range,
without the foreign taste due to magnesium being felt, the enhancing effect on richness and
milky flavor can be obtained.
[0028]
          Further, other minerals may be also be contained.   Examples of minerals include
elements such as zinc, potassium, calcium, chromium, selenium, iron, copper, sodium,
manganese, molybdenum, iodine, and phosphorus.         Among them, it is preferable to use
sodium or potassium.
[0029]
          When the above magnesium material contains these minerals, these minerals can
also be added to the composition by using the magnesium material.      It is also possible to
mix a material containing these minerals into the composition separately from the
magnesium material.
[0030]
          Specific examples of mineral-containing materials include calcium monohydrogen
phosphate, calcium chloride, calcium sulfate, calcium oxide, calcined calcium, calcium
                                             10

 carbonate, calcium citrate, calcium lactate, calcium hydroxide, sodium ferrous citrate, iron
 lactate, ferric chloride, heme iron, magnesium carbonate, trimagnesium phosphate,
 potassium gluconate, calcium gluconate, zinc gluconate, cupric gluconate, non-calcined
 coral calcium, shell meal, and eggshell powder.      They may be used alone, and it is also
 possible to use a mixture of two or more kinds.
           Bittern, dolomite, whey minerals, raw salt, phytin, and the like described above as
 examples of magnesium materials also contain minerals other than magnesium.
           In the invention, it is preferable to use a whey mineral containing magnesium,
 sodium, and potassium. In addition, it is preferable to further use a sodium material
 containing sodium and/or a potassium material containing potassium.        A sodium material
 and a potassium material are materials containing sodium and potassium, respectively.     For
 example, sodium or potassium is contained in an amount of 0.01 mass% or more, preferably
 0.1 mass% or more, and most preferably 1 mass% or more in the material.
 [0031]
          The sodium content in the emulsified composition is, in terms of sodium, usually
0.0001 mass% or more, preferably 0.001 mass% or more, and more preferably 0.01 mass%
or more, and is usually 2 mass% or less, preferably 1 mass% or less, and more preferably 0.5
mass% or less.
          When the emulsifier content in the emulsified composition is within this range, this
is effective in further increasing the enhancing effect of magnesium on richness and milky
flavor, without the foreign taste due to sodium being felt.
 [0032]
          The potassium content in the emulsified composition is, in terms of potassium,
usually 0.0001 mass% or more, preferably 0.001 mass% or more, and more preferably 0.01
mass% or more, and is usually 4 mass% or less, preferably 2 mass% or less, and more
preferably 1 mass% or less.
          When the emulsifier content in the emulsified composition is within this range, this
is effective in further increasing the enhancing effect of magnesium on richness and milky
flavor, without the foreign taste due to potassium being felt.
[0033]
<Emulsified Composition>
          It is preferable that the emulsified composition of the invention is produced by
mixing at least the above dairy product, emulsifier, and magnesium material.
                                               11

            The invention is characterized in that the mass ratio between fat and magnesium in
 the emulsified composition (fat : magnesium) is 1 : 0.0003 to 1 : 0.01. Within this range,
 fat and magnesium are well-balanced, and, without the foreign taste due to magnesium being
 felt, the enhancing effect on richness and milky flavor can be obtained.
            Fat is, for example, fat from the dairy product and other components, and is the total
 amount in the emulsified composition.
            In addition, magnesium is the total amount in the composition, including
 magnesium from the magnesium material and also magnesium from the dairy product and
 other components.
            The mass ratio between fat and magnesium in the emulsified composition (fat
 magnesium) is preferably 1 : 0.0005 to 1 : 0.008, and more preferably 1 : 0.001 to 1 : 0.005.
 [0034]
           Further, it is preferable that the mass ratio between fat and sodium in the emulsified
composition (fat : sodium) is 1 : 0.0001 to 1 : 0.02.          This range is effective in further
increasing the enhancing effect of magnesium on richness and milky flavor, without the
foreign taste due to sodium being felt.       The mass ratio is preferably 1 : 0.001 to 1 : 0.015,
and more preferably 1 : 0.003 to 1 : 0.01.
 [0035]
           In addition, it is preferable that the mass ratio between fat and potassium in the
emulsified composition (fat : potassium) is 1 : 0.0001 to 1 : 0.04.      This range is effective in
further increasing the enhancing effect of magnesium on richness and milky flavor, without
the foreign taste due to potassium being felt.       The mass ratio is preferably 1 : 0.001 to 1
0.03, and more preferably 1 : 0.005 to 1 : 0.02.
[0036]
           It is preferable that the emulsified composition of the invention is produced by
mixing the above dairy product, emulsifier, and magnesium material.
           The emulsified composition of the invention may also be obtained by simply
mixing the dairy product, the emulsifier, and the magnesium material, followed by stirring
using a homomixer or a homogenizer to emulsify the mixture.
           In addition, for example, the emulsifier is added to water to give an
emulsifier-containing dispersion, then the dairy product is added to the dispersion, followed
by stirring using a homomixer or a homogenizer to emulsify the mixture, thereby giving a
composition containing water, a dairy product, and an emulsifier (composition A), and the
                                                  12

 composition A and the magnesium material are mixed; the emulsified composition of the
 invention can also be obtained in this manner.
            It is also possible that during the production of the composition A, a liquid to serve
 as a beverage base, such as water, a coffee extract, or a tea extract, which will be described
 later in detail, and other components are mixed therewith.       It is also possible that a liquid to
 serve as a beverage base and other components are mixed with the composition A, and then
the magnesium material is mixed therewith, thereby giving the emulsified composition of the
 invention.
 [0037]
           At this time, in the dispersion containing an emulsifier, the emulsifier may be in the
form of a self-assembly, such as a vesicle.       For emulsification, it is possible that preliminary
emulsification is first performed using a homomixer, a pau blender, or the like, and then
main      emulsification      is   performed     using   a  homogenizer;       like    this,   several
stirring/emulsification steps may be performed.               The emulsification step using a
homogenizer may be performed once, but is preferably performed at least twice for
improving the stability of the resulting emulsified composition and a milk beverage using the
same.     The emulsification step using a homogenizer may be performed before or after the
sterilization step, but is preferably performed before the sterilization step for the ease of
controlling the production process.            In addition, the emulsification step is usually
performed under heated conditions at 40 to 80*C, and the emulsification step using a
homogenizer is usually performed under high-pressure conditions at 5 to 200 MPa,
preferably 10 to 100 MPa.
[0038]
           Incidentally, this emulsified composition may contain components other than those
described above.        For example, milk components other than the dairy product or vegetable
fats can be added.        Milk components are not particularly limited, and examples thereof
include milk proteins such as casein and whey, and salts thereof, milk, whole milk, skimmed
milk, condensed milk, degreased condensed milk, whole milk powder, skimmed milk
powder, and lactose.        Vegetable fats are not limited as long as they are oils and fats of
vegetable origin, but examples thereof usually include vegetable oils and fats, such as
soybean milk, cacao butter, coconut oil, palm oil, palm kernel oil, coconut oil, soybean oil,
corn oil, sunflower oil, rice oil, and rapeseed oil, as well as oil and fats prepared by purifying
these vegetable oils and fats or processing them by hydrogenation, transesterification, etc.
                                                   13

 [0039]
           These milk components or vegetable fats can be blended to replace a part of the
 dairy product content in the emulsified composition.       Therefore, the total amount of these
 components and the dairy product in the emulsified composition is preferably 1 mass% or
 more, more preferably 10 mass% or more, and still more preferably 20 mass% or more, and
 is preferably 99 mass% or less, more preferably 90 mass% or less, and still more preferably
 80 mass% or less.      Within this range, an emulsified composition that is easy to produce, has
 high stability, and is optimal in terms of cost can be provided.
 [0040]
          In addition to the dairy product, water, the emulsifier, and the milk components
 other than the dairy product, this emulsified composition may also contain other additives
 and the like.    Examples of other additives include antioxidants, thickening stabilizers, pH
adjusters such as organic acids and inorganic acids, and flavoring agents.
          For example, it is preferable that at least either casein or a casein salt is further
contained.     Examples of casein and casein salts include sodium caseinate, potassium
caseinate, magnesium caseinate, and calcium caseinate.         Sodium caseinate and potassium
caseinate are preferable because they are excellent in terms of solubility in water,
emulsifying power, and emulsification-stabilizing effect. The content of casein and casein
salts in the emulsified composition is preferably 0.001 mass% or more, more preferably 0.01
mass% or more, and most preferably 0.1 mass% or more, and is preferably 10 mass% or less,
more preferably 5 mass% or less, and most preferably 3 mass% or less.
 [0041]
          In addition, the solids content in the emulsified composition is preferably 1 mass%
or more, more preferably 5 mass% or more, and still more preferably 10 mass% or more, and
is preferably 99 mass% or less, more preferably 95 mass% or less, and still more preferably
90 mass% or less.       When the solids content in the emulsified composition is not less than
the lower limit, this is more preferable in terms of cost per milk solids, without the milky
flavor being weakened.        When the solids content is not more than the upper limit, the
stability is not likely to decrease due to the lack of moisture, and the production tends to be
easy.
[0042]
          Incidentally, the obtained emulsified composition may be subjected to a sterilization
treatment by a usual sterilization method for foods, such as low-temperature long-time
                                                 14

pasteurization, high-temperature        long-time pasteurization, high-temperature short-time
pasteurization, or ultrahigh-temperature flash pasteurization.       The sterilization method is
not particularly limited.    However, ultrahigh-temperature flash pasteurization, which is less
likely to cause flavor deterioration due to heat, is preferable.       Further, as methods for
ultrahigh-temperature flash pasteurization, tube-type indirect pasteurization, injection- or
infusion-type direct pasteurization, and joule-type pasteurization are preferable.
[0043]
<Milk Beverage>
          Next, the milk beverage of the invention will be described.
          The milk beverage of the invention is produced using the above emulsified
composition.      The emulsified composition may be directly used as a milk beverage.
Alternatively, it is also possible that components necessary for a milk beverage are mixed
with the emulsified composition produced, and used as a milk beverage.
          In the milk beverage, in terms of the ease of production and also of improving the
emulsification stability during storage and the flavor of the milk beverage, it is preferable
that the dairy product is emulsified and mixed as an emulsified composition.
          That is, in the production of the milk beverage of the invention, it is preferable that
a previously produced emulsified composition, a liquid to serve as a beverage base (water, a
coffee extract, a tea extract, etc.), and other additives are mixed.
[0044]
          Other additives may be previously added to the liquid to serve as a beverage base,
or may also be admixed when the emulsified composition and the liquid to serve as a
beverage base are mixed.
          It is preferable that the milk beverage of the invention contains at least one
component selected from the group consisting of the following (A), (B), (D), and (E).
When these components meet the above definition of a magnesium material, they may also
serve as magnesium materials.
          (A) Polysaccharides (hereinafter sometimes referred to as "component (A)".)
          (B) Milk flavoring agents (hereinafter sometimes referred to as "component (B)".)
          (D) Buttermilks (hereinafter sometimes referred to as "component (D)".)
          (E) Yeasts (hereinafter sometimes referred to as "component (E)".)
[0045]
<(A) Polysaccharide>
                                                 15

          Preferred examples of polysaccharides are dietary fibers and starches.
 [0046]
(Dietary Fiber)
          Dietary fibers are polysaccharides contained in foods, which are not digested by
human digestive enzymes.         Most of them are polysaccharides of vegetable or microbial
origin.   Specific examples thereof include water-soluble dietary fibers, such as pectin,
agarose,    glucomannan,      polydextrose, indigestible    dextrin,  sodium arginine,      inulin,
carrageenan, guar gum, locust bean gum, tara gum, xanthan gum, gellan gum, fermented
cellulose, pullulan, and soybean polysaccharides, and water-insoluble dietary fibers, such as
cellulose, lignin, chitin, and chitosan.
         Among these dietary fibers, for use in a milk beverage, water-soluble dietary fibers
are preferable.
[0047]
(Starch)
         Examples of starches         are starches   and modified products thereof, starch
hydrolysates, etc.
[0048]
         Raw materials from which starches are derived are not particularly limited.
Typical examples of raw materials include potato, wheat, corn, waxy corn, high-amylose
corn, sweet potato, rice, glutinous rice, cassava, kudzu, dogtooth violet, mung bean, sago
palm, bracken, and Cardiocrinum cordatum var. glehnii.
         Examples of modified starch products include modified starches having improved
properties or functionality imparted thereto, which are prepared by modifying starches in
various ways (enzymatically, physically, chemically) by a wet process or a dry process.
Specific examples thereof include enzyme-treated starch, sodium starch glycolate, sodium
starch phosphate, acetylated distarch adipate, acetylated distarch phosphate, acetylated
oxidized starch, hydroxypropyl         distarch phosphate, phosphated distarch phosphate,
phosphated starch, distarch phosphate, starch acetate, hydroxypropyl starch, sodium starch
octenylsuccinate, oxidized starch, acid-treated starch, pregelatinized starch, dry starch,
heat-treated starch, oil- or fat-modified starch, granulated starch, and oil-absorptive starch.
         Among these starches and modified products thereof, for use in a milk beverage,
those having high water solubility and high emulsifiability are preferable, and sodium starch
octenylsuccinate is preferable.
                                                16

  [0049]
           "Starch hydrolysate" is the general term for products resulting from the hydrolysis
 of polysaccharides in starch, such as amylose and amylopectin, by heat, an acid, an alkali, an
 enzyme, etc., and is also referred to as dextrin.         The main component of a starch
 hydrolysate is a polysaccharide of a-1,4-linked or 1,6-linked glucose.      Specific examples
 thereof include soluble starch, thin glue starch, amylodextrin, white dextrin, yellow dextrin,
 British gum, erythrodextrin, achrodextrin, maltodextrin, enzyme-modified maltodextrin,
 starch syrup, and maltose syrup, as well as reduced products thereof, such as saccharified
 reduced starch, reduced maltose starch syrup, and reduced polydextrose.
 [0050]
          Among these starch hydrolysates, for use in a milk beverage, those having high
water solubility are preferable.   For this reason, as a raw material having a high content of
highly water-compatible polysaccharides of a-1,6-linked glucose, it is preferable to use a
 starch in which the mass ratio of amylopectin to the total mass of amylose and amylopectin
in the starch used is preferably 80% or more, sill more preferably 85% or more, particularly
preferably 90% or more, and most preferably 95% or more.            Alternatively, as a starch
hydrolysate having a high content of highly soluble low-molecular polysaccharides, the
dextrose equivalent thereof, which is an index that indicates the hydrolysis degree of the
starch measured by the Lane-Eynon method or Somogyi method, is preferably 3 or more,
more preferably 8 or more, and most preferably 15 or more.
 [0051]
          Incidentally, even when a raw material in which the mass ratio of amylopectin to the
total mass of amylose and amylopectin in the starch is less than 80% is used, the water
solubility can be enhanced by changing the linkage of glucose with an enzyme or the like.
[0052]
          As starch hydrolysates, commercially available products such as "Pinedex #3" and
"Pinedex #100" manufactured by Matsutani Chemical Industry Co., Ltd., "Fujioligo G67",
"Nisshoku Brancholigo", and "Nisshoku Cleartose" manufactured by Nihon Shokuhin Kako
Co., Ltd., "Sundec #30" "Sundec #70", "Sundec #70FN" "Sundec #150", "Sundec #180",
"Sundec #250", "Sundec #300", "Oligotose Liquid", and "Oligotose Powder" manufactured
by Sanwa Starch Co., Ltd., and "Smart Taste" manufactured by San-Ei Gen F.F.I., Inc., are
usable.
[0053]
                                               17

           Among the above polysaccharides, for use in a milk beverage, water-soluble dietary
 fibers, sodium starch octenylsuccinate, and starch hydrolysates are preferable in terms of
 water solubility, and starch hydrolysates are more preferable.
           The above polysaccharides may be used alone, and it is also possible to use a
 mixture of two or more kinds.
 [0054]
 <(B) Milk Flavoring Agent>
           A milk flavoring agent is a flavoring agent having a milk aroma component, and is
 not particularly limited as long as it is a flavoring agent containing aroma components
 characteristic of milk.    However, fresh milk flavoring agents having the flavor of fresh milk,
 such as short-chain free fatty acids including butanoic acid, valeric acid, caproic acid, and
 the like, as well as esters thereof, are particularly preferable.  It is still more preferable that
 the content of aroma components having the flavor of fermented cheese, including a-methyl
ketones, aldehydes such as 3-methylbutanal, and the like, is low.
           As milk flavoring agents, commercially available products are usable.                The
production method for aroma components to be contained in the milk-flavoring agent may
be chemical synthesis, extraction or purification from milk, or their mixture.            However,
those made from milk as a raw material are more preferable, and milk-flavoring agents
produced by a reaction between a milk component and an enzyme are still more preferable
because they are capable of reproducing the natural flavor of milk.             They may be used
alone, and it is also possible to use a mixture of two or more kinds.
 [0055]
<(D) Buttermilk>
           A buttermilk is a liquid called buttermilk or butter serum, which is separated upon
the extraction of a milk fat fraction as butter by churning or the like from cream made from
cow's milk by centrifugation or the like.          Buttermilks include condensed buttermilk in
liquid form prepared by condensation and buttermilk powder in powder form prepared by
further spray drying.     They may be used alone, and it is also possible to use a mixture of
two or more kinds.
           Separately, in the process of separating cream or butter from cow's milk,
fermentation by acid-producing bacteria may be performed, or an organic acid or like acid
may be added.      As the buttermilk used in the invention, a buttermilk that has not undergone
such fermentation or acid addition is preferable.
                                                 18

           As buttermilks, commercially available products such as "Buttermilk Powder"
 manufactured by Yotsuba Milk Products Co., Ltd., are usable.
 [0056]
 <(E) Yeasts>
           Yeasts include, in addition to yeasts, yeast disruption products prepared by
 disrupting a yeast to decompose its components by autolysis, yeast decomposition products
prepared by decomposing components by a treatment with an enzyme or hot water, and also
yeast extracts prepared by extracting components from a yeast, a disruption product thereof,
or a decomposition product thereof, followed by purification, concentration, etc.
 [0057]
          Yeasts used in the invention are not particularly limited as long as they are yeasts
traditionally used in foods, and specific examples thereof include brewer's yeast, baker's
yeast, torula yeast, and milk yeast.    Among them, milk yeast is preferable.     They may be
used alone, and it is also possible to use a mixture of two or more kinds.
          As yeasts used in the invention, particularly, yeasts having a high degree of protein
decomposition and a reduced content of bitter-tasting peptides, etc., are preferable.
          In addition, yeasts containing y-glutamyl peptides, such as glutatine, are preferable,
and those having a y-glutamyl peptide content of 1 ppm or more are still more preferable.
          As yeasts, commercially available products such as "Koku Base LYC-P", "Koku
Base LYM-P", "Koku Base LYS-P", and "Koku Base LYS-H" manufactured by Dai-Nippon
Meiji Sugar Co., Ltd., and "Ajirex NH" manufactured by Kohjin Life Sciences Co., Ltd., are
usable.
          Some commercially available products of yeasts have sodium chloride added
thereto as an auxiliary material.     In the case where the amount of sodium is large, the
adverse effect of excessive sodium on the flavor is more significant than the effect of the
yeast.   Therefore, the sodium chloride content in the yeast is preferably 10 mass% or less,
still more preferably 5 mass% or less, particularly preferably 3 mass% or less, and most
preferably 1 mass% or less.
[0058]
<Content of Components (A), (B), (D), and (E)>
          The milk beverage of the invention may contain one or more of the above
components (A), (B), (D), and (E).      In the case where two or more of the components are
contained, the total amount thereof in the milk beverage of the invention is preferably 0.0001
                                               19

 mass% or more, more preferably 0.001 mass% or more, and particularly preferably 0.01
 mass% or more, and is preferably 5.0 mass% or less, preferably 2.0 mass% or less, and
particularly preferably 1.0 mass% or less.       When the content of the components (A), (B),
 (D), and (E) is within this range, this is likely to be effective in imparting richness, milky
 flavor, and the like without disturbing the balance of taste with unpleasant flavor, etc., and
improving the quality of taste.
          In particular, among the components (A), (B), (D), and (E), the milk beverage of the
invention preferably contains the component (A), still more preferably contains a
combination of the component (A) and the component (D), and most preferably contains a
combination of the component (A), the component (B), and the component (D).
 [0059]
          In particular, in the case where the milk beverage of the invention contains the
component (A), it is preferable that the content thereof is 0.001 mass% or more, particularly
0.01 mass% or more, and 5.0 mass% or less, particularly 2.0 mass% or less.         In addition, in
the case where the milk beverage of the invention contains the component (B), it is
preferable that the content thereof is 0.0001 mass% or more, particularly 0.001 mass% or
more, and 5.0 mass% or less, particularly 2.0 mass% or less.         In the case where the milk
beverage of the invention contains the component (D), it is preferable that the content
thereof is 0.0001 mass% or more, particularly 0.001 mass% or more, and 5.0 mass% or less,
particularly 2.0 mass% or less. In the case where the milk beverage of the invention
contains the component (E), it is preferable that the content thereof is 0.0001 mass% or more,
particularly 0.001 mass% or more, and 5.0 mass% or less, particularly 2.0 mass% or less.
[0060]
          In addition, with respect to the content ratio between the dairy product and the
components (A), (B), (D), and (E) in the milk beverage of the invention, the mass proportion
of the components (A), (B), (D), and (E) (in the case where two or more components are
contained, the total proportion thereof) relative to the dairy product is preferably 0.000005 or
more, more preferably 0.00005 or more, still more preferably 0.0001 or more, particularly
preferably 0.0005 or more, and most preferably 0.001 or more, and is preferably 1000 or less,
more preferably 200 or less, still more preferably 20 or less, particularly preferably 2 or less,
and most preferably 0.2 or less.     When the content ratio of the components (A), (B), (D),
and (E) is within this range, this is likely to be effective in imparting richness, milky flavor,
and the like without disturbing the flavor of the dairy product and improving the quality of
                                                20

taste.
          Incidentally, the components (A), (B), (D), and (E) used in the invention may be
contained in the emulsified composition, or they may also be added together with other
components after the production of the emulsified composition, and thus contained in the
milk beverage.
 [0061]
          Incidentally, with respect to the components (D) and (E) that are effective in
relatively small amounts, in terms of handling, it is preferable that they are contained in the
emulsified composition.      With respect to the component (A) to be added in a relatively
large amount, and the component (B) that may volatilize during heat sterilization or over
time, whose amount to be added has to be determined considering the overall flavor of the
milk beverage, it is preferable they are added together with other components after the
production of the emulsified composition, and thus contained in the milk beverage.
[0062]
          In addition, it is preferable that the milk beverage contains, as other additives,
materials to serve as beverage bases.          Examples thereof include milk components,
saccharides such as monosaccharides, disaccharides, oligosaccharides, and sugar alcohols,
sweeteners such as high-intensity sweeteners, pH adjusters, emulsifiers, thickening
stabilizers, animal and/or vegetable proteins, animal and/or vegetable fats, and antioxidants.
          Needless to say, these materials or the materials described below in detail may be
contained in the emulsified composition, or they may also be added together with other
components after the production of the emulsified composition, and thus contained in the
milk beverage.
[0063]
          Incidentally, as milk components, pH adjusters, emulsifiers, thickening stabilizers,
animal and/or vegetable proteins, animal and/or vegetable fats, and antioxidants, those
described above as examples of components other than fresh cheese contained in the
emulsified composition may be used, and the same also applies to preferred examples.
[0064]
          Examples of saccharides other than the sugar alcohols described below include
glucose, fructose, isomerized liquid sugar, arabinose, mannose, galactose, xylose, psicose,
allose, tagatose, lactose, sucrose, maltose, trehalose, cellobiose, nigerose, isomaltose,
gentibiose, palatinose, mannobiose, fructooligosaccharides,        soybean oligosaccharides,
                                               21

 galactosaccharides,        lactosucrose,       xylooligosaccharides,         raffinose,     and
mannooligosaccharides.       They may be used alone, and it is also possible to use two or more
kinds.    In particular, glucose, lactose, sucrose, and isomerized liquid sugar are preferable,
glucose and isomerized liquid sugar are still more preferable, and glucose is the most
preferable.
 [0065]
          Examples of sugar alcohols include monosaccharide and disaccharide alcohols,
such as erythritol, maltitol, xylitol, lactitol, mannitol, sorbitol, and reduced palatinose.
They may be used alone, and it is also possible to use two or more kinds.
          When the milk beverage contains a sugar alcohol, the total calories of the milk
beverage can be reduced; therefore, this is preferable.     In the case where the milk beverage
of the invention contains a sugar alcohol, the sugar alcohol content in the milk beverage is
preferably 0.001 mass% or more, more preferably 0.01 mass% or more, and still more
preferably 0.05 mass% or more, and is preferably 30 mass% or less, more preferably 20
mass% or less, and still more preferably 10 mass% or less.       When the sugar alcohol content
in the milk beverage is within this range, a milk beverage having excellent flavor with fewer
total calories can be produced, without the taste of the sugar alcohol itself disturbing the
taste balance of the milk beverage; therefore, this is preferable.
[0066]
          Examples of high-intensity sweeteners include stevia, glycyrrhiza, acesulfame K,
sucralose, neotame, aspartame, and saccharin. They may be used alone, and it is also
possible to use two or more kinds.
          When the milk beverage contains a high-intensity sweetener, sweetness can be
imparted while suppressing the total calories of the milk beverage.        In the case where the
milk beverage of the invention contains a high-intensity sweetener, the high-intensity
sweetener content in the milk beverage is preferably 0.00001 mass% or more, more
preferably 0.00005 mass% or more, and still more preferably 0.0001 mass% or more, and is
preferably 1.0 mass% or less, more preferably 0.5 mass% or less, and still more preferably
0.1 mass% or less.       When the high-intensity sweetener content in the milk beverage is
within this range, a milk beverage with sufficient sweetness can be obtained without using
high-calorie saccharides or impairing the flavor; therefore, this is preferable.
[0067]
         Usually, the emulsifier content in the milk beverage of the invention is preferably
                                               22

 0.0005 mass% or more, more preferably 0.001 mass% or more, and is preferably 1 mass% or
 less, and more preferably 0.5 mass% or less.       Incidentally, in the case where an emulsifier is
 contained in the emulsified composition, the emulsifier content in the milk beverage herein
 refers to the total content of emulsifiers including such an emulsifier.
            The dairy product content in the milk beverage is preferably 0.005 mass% or more,
 more preferably 0.01 mass% or more, and particularly preferably 0.05 mass% or more, and
 is preferably 30 mass% or less, more preferably 20 mass% or less, and particularly
 preferably 15 mass% or less.
 [0068]
           The milk solids content in the milk beverage of the invention is not particularly
 limited.    However, in the case where it is necessary to further thicken the milky flavor, the
 content is usually 5.0 mass% or more, preferably 5.5% mass, more preferably 6.0 mass% or
 more, and most preferably 6.5 mass% or more, and is usually 15.0 mass% or less, preferably
 13.0 mass% or less, more preferably 10.0 mass% or less, and most preferably 9.0 mass% or
 less.   When the milk solids content in the milk beverage is within this range, the product is
 stable, and also thick milky flavor is obtained; therefore, this is preferable.
 [0069]
           In addition, the not-fat milk solids content in milk solids is preferably 65 mass% or
less, more preferably 60 mass% or less, and particularly preferably 55 mass% or less, and is
preferably 10 mass% or more, more preferably 20 mass% or more, and particularly
preferably 30 mass% or more.        When the not-fat milk solids content in milk solids is within
this range, rich milky flavor is provided, and also the formation of aggregates or precipitates
during high-temperature sterilization or high-temperature storage can be prevented; therefore,
this is preferable.
[0070]
           The pH of the milk beverage of the invention is not particularly limited.     However,
in order for the natural flavor of coffee or tea to be exerted, or in order to set the pH not
higher than the optimal pH range for heat-resistant bacteria (harmful bacteria in the
beverage), whereby the sterilization intensity can be reduced, thereby suppressing the flavor
deterioration of the milk beverage due to heat, the pH is preferably 6.1 or less, still more
preferably 6.0 or less, more preferably 5.9 or less, and most preferably 5.8 or less.          The
lower limit of the pH is usually 5.0, preferably 5.3, and most preferably 5.5.
[0071]
                                                 23

           The pH of the milk beverage can be adjusted by adding the above additives, such as
 sodium bicarbonate.      These additives may be previously added a liquid to serve as a
 beverage base, water, a coffee extract liquid, a tea extract liquid, a milk component, a
 vegetable oil or fat, and/or an emulsified composition thereof, for example, or may also be
 added after the composition of the milk beverage is finally determined.
 [0072]
           The total calories of the milk beverage of the invention per 100 ml are preferably
 less than 5.0 kcal, and more preferably less than 4.5 kcal.      When the total calories per 100
 ml are less than 5.0 kcal, such a milk beverage can meet the recent demands for
 lower-calorie beverages.
 [0073]
           The milk beverage of the invention can be produced, for example, by mixing a
 liquid to serve as a beverage base, the above emulsified composition, the above additives,
water, and the like, followed by a homogenization treatment using a homogenizer or the like.
This homogenization treatment is performed under heated conditions at 40 to 80*C.            In the
emulsification step using a homogenizer, as high-pressure conditions, usually the pressure is
preferably 5 MPa or more, and more preferably 10 MPa or more, and is preferably 200 MPa
or less, and preferably 100 MPa or less.
 [0074]
           After this homogenization treatment, it is preferable to perform a sterilization
treatment by retort sterilization, ultrahigh-temperature flash pasteurization, or a like
sterilization method.      Incidentally, in the case of normal-temperature distribution or
high-temperature distribution and sale in a hot vendor or the like, as a measure against
deterioration due to bacteria, etc., a sterilization intensity Fo of usually 5 or more, preferably
 10 or more, is required.
[0075]
          Examples of such milk beverages according to the invention include coffee
beverages, tea beverages, cocoa beverages, and acidic milk beverages.
Examples
[0076]
          The invention will be described in further detail with reference to examples.
However, within the gist thereof, the invention is not limited to the description of the
following examples.
                                                  24

 [0077]
          The details of the components (A), (B), (D), and (E) used in the following examples
 and comparative examples are as follows.       In addition, a whey mineral was used as the
 component (C).     The components (B), (C), and (D) fall under the category of magnesium
 materials.
 [0078]
 <(A) Polysaccharide>
          Polysaccharide 1: Starch hydrolysate (dextrose equivalent: 23)
          Trade name "Nisshoku Brancholigo", manufactured by Nihon Shokuhin Kako Co.,
Ltd.
          Polysaccharide 2: Starch hydrolysate
          Trade name "Nisshoku Cleartose #56", manufactured by Nihon Shokuhin Kako Co.,
Ltd.
<(B) Milk Flavoring Agent>
         Flavoring agent 1: Trade name "Milk Rich Base L", manufactured by Kyodo Milk
Industry Co., Ltd.
          (Magnesium content: 0.04 mass%)
         Flavoring agent 2: Trade name "Milk Conc. Base KB", manufactured by Kyodo
Milk Industry Co., Ltd.
         (Magnesium content: 0.01 mass%)
<(C) Mineral Material>
         Whey mineral: Trade name "NWL-6", manufactured by Kyodo Milk Industry Co.,
Ltd.
         (Magnesium content: 0.02 mass%)
<(D) Butter Milk>
         Buttermilk powder: manufactured by Yotsuba Milk Products Co., Ltd.
         (Magnesium content: 0.1 mass%)
<(E) Yeast>
         Yeast extract 1: Yeast extract, trade name "Koku Base LYC-P", manufactured by
Dai-Nippon Meiji Sugar Co., Ltd.
         Yeast extract 2: Yeast extract, trade name "Koku Base LYM-P", manufactured by
Dai-Nippon Meiji Sugar Co., Ltd.
         Yeast extract 1: Yeast extract, trade name "Koku Base LYS-P", manufactured by
                                              25

 Dai-Nippon Meiji Sugar Co., Ltd.
 [0079]
 <Production Example 1>
          300 g of an aqueous phase having previously dispersed therein 12 g of sodium
 caseinate, 13 g of a sucrose fatty acid ester (carbon number of fatty acid =16 and 18,
 monoester content = 77 mass%), 3 g of a polyglycerol fatty acid ester (Ryoto@ Polyglycerol
 Ester S-10D, manufactured by Mitsubishi-Kagaku Foods Corporation), and 2 g of
monoglyceride succinate (carbon number of fatty acid = 16 and 18) was heated to 65*C.
 Subsequently, 600 g of non-fermented cream cheese made from milk and fresh cream as raw
materials (total solid content: 61 mass%, milk fat content: 51 mass%) was added and
pre-emulsified using a homomixer at a rotation speed of 8000 rpm for 5 minutes.          Water
was further added to adjust the total amount to 1000 g, and the mixture was homogenized
twice using a high-pressure homogenizer at 65'C and 20 MPa, then placed in a container,
and subjected to a sterilization treatment at 90*C for 15 minutes, thereby giving a
composition 1 (fat: 31 mass%, Mg: 0.0072 mass%, Na: 0.068 mass%, K: 0.101 mass%)
(hereinafter referred to as "composition 1").
[0080]
<Examples 1 to 4, Comparative Examples 1 to 6>
          1.5 g of instant coffee as a coffee extract, 0.28 g of the composition 1 obtained in
Production Example 1 (containing 60 mass% cream cheese), and 0.056 g of sodium
bicarbonate were mixed and dissolved in water.          The additives shown in Table 1 were
added to the resulting solution, and thoroughly mixed and dissolved.       Subsequently, water
was further added to make the total amount 100 g, thereby giving an emulsified composition
of the invention (= milk beverage).
[0081]
          Four panelists each tasted the obtained milk beverages at normal temperature and
then evaluated them based on the following evaluation criteria.       The results are shown in
Table 1. From the results in Table 1, it turned out that particularly for milky flavor, it is
important that Mg is contained in a certain mass ratio to lipid.
[0082]
<Richness in Taste>
          Excellent: Thick texture
          Good: Slightly thick texture
                                               26

         Fair: Slightly watery
         Poor: Watery
<Milky Flavor>
         Excellent: Strong milky flavor
         Good: Slightly strong milky flavor
         Fair: Weak milky flavor
         Poor: No milky flavor
<Foreign Taste and Odor as Milk Coffee>
         Excellent: No foreign taste or odor
         Good: Almost no foreign taste or odor
         Fair: Slight foreign taste and odor
         Poor: Strong foreign taste and odor
[0083]
        It turned out that a milk beverage using the emulsified composition of the invention
has excellent milky flavor.
                                             27

                                         to        to)         LO        un        to       to         mo     0O     tl-     'r~
                  co                      "N       (N          (4        (N         "N      (N                co o     0)    'r,
                                         CD(~       C)         CD)       CD        (D          )                     CD        C:
                                              co3       00          00
                                                                                          00        co      ,       0)
                                              0)         0)       )        0)      C)       0)        CD       C:    C)      toC: -   '
                                                                                   co 0     0")                      co to
                              coC>
                                         (N
                                                      )     C    =) C' )
                                                                         00 (N
                                                                              C
                                                                                    (N
                                                                                    =)
                                                                                         (N
                                                                                         C     D
                                                                                                 (N     9
                                                                                                      CD)     C=     CD
                                                                                                                       ~  (N (
                                                                                                                              9=
                                                                                                                                    .
                                         clc                  C4C'      Cq                  CC
                                                         CD          CD                               C           )
                                     0
                           (3) _2           43       )          ( 0                 0                  0             0
                                    cl)~- 0         o          /50                          L                                 0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                       0                      0
                                                                                                              LU      LU
         >             C)a
                              _
                                C:
                                                    )     j   -     ~0  -
                                                                            0
                                                                                ~0           0         00
                               73a)
                                 _
                                                                    0
                                                                        0
                                                                         0          0
                                                                                    0
                                                                                             0
                                                                                                8         ~    LI
                                                                                                                           0 L-   L- a
                                                        -                                                                    Lo
                          0
                        C
                    a)     L<
                    C          2
           0~
                    o                                                                                               9o
                                 ol                                                                                                     (N)
                                CC
                             04
     70 o0             c
               <'                                                                                                                        9
                                                                                        ENC")
                                 09
                       a))
               'D
             >C                                                                   C'D
      80
    =0
             o          o
                  C         LO
          0
            00U
                       m                          C
                                C:)
                    CL                  C:
           a)                                    G>C        DM        a     t(DU)a                                  I        *
           o0                               CLa-                                                                             C
                                                                                                              E'
                                            E
                                            m'
                                                  L
                                                  9u         LE         L       6)c   EtEo-
                                                                                                              c
CDC
 i
CD
     M9              o-                    LU    0               L
                                                                  ><
                                                                      0               u   0          uiuUw
                            0                              0-

 [0085]
<Examples 5 to 22, Comparative Examples 7 to 13>
           300 g of an aqueous phase having previously dispersed therein 12 g of sodium
caseinate, 17 g of a sucrose fatty acid ester (carbon number of fatty acid =16 and 18,
monoester content = 77 mass%), 7.5 g of a polyglycerol fatty acid ester (Ryoto@
Polyglycerol Ester SWA-OD, manufactured by Mitsubishi-Kagaku Foods Corporation), and
2 g of monoglyceride succinate (carbon number of fatty acid = 16 and 18) was heated to
65'C.     Subsequently, 600 g of non-fermented cream cheese made from milk and fresh
cream as raw materials (total solid content: 61 mass%, milk fat content: 51 mass%) was
added and pre-emulsified using a homomixer at a rotation speed of 8000 rpm for 5 minutes.
Water was further added to adjust the total amount to 1000 g, and the mixture was
homogenized twice using a high-pressure homogenizer at 65*C and 20 MPa and then
subjected to a sterilization treatment at 90*C for 15 minutes, thereby giving a composition 2
(milk fat content: 31 mass%).
          The composition 2, magnesium chloride (Mg content: 12 mass%), and water were
mixed in arbitrary ratios, thereby preparing emulsified compositions of the invention (= milk
beverages) having various magnesium/fat mass ratios as shown in Table 2.
          Three persons tasted and evaluated the milk beverages based on the following
criteria.   The results are shown in Table 2.
          It turned out that the optimal range of the amount of magnesium to be added varies
with the lipid concentration, and that such an optimal range is, regardless of whether the
lipid concentration is high or low, a range in which the mass ratio of magnesium to fat is a
certain value.
[0086]
<Quality of Taste: Milky Richness and Feeling of Strangeness due to Minerals>
          Excellent: The beverage has milk-like richness, and no particular feeling of
strangeness is caused.
          Good: The beverage has milk-like richness, and although a feeling of strangeness is
slightly caused, it is acceptable.
          Fair: The beverage slightly has milk-like richness, but it is weak, or a mineral taste
is noted, causing a feeling of strangeness.
          Poor: The beverage lacks richness and is watery, or a strong mineral taste is noted;
the quality of taste is obviously different from milk.
                                                29

                                                                                                                                             co)
                      co0                                                                cou,   C:                 0                  Z
                           C)                           -t                                                         C=>        N
                                   co)
                                              CD)       C:                E       co            C                               o
   Cu             C         CD
                                                                                           0       U0
         coL~           -                                               owCi           q*C                         C:>       6i
                                           C_CD                                                                                               uC
                                                       C',                a,
      a)                                      C:)                                      _                           Co    to
                                                                             CL                 LOcuo                           >      W
                                                                     0C-             U           C4
   aE                                 Co 5Co3
                                     0-
                                                                                                          C .:E
                                                                                                         6a
                                                                                                                   c::
                                                                                                                     -5   C=5
                                                                                                                             p  l)
                           6u         C5                          CD         mc
               ow                             C:                                     )                             C5
                                                      CN                                                           co
                                     C:)      to                                                C:)0
                       C)
                           (N
                                 )
                                          E   -q                             C
                                                                                    C4
                                                                                                C)         ~-      C)       a
                                                                                                                        Cl) U- E9             LL
                                   C)5        9>                                                                            C):59
                                              C)                                                                   CD)uC
      0.
     Emu
                                      -1      CD -7    ~N-c:: 6D ~           E
                                                                                                C)
                                                                                                E u;
                                                                                                          -I
                                                                                                         C) 0.
                                                                                                              E=:)
                                                                                                                    j
                                                                                                                    (N
                                                                                                                            to
                                                                                                                            C, -)
                                                                                                                              9
                                                                                                                                       C,
                                       m,                        C3         cu                           C5   6 =             D
                                              C)X                                                          C5      CD
                                                             0                                 CD
                                                       Ca>
                                                       Co                     ,CE                       ~           a       C)D      *x
     Xu                                                C5                            ~C
                                                                                                                  C
                                                                                                                  I--       C7       (D
           x                                                                 mc                C)                 C
                           CD0        -                            a)-                          C
                                                                                               cl N-C-                        C)       75
     E          m
                   CD        N-4       -
                                         6 Ci
                                                z;)
                                                       co
                                                           C):      75
                                                                     1?
                                                                              CL
                                                                              E                                        C) 9            0
                           C)                9z        C)                  ><      mu          9)                      6X                 )
                                                                                                                                                     C
      i                                       6)                       Wi      >                   CD                                          Li
                                                                           LLI
    -ac                        o                                            -a20
                E
                E        ) C"
                                     6)-      cli      9~  C)-     o0)                         C:, 0.)            C
                                                                                                                           (=:(N
                            q
                           Co                          C)                  Em
                                                                            Cu)                9D
                                                                                               C)
                                                                                                         60                                 CD W:
      xi                                           C)>i
                                                                  -a                                                       C>
            E>                                         S)       -              CLo                                         C     C)
                           C:)               9     C       C:?                u                            C   )    CD
                                                                                                                       C
                                                                                                                              C)    U
     X                     CD                                                    )             C)
   Co                                        CD
                a,                    -.       Co I                                                               CD
                             -           C)                    C            a,                  N-D            C)
     0.         C>
      m                    C)        C         :)                  aL        E
                                                                                                      ~           (D        C)       l
                 -         9:                      6)                0                           ) a                        CD
     WU                                                                     X                  CD                 C
                                                                           LLI
        0,C0'~0
            a)              N                a         a                     ~(                         ~           -       C                  C C')
            CL     8-       =          6     f           9          LL       E           -       )       C'                 9       L
               LiCD                                                                            CD                 C)          )
                                                                              -a        -I                          )      I?       a-
           E''
                           oE             C)          C)
                                                       CD
                                                              ~     3    Cu
                                                                               E                 cc          6C>
                                                                                                                  CD
             0)                                                         0J X
                                                                                           0   0      E
                                                                   Cu R                          0   (D
CD                             E                                  '- co                       E       0)
                           co        i5       0)        0)                              0       Cu                   n       0)      =
                           M        LL         E       21                              0       :2       U-        2                   0EC3

[0088]
<Reference Examples>
         Reference examples are examples in which no magnesium material is mixed.
         In the same manner as in Examples 5 to 22 and Comparative Examples 7 to 13, the
composition 2, sodium chloride (Na content: 39 mass%), potassium chloride (K content: 52
mass%), and water were mixed in arbitrary ratios, thereby preparing milk beverages having
various sodium/fat and potassium/fat mass ratios as shown in Table 3, and they were
evaluated.    The results are shown in Table 3.
         It turned out that, similarly to magnesium, the optimal ranges of the amounts of
sodium and potassium to be added vary with the lipid concentration, and that such an
optimal range is, regardless of whether the lipid concentration is high or low, a range in
which the mass ratio of magnesium or potassium to fat is a certain value.
[0089]
                                               31

                                                                                           cci                                                                                             0               LOc
           cci  o0                     C      cL    a)    E              80:
                                                                          9          --                  -      a
                     6C:5                                 x                          pcc =5                                      C3)          :5                                                                   Eo
             wD                                                                                                                                                      wyC)xx C                       n
                                                                     _       _                                                                                                                                     cjE
                                    co                    0             CD                  -5                         0)~       to            j          0             ~               o-*LO~
                               C)          C)       cir-
                                                                                      6 C C!
                                                                                     C>         -6      L           Ci)EaL                                        3c                   .C             k  C   zr
                                                                                                                       m)                   C:)                      U)             P      C:
  ry                                                                    C)0
                                                                                     C)w                                  02xC:                             6                                              C>
(Di        m                                           C)
               'a            _R        c,                               ci:
                    6)                 cl                 C                       )     )      )                   IciL
                                                                                     Q0)N                                                         I                                               Cc',,
                                             -oo:,LcciEC                                              -         cci                               cD     LL     Q)ci) E
                                                             ci
                                                             E     -     ~ '~          C       )                              C~     o    0CCD                 ci
ai( CD                                                                              cci)            ci)                          81                                                                 0
                                                                         C)                                                                 cc:,                                                    O
             -        0                        ci)
         '         c-ci ')                                                                            C>                   0)    CD               C)C        c   i)
                                                                                                                                                                2i)   Cl-           C
   ci)>It~          6L                       LL    -Q) E                                                                         C4
                                                                                     6          :                      m)                   (=5   C(                                    c)       C
a) r-                                                                               (N                               0                                               C
                                co                 ~            0C
                                                                _R                                    0i                                     C)-                                                   gC:)
            CD C:                   C                     CL                         6>                0                                                       2'          ~            *c         M6~ '9
                                              -r   ciaE                                                                                                   L-          -                              :
                    Cw             C)              12                                                      U C)                        (D m       (,                 M5                 *C)C
                                                                                                                     00)                                        l')
        ci)                                                                                        -,      Q)                                 =o                                ci               -     0     4 t -0
                   6D                                                  C),          6o
                                                                                    CIO                           i   c                                                                            I      c:
                                                                                                                         (DC D              C)    C4            Q
                                                                                                                                                               a)     0            C)
                        00                         (D                                                           cci)                                                 E
                                   -     :     x-                                            6                     C)                                 C)                                     :             CD)~
                                C30~         LJ    0l     x(                        C=;c'                                                      5x              (5J                  6               0
                                                                                                                                 ci)                                                ci
                                C1            Cl                        0ci                                                          0  -                c)                        r
            (C     'o                                                                                                                                                cx   (J-I
 (1            c                              ci                     C)cc                                                 c E,              coc                                      0
             ca                                                  0D    -       :
      a>              E                Cci                                                                            E0         C=)         N     .-     5~         E~U
               0   0       C i Ci        c      x                 0    0         Ci C            CDi X                        0o   C)                                cu       0                Cci        C:
              0 C /)       L    L    Z        LU                 0       C)    L          Z    Z                              0    cs      w

[0090]
<Examples 23 to 28>
         The combinations of materials (additives) shown in Table 4 were evaluated in the
same manner based on the same criteria as in Examples 1 to 4.        The results are shown in
Table 4.
         It turned out that when Mg is contained in a certain mass ratio to lipid, and a
polysaccharide (component A) is also used, richness is further imparted to the milky flavor.
Further, it turned out that in order to further improve the quality of taste, it is important to
also use a buttermilk (component D) and/or a milk flavoring agent (component B).
                                               33

                               00
                                m 0) (
                                      co        LO
                                                      -
                                                         't-
                                                             -       fCD
                                                                             -,
                        cu                  't     LC) r--        CO         (N
             LL-                                MnCD               C>    -N
                               C)     CD       C>        C)       CD        N
              -5               C(N    C)       I--       N_       LO        0m
             LL-                               C)        CD       C)          mn
                      z        CD     CD       C:0       C)       Ct)       C
                               C)     C(N       C        C)       it),      (N
                               (=        D       C~) C>             C)         C)
                      5;               CD                C)       C)        C>C
                               C)    C               C C:C                       C
                            0   0        -0     0-~
                 a)O1D          0               (D       CD             D 0(
             LL                                LUJ                          LUJ
           0r
                                                          x
                 CD             ><   C          >                  >)
               c  9            FaF               0                 m
             _c_              *'-      LL       0         0                    D
                   _      C     F,                 CD              LCD)
              C                                                  (
                                                                 CD~
         Eo        c
         0
                      CL
               E
               0
                         .      e                   6                 6 nC
     ~0
     C
           CD a
     70E
       0
           C          0
           0D                                  C%4 (N      N                c')
           E0
           0            :
                     0
                              C')    -T        iO       (CD      N-         CC)
                              C14                   C1 0.      0    .     .        .
CD 0                           E          E        E       E          E          E
                              LU     LU        LU             U    LU       LU

 [0092]
 <Examples 29 to 33>
          300 g of an aqueous phase having previously dispersed therein 8 g of sodium
 caseinate, 10 g of a sucrose fatty acid ester (carbon number of fatty acid =16 and 18,
 monoester content = 77 mass%), 5 g of a polyglycerol fatty acid ester (Ryoto@ Polyglycerol
 Ester SWA-IOD, manufactured by Mitsubishi-Kagaku Foods Corporation), and 1.5 g of
monoglyceride succinate (carbon number of fatty acid = 16 and 18) was heated to 65'C.
 Subsequently, 15 g of skimmed milk powder, 9 g of lactose, 45 g of MPC (Milk Protein
Concentrate), and 6 g of sugar were added.      Further, 190 g of non-fermented cream cheese
made from milk and fresh cream as raw materials (total solid content: 61 mass%, milk fat
content: 51 mass%) was added and pre-emulsified using a homomixer at a rotation speed of
8000 rpm for 5 minutes.      Water was further added to adjust the total amount to 1000 g, and
the mixture was homogenized twice using a high-pressure homogenizer at 65*C and 20 MPa
and then subjected to a sterilization treatment at 90*C for 15 minutes, thereby giving a
composition 3 (milk fat content: 9.7 mass%).
          5 g of the obtained composition 3, magnesium chloride, sodium chloride, potassium
chloride, and water were mixed to make the total amount 15 g, thereby preparing an
emulsified composition of the invention.     15 g of the obtained emulsified composition and
15 g of a 1.5 mass% aqueous solution of instant coffee were mixed, thereby preparing a
coffee beverage (milk beverage).
          Table 5 shows the concentrations of magnesium chloride, sodium chloride, and
potassium chloride in each coffee beverage, as well as the mass ratios of magnesium, sodium,
and potassium to fat in each emulsified composition and coffee beverage.
          Three persons tasted and evaluated the emulsified compositions and the coffee
beverages based on the same criteria as in Examples 5 to 22 and Comparative Examples 7 to
13.    The results are shown in Table 5.
          Three persons tasted and evaluated the coffee beverages based on the same criteria
as in Examples 5 to 22 and Comparative Examples 7 to 13.        The results are shown in Table
5.   %in the table is mass%.
         In each example, the magnesium material is within a suitable range, and thus the
emulsified composition and the coffee beverage both have excellent milky flavor.     However,
it turned out that, especially in coffee beverages, the taste is affected by potassium from
coffee, and when a potassium material is added too much, this tends to result in a strong
                                              35

foreign taste due to potassium; therefore, it is preferable to optimize the amount of potassium
material.
                                                36

 E      C:z CD         D   65                u)   q      CD  65
 M    6         66                          x       D
Co4
    CLa)                   8O C?    mo                               _
       N        -
                      CD
                      C)
                          c>
                                     2
                                                                     a)7
                           6                            cD           u)C) 6 )
      66C56cD
 E     cD              ED      =
 co                                         x
 w                                                                 L
Co
C)
      Co,
 E    c)       c:)     C)                   05      C)o q
  mC 6666                                    x    CD06x                )I
 w
0)
      co                                                       N              m
           a))                <Da)0               C
             cn~t C.                                                C
     .E       ED Z5
             c>               E6          .50~
                                          LU                       L
        CD     D CD        D             t.0
 CL    o            C j             0> C      :, mC              :
     (5 .E                     a)         U                 a)
      C3       :5 (1)
                                            0     0
                       0   o  c           .:

 [0094]
 <Example 34>
           300 g of an aqueous phase having previously dispersed therein 8 g of sodium
 caseinate, 10 g of a sucrose fatty acid ester (carbon number of fatty acid =16 and 18,
 monoester content = 77 mass%), 5 g of a polyglycerol fatty acid ester (Ryoto@ Polyglycerol
 Ester SWA-1OD, manufactured by Mitsubishi-Kagaku Foods Corporation), and 1.5 g of
 monoglyceride succinate (carbon number of fatty acid = 16 and 18) was heated to 65'C.
 Subsequently, 15 g of a buttermilk powder, 9 g of lactose, 45 g of MPC (Milk Protein
 Concentrate), and 6 g of sugar were added.       Further, 190 g of non-fermented cream cheese
 made from milk and fresh cream as raw materials (total solid content: 61 mass%, milk fat
 content: 51 mass%) was added and pre-emulsified using a homomixer at a rotation speed of
 8000 rpm for 5 minutes.     Water was further added to adjust the total amount to 1000 g, and
the mixture was homogenized twice using a high-pressure homogenizer at 65'C and 20 MPa
and then subjected to a sterilization treatment at 90'C for 15 minutes, thereby giving an
emulsified composition of the invention (milk fat content: 9.7 mass%, Mg/fat: 0.0009, K/fat:
0.01, Na/fat: 0.004).
           The emulsified composition had no foreign taste, and had excellent milky flavor and
richness.
 [0095]
<Example 35>
           Sodium bicarbonate previously dissolved in hot water was added to 480 g of a
coffee extract liquid (Bx: 2.9) to adjust the pH.     Subsequently, 7.0 g of erythritol, 0.15 g of
acesulfame K, 0.08 g of stevia, 2.6 g of the composition 1 obtained in Production Example 1
(containing 60 mass% cream cheese), 0.3 g of the polysaccharide 1, 0.1 g of a whey mineral,
0.05 g of a buttermilk powder, 0.05 g of the flavoring agent 1, and a proper amount of water
were added.      The materials were mixed and dissolved, and water was further added to make
the total amount 1000 g.
           At this time, the mass ratio of magnesium to fat contained in the material was
Mg/fat = 0.00033.      The solution was heated to 65*C, homogenized using a high-pressure
homogenizer at a pressure of 20 MPa, then placed in a can container, and subjected to retort
sterilization at 121 C for 30 minutes, thereby preparing a canned milk coffee (milk
beverage).     The pH of the milk beverage after sterilization was 6.0.
           After the above sterilization, the obtained canned milk coffee was stored at 5'C for
                                                 38

one day and then opened.         Four panelists tasted and evaluated the beverage based on the
same criteria as in Example 1. In addition, from the calories of each component added, the
total calories per 100 ml were calculated.                   At the same time, from the constituent
components of the used raw materials, the proportion of non-fat milk solids in milk solids
was calculated.      The results are shown in Table 6.
 [0096]
<Comparative Example 14>
          A canned milk coffee was prepared in the same manner as in Example 35, except
that the amount of composition 1 (containing 60 mass% cream cheese) added was changed
to 0.33 g, and the polysaccharide 1, a whey mineral, a buttermilk powder, and the flavoring
agent 1 were not added.        At this time, the mass ratio of magnesium to fat contained in the
material was Mg/fat = 0.00023.           The pH of the beverage after sterilization was 5.9.
          The obtained canned milk coffee was stored at 5'C for one day, and then four
panelists tasted and evaluated the beverage in the same manner as in Example 18.                   In
addition, in the same manner, the total calories per 100 ml and the proportion of non-fat milk
solids in milk solids were determined.           The results are shown in Table 6.
[0097]
 [Table 6]
                   Richness in       Milky Flavor     Foreign Taste    Total Calories NSonlidsMilk
                        Taste                            and Odor       (kcal/100ml)    Solids
  Example 35         Excellent         Excellent          Excellent          4.7           14
  Comparative           Poor              Fair            Excellent          4.7
  Example_14     ______            ______             ______           __     ____
                                                                                          14
[0098]
          The above results show that although the milk beverage of the invention uses fresh
cheese, it has no foreign taste or odor and is excellent in terms of the quality of taste,
including richness, milky flavor, etc.
[0099]
          The invention has been described in detail with reference to specific embodiments.
However, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes and
modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.
This application is based on Japanese Patent Application No. 2013-190561 filed on
September 13, 2013, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
                                                     39

                                                   40
CLAIMS
[Claim 1]
         A milk beverage comprising a dairy product, an emulsifier and a magnesium material,
wherein
         the dairy product has a total solid content of 20 mass% or more, and has the ratio of milk
fat to total solids of 30 mass% or more,
         the mass ratio between fat and magnesium in the milk beverage (fat: magnesium) is 1
0.0003 to 1 : 0.01, and
           the milk beverage comprises a coffee extract or a tea extract.
[Claim 2]
         The milk beverage according to claim 1, wherein in the milk beverage, the mass ratio
between fat and sodium (fat: sodium) is 1 : 0.0001 to 1 : 0.02.
[Claim 3]
           The milk beverage according to claim 1 or 2, wherein in the milk beverage, the mass
ratio between fat and potassium (fat: potassium) is 1 : 0.000 1 to 1 : 0.04.
[Claim 4]
         The milk beverage according to any one of claims I to 3, wherein the dairy product is
fresh cheese or cream.
[Claim 5]
         The milk beverage according to any one of claims 1 to 4, further comprising at least one
of casein and casein salt.
[Claim 6]
         The milk beverage according to any one of claims I to 5, wherein the magnesium
material is a material selected from the group consisting of whey minerals, magnesium chloride,
magnesium oxide, magnesium carbonate, magnesium sulfate, bittern, dolomite, raw salt,
magnesium stearate, magnesium monohydrogen phosphate, trimagnesium phosphate,
magnesium silicate, magnesium hydroxide, magnesium acetate, magnesium citrate, magnesium

                                                   41
malate, magnesium benzoate, magnesium gluconate, magnesium L-glutamate, sepiolite, talc and
phytin, or an organic acid or inorganic acid salt of the material.
[Claim 7]
         A method for producing a milk beverage comprising a coffee extract or a tea extract,
which comprises mixing a dairy product, an emulsifier, and a magnesium material, wherein
         the dairy product has a total solid content of 20 mass% or more, and has the ratio of milk
fat to total solids of 30 mass% or more, and
         the mass ratio between fat and magnesium in the milk beverage (fat: magnesium) is 1
0.0003 to 1 : 0.01.
                              Mitsubishi-Kagaku Foods Corporation
                       Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                     SPRUSON & FERGUSON

