 l:\amt\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AMT\16669396_l.docx-20 03 2018
                                                               ABSTRACT
A method of treating, preventing, or delaying the progression of Type 1 diabetes mellitus
autoimmunity by administering an effective amount of a cytotoxic T-lymphocyte
associated antigen 4 (CTLA4) molecule is provided herewith. The CTLA4 molecule may
be a fusion protein of a CTLA4 extracellular region and an immunoglobulin, such as
abatacept.

 :\amt\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AMT\16669396_idocx-20 03/2018
               CTLA4 FUSION PROTEINS FOR THE TREATMENT OF DIABETES
                                                          FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]                         The present invention relates generally to the field of autoimmune disease
and specifically to the treatment prevention, or delayed progression of Type 1 diabetes
mellitus.
[0001A]                        This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2013284460, the
entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                                               BACKGROUND
[0002]                         The most common form of Type 1 diabetes mellitus (TI DM) is an
immune-mediated disease where insulin-secreting p-cells are destroyed by an autoimmune
response. There are a number of genetic and environmental factors associated with the
onset of the disease, which involves the progressive inflammatory infiltration of pancreatic
islets containing immunocytes targeted specifically to insulin-secreting p-cells. This
pathology develops over an indeterminate period of time (months to years). While the
discovery of insulin allowed for the treatment of T 1 DM, there is currently no cure. The
most common form of Type 1 diabetes mellitus is immune-mediated, in which insulin
producing             P cells       are destroyed. Yet, at the time of diagnosis, most patients still have
appreciable amounts of insulin production. Preservation of residual -cell function is
highly desirable because it can reduce short-term and long-term complications of the
disease.
[0003]                         Several clinical trials have been undertaken in an attempt to arrest
autoimmunity in Type 1 diabetes with immunomodulatory agents or antigen-based
treatments. Most notably, trials of anti-CD3, anti-CD20, and a GAD-65 antigen vaccine
have shown some efficacy in preservation of p-cell function as evidenced by stimulated C
peptide secretion. T cells play a central part in autoimmunity associated with Type 1
diabetes.
                                                                     1

 l:\amt\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AMT\16669396_l.docx-20 03/2018
[0004]                          However, there is need for additional new therapies for Type 1 diabetes
mellitus that are able to halt or slow autoimmune p-cell destruction leading to preservation
of p-cell function and C-peptide secretion, particularly in patients recently diagnosed with
Type 1 diabetes.
                                                               SUMMARY
[0005]                          In accordance with certain embodiments of the present invention relate to a
method of treating diabetes mellitus in a subject comprising administering an effective
amount of a fusion protein composition comprising a T-cell co-stimulation antagonist and
a portion of an immunoglobulin molecule.
[0006]                          In some embodiments, the T-cell co-stimulation antagonist comprises the
extracellular domain of CTLA4, an effective fragment of the extracellular domain or
immunologically active variant of the extracellular domain. The T-cell co-stimulation
antagonist may bind a B7 antigen expressed on B cells or other antigen presenting cells
(APCs). In some embodiments, the B7 antigen is expressed on B cells and on APCs.
                                                                  1A

    WO 2014/004857                                                                PCT/US2013/048237
[0007]           In some embodiments, the fusion protein is Abatacept,        In some embodiments, the
composition further comprises an oil-based carrier such as a water-in-oil emulsion (e.g., IFA or
Montamide ISA). The composition may be administered by intravenous infusion, such as in about 50
to 200 ml of physiological saline or at a dose ranging from about 5 mg/kg to about 50 mg/kg or at a
dose ranging from about 250 to 2000 mg, or at a dose of 500 mg, 750 mg, or 1000 mg.
[0008]           The methods as described herein may also comprise determining levels of C-peptide
in blood samples taken from the subject over time as an indicator of effectiveness of the treatment in
inhibiting activation of auto-aggressive T-cells.     In some embodiments, the effectiveness of the
composition in inhibiting activation of auto-aggressive T-cells is indicated by maintenance of C
peptide production or a delay in reduction of C-peptide production as compared to a standard or by
improved HbAlc or reduction in the use of insulin by said subject as compared to a standard. Such
measurements can be done ex vivo, such as by analyzing a blood sample. The reduction of C-peptide
production in said subject may be delayed for at least 3, 6, 9, 12, or 18 months, or 2, 3, 4, or more
years.
[0009]           In some embodiments, a preferred patient population is treated.          For example, a
patient selected from a population having a statistically greater response rate, such as a white patient,
is treated.
[0010]           Some embodiments provided herewith provide a method of preventing the onset of
diabetes in a subject at risk for diabetes mellitus comprising administering an effective amount of a
fusion protein composition comprising a T-cell co-stimulation antagonist and a portion of an
immunoglobulin molecule.       Some embodiments provided herewith provide a method delaying the
onset of diabetes by at least 3, 6, 9, 12, or 18 months, or 2, 3, 4, or more years in a subject at risk for
diabetes mellitus by administering an effective amount of a fusion protein composition comprising a
T-cell co-stimulation antagonist and a portion of an immunoglobulin molecule.
[0011]       These and other features of the embodiments as will be apparent are set forth and
described herein.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0012]       A detailed description of various embodiments is provided herein below with reference,
by way of example, to the following drawings. The skilled person in the art will understand that the
drawings, described below, are for illustration purposes only. The drawings are not intended to limit
the scope of the applicant's teachings in any way.
[0013]       FIG. I is the population mean of stimulated C-peptide 2-h AUC mean over time for each
treatment group. The estimates are from the ANCOVA model adjusting for age, sex, baseline value
                                                   2

    WO 2014/004857                                                               PCT/US2013/048237
of C-peptide, and treatment assignment. Y-axis is on a log(y + 1) scale. Error bars show 95%
confidence intervals (CIs). AUC=area under the curve.
[0014]        FIG. 2 is the predicted population mean of stimulated C-peptide 2-h AUC mean over time
for each treatment group. Estimates are from the analysis of mixed-effects model adjusting for age,
sex, baseline value of C-peptide, and treatment assignment, and including a fixed effect for time as a
linear line on the log(y + 1) scale. AUC-area under the curve.
[0015]        FIG. 3 is the proportion of participants with 2-h peak C-peptide remaining at or above 0-2
nmol/L over time for each treatment group.
[0016]        FIGS. 4A and 4B are the population mean of (A) HbAl c and (B) insulin use over time for
each treatment group. Estimates are from the ANCOVA model adjusting for age, sex, baseline value
of HbAlic, and treatment assignment. Insulin use is per kg of bodyweight, at 3-month intervals. Error
bars show 95% CIs. HbA Ic is glycated haemoglobin Al c.
[0017]        FIG. 5 is the ratio (abatacept to placebo) of treatment effect on 2-year stimulated C
peptide AUC mean within categories of prespecified baseline factors.            Estimates are from the
ANCOVA modeling log of C-peptide adjusting for age, sex, baseline value of C-peptide, the indicated
categorized factor, treatment assignment, and treatment interaction terms. The homogeneity test of
treatment effect was significant for DR3 allele status (p=0-025) and race (p=0-0003). AUC=area under
the curve. HbA I c=glycated haemoglobin A lc.
[0018]        It will be understood that the drawings are exemplary only and that all reference to the
drawings is made for the purpose of illustration only, and is not intended to limit the scope of the
embodiments described herein below in any way.
                                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0019]        It has been found that a CTLA4 molecule can be used for the treatment, prevention, or
delayed progression of Type I diabetes mellitus (TI DM) in a subject.
[0020]        Preservation of residual p-cell  function (as measured by peak C-peptide 20-2 nmol/L) is
highly desirable because it can reduce short-term and long-term complications of the disease. Several
clinical trials have been undertaken in an attempt to arrest autoimmunity in Type I diabetes with
immunomodulatory agents or antigen-based treatments. Most notably, trials of anti-CD3, anti-CD20,
and a GAD-65 antigen vaccine have shown some efficacy in preservation of 1-cell function as
evidenced by stimulated C-peptide secretion. C-peptide is a protein that is produced in the body along
with insulin. In a healthy pancreas, preproinsulin is secreted with an A-chain, C-peptide, a B-chain,
and a signal sequence. The signal sequence is cut off, leaving proinsulin. Then the C-peptide is cut
out, leaving the A-chain and B-chain to form insulin.        Since C-peptide and insulin are present in
                                                     3

    WO 2014/004857                                                               PCT/US2013/048237
equimolar amounts, it is a highly reliable marker for insulin production and the health of pancreatic   p
cells.
[0021]       T cells play a central part in autoimmunity associated with Type I diabetes. To become
fully activated and autoaggressive, T cells are believed to need at least two crucial signals. (Marelli
Berg FM, Okkenhaug K, Mirenda V. A Trends Immunol 2007; 28: 267-73.)               The first signal is an
interaction between an antigen in the groove of the MHC molecule on antigen-presenting cells and the
T-cell receptor (TCR). The most important second signal is the interaction between CD80 and CD86
on the antigen presenting cells (APCs) and CD28 on the T cells. This costimulatory second signal is
needed for full activation of cells, and without it T cells do not become functional. Therefore, co
stimulation   blockade has been proposed as a therapeutic modality for autoimmunity and
transplantation. (Bluestone JA, St Clair EW, Turka LA. Immunity 2006; 24: 233-38.)
[00221       Cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (CTLA4), which is also known as CDI 52,
is a protein involved in the regulation of the immune system.          Naturally occurring CTLA4 is
described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,434,131, 5,844,095, and 5,851,795.         Natural CTLA4 proteins are
encoded by the CTLA4 gene.         CTLA4 is a cell surface protein, having an N-terminal extracellular
domain, a transmembrane domain, and a C-terminal cytoplasmic domain. The extracellular domain
binds to and/or interferes with target antigens, such as CD80 and CD86, serves as nature natural break
of T cell stimulation. In some embodiments, the extracellular domain of the CTLA4 molecule begins
with methionine at position +1 and ends at aspartic acid at position +124; in other embodiments, the
extracellular domain begins with alanine at position -- and ends at aspartic acid at position +124.
[0023]        A CTLA4 molecule is a molecule comprising a cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated
antigen 4 (CTLA4) extracellular domain. In some embodiments, the extracellular domain of CTLA4
comprises a portion of the CTLA4 protein that recognizes and binds to at least one B7 (CD80/86)
antigens such as a B7 antigen expressed on B cells and APCs. The extracellular domain may also
include fragments or derivatives of CTLA4 that bind a B7 antigen. The CTLA4 extracellular domain
can also recognize and bind CD80 (B7-1) and/or CD86 (B7-2). The extracellular domain may also
include fragments or derivatives of CTLA4 that bind a binds CD80 and/or CD86.
[0024]       The CTLA4 molecule may be a fusion protein, where a fusion protein is defined as one or
more amino acid sequences joined together using methods well known in the art. The joined amino
acid sequences thereby form one fusion protein.          In some embodiments, the CTLA4 molecule
contains at least a portion of an immunoglobulin, such as the Fc portion of an immunoglobulin. In
some embodiments, the CTLA4 molecule is an isolated and purified CTLA4 molecule.
[0025]       In some embodiments, the CTLA4 molecule is a protein containing at least a portion of
an immunoglobulin, such as the Fc portion of an immunoglobulin. In some embodiments, the CTLA4
molecule is an isolated and purified CTLA4 molecule.
                                                    4

    WO 2014/004857                                                              PCT/US2013/048237
[0026]       In one preferred embodiment, the CTLA4 molecule is abatacept, Abatacept is a soluble
fusion protein that consists of the extracellular domain of human CTLA-4 linked to the modified Fc
(hinge, CH2, and CH3 domains) portion of human immunoglobulin GI (IgG 1). Abatacept is produced
by recombinant DNA technology in a mammalian cell expression system. The apparent molecular
weight of abatacept is 92 kilodaltons.
[0027]       Abatacept was developed for use in adult rheumatoid arthritis and juvenile idiopathic
arthritis and is indicated for reducing signs and symptoms, inducing major clinical response,
inhibiting the progression of structural damage, and improving physical function in adult patients with
moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis.
[00281       Abatacept was developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb and is disclosed, for example, in U.S.
Pat. 5,851,795, U.S. Pat. 7,455,835, and U.S. Pat. Pub. 20011/311529. Abatacept, under the trade
name ORENCIA,          may be used as monotherapy or concomitantly with disease-modifying
antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) other than tumor necrosis factor (TNF) antagonists.            Abatacept is
also indicated for reducing signs and symptoms in pediatric patients 6 years of age and older with
moderately to severely active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis. Abatacept may be used as
monotherapy or concomitantly with methotrexate (MTX). Since abatacept is a selective costimulation
modulator and inhibits the costimulation of T cells, it should not be administered concomitantly with
TNF antagonists.
[0029]       Abatacept selectively binds to CD80 and CD86, thereby blocking the interaction with
CD28 and interfering with T-cell activation. It inhibits naive T-cell activation, thus having the
potential   to   selectively  inhibit  T-cell   response  to   specific antigens    instead   of broad
immunosuppression. Effector-memory T-cell responses are less dependent on CD28 co-stimulation
and, presumably, are less inhibited by co-stimulation blockade. (Lo DJ, Weaver TA, Stempora L, et
al. Am J Transplant2011; 11: 22-33.)
[0030]       Studies in both animals and human beings have shown that interruption of the co
stimulatory second signal beneficially affects autoimmunity. Co-stimulation blockade with abatacept
has been shown to have clinical effectiveness in psoriasis (Abrams JR, Lebwohl MG, Guzzo CA, et
al. J Clin Invest 1999; 103: 1243-52) and psoriatic arthritis (Mease P, Genovese MC, Gladstein G, et
al. Arthritis Rheum 2011; 63: 939-48) and is approved for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, Genant
HK, Peterfy CG, Westhovens R, et al. Ann Rheum Dis 2008; 67: 1084-89) including juvenile
rheumatoid arthritis. (Ruperto N, Lovell DJ, Quartier P, et al          Lancet 2008; 372: 383-91.)
Additionally, co-stimulation blockade has been effective in control of allograft rejection. (Vincenti F,
Larsen C, Durrbach A. N Engl J Med 2005; 353: 770-81.)            Moreover, Lenschow and coworkers
(Lenschow DJ, Ho SC, Sattar H, et al. J Exp Med 1995; 181: 1145-55) showed that costimulatory
                                                    5

   WO 2014/004857                                                               PCT/US2013/048237
blockade with both an anti B7-2 monoclonal antibody and a CTLA4-immunoglobulin fusion protein
prevented diabetes in the NOD mice model when administered prior to 10 weeks of age.
[0031]        It has now been shown that co-stimulation modulation with T-cell co-stimulatory
antagonists such as CTLA-4 compositions and in particular abatacept, halts or slows autoimmune p
cell destruction leading to preservation of C-peptide secretion in recently diagnosed patients with
Type I diabetes by blocking the generation of autoaggressive T cells (Orban et al., Lancet 2011; 378
(9789): 412-9.)
[0032]       Thus, there is provided herein a method of treating, preventing, or delaying the
progression of diabetes mellitus by administering a CTLA4 molecule. The methods of the invention
can prevent or delay the onset of diabetes mellitus, or prevent or delay loss of residual  p-cell mass,
providing a longer remission period and delaying the onset of diabetes-related complications at a later
stage of the life.
[0033]       TIDM may be treated by the methods as described herein. The treatment can be for
subjects with residual beta-cell function as well as for those no longer having any beta-cell function.
The treatment may also be suggested for subjects provided exogenous beta-cells through transplant or
injection or other beta cell replacement modalities (like embryonic or other stem cell therapies or
other replacement modalities).
[0034]       TIDM may be prevented in a subject by first selecting a subject who is susceptible to
developing diabetes and administering a CTLA4 molecule as described herein. The subject who is
susceptible to developing diabetes may be selected by the expression of one or more of: GAD65
autoantibodies (GAAs), ICA512 autoantibodies (ICA512AAs), or anti-insulin autoantibodies (IAAs).
Each of these autoantibodies is associated with a risk of progression to autoimmune Type I diabetes.
Expression of two or more of: GAD65 autoantibodies (GAAs), ICA512 autoantibodies (ICA512AAs),
or anti-insulin autoantibodies (IAAs) is associated with a high risk of progression to autoimmune
Type I diabetes. (Liping Yu et al., Diabetes August 2001 vol. 50 no. 8 1735-1740; Verge CF et al.,
Diabetes 45:926-933, 199; Verge CF. et al, Diabetes 47:1857-1866, 1998; and Bingley PJ, et al.,
Diabetes 43:1304-1310, 1994).
[0035]       The onset of TIDM may be delayed by the methods as described herein such that insulin
is not needed by the subject for a longer length of time. Alternatively or in addition, the present
method may extend the "honeymoon phase" in an already diabetic subject. The honeymoon phase is
where insulin is secreted by the pancreas, causing high blood sugar levels to subside, and resulting in
normal or near normal glucose levels due to responses to insulin injections and treatment.
[0036]       The CTLA4 molecules as described herein may be administered in combination with a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and administered as a pharmaceutical composition. The term
                                                   6

    WO 2014/004857                                                                 PCT/US2013/048237
"pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" includes any and all solvents, diluents, or other liquid vehicle,
dispersion or suspension aids, surface active agents, isotonic agents, thickening or emulsifying agents,
preservatives, solid binders, lubricants and the like, as suited to the particular dosage form desired.
Remington's Pharmaceutical-Sciences,       Sixteenth Edition, E. W. Martin (Mack Publishing Co.,
Easton, Pa., 1980) discloses various carriers used in formulating pharmaceutical compositions and
known techniques for the preparation thereof. Except insofar as any conventional carrier medium is
incompatible with the compounds of provided herein, such as by producing any undesirable biological
effect or otherwise    interacting  in a deleterious manner with any other component(s)             of the
pharmaceutical composition, its use is contemplated to be within the scope of this invention. Some
examples of materials which can serve as pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include, but are not
limited to. sugars such as lactose, glucose and sucrose; starches such as corn starch and potato starch;
cellulose and its derivatives such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, ethyl cellulose and cellulose
acetate; powdered tragacanth; malt; gelatine; talc; excipients such as cocoa butter and suppository
waxes; oils such as peanut oil, cottonseed oil; safflower oil, sesame oil; olive oil; corn oil and soybean
oil; glycols; such as propylene glycol; esters such as ethyl oleate and ethyl laurate; agar; buffering
agents such as magnesium hydroxide and aluminum hydroxide; alginic acid; pyrogen free water;
isotonic saline; Ringer's solution; ethyl alcohol, and phosphate buffer solutions, as well as other non
toxic compatible lubricants such as sodium lauryl sulfate and magnesium stearate, as well as coloring
agents, releasing agents, coating agents, sweetening, flavoring and perfuming agents, preservatives
and antioxidants can also be present in the composition, according to the judgment of the formulator.
[0037]       The compounds described herein including pharmaceutically acceptable carriers can be
delivered to a patient using a wide variety of routes or modes of administration. Suitable routes of
administration include, but are not limited to, inhalation, transdermal, oral, rectal, transmucosal,
intestinal and parenteral administration, including intramuscular, subcutaneous and intravenous
injections.
[0038]       The compositions as described herein may be administered with an adjuvant. The term
"adjuvant" can be a compound that lacks significant activity administered alone but can potentiate the
activity of another therapeutic agent. In some embodiments, an adjuvant is selected from the group
consisting of buffers, anti-microbial preserving agents, surfactants, antioxidants, tonic regulators,
antiseptics, thickeners and viscosity improvers. In some embodiments, the adjuvant is IFA or other
oil-based adjuvant is present between 30-70%, preferably between 40-60%, more preferably between
45-55% proportion weight by weight (w/w).          In some embodiments, CTLA4and IFA or other oil
based adjuvant are present in about a 50/50 weight by weight ratio.           In some embodiments, the
pharmaceutical composition is free of contaminants, e.g., pyrogens.
[0039]       For oral administration, the compound can be formulated readily by combining the
CTLA4 molecule with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers well known in the art. Such
                                                    7

    WO 2014/004857                                                                   PCT/US2013/048237
carriers enable the compounds of the invention to be formulated as tablets, pills, dragees, capsules,
liquids, gels, syrups, slurries, suspensions and the like, for oral ingestion by a patient to be treated.
Pharmaceutical preparations for oral use can be obtained solid excipient, optionally grinding a
resulting mixture, and processing the mixture of granules, after adding suitable auxiliaries, if desired.
to obtain tablets or dragee cores. Suitable excipients are, in particular, fillers such as sugars, including
lactose, sucrose, mannitol, or sorbitol; cellulose preparations such as, for example, maize starch,
wheat     starch,   rice   starch,  potato   starch,   gelatin,   gum     tragacanth,    methyl    cellulose,
hydroxypropylmethyl-cellu lose, sodium carboxymethylcel lulose, and/or polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP).
If desired, disintegrating agents may be added, such as the cross-linked polyvinyl pyrrolidone, agar, or
alginic acid or a salt thereof such as sodium alginate.
[0040]        The compound may be formulated for parenteral administration by injection, e.g., by
bolus injection or continuous infusion. Injection is a preferred method of administration for the
compositions of the current invention. Formulations for injection may be presented in unit dosage
form, e.g., in ampoules or in multi-dose containers, with an added preservative. The compositions
may take such forms as suspensions, solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles, and may
contain formulatory agents such as suspending, stabilizing and/or dispersing agents may be added,
such as the cross-linked polyvinyl pyrrolidone, agar, or alginic acid or a salt thereof such as sodium
alginate. Thus, in some embodiments, the composition may be a water-in-oil emulsion.                 In other
embodiments, the composition may be an oil-in-water emulsion. Such oil-in-water emulsions may be
particularly useful for controlling the release profile and providing a slow release of the active drug,
which can potentially be absorbed unaltered from such an emulsion.
[0041]             Pharmaceutical formulations for parenteral administration include aqueous solutions
of the active compounds in water-soluble form. Additionally, suspensions of the active compounds
may be prepared as appropriate oily injection suspensions. Suitable lipophilic solvents or vehicles
include fatty oils such as sesame oil, or synthetic fatty acid esters, such as ethyl oleate or triglycerides,
or liposomes. Aqueous injection suspensions may contain substances, which increase the viscosity of
the suspension, such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, sorbitol, or dextran. Optionally, the
suspension may also contain suitable stabilizers or agents, which increase the solubility of the
compounds to allow for the preparation of highly, concentrated solutions. For injection, the agents of
the invention may be formulated in aqueous solutions, preferably in physiologically compatible
buffers such as Hanks's solution, Ringer's solution, or physiological saline buffer. Alternatively, the
active ingredient may be in powder form for constitution with a suitable vehicle, e.g., sterile pyrogen
free water, before use.
[0042]         In some embodiments, the composition comprising a CTLA4 molecule also includes an
oil-based carrier.
                                                     8

    WO 2014/004857                                                                 PCT/US2013/048237
[0043]         The oil-based carrier is a composition that includes at least 10% by weight of a natural
or synthetic oil suitable for administration to a human in conjunction with a therapeutic agent. In
preferred embodiments, the carrier includes at least 20, 30, 50, 70, 80, 90, 95, 98, or 99% oil by
weight. In some embodiments, the oil-based carrier can include less than 70, 60, 50, 40, 30 or 20% oil
by weight. In preferred embodiments, the oil will be in the range of 10 to 95%, preferably 20 to 90%
or 30 to 70% oil by weight. The oil should be chosen such that it provides for sustained release of a
substance dispersed within it when administered to a subject. Suitable oils include mineral oil (e.g.,
Drakeol 6 VR light mineral oil), vegetable oil, squalene, or liquid paraffin. In some embodiments, the
oil-based carrier can contain more than one type of oil. In some embodiments, the oil-based carrier
can include an immune stimulator, e.g., an immunostimulating glucan, but it is much preferred that
the oil-based carrier does not include an immune stimulator, e.g., an immunostimulating glucan, a
bacterial component, e.g., a mycobacterial component. In a preferred embodiment, the oil-based
carrier does not include an alum component.
[0044]        While not wanting to be bound by theory, an oil based carrier is believed to work by
triggering the immunocompetent cells, which are related to the inflammatory as well as protective
ability. An oil-based carrier can also act as an antigen vehicle and a slow release or long-term antigen
presentation device. When injected into a subject, an oil-based carrier and antigen composition can
form a depot of antigen at the injection site, thereby protecting the antigen from degradation. From
this depot the antigen can be released slowly into the system and provides a prolonged antigen
presentation as well as expanded total contact surface area and the attraction of inflammatory cells.
Macrophages can digest most of the incorporated materials and present the processed antigens on
their surface. From this depot the antigen can be released slowly into the system and provides a
prolonged antigen supply to act as costimulatory modulator.
[0045]       Oil based carriers optionally include an emulsifier or surfactant component. The
emulsifier or surfactant (and the amount of emulsifier or surfactant) is chosen such that it facilitates
the mixture or dispersion of a substance, e.g., an antigen preparation, with the oil. An oil-based carrier
can include 0.1 to 50%, preferably I to 30%, more preferably 5 to 20% by weight of a surfactant or
emulsifier. Examples of emulsifiers or surfactants include Arlacel A, mannide oleate (e.g., Montamide
80-mannide monooleate), anhydrous mannitol/oleic acid ester, polyoxyethylene or polyoxypropylene.
[0046]       An oil-based carrier or adjuvant typically consists of two components: (1) an oil, and (2)
an emulsifier or surfactant, mixed with water. Suitable oils and emulsifiers are known in the art. For
example, the oil can be mineral oil, vegetable oil, squalene or liquid paraffin. The emulsifier or
surfactant   can be, e.g., Arlacel A, mannide oleate, anhydrous mannitol/oleic                acid ester,
polyoxyethylene or polyoxypropylene. Exemplary oil-based adjuvants include conventional IFA,
Montamide ISA adjuvants, or Hunter's TiterMax adjuvant. In preferred embodiments, the adjuvant
                                                    9

    WO 2014/004857                                                               PCT/US2013/048237
includes 20 to 95%, preferably 30 to 90%, more preferably 40 to 70% by weight of an oil phase, and
0.1 to 50%, preferably 1 to 30%, more preferably 5 to 20% by weight of a surfactant or emulsifier.
Various types of oil-based adjuvants are described, e.g., in U.S. Pat. No. 5,814,321, U.S. Pat. No.
6,299,884, U.S. Pat. No. 6,235,282, and U.S. Pat. No. 5,976,538.
[0047]        IFA is typically a mixture of a non-metabolizable oil (e.g., mineral oil), water, and a
surfactant (e.g., Arlacel A). Unlike Complete Freund's Adjuvant (CFA), IFA does not contain a
bacterial component, e.g., mycobacteria. The first large-scale vaccinations using IFA in humans took
place on US military personnel (Davenport (1968) Ann Allergy 26:288-292; Beebe et al, (1972) Am
J Epidemiol 95:337-346; Salk & Salk (1977) Science 195:834-847). The findings were essentially
negative with respect to malignancy, allergic diseases and collagenosis, but there was evidence that
some men had a cyst like reaction at the site of inoculation. Follow up studies showed that these
adverse events were due to improper administration of the compound, i.e. it was given s.c. instead of
i.m. From these experiments, IFA was regarded by some as unsuitable for human purposes, although
it has remained widely used in animal research. In recent years, newer forms of IFA have been shown
safe for human use in HIV immunotherapy or therapeutic vaccinations (Turner et al. (1994) AIDS
8:1429-1435; Trauger et al. (1995) J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr Hum Retrovirol 10 Supp2:S74-82;
Trauger et al. (1994) J Infect Dis 169:1256-1264).
[0048]       Montanide ISA Adjuvants (Seppic, Paris, France) are a group of oil/surfactant based
adjuvants in which different surfactants are combined with either a non-metabolizable mineral oil, a
metabolizable oil, or a mixture of the two. They are prepared for use as an emulsion with aqueous Ag
solution. The surfactant for Montanide ISA 50 (ISA=Incomplete Seppic Adjuvant) is mannide oleate,
a major component of the surfactant in Freund's adjuvants. The surfactants of the Montanide group
undergo strict quality control to guard against contamination by any substances that could cause
excessive inflammation, as has been found for some lots of Arlacel A used in Freund's adjuvant. The
various Montanide ISA group of adjuvants are used as water-in-oil emulsions, oil-in-water emulsions,
or water-in-oil-in-water emulsions. The different adjuvants accommodate different aqueous phase/oil
phase ratios, because of the variety of surfactant and oil combinations.
[0049]       Hunter's TiterMax (CytRx Corp., Norcross, Ga.) is an oil/surfactant-based adjuvant
prepared as a water-in-oil emulsion in a manner similar to that used for conventional Freund's
adjuvants. However, it uses a metabolizable oil (squalene) and a nonionic surfactant that has good
protein antigen-binding capacity as well as adjuvant activity. The adjuvant activity may relate, in part,
to the surfactant's ability to activate complement and bind complement components, as this helps
target the Ag to follicular dendritic cells in the spleen and lymph nodes. The surfactant used in the
commercially available adjuvant is one of a number of synthetic nonionic block copolymers of
polyoxyethylene and polyoxypropylene developed by Hunter (Hunter et al., 1991 Vaccine 9:250
                                                   10

    WO 2014/004857                                                                 PCT/US2013/048237
256). The utilization of copolymer-coated microparticles to stabilize the emulsion permits formation
of stable emulsions with less than 20% oil, an important factor in minimizing total adjuvant injected.
[0050]       An adjuvant can be used with antigens to elicit cell-mediated immunity and the
production of antibodies of protective isotypes (IgG2a in mice and IgGI in primates). Different types
of adjuvants share similar side effects, such as a reaction at the injection site and pyrogenicity. Alum,
a commonly used adjuvant for human vaccine also produces an appreciable granulomatous response
at the injection site (Allison & Byars (1991) Mol Immunol 28:279-284). The mode of action of an
incomplete Freund's adjuvant can involve non-specific as well as specific immune responses. IFA
seems to work by triggering the immunocompetent cells, which are related to the inflammatory as
well as protective ability. IFA also acts as an antigen vehicle and a slow release or long-term antigen
presentation device. Injecting a patient with an IFA and antigen compound, it forms a depot of antigen
at the injection site, thereby protecting the antigen from degradation. From this depot the antigen is
released slowly into the system and provides a prolonged antigen presentation as well as expanded
total contact surface area and the attraction of inflammatory cells. Macrophages digest most of the
incorporated materials and present the processed antigens on their surface. From this depot the antigen
can be released slowly into the system and provides a prolonged antigen supply to act as
costimulatory modulator.
[0051]       The specific enhancing effect of the IFA on the antigen immunogenicity has been found
to lead to increased humoral immunity (preferentially protective antibody production; IgGI in humans
and IgG2a in mice) and to elicit specific cell mediated immunity (preferentially Th2 type).
Specifically, as an example human recombinant insulin B-chain in IFA results in Th2 cytokine pattern
in NOD mice islets (Ramiya et al. (1996) J Autoimmun 9:349-356). IFA is unique among adjuvants
tried for diabetes prevention in animal models. Ramiya and coworkers (supra) concluded that both
alum and DPT as adjuvants have 'non-specific' protective effects unrelated to the antigen used, while
IFA is the only one with antigen specific protective effect for diabetes prevention in animals.
[0052]       IFA, preferably an IFA approved for human use, e.g., Montanide (e.g., Montanide ISA51,
Seppic Inc., France) or an equivalent composition, is a preferred adjuvant for use in the methods and
vaccines described herein. Montanide ISA51 has shown no systemic or significant local side effects in
our animal and in our human studies.
[0053]       For oral administration, the compounds can be formulated readily by combining the
active compound(s) with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers well known in the art. Such carriers
enable the compounds of the invention to be formulated as tablets, pills, dragees, capsules, liquids,
gels, syrups, slurries, suspensions and the like, for oral ingestion by a patient to be treated.
Pharmaceutical preparations for oral use can be obtained solid excipient, optionally grinding a
resulting mixture, and processing the mixture of granules, after adding suitable auxiliaries, if desired.
                                                   11

    WO 2014/004857                                                                   PCT/US2013/048237
to obtain tablets or dragee cores. Suitable excipients are, in particular, fillers such as sugars, including
lactose, sucrose, mannitol, or sorbitol; cellulose preparations such as, for example, maize starch,
wheat     starch,   rice   starch,  potato   starch,    gelatin, gum     tragacanth,     methyl    cellulose,
hydroxypropylmethyl-cellu lose, sodium carboxymethylcel lulose, and/or polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP).
If desired, disintegrating agents may be added, such as the cross-linked polyvinyl pyrrolidone, agar, or
alginic acid or a salt thereof such as sodium alginate.
[0054]        The compounds may be formulated for parenteral administration by injection, e.g., by
bolus injection or continuous infusion. Injection is a preferred method of administration for the
compositions of the current invention. Formulations for injection may be presented in unit dosage
form, e.g., in ampoules or in multi-dose containers, with an added preservative. The compositions
may take such forms as suspensions, solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles, and may
contain formulatory agents such as suspending, stabilizing and/or dispersing agents may be added,
such as the cross-linked polyvinyl pyrrolidone, agar, or alginie acid or a salt thereof such as sodium
alginate.
[0055]            Pharmaceutical formulations for parenteral administration include aqueous solutions of
the active compounds in water-soluble form. Additionally, suspensions of the active compounds may
be prepared as appropriate oily injection suspensions. Suitable lipophilic solvents or vehicles include
fatty oils such as sesame oil, or synthetic fatty acid esters, such as ethyl oleate or triglycerides, or
liposomes. Aqueous injection suspensions may contain substances, which increase the viscosity of the
suspension, such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, sorbitol, or dextran. Optionally, the suspension
may also contain suitable stabilizers or agents, which increase the solubility of the compounds to
allow for the preparation of highly, concentrated solutions. For injection, the agents of the invention
may be formulated in aqueous solutions, preferably in physiologically compatible buffers such as
Hanks's solution, Ringer's solution, or physiological saline buffer.              Alternatively, the active
ingredient may be in powder form for constitution with a suitable vehicle, e.g., sterile pyrogen-free
water, before use.
[0056]        The amount of the combination of a CTLA4 molecule provided to the subject will depend
on both the size and weight of the subject as well as the progression of the disease. For the
compounds described herein, the therapeutically effective amount can be initially determined from in
vitro assays. Since the compounds of the present invention may have a low absorption and low
bioavailability, the therapeutically effective amount may be determined from, for example. blood
level of the compounds or metabolites thereof or fecal concentration of the compounds or nietabolites
thereof. As is well known in the art, therapeutically effective amounts for use in humans can also be
determined from animal models.          A therapeutically effective dose can also be determined from
human data for compounds which are known to exhibit similar pharmacological activities. The
                                                     12

    WO 2014/004857                                                                PCT/US2013/048237
applied dose can be adjusted based on the relative potency of the administered compound as
compared with the known compound.
[0057]       Patient doses for parenteral administration of the compounds described herein, typically
range from about I mg/day to about 10,000 mg,/day, more typically from about 10 mg/day to about
1,000 mg/day, and most typically from about 50 mg/day to about 500 mg/day. Stated in terms of
patient body weight, typical dosages range from about 0.01 to about 150 mg/kg day, more typically
from about 0.1 to about 15 mg/kg/day, and most typically from about I to about 10 mg/kg/day, for
example 5 mg/kg/day or 3 mg/kg/day.
[0058]       The CTLA4 molecule may be administered in a single daily dose or it may be
administered multiple times per day. Alternatively, it may be administered less than once a day.     The
dosing may be over a period of time, such as once a month, or every 28 days. In some embodiments,
additional doses (e.g., bolus dosing) may be given at the beginning of treatment.,              In some
embodiments, a dose containing approximately 5, 10, 20, 30, 50, 100 mg/kg of the CTLA4 molecule.
[0059]       The definitions of terms used herein are meant to incorporate the present state-of-the-art
definitions recognized for each term in the chemical and pharmaceutical fields. Where appropriate,
exemplification is provided.    The definitions apply to the terms as they are used throughout this
specification, unless otherwise limited in specific instances, either individually or as part of a larger
group.
[0060]       As used herein, the terms "administering" or "administration" are intended to encompass
all means for directly and indirectly delivering a compound to its intended site of action.
[0061]       The phrase "delaying the progression" as used herein in the context of delaying the
progression of diabetes mellitus means that the loss of functional residual        p-cell mass, after the
clinical onset of Type I diabetes is delayed. The delayed progression of TIDM can be measured, for
example, by measuring C-peptide production.
[0062]       The phrase "pharmaceutically acceptable" refers to additives or compositions that are
physiologically tolerable and do not typically produce an allergic or similar untoward reaction, such
as gastric upset, dizziness and the like, when administered to an animal, such as a mammal (e.g., a
human). The term "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" includes any and all solvents, diluents, or
other liquid vehicle, dispersion or suspension aids, surface active agents, isotonic agents, thickening
or emulsifying agents, preservatives, solid binders, lubricants and the like, as suited to the particular
dosage form desired. Remington's, The Science and Practice of Pharmacy, (Gennaro, A. R., ed., 19th
edition, 1995, Mack Pub. Co.), discloses various carriers used in formulating pharmaceutical
compositions and known techniques for the preparation thereof. Except insofar as any conventional
carrier medium is incompatible with the compounds of provided herein, such as by producing any
                                                   13

    WO 2014/004857                                                               PCT/US2013/048237
undesirable biological effect or otherwise interacting in a deleterious manner with any other
component(s) of the pharmaceutical composition, its use is contemplated to be within the scope of this
invention. Some examples of materials which can serve as pharnaceutically acceptable carriers
include, but are not limited to, sugars such as lactose, glucose and sucrose: starches such as corn
starch and potato starch; cellulose and its derivatives such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, ethyl
cellulose and cellulose acetate; powdered tragacanth; malt; gelatine; talc. Excipients such as cocoa
butter and suppository waxes; oils such as peanut oil, cottonseed oil; safflower oil, sesame oil; olive
oil; corn oil and soybean oil; glycols; such as propylene glycol; esters such as ethyl oleate and ethyl
laurate; agar; buffering agents such as magnesium hydroxide and aluminum hydroxide; alginic acid;
pyrogen-free water; isotonic saline; Ringer's solution; ethyl alcohol, and phosphate buffer solutions,
as well as other non-toxic compatible lubricants such as sodium lauryl sulfate and magnesium
stearate, as weli as coloring agents, releasing agents, coating agents, sweetening, flavoring and
perfuming agents, preservatives and antioxidants can also be present in the composition, according to
the judgment of the formulator.
[0063]        The term "pharmaceutical composition" refers to a composition described herein, or
pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, with other agents such as carriers and/or excipients.
Preferably, a pharmaceutical composition will have the active agent present at least 95% purity, or
98% purity, or 99% purity, or more.
[0064]            As used herein, the term "subject" is a human or other animal, having a diabetes, pre
diabetes, or a predisposition to diabetes. Thus, in some embodiments the subject will be in need of
the therapeutic treatment as provided herein. Preferred patients are mammals. Examples of patients
include but are not limited to, humans, horses, monkeys, dogs, cats, mice, rates, cows, pigs, goats and
sheep. In some embodiments, "subjects" are generally human patients having diabetes. In some
embodiments, "subjects" are human patients who have been diagnosed with TIDM within the last
200, 100, or 50 days. In some embodiments, "subjects" are human patients who have been recently
diagnosed with diabetes mellitus but still have residual beta-cell function. In some such embodiments
the residual beta-cell function is detectable or at least 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, or more of
the beta cells in a fully functioning pancreas.
[0065]        The term "therapeutically effective amount" refers to an amount effective, at dosages and
for periods of time necessary. to achieve the desired biological or medicinal response in a cell culture,
tissue system, animal, or human (e..g, the desired therapeutic result). A therapeutically effective
amount of the composition may vary according to factors such as the disease state, age, sex, and
weight of the individual, and the ability of the CTLA4 molecule to elicit a desired response in the
individual. A therapeutically effective amount is also one in which any toxic or detrimental effects of
the pharmacological agent are outweighed by the therapeutically beneficial effects.             In some
                                                   14

    WO 2014/004857                                                                    PCT/US2013/048237
embodiments, the response includes alleviation and/or delay of onset of one or more symptoms of the
disease, condition, or disorder being treated.
[0066]            The term "treatment" or "treating" as used herein is defined as the application or
administration of the therapeutic agents to a subject, or application or administration of the therapeutic
agents to an isolated tissue or cell line from a subject who has diabetes, a symptom of disease or a
predisposition toward a disease. Treatment is intended to encompass preventing the onset, slowing
the progression, reversing or otherwise ameliorating, improve, or affect the disease, the symptoms or
of disease or the predisposition toward disease. For example, treatment of a subject, e.g., a human
subject, with a composition described herein, can slow, improve, or stop the ongoing autoimmunit,
e.g., a reaction against pancreatic P-cells, in a subject before, during, or after the clinical onset of Type
I diabetes.
[0067]        The term "about" or "approximately" means within an acceptable error range for the
particular value as determined by one of ordinary skill in the art, which will depend in pait on how the
value is measured or determined-e.g., the limitations of the measurement system, or the degree of
precision required for a particular purpose. For example, "about" can mean within I or within 2
standard deviations, as per the practice in the art. Alternatively, "about" can mean a range of up to
20%, preferably up to 10%, and more preferably up to 5%of a given value. Where particular values
are described in the application and claims, unless otherwise stated, the term "about" meaning within
an acceptable error range for the particular value should be assumed.
[0068]        As used herein and in the appended claims, the singular forms "a," "an," and "the,"
include plural referents unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Thus, for example, reference to
"a molecule" includes one or more of such molecules, "a resin" includes one or more of such different
resins and reference to "the method" includes reference to equivalent steps and methods known to
those of ordinary skill in the art that could be modified or substituted for the methods described
herein.
While the above description provides examples and specific details of various embodiments, it will be
appreciated that some features and/or functions of the described embodiments admit to modification
without departing from the scope of the described embodiments. The above description is intended to
be illustrative of the invention, the scope of which is limited only by the language of the claims
appended hereto.
                                                EXAMPLES
[0069]        Aspects of the applicant's teachings may be further understood in light of the following
examples, which should not be construed as limiting the scope of the applicant's teachings in any
way.
                                                     15

    WO 2014/004857                                                                  PCT/US2013/048237
Example 1 - Study design and patients
[0070]       Patients (aged 6-45 years) diagnosed with Type I diabetes within the past 100 days were
parallel-screened for this study. Patients were eligible to participate in the study if they had at least
one diabetes-related autoantibody (microassayed insulin antibodies [if duration of insulin therapy was
less than 7 days]; glutamic acid decarboxylase-65 [GAD-65] antibodies; islet-cell antigen-512 [ICA
512] antibodies; or islet-cell autoantibodies) and had stimulated C-peptide concentrations of 0-2
nmol/L or higher measured during a mixed-meal tolerance test (MMTT) done at least 21 days after
diagnosis of diabetes and within 37 days of randomization.
[0071]       People whose blood samples screened positive for serum antibodies to hepatitis B surface
antigen, hepatitis C, or HIV were excluded from participation. Samples were also tested for Epstein
Barr virus (EBV). Individuals who had evidence of active EBV infection at the time of screening were
ieliglible. Participants who showed evidence of active EBV infection after randomization did not
receive additional study drug until resolution.
[0072]       Patients were randomly assigned in a 2:1 ratio, stratified by participating site, to receive
experimental treatment with abatacept or placebo using a double blind protocol. Table I provides the
baseline demographic and laboratory characteristics of participants
                                                 Table 1
                                                             Abatacept         Placebo (n=35)
                                                             (n=77)
                        Mean  e r                            13-9    -9)       1-----I--3.7
                                                                                      5-----3
                      Median (years)                         12(6-36)          14(7-34)
                 Men415%257%
                 Race* White                                                   32_(
                 Ethnic origin Non-Hispanic                  67(87%)           3!89%
                 Number          of      diabetes-related
                 autoantibodiest
                                                           I 9(1               4(1
                      2                                      2 (34%          - 9 (26%)
                      3                                      26 (34%)          15(43%)
                      4                                      16            .21%)        .720%
                 Number of days from diagnosis to first      87-9 (14-1)       83-2(17-8)
                 infusion$
                 Weightkg                                    52-6 2-9)_        53-0 (19 7)____
                 Body-mass index (k/n 2 )                    21-0 (4-5)        20-5 (3-9)
                 Mean AUC for C-peptide nmol/L               0.743(0-42)       0-745(0-31
                 HbAlc at baseline*(%)                       631% (0-80)         74% (094
                 Total daily insulin dose at baseline*     10385    (0-24)     0-339 (0-22)
                 Ketoacidosis at diagnosis                   25 (32%)          8 (23%)
                 Diabetes-associated     HLA       alleges
                 present*
                      DR3 and DR4                            25 (34%)            649%
                                                   16

    WO 2014/004857                                                                PCT/US2013/048237
                      DR3 only                              11 (15%)          5 (15%)
                             4on                            3        )10          (30%)
                      Neither                               8(11%)            2 (6%)
[0073]       Data are n (%), mean (SD),          or median (range). AUC-area under the curve.
HbA Ic=glycated haemoglobin A I c.
[0074]       *Excludes participants with data missing for indicated variable (number missing: race, 1;
HbAlc, 2; insulin use, 1; HLA allele status, 4). tlslet-cell autoantibodies by immunofluorescence not
tested on 16 patients (considered negative for count). $Range 51-108 for abatacept group and 38-107
for placebo.
Example 2 - Procedures
[0075]       Abatacept (Orencia, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Princeton, NJ, USA) was given on days 1, 14,
and 28, and then every 28 days with the last dose on day 700 (total 27 doses) as a 30-min intravenous
infusion at a dose of 10 mg/kg (maximum 1000 mg per dose) in a 100 mL 0-9% sodium chloride
infusion. Normal saline infusion was used as placebo. Patients did not receive any premedication.
[0076]       All patients received intensive diabetes management. The goal was to achieve intensive
glycaemic control as recommended by the American Diabetes Association. (American Diabetes
Association. Diabetes Care 2011; 33 (suppl 1): S 11-61.)      Patients used either multiple daily insulin
injections or an insulin pump. Blood glucose monitoring was done by means of frequent daily blood
glucose monitoring. Use of non-insulin pharmaceuticals that affect glycaemic control was not
allowed.
[0077]       Blood samples were analyzed centrally. C-peptide concentrations were measured from
frozen plasma with a two-site inmunoenzymometric assay (Tosoh Bioscience, South San Francisco,
CA, USA). Glycated haemoglobin Alc (HbAlc) was measured with ion-exchange high-performance
liquid chromatography (Variant II, Bio-Rad Diagnostics, Hercules, CA, USA). Reliability coefficients
for each assay were greater than 0-99 from split duplicate samples. Biochemical autoantibodies
(microassayed insulin antibodies, GAD-65 antibodies, ICA-512 antibodies) were measured with
radioimmunobinding assays and islet-cell autoantibodies (ICA) with indirect immunofluorescence. A
routine chemistry panel was done (Roche Diagnostics [Indianapolis, IN, USA] Hitachi 917 Analyzer
and reagents). HLA class II alleles were measured with PCR amplification and sequence-specific
hybridization.  p-cell  function was assessed by stimulated C-peptide secretion. The prespecified
primary outcome of this trial was a comparison of the area under the curve (AUC) of stimulated C
peptide response over the first 2 h of a 4-h MMTT2, done at the 24-month visit. The 4-h MMTTs
were done at baseline and at 24 months; 2-h MMTTs were obtained at 3, 6, 12, and 18 months.
Patients who had completed their 2-year visit MMTT were included in the primary outcome
assessment. After completion of the 2-year treatment phase, participants entered a 2-year follow-up
phase (study remained double blind) to continue to assess safety and efficacy, including an MMTT
                                                   17

    WO 2014/004857                                                                 PCT/US2013/048237
every 6 months. Prespecified secondary outcomes included: slope of C-peptide over time, difference
between groups in incidence of loss of peak C-peptide to less than 0-2 nmol/L, differences in HbAlc
and insulin dose over time, and safety. Prespecified subgroup factors included age, sex, race, baseline
C-peptide, baseline insulin use, baseline HbAlc, and HLA type.
Example 3 - Statistical analyses
[0078]       Spotfire S+ 8.1, a statistical analysis software, was used for all analyses. A sample size of
108 participants was planned to provide 85% power to detect a 50% increase in geometric mean C
peptide relative to the placebo group using a test at the 0-05 level (one-sided), with 10% loss to
follow-up and a 2:1 allocation to treatment versus control (based on an estimated mean of 0-248 and
SD of 0-179, on the transformed scale). All analyses were based on the prespecified intention to treat
cohort with known ieasurements. Missing values were assumed to be missing at random, The p
values associated with the intention-to-treat treatment comparisons of the primary and secondary
endpoints are two-sided, although the design of the trial was based on a one-sided hypothesis test.
Interim analysis for endpoint treatment effect was done and reported to the data and safety monitoring
board once in accordance to the method of Lan and DeMets with O'Brien-Fleming boundaries. (Lan
KKG, DeMets DL. Biometrika 1983; 70: 659-63.)            The prespecified analysis method for C-peptide
mean AUC, HbAlc, and total daily insulin dose was an analysis of covariance model adjusting for
age, sex, and baseline value of the dependent variable, and treatment assignment. The predicted
means and associated 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for each treatment group were established at the
means of the other covariates. The significance levels associated with the treatment effect were from
the Wald test (from the fitted model). A normalizing transformation of log(XC-Pep + 1) was
prespecified for C-peptide AUC mean, and normal plots of the residuals suggested that it was
adequate. The C-peptide mean AUC equals the AUC divided by the 2-h interval (i.e., AUC/120). The
AUC was computed using the trapezoidal rule from the timed measurements of C-peptide during the
MMTT. The time to first stimulated peak C-peptide of less than 0-2 nmol/L (a level above which was
associated with decreased risk of complications) was analyzed with standard survival methods (Cox
model and Kaplan-Meier method). Adverse event grades were analyzed with the Wilcoxon rank sum
test. (Agresti A. Categorical data analysis. New York, NY, USA: John Wiley and Sons, 1990.) Mean
rate of change of C-peptide mean AUC from 6 to 24 months was estimated with a mixed-effects
model with both random intercept and slope adjusting for age, sex, baseline C-peptide mean AUC,
and treatment assignment. The initial fit included a fixed interaction effect of treatment and time, but
was removed because of the absence of any statistical evidence of it being other than zero. To assess
the treatment effect over the entire time period, we fitted a similar mixed model to the data with the
differences that we defined time without structure and grouped by 6-month intervals.
Example 4 - Results
                                                     18

    WO 2014/004857                                                                PCT/US2013/048237
[0079]        Of the    112 patients enrolled in the study, 77 were randomly assigned to receive
experimental treatment with abatacept and 35 were assigned to receive placebo. Table I summarizes
the baseline characteristics of the two groups. The only noteworthy imbalances were the greater
proportion of men in the placebo group than in the abatacept group and higher mean HbAlc in the
placebo group. The number of infusions actually administered by treatment group were compared
using a Wilcoxon rank sum test; no significant difference was detected (p=0-61). Overall, 2514 (83%)
of 3024 potential infusions were given, and many that were not given were per protocol (e.g., patient
developed EBV infection or became pregnant). 689 (93%) of 738 expected MMTTs were done. In the
primary analysis at 2 years, participants assigned to abatacept had a geometric mean stimulated C
peptide 2-h AUC of 0-375 nmol/L (95% CI 0-290-0-465) versus 0-266 nmol/L (0-171-0-368) for
those assigned to placebo. The adjusted population C-peptide mean 2-h AUC at 2 years was 0-378
nmol/L for the abatacept group and 0-238 nmol/L for the placebo group; thus, C-peptide AUC at 2
years was 59% (95% CI 6-1-112) higher with abatacept (p=0-0029). The result remained unchanged
and significant (p=0-0028) when baseline HbAlc was added as a covariate. To address the difference
in C-peptide concentrations from baseline to the 2-year assessments (primary endpoint), C-peptide
results for 3, 6, 12, and 18 months were separately modeled.
[0080]        FIG. I shows the adjusted population C-peptide mean 2-h AUC over 2 years. Patients
who received abatacept had a significantly higher mean AUC at 6, 12, and 18 months than did those
assigned to placebo, and over all time points in aggregate (p=0-0022). To calculate the effect of
treatment on delaying the reduction of C-peptide, we calculated the predicted population mean of C
peptide AUC mean by treatment group over time (FIG. 2). The lines are based on the fitting of a
mixed linear model using all available data from MMTTs at 6, 12, 18, and 24 months. When testing
for the improvement in the fit for the interaction term of slope and treatment (i.e., testing the evidence
that the two treatment groups had differing C-peptide decay rates), this result was not significant
(p=0-85). Consequently, a simpler model assuming identical slopes was used and FIG. 2 shows these
results. Thus, estimated lag time in the means of the abatacept group to drop to the same level as those
of the placebo group was 9-6 months (95% CI 3-47-15-6). By the 24-month assessment, (32%)
patients in the abatacept group had an AUC peak stimulated C-peptide less than 0-2 nmol/L,
compared with 15 (43%) patients on placebo (FIG. 3). The adjusted relative (abatacept to placebo
groups) risk of peak C-peptide falling below 0-2 nmol/L was 0-433 (95% CI 0-218-0-861). During the
24 months of follow-up, the abatacept group had a lower adjusted mean HbAlc (FIG. 4A) than did
the placebo group (for all time points in the aggregate, p=0-002), although HbAlc was also lower at
baseline. Nonetheless, even after adjustment for the difference at baseline, the treatment group
difference over 24 months persists (p=0-0071). At study end, 34 (47%) patients on abatacept had
HbAlc lower than 7% compared with eight (26%) on placebo. This is particularly noteworthy as 86%
of all patients were under 18 years of age; in this group this HbAlc is better that the ADA age
                                                   19

   WO 2014/004857                                                                      PCT/US2013/048237
specific target HbAlc. Participants in the abatacept group had lower insulin doses at some time points
(6 and 12 months) during the study, but at 24 months, insulin doses in the two groups were similar
(FIG. 4; p=NS at 24 months, but because of differences at the earlier time points, p=0-040 for all time
points in the aggregate).
[0081 ]      FIG. 5   shows the results of a homogeneity test of treatment effect on age, sex, race,
baseline C-peptide, baseline insulin use, baseline HbAlc, aid HLA type. The apparent adverse effect
of abatacept in non-white participants might be hypothesis-generating, however the groups size was
small.
[0082]       Table 2 and Table 3 summarize safety and adverse events. Abatacept was well tolerated.
Infusion-related adverse events occurred with low frequency (47 of 2514 infusions [2%] involving 27
patients) and were not clinicaly significant. Of these, 36 reactions occurred in 17 (22%) of 77 patients
on abatacept and 11 reactions in six (17%) of 35 patients on placebo (p:::0-62 for proportion of
participants by Fisher's exact test). Overall adverse event rate (including laboratory abnormalities)
was low with no difference between the two groups. Specifically, there was no increase in infection
(including EBV) or in neutropenia (which occurred in seven [9%] of patients on abatacept, five [14%]
on placebo). There were seven episodes of hypoglycemia reported as an adverse event, two of which
were severe hypoglycemia (one in each group).
                     Table 2: Number of patients by worst grade of adverse effects
                                                  pAbi ant =
                                                           c e71 _    _    P ace o ( n= 3 5
                None                    14 ( 8%)8                            (23%)
                Grade II(%)                                               13%)
                Grade 2                 44(57%)_______                    1719
                Grade 3                 12 (16%)                         17(20%)
                Grade                   5(6%)                             2(6%)
                Grade 5 1               (1%}*_
[0083]       Data are n (%). Worst grade by treatment group was not statistically different with a
Wilcoxon Rank Sum Test. *Accidental death, unrelated to study.
                    Table 3: Number of events and patients by type of adverse event
                                     Abatacept            PlIaceb.o ........   b-atacept     Placebo
                                     (n77)                (n 35)            (n=77)           (n 35)
                                     Number        of Number           of   Number        of Number      of
                                     events               patients   with   events           patients  with
                                                          events                             events
       A   er    /immiuno ---        3                    2 (3%    )                         0
       Auditoir                      3                    3(0                                0
        Bood/bone marrow___16                             1(14%)            18               60%)........
       Cardiac arrhythmia            I                    1( %)             1                1(3%)
       Cardiac general_____-2                             213%)             0                0
                                                    20

   WO 2014/004857                                                                         PCT/US2013/048237
          institutional sy    t          19               15(9       )          2                  2(6%)
       Death*                         1                   1 (1%)        ~       0                  0
       Dermatology/skin                  15               13 (17%)              5                  4 (11)
       Endocrine                        4                 4 (5%)                2                  2(6/)
       Gastrointestinal                 30                18 (23%)              11                 7_(20%)
       Infection                        63                32 (42%)              31                  15 (43%)
       Hypog3caemia                                                             2                   I4.(3%02
       Metabolicaborato)                                                        4                  2(6)
       Musculoskeletal/soft tissue      1_3               11                    7                  6(17%
       Neurology                         13               8(10%)                3                  2(6%)
       Ocular/visual _      _ _ __      3 _     _ _ __    3 (4%/)               1                  _1(3/)
       Pain                             7                 6(8/o) ..........
       Pulmonary/upper                  20                10(13%)               7                  4(11%)
       respiratory
        Renal/genitourinar            T                   0                                      '
       Seconda      mali;nanc
                      n                 1                 11%)                  00
       Sexual/reproductive               1                1 (1%)                0                  0
       function
       Surgery/intraoperative           2                 2 (3%)                0                  0
       Syndromes                        9                 9 (12%)               5                  5 (14%)
       Total                            239                                     105
[0084]        Data are n or n (%). Adverse effect category by treatment group was tested with a one
sided (alternative of higher frequency in abatacept group) Fisher's Exact Test; only constitutional
symptoms      were significant     (p=0-049).     *Accidental     death, unrelated to study. tOther than
hypoglycaemia.
Example 5 - Discussion
[0085]        Results show that over 2 years co-stimulation modulation with abatacept slows the
reduction in   p-cell function in recent-onset Type I diabetes by 9-6 months. The early beneficial effect
suggests that T-cell activation still occurs around the time of clinical diagnosis of Type I diabetes,
even though the disease course has presumably been in progress for several years. However, despite
continued administration of abatacept over 24 months, the fall in              p-cell  function in the abatacept
group parallels that in the placebo group on the basis of the mixed-model results that included the
time interval from 6 to 24 months. This subsequent reduction in           p-cell  function causes us to speculate
that continuing     T-cell   activation    subsides as the    clinical    course of the      disease progresses.
Nevertheless, the difference from the placebo group is maintained during drug administration. Further
observation will establish whether the beneficial effect continues after cessation of monthly abatacept
infusions. Follow up of these patient shows that the drug beneficial effect lasts beyond the drug
administration for at least one year.
[0086]        Abatacept was well tolerated, with no difference between the two groups in adverse
events. However, a potential limitation to clinical applicability is that live vaccines cannot be used
                                                      21

    WO 2014/004857                                                               PCT/US2013/048237
within 3 months of abatacept treatment. This factor might be important in view of the young age of
the target population. The main effect seems to occur early after initiation of treatment with
subsequent resumption of the fall in P-cell function. This pattern is reminiscent of the effects of anti
CD3, anti-CD20, and a GAD-65 vaccine, all of which showed some efficacy followed later by a
reduction in P-cell function parallel to that in the control group. However this approach stands out as
this has little or no appreciable side effects unlike the other interventions enlisted. This finding is
consistent with our notion that there is an early window of opportunity after diagnosis in which T-cell
activation is prominent. The 59% higher mean AUC C-peptide with abatacept than with placebo at 24
months in our study is similar to that seen with those other interventions, although direct comparison
of studies is difficult because of differences in important baseline characteristics, including age,
disease duration at time of randomization, and baseline HbAlc. Moreover, our study differs from
those studies in that abatacept was administered continuously throughout the study, whereas in the
case of anti-CD3, anti-CD20, and GAD-65 vaccine, administration of drug was completed within 2-4
weeks after randomization. Crucially, our study was not designed to establish whether a short
treatment protocol would be sufficient to maintain improved C-peptide secretion over 2 years or
whether a continuation of treatment is needed beyond 2 years. With all patients having completed
their course of abatacept, the ongoing follow-up phase of the study will investigate whether the
improved C-peptide secretion is sustained after discontinuation of the drug and for how long. Long
term follow-up of patients in one anti-CD3 trial showed diminishing difference in C-peptide secretion
between the treated and the placebo group after 3 years. This is not the case for abatacept as the data
one year off treatment shows that the beneficial effect is maintained, the difference in C-peptide
preservation between the abatacept treated and the placebo group has not diminished (62% more C
peptide in the abatacept group at 3 years than the placebo group). In addition, the abatacept treated
group HbAl c remained significantly better even after one year off treatment.
[0087]        In the abatacept group, mean HbA Ic was lower than that in the placebo group throughout
the trial, although it was also lower at baseline. The maintenance of HbAlc lower than 7% for 18
months in the abatacept-treated group is noteworthy because 96 (86%) study participants were 18
years or younger. The clinical importance of HbAl c at this improved level has been well documented.
(The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial Research Group. N Engl J Med 1993; 329: 977-86.)
Insulin use was similar in the two groups and thus did not contribute to the difference in HbAIc. In
our trial, abatacept-treated patients with recent-onset Type    1 diabetes had more endogenous insulin
production, measured by C-peptide, during the 2 years of study drug administration. The duration of
these effects after discontinuation of abatacept is being tested in ongoing follow-up of these patients.
The one-year-off-therapy data shows that the beneficial effects of abatacept persist at least for one
year beyond drug administration. The patients are being followed further. Abatacept administered
over 2 years showed an excellent safety profile in patients with Type I diabetes. Its main effect seems
                                                    22

   WO 2014/004857                                                                  PCT/US2013/048237
to occur early after the initiation of treatment, however further studies are needed to test how far in the
autoimmune process this drug can be effective in slowing down the autoimmunity. These approaches
might be more easily tested with a subcutaneous version of abatacept.
[0088]       The section headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not to be
construed as limiting the subject matter described in any way.
[0089]       While the applicant's teachings are described in conjunction with various ernbodiments, it
is not intended that the applicant's teachings be limited to such embodiments. On the contrary, the
applicant's teachings encompass various alternatives, modifications, and equivalents, as will be
appreciated by those of skill in the art.
                                                    23

    WO 2014/004857                                                              PCT/US2013/048237
CLAIMS:
1.     A method of treating diabetes mellitus in a subject comprising administering an effective
       amount of a fusion protein composition comprising a T-cell co-stimulation antagonist and a
       portion of an immunoglobulin molecule.
2.     The method of claim I wherein the T-cell co-stimulation antagonist comprises the
       extracellular domain of CTLA4, an effective fragment of the extracellular domain or
       immunologically active variant of the extracellular domain.
3.     The method of claim I or claim 2, wherein the T-cell co-stimulation antagonist binds a B7
       antigen expressed on B cells and/or on antigen presenting cells (APCs).
4.     The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the composition comprises
       Abatacept.
5.     The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the composition is administered as a
       pharmaceutically acceptable salt.
6.     The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the composition further comprises an
       oil-based carrier.
7.     The method of claim 6, wherein said oil-based carrier is a water-in-oil emulsion.
8.     The method of claim 6, wherein said oil-based carrier is an oil-in-water emulsion.
9.     The method of claim 6, wherein said oil-based carrier is IFA.
10.    The method of claim 6, wherein said oil-based carrieris Montanide ISA.
11.    The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the composition is administered by
       intravenous infusion.
12.    The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the composition is administered by
       intravenous infusion in about 50 to 200 ml of physiological saline.
13.    The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the composition is administered at a
       dose ranging from about 5 mg/kg to about 50 mg/kg
14.    The method of claim 11, wherein the intravenous infusion of the composition is repeated over
       time.
15.    The method of claim 11, wherein the intravenous infusion of the composition is repeated at
       least once following a time interval ranging from about one week to about two months.
                                                 24

    WO 2014/004857                                                                PCT/US2013/048237
16.    The method of claim 11, wherein the composition is administered at a dose ranging from
       about 250 to 2000 mg.
17.    The method of claim 16, wherein the composition is administered at a dose of 500 mg.
18.    The method of claim 16, wherein the composition is administered at a dose of 750 mg.
19.    The method of claim 16, wherein the composition is administered at a dose of 1000 mg.
20.    The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the method further comprises
       determining levels of C-peptide in blood samples taken from the subject over time as an
       indicator of effectiveness of the treatment in inhibiting activation of auto-aggressive T-cells.
21.    The method of claim 20, wherein the effectiveness of the composition in inhibiting activation
       of auto-aggressive T-cells is indicated by maintenance of C-peptide production or a delay in
       reduction of C-peptide production as compared to a standard.
22.    The method of claim 20, wher-in the effectiveness of the composition in inhibiting activation
       of auto-aggressive T-cells is indicated by improved HbAlc or reduction in the use of insulin
       by said subject as compared to a standard.
23.    The method of claim 20, wherein the reduction of C-peptide production in said subject is
       delayed for at least six months.
24.    The method of claim 20, wherein the reduction of C-peptide production in said subject is
       delayed for at least nine months.
25.    The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the subject is white.
26.    The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein said treating diabetes mellitus in a
       subject comprising preventing the onset of diabetes in a subject at risk for diabetes mellitus.
27.    The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein said treating diabetes mellitus in a
       subject comprising delaying the onset of diabetes by at least six months in a subject at risk for
       diabetes mellitus.
                                                  25

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
