WATER INTAKE RISER ASSEMBLY
ABSTRACT
The invention relates to a water intake riser assembly (105) that is suspendable from an off-shore
structure (102). The assembly (105) comprises at least one water intake riser (106A-B) stretching
along a length direction. The at least one water intake riser (106A-B) comprises, seen in the
length direction, a proximal end comprising suspension means and a distal end comprising a
water-intake section (111). The water intake section (111) is in fluid communication with the
proximal end. The at least one water intake riser (106A-B) comprises an injection system for
injecting an anti-fouling agent into the water intake riser (106A-B). The anti-fouling agent
prevents marine growth in the water intake riser.

                                                    1
WATER INTAKE RISER ASSEMBLY
Cross-reference to Related Application
[0001] The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2015279061, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
Field
[0002] The present invention relates to water intake riser assembly. The invention further relates
to an off-shore structure from such a water riser assembly is suspended, a method of setting up
such a water intake riser assembly, a method of producing a liquefied hydrocarbon stream and a
method of producing a vaporous hydrocarbon stream.
Background
[0003] Water riser assemblies are known from the prior art, for instance from W02012/066040
and W02010/085302.
[0004] W02010/085302 discloses a marine system including a Floating Liquefied Natural Gas
(FLNG) plant on/in a surface of the ocean. The FLNG plant may cool and liquefy natural gas to
form LNG, or alternatively heat and gasify LNG. A water riser assembly is suspended from the
FLNG plant to take in cold water at depth and convey the cold water upward to the FLNG plant.
The water riser assembly comprises tubular structures projecting downwardly into the ocean and
connected together with a plurality of spacers. The spacers have openings through which
respective ones of the tubular structures are disposed. One of the tubular structures may serve as
a structural support or structural riser for the spacers. One or more tubular structures of an array
or grouping connected with FLNG plant may be used to bring water from the ocean to the plant.
In one example nine tubular structures are arranged in a three-by-three rectangular array.
[0005] The tubular structures used for bringing water from the ocean to the plant may suffer
from marine growth on the inside and may clogg over time. Filters are provided on each of the
bottoms of the tubular structures. However, marine growth cannot be prevented by these filters.
Clogging and blockage of the water intake should preferably be avoided at all times as it results
in less effective operation of the FLNG plant and expensive cleaning operations.

                                                  2
Summary of Invention
[0006] It is an object of the present invention to substantially overcome, or at least ameliorate,
one or more of the above disadvantages. It would be desirable to provide an improved water
intake riser assembly that is more effective in operation and requires less or none cleaning.
[0007] The term 'comprising' is used in this text to indicate that all the enlisted elements are
encompassed without excluding the presence of additional non-named elements.
[0008] There is disclosed a water intake riser assembly that is suspendable from an off-shore
structure, comprising at least one water intake riser stretching along a length direction, the at
least one water intake riser comprising, seen in the length direction, a proximal end comprising
suspension means and a distal end comprising a water-intake section, the water intake section
being in fluid communication with the proximal end, wherein the at least one water intake riser
comprises an injection system for injecting an anti-fouling agent into the water intake riser, and
wherein the water intake riser assembly further comprises a first water intake riser with a first
injection system and a second water intake riser with a second injection system, wherein the first
and second water intake risers are generally stretching side by side along the length direction,
and where a conduit is provided to provide a fluid connection between the second injection
system and the first injection system.
[0009] The off-shore structure may be a floating structure, such as a floating LNG-plant. The
LNG plant may be a plant for liquefying a vaporous hydrocarbon containing feed stream and/or
for gasifying a liquefied hydrocarbon stream. In other words, the LNG plant may cool and
liquefy natural gas to form LNG and/or heat and gasify LNG.
[0010] The injection system is provided to add anti-fouling agent to the water taken in by the
water-intake section.
[0011] The anti-fouling agent prevents marine growth development inside the water intake riser
and the cooling water system connected thereto. The anti-fouling agent may be sodium
hypochlorite (NaClO) or hypochlorite.
[0012] Other anti-fouling agents may be used as well.

                                                          3
[0013] The water intake riser can be made by a plurality of riser segments which are connected
to each other to form a conduit, forming the fluid communication between the water intake
section and the proximal end. The water intake risers and possibly the structural riser may be
formed as a tubular conduit. The water intake riser may have any suitable length, for instance a
length of more than 100 meters, more than 200 meters or more than 300 meters.
[0014] According to an embodiment the injection system has one or more injection outlets
inside the water intake riser.
[0015] The injection system comprises one or more injection inlets for receiving the anti-fouling
agent. The one or more injection inlets are in fluid communication with the one or more
injection outlets which are positioned inside the water intake riser to inject the anti-fouling agent
into the water intake riser. In between the one or more injection inlets and the one or more
injection outlets, a distributor may be provided to distribute the anti-fouling agent over the
injection outlets.
[0016] According to an embodiment the injection system comprises a ring-shaped nozzle,
wherein the injection outlets are positioned on an inner perimeter of the ring-shaped nozzle.
[0017] The water intake riser may be formed as a tubular conduit having a diameter       Dtubular
conduit. The ring-shaped nozzle has a diameter that is in the range of 0.8 - 1.0 times the diameter
of the water intake riser: 0. 8 Dwater intake riser < Dnozzie < 1.0 Dwater intake riser.
[0018] The ring-shaped nozzle comprises a ring-shaped channel or distributor forming the fluid
communication between the one or more injection inlets and the one or more injections outlets.
The injection outlets may be uniformly distributed along the inner perimeter of the ring-shaped
nozzle. The number of injection outlets may be greater than 12, for instance in the range of 12
24 injection outlets. The injection outlets and/or the ring-shaped channel may also have non
uniform dimensions to ensure a uniform inflow of anti-fouling agent along the perimeter.
[0019] The use of a ring-shaped nozzle ensures a uniform distribution of the fluid throughout
the flow area of the water intake riser.
[0020] According to an embodiment the injection system has one or more injection outlets
positioned at a distal portion of the water intake riser.

                                                       4
[0021] The injection outlets, e.g. the ring-shaped nozzle is thus positioned at the distal portion
of the water intake riser, i.e. nearby the distal end, e.g. less than 10 or 5 times the diameter of the
water intake riser Dwater intake riser  away from the distal end. The injection system is for instance
positioned somewhere along the water intake section or directly downstream thereof.
[0022] This ensures that the agent is effective along the major part of the water intake riser.
[0023] According to an embodiment the injection system has one or more injection outlets
positioned along the upper edge of the water intake section or downstream of the water-intake
section.
[0024] The water intake section may be formed by a perforated sleeve or filter having a length
along the central axis of the water intake riser of approximately 1 - 10 times the diameter of the
water intake riser Dwater intake riser.
[0025] The injection outlets, e.g. the ring-shaped nozzle, may thus be positioned downstream of
the water-intake section of the water intake riser. This prevents the agent from accumulating
upstream of the injection outlets and resulting in an accumulation of chlorine with negative
impact on the water intake riser assembly.
[0026] The injection outlets are preferably positioned along the upper edge of the water intake
section to ensure that the anti-fouling agent is effective in the major part, e.g. more than 90%, of
the length of the water intake riser.
[0027] The injection outlets are preferably positioned less than one diameter downstream of the
water intake riser Dwater intake riser  downstream or above the water-intake section.
[0028] According to an embodiment the injection system is fluidly connected to an anti-fouling
supply unit.
[0029] The anti-fouling supply unit may be a vessel comprising the anti-fouling agent. The anti
fouling supply unit may further comprise a mixing device for mixing the anti-fouling agent with
water to prepare a required concentration. The anti-fouling supply unit may further comprise a
pump to transport the anti-fouling agent to the injection system.

                                                   5
[0030] The anti-fouling supply unit is preferably located on the off-shore structure where the
water intake riser is suspended from.
[0031] According to an embodiment the at least one injection system is in fluid connection with
an associated anti-fouling supply line wherein the respective anti-fouling supply lines extend in
the length direction along the water intake riser assembly.
[0032] In use, the anti-fouling supply lines run along the length of the water intake riser
assembly between the proximal end and the distal end of the water intake riser assembly,
connecting the anti-fouling supply unit to the injection systems. The anti-fouling supply unit is
typically positioned on the off-shore structure the water intake riser assembly is suspended from.
[0033] According to an embodiment, the water riser assembly comprises a plurality of water
intake risers projecting downwardly into the water and being connected together to form a
bundle by a plurality of spacers. The spacers have openings, formed as guiding sleeves, through
which respective ones of the water intake riser are disposed. The guiding sleeves guide the
respective water intake risers during building and lowering. During use, the spacers keep the
risers together to form a bundle but prevent the risers from colliding. The spacers may be
positioned on predetermined positions along the length direction of the water intake riser
assembly.
[0034] One riser may be provided which serves as structural support for the spacers. This riser,
which may or may not be arranged to take in water, is referred to as the structural riser. The
structural riser is typically positioned in the middle of the bundle. The bundle may for instance
comprise eight water intake risers and one structural riser, arranged in a three by three matrix
with the structural riser positioned in the middle. Alternatively, a plurality of water intake risers
may be arranged in a circular pattern, the structural riser being positioned in the middle.
[0035] According to an embodiment the respective anti-fouling supply lines run through the
structural riser.
[0036] The structural riser may comprise one or more anti-fouling supply lines for the
respective injection systems of the respective water intake risers. The supply lines are at the
proximal end connectable to the anti-fouling supply unit on the off-shore structure and at the
distal end connected or connectable to the respective injection systems.

                                                    6
[0037] The water intake riser assembly may be suspended from the off-shore structure in any
suitable manner. Reference is made to US Patent 7,318,387 which describes a particularly
suitable riser hanger construction involving a flexible load transfer element, such as a chain,
which is surrounded by a hose to convey the water. A similar construction may be used for
suspending the structural riser. The anti-fouling supply lines may be provided inside the hose.
[0038] The distal end of the structural riser may comprise a bottom interface, formed as a
bottom plate with one or more openings through which the anti-fouling supply lines are
connected or connectable to the respective injection systems. The connection may be established
by means of (flexible) conduits. The (flexible) conduits may be connected using divers or
preferably by means of a remotely operated underwater vehicle (ROV).
[0039] According to an embodiment the respective anti-fouling supply lines running through the
structural riser and the respective injection systems are in fluid communication by (flexible)
conduits, such as flying leads.
[0040] The conduits, which may be flexible conduits are arranged to transport anti-fouling agent
from the anti-fouling supply lines to the injection systems. The (flexible)conduits are with one
end connected to the respective anti-fouling supply line and with the other end to the respective
injection inlet.
[0041] According to an embodiment the water intake section of the first water intake riser is
positioned a first distance D1 away in the length direction from the proximal end of the first
water intake riser and wherein the water intake section of the second water intake riser is
positioned a second distance D2 away in the length direction from the proximal end of the
second water intake riser, wherein Di > D2 .
[0042] The distal ends of the water intake risers are positioned at different depths. The water
intake risers are thus provided in a staggered configuration. In case more than two water intake
risers are provided, a first sub-set may have water intake sections at the first distance and the
second sub-set may have water intake sections at the second distance.
[0043] The first distance is thus greater than the second distance. If the length of the water
intake section is Lw 1s, Di is preferably at least equal to the second distance plus the length of the

                                                       7
water intake section: Di > D2+Lw1 s, such that the water intake sections do not overlap in the
length direction.
[0044] The water intake risers in the water intake riser assembly serve to convey water taken in
via the water intake section at the distal portion to the proximal portion. By providing a bundle
of at least a first water intake riser and a second water intake riser, the first water intake riser
being longer than the second water intake riser such that the water intake sections are at
different, preferably non-overlapping, heights, the risk of full interruption of water conveyed to
the proximal portion due to clogging of the water intake section is reduced.
[0045] Firstly, by providing at least two water intake risers it is achieved that water supply is
still possible if one of the two water intake risers is blocked from taking in water. Secondly, by
operating the water intake riser assembly with the water intake sections at different heights, the
risk of both of the two water intake sections being blocked at the same time (for instance by a
single cause) is reduced. Moreover, by staggering the water intake sections in the way
described, the inflow in each water-intake section of each tubular conduit behaves much more
independently since the intake of the neighbouring riser (at the same water depth) is further
away.
[0046] Clearly the water intake riser assembly may be based on a bundle of more than two
water intake risers, for instance eight or nine water intake risers arranged in a rectangular cross
sectional pattern at least having one water intake riser at each of the four corners and one water
intake riser between sets of two of the corners. Alternatively, the water intake risers may be
arranged in a concentric and/or circular pattern. By increasing the number of water intake risers,
the operational risk of blockage may be further reduced. The water intake risers may have water
intake sections at two staggered heights.
[0047] According to an embodiment the water intake riser assembly further comprises a
structural riser, wherein the distal end of the structural riser is a distance  Dstructurai away in the
length direction from the proximal end of the structural riser and the distal end of the longest
water intake riser is a second distance   Diongest wir away in the length direction from the proximal
end of the water intake riser, wherein    Dstructural >Diongest wir.
[0048] The distal end of the structural riser is thus at the same depth or below the distal end of
the longest water intake riser when suspended from the floating structure.

                                                    8
[0049] This makes connecting the injection systems provided on the respective water intake
risers with the anti-fouling supply lines running through the structural riser easier. This
connection is typically made when the water intake riser assembly is in its operating position,
i.e. suspended in a vertical and at least largely submerged position. The distal end of the
structural riser is now easily accessible by divers or ROV's. This makes connecting the
(flexible) conduits, e.g. flying leads, to fluidly connect the anti-fouling supply lines running
through the structural water and the respective injection systems provided on the respective
water intake risers relatively easy.
[0050] According to an embodiment the injection system of the first water intake riser is
connected to the anti-fouling supply line by means of a (flexible) conduit and the injection
system of the second water intake riser is connected to the anti-fouling supply line via the
injection system of the first water intake riser.
[0051] By connecting the injection system of the second, shorter, water intake riser, via the
injection system of the first, longer, water intake riser a simpler and more reliable system is
achieved. The need of relatively long (flexible) conduits (covering the distance from the
structural riser to the shorter second water intake riser) is omitted.
[0052] A further (flexible) conduit, e.g. flying lead, may be provided to fluidly connect the
injection system of the first and second water intake risers.
[0053] There is also disclosed an off-shore structure from which a water riser assembly as
described above is suspended. The off-shore structure may be a floating structure, such as a
floating LNG plant. As stated above, the LNG plant may be a plant for liquefying a vaporous
hydrocarbon containing feed stream and/or for gasifying a liquefied hydrocarbon stream.
[0054] There is further disclosed a method of setting up a water intake riser assembly, wherein
the water intake riser assembly comprises at least one water intake riser stretching along a length
direction comprising an injection system for injecting an anti-fouling agent into the water intake
riser and wherein the water intake riser assembly further comprises a structural riser with at least
one anti-fouling supply line running through the structural riser, wherein the method comprises:
         - suspending the water intake riser assembly from an off-shore structure,
         - providing a conduit, e.g. flexible conduits, to provide a fluid connection between one of
the anti-fouling supply lines and the injection systems.

                                                    9
[0055] The water intake riser assembly may be as described above and may comprise a plurality
of water intake risers with associated water intake sections and injection systems. The method
may comprise providing a plurality of (flexible) conduits to provide fluid connections between
each injection system and a respective anti-fouling supply line.
[0056] The water intake riser assembly comprises a first water intake riser with a first injection
system and a second water intake riser with a second injection system, wherein the first and
second water intake risers are generally stretching side by side along the length direction,
wherein the method further comprises
         - providing a further conduit, e.g. a flexible conduit to provide a fluid connection
between the second injection system and the first injection system.
[0057] As described above, the first water intake riser may be longer than the second water
intake riser, the first water intake section being at a greater depth than the second water intake
section.
[0058] There is still further disclosed a method of producing a liquefied hydrocarbon stream,
comprising:
         - feeding a vaporous hydrocarbon containing feed stream to an off-shore structure;
         - forming a liquefied hydrocarbon stream from at least a part of the vaporous
hydrocarbon containing feed stream comprising at least extracting heat from at least said part of
the vaporous hydrocarbon containing feed stream;
         - supplying water to the off-shore structure via a water intake riser assembly comprising
an injection system for injecting an anti-fouling agent into the water intake riser, and wherein
the water intake riser assembly further comprises a first water intake riser with a first injection
system and a second water intake riser with a second injection system, wherein the first and
second water intake risers are generally stretching side by side along the length direction;
         - providing a conduit to provide a fluid connection between the second injection system
and the first injection system;
         - adding at least part of the heat removed from said at least a part of the hydrocarbon
containing feed stream to at least part of the water supplied via the water intake riser assembly;
         - subsequently disposing of the at least part of the water.

                                                  10
[0059] The water intake riser assembly may be as defined above. The method may comprise
supplying an anti-fouling agent to the injection system.
[0060] There is still further disclosed a method of producing a vaporous hydrocarbon stream,
comprising:
        - providing a liquefied hydrocarbon stream on an off-shore structure;
        - forming a vaporous hydrocarbon stream from at least a part of the liquefied
hydrocarbon stream comprising adding heat to the said part of the liquefied hydrocarbon stream;
        - supplying water to the off-shore structure via a water intake riser assembly comprising
an injection system for injecting an anti-fouling agent into the water intake riser, wherein the
water intake riser assembly further comprises a first water intake riser with a first injection
system and a second water intake riser with a second injection system, wherein the first and
second water intake risers are generally stretching side by side along the length direction;
        - providing a conduit to provide a fluid connection between the second injection system
and the first injection system;
        - drawing at least part of the heat for adding to the said part of the liquefied hydrocarbon
stream from at least part of the water supplied via the water intake riser assembly;
        - subsequently disposing of the at least part of the water.
[0061] The water intake riser assembly may be as defined above. The method may comprise
supplying an anti-fouling agent, to the injection system.
[0062] A variety of suitable installations and line ups are available in the art for regasification or
vaporisation of previously liquefied hydrocarbons streams and adding heat to such a liquefied
hydrocarbon stream, and need not be further explained herein.
Brief Description of Drawings
[0063] Embodiments will now be described, by way of example only, with reference to the
accompanying schematic drawings in which corresponding reference symbols indicate
corresponding parts, and in which:
[0064] Figures la-Ic schematically show a floating liquefied natural gas plant provided with a
water intake riser assembly;

                                                  11
[0065] Figures 2a-2c schematically show partial views of the water intake riser assembly
according to different embodiments.
Description of Embodiments
[0066] For the purpose of this description same reference numbers refer to similar components.
For the purpose of this description, a single reference number will be assigned to a line as well
as a stream carried in that line.
[0067] The person skilled in the art will readily understand that, while the invention is
illustrated making reference to one or more a specific combinations of features and measures,
many of those features and measures are functionally independent from other features and
measures such that they can be equally or similarly applied independently in other embodiments
or combinations.
[0068] Figures 1a - 1c illustrate an example of a marine system 100 in which embodiments of
the present invention may be implemented. The marine system 100 in this example includes an
off-shore structure 102 on/in a surface of the ocean 104, here represented in the form of a
floating structure. The off-shore structure 102 may comprise a Floating Liquefied Natural Gas
(FLNG) plant as one example. The FLNG plant may cool and liquefy natural gas, or
alternatively heat and vaporize LNG. The hardware needed for cooling and/or heating are not
shown and will not be discussed in more detail here.
[0069] A water intake riser assembly 105 is suspended from the off-shore structure 102. The
water intake riser assembly 105 may be used to bring water from the ocean to the off-shore
structure 102. The water intake riser assembly 105 as shown in Fig. la comprises a bundle 106
of water risers 106A, 106B. All but one of the risers may be water intake risers 106A and one
may be a structural riser 106B. The structural riser 106B carries the spacers 110 through which
the water intake risers 106A are guided to prevent the risers 106A, 106B from colliding, while
keeping the risers 106A, 106B bundled.
[0070] The water intake risers 106A take in cold water at depth, and convey the cold water
upward to the off-shore structure 102. The cold water may be input to heat exchangers (not
shown) to add or remove heat to/from a process performed on the off-shore structure 102.
Heated or cooled ocean water from the outlet of the heat exchangers may be discharged back

                                                    12
into the ocean at the surface, or alternatively conveyed back to depth with a discharge system
(not shown).
[0071] The risers 106A, 106B generally stretch side by side along a length direction. Seen in
the length direction, each of the risers have a proximal portion, followed by a connecting
portion, followed by a distal portion. The distal portions of the tubular conduits together, when
fully suspended, form the distal part of the water intake riser assembly. The lowest part of the
distal portion is referred to as the distal end. The part of the proximal portion connected to the
floating structure 102 is referred to as the proximal end. Preferably, the distal end of the water
intake riser assembly hangs free from the ocean floor 103.
[0072] The proximal portion comprises suspension means by which the tubular conduit is
suspended from the off shore structure 102. Due to the ocean current, the risers 106A, 106B may
deflect from vertical, up to around 20 degrees or so (not shown). To accommodate for such
deflection, the risers 106A, 106B may be suspended from the off-shore structure through a
swivel joint, a ball joint, a riser hanger, or other pivotable or hingeable coupling. Particular
reference is made to US Patent 7,318,387 which describes a particularly suitable riser hanger
construction involving a flexible load transfer element and a hose to convey the water.
[0073] The distal portions of the water intake risers 106A comprise a water intake section 111.
The water intake section 111 may be formed as a perforated sleeve or filter and is shown and
discussed in more detail in Fig.'s 2a - 2c further below.
[0074] As shown in Fig.'s la - Ic, the water-intake sections 111 of the different water intake
risers 106A may be positioned in a staggered orientation. This can best be seen in Fig. lb,
showing the structural riser 106B, surrounded by water intake risers 106A. In total eight water
intake risers 106A are present. The risers 106A, 106B are arranged in a three by three matrix
with the structural riser 106B positioned in the middle and eight water intake risers 106A
arranged in a square around the structural riser 106B, of which five are visible in Fig. lb.
[0075] Fig. l a shows an anti-fouling supply unit positioned on the off-shore structure 102
comprising an anti-fouling storage or vessel 201 and a pump 202. The pump 202 is in fluid
connection with the anti-fouling storage or vessel 201 and is arranged to pump the anti-fouling
agent to the respective injection systems via associated anti-fouling supply lines 203 and
(flexible) conduits 204. The anti-fouling supply lines 203 extend in the length direction L along

                                                  13
the water intake riser assembly 105, preferably through the structural riser 106B. At the distal
end of the structural riser 106B the anti-fouling supply lines 203 are connected to the injection
system via (flexible) conduits 204.
[0076] Fig. 2a shows an exploded view of a water intake section 111 of a water intake riser
106A. The water intake section 111 comprises a (tubular) side wall circumferencing around the
length axis stretching in the length direction of the water intake riser 106A. Herewith a flow
passage is defined in the length direction L. Water intake openings 112 are provided as a
plurality of through holes through the side wall. The water intake openings are distributed along
the water intake section 11, in particular along the length and the circumference of the water
intake sections 111.
[0077] Each through hole defines a transverse access port into the flow passage and during
operation allows a transversely directed flow of cold water from the ocean into the flow passage.
[0078] The perforated wall of the water intake section 11 may be made of carbon steel with a
steel grade of X70 or equivalent thereto.
[0079] Furthermore, the distal portion of the water intake riser 106 may comprise a shoe piece
113 at the distal end to provide a rounded tip, which facilitates guiding the water intake riser
through the spacers when lowering the water intake riser into position.
[0080] In the example shown in the figures, the distal portion of some, e.g. four of the eight,
water intake risers 106A extend further in the length direction L, than the remaining water
intake risers 106A.
[0081] As shown in Fig. 2a, the injection system comprises an injection inlet 206 to receive
anti-fouling agent and a plurality of injection outlets 205 to inject anti-fouling agent into the
water intake riser 106A. The injection inlet 206 is in fluid communication with a (flexible)
conduit 204.
[0082] In between the injection inlet and outlets a distributor 207 or the like is provided. In the
example shown, the distributor comprises a ring-shaped nozzle, with the injection outlets 205
positioned on the inner perimeter of the ring-shaped nozzle.

                                                  14
[0083] The embodiment shown in Fig. 2a shows an injection system with a distributor which
comprises two ring-shaped nozzles 207 positioned at different heights along the water intake
riser 106A. The two ring-shaped nozzles 207 are fluidly connected by a conduit 208, which also
may comprise injection outlets 205.
[0084] The embodiment shown in Fig. 2b only comprises a single ring-shaped nozzle 207
positioned along the upper edge of the water intake section.
[0085] As shown in Fig. 1b, the water intake risers 106A may be provided in a staggered
configuration with water intake sections at different depths. A first and second water intake riser
106A are shown, the first water intake risers 106A having its water intake section at a lower
position than the water intake section of the second water intake riser 106A. The distal end of
the structural riser 106B is shown at the same depth as the longest water intake riser 106A, but it
may also be located at a deeper position. As shown, the injection system of the first water intake
riser 106A is connected to the anti-fouling supply line 118 running through the structural riser
106B with a (flexible) conduit 204 and the injection system of the second water intake riser is
connected to the anti-fouling supply line 118 via a (flexible) conduit 204 connecting the
injection system of the second water intake riser 106A to the injection system of the first water
intake riser 106A.
[0086] The water intake riser assembly is set up by first suspending the water intake assembly
from the off-shore structure 102 and subsequently connecting the anti-fouling supply lines 118
to the anti-fouling vessel 201 and to the respective injection systems by (flexible) conduits 204.
[0087] In use, water may be pumped to the floating structure 102 via the respective water intake
risers 106A while anti-fouling agent is transported from the anti-fouling vessel 201 via the anti
fouling supply line 118 and one or more (flexible) conduits 204 to the injection system, where
the anti-fouling agent flows into the water intake riser 106A and is conveyed to the floating
structure 102 by the water flow through the water intake riser 106A.
[0088] The water intake riser assembly as described above may be used to supply process water
to any process carried out on the off-shore structure.
[0089] The person skilled in the art will understand that the present invention can be carried out
in many various ways without departing from the scope of the appended claims.

                                                  15
CLAIMS
1.     A water intake riser assembly that is suspendable from an off-shore structure, comprising
at least one water intake riser stretching along a length direction, the at least one water intake
risercomprising, seen in the length direction, a proximal end comprising suspension means and a
distal end comprising a water-intake section, the water intake section being in fluid
communication with the proximal end, wherein the at least one water intake riser comprises an
injection system for injecting an anti-fouling agent into the water intake riser, wherein the water
intake riser assembly further comprises a first water intake riser with a first injection system and
a second water intake riser with a second injection system, wherein the first and second water
intake risers are generally stretching side by side along the length direction, and wherein a
conduit is provided to provide a fluid connection between the second injection system and the
first injection system.
2.     Water intake riser assembly according to claim 1, wherein the injection system has one or
more injection outlets inside the water intake riser.
3.     Water intake riser assembly according to claim 2, wherein the injection system comprises a
ring-shaped nozzle, wherein the injection outlets are positioned on an inner perimeter of the ring
shaped nozzle.
4.     Water intake riser assembly according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
injection system has one or more injection outlets positioned at a distal portion of the water
intake riser.
5.     Water intake riser assembly according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
injection system has one or more injection outlets positioned along the upper edge of the water
intake section or downstream of the water-intake section.
6.     Water intake riser assembly according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
injection system is fluidly connected to an anti-fouling supply unit.
7.     Water intake riser assembly according to anyone of the preceding claims, wherein the at
least one injection system is in fluid connection with an associated anti-fouling supply line

                                                      16
wherein the respective anti-fouling supply lines extend in the length direction along the water
intake riser assembly.
8.     Water intake riser assembly according to claim 7, wherein the respective anti-fouling
supply lines run through a structural riser.
9.     Water intake riser assembly according to claim 8, wherein the respective anti-fouling
supply lines running through the structural riser and the respective injection systems are in fluid
communication by conduits, such as flying leads.
10.    Water intake riser assembly according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
water intake section of the first water intake riser is positioned a first distance Di away in the
length direction from the proximal end of the first water intake riser and wherein the water intake
section of the second water intake riser is positioned a second distance D2 away in the length
direction from the proximal end of the second water intake riser, wherein Di > D2 .
11.    Water intake riser assembly according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
water intake riser assembly further comprises a structural riser, wherein the distal end of the
structural riser is a distance Dstructurai away in the length direction from the proximal end of the
structural riser and the distal end of the longest water intake riser is a second distance Diongest wir
away in the length direction from the proximal end of the water intake riser, wherein      DstrIucturai >
Diongest wir.
12.    Water intake riser assembly according to any one of claims 10 and 11, wherein the
injection system of the first water intake riser is connected to the anti-fouling supply line by
means of a conduit and the injection system of the second water intake riser is connected to the
anti-fouling supply line via the injection system of the first water intake riser.
13.    An off-shore structure from which a water riser assembly according to any one of the
preceding claims is suspended.
14.    Method of setting up a water intake riser assembly, wherein the water intake riser assembly
comprises at least one water intake riser stretching along a length direction comprising an
injection system for injecting an anti-fouling agent into the water intake riser, wherein the water
intake riser assembly further comprises a structural riser with at least one anti-fouling supply line

                                                   17
running through the structural riser, and wherein the water intake riser assembly further
comprises a first water intake riser with a first injection system and a second water intake riser
with a second injection system, wherein the first and second water intake risers are generally
stretching side by side along the length direction, wherein the method comprises:
        - suspending the water intake riser assembly from an off-shore structure,
        - providing a conduit to provide a fluid connection between one of the anti-fouling supply
lines and the injection systems,
        -providing a conduit to provide a fluid connection between the second injection system
and the first injection system.
15.   Method of producing a liquefied hydrocarbon stream, comprising:
        - feeding a vaporous hydrocarbon containing feed stream to an off-shore structure;
        - forming a liquefied hydrocarbon stream from at least a part of the vaporous
hydrocarbon containing feed stream comprising at least extracting heat from at least said part of
the vaporous hydrocarbon containing feed stream;
        - supplying water to the off-shore structure via a water intake riser assembly comprising
an injection system for injecting an anti-fouling agent into the water intake riser, wherein the
water intake riser assembly further comprises a first water intake riser with a first injection
system and a second water intake riser with a second injection system, wherein the first and
second water intake risers are generally stretching side by side along the length direction;
        - providing a conduit to provide a fluid connection between the second injection system
and the first injection system;
        - adding at least part of the heat removed from said at least a part of the hydrocarbon
containing feed stream to at least part of the water supplied via the water intake riser assembly;
        - subsequently disposing of the at least part of the water.
16.   Method of producing a vaporous hydrocarbon stream, comprising:
        - providing a liquefied hydrocarbon stream on an off-shore structure;
        - forming a vaporous hydrocarbon stream from at least a part of the liquefied
hydrocarbon stream comprising adding heat to the said part of the liquefied hydrocarbon stream;
        - supplying water to the off-shore structure via a water intake riser assembly comprising
an injection system for injecting an anti-fouling agent into the water intake riser, wherein the
water intake riser assembly further comprises a first water intake riser with a first injection

                                                   18
system and a second water intake riser with a second injection system, wherein the first and
second water intake risers are generally stretching side by side along the length direction;
        - providing a conduit to provide a fluid connection between the second injection system
and the first injection system;
        - drawing at least part of the heat for adding to the said part of the liquefied hydrocarbon
stream from at least part of the water supplied via the water intake riser assembly;
        - subsequently disposing of the at least part of the water.
                         Shell Internationale Research Maatschappij B.V.
                      Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                     SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
