                                         Abstract
A drill bit for a drill assembly including a friction bolt defining a longitudinal axial
passage, the drill bit comprising a first bit body at its leading end said first bit body
including a first cutting part and being adapted to releasibly engage with a second bit
body; wherein the drill bit is adapted to pass through the longitudinal axial passage in
the friction bolt.

                                                                          Regulation 3.2
                                       Australia
                                 Patents Act 1990
                           COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                               STANDARD PATENT
APPLICANT(S):       Matthew David McLaren
INVENTION TITLE: Drill Bit for a Drill Assembly Including a Friction Bolt
The following statement if a full description of this invention, including the best
method of performing it known to me: -

                                                 2
                  Drill Bit for a Drill Assembly Including a Friction Bolt
Field of the Invention
The present invention relates to drilling tools and assemblies for installing friction
bolts and more particularly drill bits for drill tools and assemblies for installing friction
bolts. The present invention also relates to friction bolts and methods of drilling
involving friction bolts.
Background of the Invention
Friction bolts are used to stabilise rooves and walls during underground mining and
most often have a generally cylindrical body, a collar at the trailing end of the body
and a tapered leading end portion of the body that assists in inserting the friction bolt
into a bore hole.
Friction bolts often include a split down one side so that when they are driven into a
slightly undersized hole in the rock strata, the rock bolt resiliently deforms to reduce
the size of the split in the body. This resilient deformation exerts radial and frictional
forces against the wall of the hole to retain the friction bolt within the hole and to
reinforce the rock strata. The collar enables a rock bearing plate to be fitted to the
body directly above the collar such that the collar bears the rock bearing plate
against the rock face of the mine to distribute axial loads carried by the friction bolt.
Friction bolts can be installed in a two step process where the first step involves
drilling a hole with one drill tool and the second step involves inserting the friction
bolt with another tool. This two step process, whilst allowing for the recovery of the
entire drill string used to drill the hole, is time consuming and otherwise inefficient.
The deficiencies with the two step process has lead to the development of one step
processes where the friction bolt is inserted as the hole is drilled. A range of drilling
tools and assemblies for the one step process have been developed and these tend
to rely on the use of drill bits that are detached from the drill string, once the friction
bolt has been installed, so the remainder of the drill string can be retrieved through
the inside of the friction bolt and re-used. The loss of the drill bit with each friction
bolt comes at a cost and also requires a new drill bit to be fitted before the next
friction bolt can be installed.

                                               3
Another one step solution for installing friction bolts involves the use of a self drilling
friction bolt with an integrally provided drill bit. Once the friction bolt is installed with
these systems the drill bit is retrieved leaving the friction bolt and the integrally
provided drill bit in the hole.
The present invention seeks to provide an alternative that at least partially addresses
one or more of the problems with existing friction bolt systems.
Summary of the Invention
The present invention provides a drill bit for a drill assembly including a friction bolt
defining a longitudinal axial passage, the drill bit comprising:
     (i)    a first bit body at its leading end said first bit body including a first cutting
            part and being adapted to releasibly engage with a second bit body;
wherein the drill bit is adapted to pass through the longitudinal axial passage in the
friction bolt.
The present invention also provides a two piece drill bit for a drill assembly including
a friction bolt defining a longitudinal axial passage, the two piece drill bit comprising:
     (i)    a first bit body at its leading end said first bit body including a first cutting
            part; and
     (ii)   a second bit body including a second leading end that defines a second
            cutting part;
wherein the first bit body and second bit body are adapted to releasibly engage with
each other.
The present invention also provides a drill assembly comprising:
     (i)    a drill string;
     (ii)   a drill bit according to claim 1 or 2 mounted on the leading end of the drill
            string; and

                                               4
     (iii)  a friction bolt defining a longitudinal axial passage.
Further the present invention provides a drilling system comprising:
     (i)    a drill string;
     (ii)   a drill bit according to claim 1 or 2;
     (iii)  a friction bolt defining a longitudinal axial passage; and
     (iv)   a drive means for imparting rotational and/or percussive force on the drill
            string and the friction bolt.
Still further the present invention provides a method inserting a friction bolt, defining
a longitudinal axial passage, into a formation, the method comprising the steps of:
     (i)    providing a drill assembly including a friction bolt, and a two piece drill bit
            according to claim 2 mounted on a drill string and including a first bit body
            and a second bit body in releasable engagement with each other;
     (ii)   drilling a hole in the formation using the drill assembly;
     (iii)  disengaging the second bit body from the first bit body; and
     (iv)   retrieving the drill string and the first bit body from the hole through the
            longitudinal axial passage.
The present invention also provides a drill bit for a drill assembly including a friction
bolt defining a longitudinal axial passage, the drill bit comprising:
     (i)    a bit body at its leading end including a cutting part;
     (ii)   a means for releasibly engaging with the friction bolt; and
     (iii)  a means for releasibly engaging with another bit body.
Still further the present invention provides a friction bolt comprising a drill bit
according to claim 6.

                                              5
Brief Description of the Drawings
Figure 1a is a cross sectional side view of a drill bit for a drill assembly according to
a first embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention;
Figure lb is a cross sectional side view of a second bit body that forms part of
embodiments of the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh aspects of the
present invention;
Figure 1c is a plan view of the leading end of a two piece drill bit according to an
embodiment of the second aspect of the present invention;
Figure id is a side view of an embodiment of the drill assembly and drilling system
according to the third and fourth aspects of the invention including the two piece drill
bit of Figure 1c;
Figures le, 1f and 1g depict the drilling process using the drill assembly and drilling
system of Figure id with Figure le showing the friction bolt partially inserted, Figure
1f showing it fully inserted and still attached to the drill string and Figure 1g showing
the friction bolt fully inserted and with the drill string retrieved;
Figure 2 is a plan view of the leading end of a two piece drill bit according to another
embodiment of the second aspect of the present invention;
Figure 3 is a plan view of the leading end of a two piece drill bit according to another
embodiment of the second aspect of the present invention;
Figure 4a is a cross sectional side view of a drill bit for a drill assembly according to
another embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention;
Figure 4b is a plan view of the leading end of a two piece drill bit according to
another embodiment of the second aspect of the present invention including the drill
bit of Figure 4a;
Figure 5a is a cross sectional side view of a drill bit for a drill assembly according to
another embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention;

                                              6
Figure 5b is a plan view of the leading end of a two piece drill bit according to
another embodiment of the second aspect of the present invention including the drill
bit of Figure 5a;
Figure 5c is a cross sectional side view of the drill bit of Figure 5a taken from a 900
angle to the view in Figure 5a;
Figure 5d is a cross sectional side view of a drill bit for a drill assembly according to
another embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention;
Figure 5e is a plan view of the leading end of a two piece drill bit according to
another embodiment of the second aspect of the present invention including the drill
bit of Figure 5d;
Figure 5f is a cross sectional side view of a drill bit for a drill assembly according to
another embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention;
Figure 5g is a plan view of the leading end of a two piece drill bit according to
another embodiment of the second aspect of the present invention including the drill
bit of Figure 5f; and
Figure 6 is a side view of a friction bolt according to an embodiment of the seventh
aspect of the present invention including the drill bit body according to an
embodiment of the sixth aspect of the invention.
Detailed Description of the Invention
According to a first aspect the present invention provides a drill bit for a drill
assembly including a friction bolt defining a longitudinal axial passage, the drill bit
comprising:
     (i)    a first bit body at its leading end said first bit body including a first cutting
            part and being adapted to releasibly engage with a second bit body;
wherein the drill bit is adapted to pass through the longitudinal axial passage in the
friction bolt.

                                                 7
For the purposes of the present invention the term "friction bolt" refers to a generally
cylindrical structure adapted to be inserted into a rock or other formation to provide
reinforcement.      Friction bolts employ a range of measures to enable them to be
deployed and provide the required reinforcement, the vast majority of which are
based on the friction bolt being able to exert outward pressure on the hole into which
they have been inserted. One particular type of friction bolt that the drill bit of the
present invention can be used with has a configuration when inserted into a
formation or in situ ("stressed configuration") where the width or diameter of the
longitudinal axial passage therein is reduced relative to the width or diameter of the
longitudinal axial      passage    prior   to   insertion   of the friction bolt ("relaxed
configuration").    Thus, preferably, the drill bit according to the first aspect of the
present invention is adapted to pass through the longitudinal axial passage in the
friction bolt when the friction bolt is in its stressed configuration.
For the purposes of the present invention the terms "leading" and "following" for
example in the phrases "leading end" and "following end" refer to positions relative to
the drilling process. "Leading" as used herein refers to a feature or part thereof that
is closest or proximal to the drilling interface whereas "following" refers to a feature
or part thereof that is furthest or distal to the drilling interface.
Preferably, the first bit body is multi-use or reusable.
The first bit body can be adapted to releasibly engage with the second bit body in a
variety of ways. Preferably, the first bit body is adapted to frictionally engage with
the second bit body. For the purposes of the present invention the term "frictionally
engage" means an engagement that is sufficiently positive to enable a drive applied
to the first bit body to be transferred to the second bit body.
When the first body is adapted to frictionally engage with the second bit body, it may
define a male member adapted to form a friction fit with a compatible female member
in the second bit body. Thus, the male member may comprise at least one surface
that is adapted to engage and form a friction fit with a compatible surface on the
second bit body.

                                              8
Preferably, the at least one male member of the first bit body comprises a taper,
such as a taper that narrows towards its leading end. Examples of tapers include
those in general accordance with a Morse T M , Brown & SharpeTM, R8TM, JacobSTM,
JarnoTM or NMTBTM taper.
As an alternative or in addition to the taper, the at least one male member of the first
bit body may comprise a cross sectional shape designed to frictionally engage with
at least one compatible female member of the second bit body. Preferably, the at
least one male member is adapted to be received in a compatible female member in
the second bit body and form a releasibly interlocking arrangement. The shape of
the male member may be varied provided it is capable of forming a releasable
engagement with a suitably shaped female member.                 Suitable cross-sectional
shapes of the first bit body include, but are not limited to elliptical, such as circular or
oval cross-section.     Alternatively, the first bit body may have a polygonal cross
section such as a triangle, square or rectangle.          Another example of a cross
sectional shape for the first bit body is a cross or "X" shape.
To assist the engagement between the first and second bit bodies the first bit body
may include a spline element that engages with a compatible spline element on the
second bit body. The spline arrangement can provide a more positive engagement
between the first and second bit bodies that may be required in certain situations.
Different spline arrangements include parallel key splines, where the sides of
equally-spaced grooves are parallel in both directions. Thus, the first bit body may
further comprise a spline or groove arrangement.
The first cutting part of the first bit body may comprise one or more cutting elements.
The cutting elements may define a smooth or an angular cutting surface on the first
bit body. For example, the cutting elements can be of the button or blade type or a
combination thereof.      Preferably, the cutting elements comprise a material with a
hardness that is greater than the hardness of the cutting elements on the second bit
body. For example, the hardness of the cutting elements on the first bit body may be
at least 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10 on the Mohs scale of hardness.             Examples of material
suitable for the cutting element on the first bit body include, cobalt steel, carbides
such as tungsten carbide and polycrystal diamond (PCD).             Tungsten carbide tips
may comprise 15% cobalt and have a volume of 0.226cm 3 .

                                                9
As indicated above, it is preferred that the drill bit comprising the first bit body is
adapted to pass through the longitudinal axial passage in the friction bolt in situ i.e.
when the friction bolt has been inserted into a formation. Thus, it is preferred that
the largest diameter or width of the drill bit is sized to enable the drill bit to pass
through the longitudinal axial passage in the friction bolt when the friction bolt is
inserted into a body of rock or other material. With this in mind it is preferred that the
largest diameter or width of the first bit body of the drill bit according to the first
aspect of the present invention is less than or equal to the largest diameter or width
of the remainder of the drill bit.
The drill bit may further comprise at least one conduit for delivering fluid to the
interface between the first bit body and the material being drilled. Preferably, the at
least one conduit defines one more apertures in the leading end of the first bit body.
The drill bit may further comprise a shank at its following end adapted to engage with
a drill string. Preferably, the shank includes a thread compatible with a thread on a
drill string.
According to a second aspect the present invention provides a two piece drill bit for a
drill assembly including a friction bolt defining a longitudinal axial passage, the two
piece drill bit comprising:
     (i)      a first bit body at its leading end said first bit body including a first cutting
              part; and
     (ii)     a second bit body including a second leading end that defines a second
              cutting part;
wherein the first bit body and second bit body are adapted to releasibly engage with
each other.
The first bit body of the two piece drill bit according to the second aspect of the
present invention is described elsewhere herein, particularly in relation to the first
aspect of the present invention.
Preferably, the second bit body is single use or disposable.

                                             10
The second bit body can be adapted to releasibly engage with the first bit body in a
variety of ways and is dependent on the configuration of the first bit body.
Preferably, the second bit body is adapted to frictionally engage with the first bit
body.
When the second bit body is adapted to frictionally engage with the first bit body, it
may comprise a surface that is adapted to engage with a compatible surface on the
first bit body. In this form of the invention, the second bit body can define at least
one female member adapted to frictionally engage with a compatible male member
on the first bit body.
Preferably, the at least one female member of the second bit body comprises a
taper, for example a tapered socket. As an alternative or in addition to the taper, the
at least one female member of the second bit body may define a bore or opening
with a cross sectional shape that makes it suitable for frictionally engaging with the
first bit body. In this regard, the at least one female member may define a bore or
opening adapted to receive a compatible male member on the first bit body. Suitable
cross-sectional shapes of the bore or opening in the female member of the second
bit body include, but are not limited to elliptical, such as circular or oval cross
section. Alternatively, the cross sectional shape of the bore or opening in the female
member of the second bit body may be polygonal such as a triangle, square or
rectangle. Examples of other cross-sectional shapes of the bore or opening in the
female member include a cross or "X" shape.
Preferably, the bore or opening extends entirely through the second bit body to allow
at least part of the first bit body to extend through the second bit body. Thus, in this
regard, the second bit body may be cylindrical or ring shaped with the inside of the
cylinder or ring defining the bore or opening of the female member. It is preferred
that, when releasibly engaged, the first and second bit bodies co-operate to form an
integral cutting surface.
The outer shape of the second bit body can be varied as required and can be
elliptical, such as circular or oval or polygon shaped such as a triangle, square,
rectangle or pentagon.

                                              11
Preferably, the largest diameter or width of the two piece drill bit is defined by the
diameter or width of the second bit body.                 This largest diameter will be
predetermined based on operational requirements and, in particular, the diameter or
width of the friction bolt in the drill assembly that the two piece drill bit is designed for
use with. Preferably, the largest diameter or width of the two piece drill bit is slightly
larger than internal diameter or width of the friction bolt in situ. This allows for the
two piece drill bit to be used to drill a hole of a predetermined width to suit the friction
bolt, and for the second bit body to then be disengaged from the first bit body so the
first bit body can be retrieved through the longitudinal axial passage in the friction
bolt with the remainder of the drill string for re-use. The operation of drill assemblies
employing the two piece drill bits of the present invention is described in more detail
elsewhere herein.
The second cutting part of the second bit body may comprise one or more cutting
elements. Preferably, the cutting elements comprise a material with a hardness that
is less than the hardness of the cutting elements on the first bit body. For example,
the hardness of the cutting elements on the second bit body may be less than 6, 7,
8, 9 or 10 on the Mohs scale of hardness.           Examples of material suitable for the
cutting element on second bit body include those used on the first bit body. The
cutting elements may be of the button or blade type and can be any shape as
required.
Preferably, the second bit body is also adapted to releasibly engage with the leading
end of a friction bolt.      The releasable engagement may be varied provided the
second bit body can be conveniently detached and attached to the friction bolt but
does not detach unintentionally. Preferably, the releasable engagement is a friction
fit such as where a part of the second bit body is adapted to be received in the
leading end of the friction bolt but welding and glue could also be used. To further
reduce the chances of the second bit body detaching unintentionally, a wrap or
shroud could be applied to retain the second bit body on the friction bolt.
According to a third aspect the present invention provides a drill assembly
comprising:
     (i)    a drill string;

                                                12
     (ii)  a drill bit according to a first or second aspect of the present invention
           mounted on the leading end of the drill string; and
     (iii) a friction bolt defining a longitudinal axial passage.
According to a fourth aspect the present invention provides a drilling system
comprising:
     (i)   a drill string;
     (ii)  a drill bit according to a first or second aspect of the present invention;
     (iii) a friction bolt defining a longitudinal axial passage; and
     (iv)  a drive means for imparting rotational and/or percussive force on the drill
           string.
According to a fifth aspect the present invention provides a method inserting a
friction bolt, defining a longitudinal axial passage, into a formation, the method
comprising the steps of:
     (i)   providing a drill assembly including a friction bolt, and a two piece drill bit
           according to a second aspect of the present invention mounted on a drill
           string and including a first bit body and a second bit body in releasable
           engagement with each other;
     (ii)  drilling a hole in the formation using the drill assembly;
     (iii) disengaging the second bit body from the first bit body; and
     (iv)  retrieving the drill string and the first bit body from the hole through the
           longitudinal axial passage.
According to a sixth aspect the present invention provides a drill bit for a drill
assembly including a friction bolt defining a longitudinal axial passage, the drill bit
comprising:
     (i)   a bit body at its leading end including a cutting part;
     (ii)  a means for releasibly engaging with the friction bolt; and
     (iii) a means for releasibly engaging with another bit body.
Preferably, the bit body that forms part of the drill bit according to the sixth aspect of
the present invention includes one or more of the features described herein in

                                             13
relation to the second bit body that forms part of the two piece drill bit according to
the second aspect of the present invention.
Preferably, the means for releasibly engaging with the friction bolt is a friction fit
member such as a part of the bit body adapted to be received in the leading end of
the friction bolt.
According to a seventh aspect the present invention provides a friction bolt
comprising a drill bit according to a sixth aspect of the present invention.
Preferably, the drill bit is releasibly engaged on the leading end of the friction bolt by
a friction fit. Preferably, the outside diameter or width of the drill bit is greater than
the inside diameter of the longitudinal axial passage.
General
Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention described herein is
susceptible to variations and modifications other than those specifically described.
The invention includes all such variation and modifications.         The invention also
includes all of the steps and features referred to or indicated in the specification,
individually or collectively and any and all combinations or any two or more of the
steps or features.
Each document, reference, patent application or patent cited in this text is expressly
incorporated herein in their entirety by reference, which means that it should be read
and considered by the reader as part of this text. That the document, reference,
patent application or patent cited in this text is not repeated in this text is merely for
reasons of conciseness. None of the cited material or the information contained in
that material should, however be understood to be common general knowledge.
The present invention is not to be limited in scope by any of the specific
embodiments described herein. These embodiments are intended for the purpose of
exemplification only.       Functionally equivalent products and methods are clearly
within the scope of the invention as described herein.
The invention described herein may include one or more range of values (e.g. size
etc).   A range of values will be understood to include all values within the range,

                                             14
including the values defining the range, and values adjacent to the range which lead
to the same or substantially the same outcome as the values immediately adjacent
to that value which defines the boundary to the range.
Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to
imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of
any other integer or group of integers.
Other definitions for selected terms used herein may be found within the detailed
description of the invention and apply throughout.         Unless otherwise defined, all
technical terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood to
one of ordinary skill in the art to which the invention belongs.
The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to
the accompanying drawings, in which preferred embodiments of the invention are
shown.      This invention may, however, be embodied in many different forms and
should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein; rather, these
embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete, and
will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers
refer to like elements throughout.
A drill bit for a drill assembly, including a friction bolt defining a longitudinal axial
passage, according to a first embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention
is depicted in Figure la and generally indicated by the numeral 10. The drill bit is
reusable and comprises a first bit body 12 at its leading end 14 and a shank 16 at its
following end 18 adapted to engage with a drill string 54 (see Figure 1d) via an
internal threaded portion 20 in the shank 16.
The first bit body 12 forms a frustoconical shaped male member that tapers towards
its leading end defining a tapered outer surface 24 that is adapted to form a frictional
engagement with a compatible female member in a second bit body in the form of a
frustoconical shaped socket 26 (described more fully with respect to Figure 1b) and
also includes a first cutting part comprising cutting elements in the form of buttons
22a formed of tungsten carbide or some other suitable hard material.            The outer
diameter defined by the drill bit including the first bit body 12 is such that the drill bit

                                             15
10 is adapted to pass through the longitudinal axial passage in a friction bolt. This is
described in more detail later herein in relation to Figures 1d-1g.
Figure lb depicts a second bit body that forms part of embodiments of the second,
third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh aspects of the present invention, generally
indicated by the numeral 28, and being adapted to releasibly engage with the first bit
body 12 of the drill bit 10 in Figure la. The second bit body 28 is in the form of a
cylindrical female member with a bore defining a frustoconcial shaped socket 26, the
narrower end of the socket 26 being the leading end, and the socket 26 further
defining a tapered inner surface 27 shaped to friction fit with the tapered outer
surface 24 of the first bit body 12.
The second bit body 28 is readily disposable and also defines a second cutting part
comprising cutting elements in the form of buttons 22b formed of tungsten carbide.
The main body 29 of the second bit body 28 is formed of a suitable metal such as a
4140 grade metal.
Figure 1c shows a two piece drill bit according to an embodiment of a second aspect
of the present invention. The two piece drill bit generally indicated by the numeral 40
comprises the first and second bit bodies 12, 28 releasibly engaged via a friction fit
between respective and compatible tapered surfaces 24, 27. This two piece drill bit
40 is useful for one pass drilling that simultaneously inserts a friction bolt into a
formation as it is being drilled. The first bit body 12 may include an aperture (not
shown) that is part of a conduit (not shown) for delivering fluid to the interface
between the two piece drill bit 40 and the formation being drilled during the drilling
process.
Figure 1d illustrates an embodiment of the drill assembly and drilling system
according to the third and fourth aspects of the invention in a form ready for drilling.
The drill assembly generally indicated by the numeral 50 includes a friction bolt 52
that surrounds a drill string 54. The two piece drill bit 40 is threaded on the leading
end of the drill string 54 via the thread 20 in the shank 16 at the trailing end 18 of the
drill bit 10 and includes the second bit body 28 friction fitted on drill bit 10 via first bit
body 12.

                                              16
The friction bolt 52 is resiliently deformable such that it can be driven into a drill hole
during the drilling process and impart outward pressure on the inside of the drill hole
once it is inserted. The resiliently deformable characteristics of the friction bolt 52
are provided by the slot 56 in the friction bolt 52 that allows the friction bolt 52 to
contract as it enters the drill hole during the drilling process.
Figures le, 1f and 1g are a series of images depicting the drilling process using the
drill assembly and drilling system of Figure 1d. The insertion process for the friction
bolt 52 is best illustrated in Figures 1e and 1f that show, respectively, the friction bolt
52 partially and fully inserted into a body of rock 60. Figure le shows that the part of
the friction bolt 52 that has entered the drill hole contracts causing a reduction in the
width of the slot 56. When fully inserted (Figure 1f), the width of slot 56 is reduced
along its entire length. The resilient nature of the friction bolt 52 means that it is
biased towards a position at which the slot 56 is open (see Figure 1d) thus the
inserted friction bolt 52 provides outward pressure on the inside surface of the drill
hole.
Figure 1g show the friction bolt 52 full inserted and the drill string 54 fully retracted
from the drill hole. When drilling is completed and the friction bolt 52 is full inserted
(Figure 1f) the operator retracts the drill string 54 to move the two piece bit 40 away
from the end of the hole and release the force which was holding the two pieces 10,
28 together. The operator then gives a short burst of percussion through the drill
string 54 (free hammer) to dislodge or detach the second bit body 28 from the first bit
body 12 on the bit 40. (Figure 1g). With the second bit body 28 disengaged, the drill
string 54, including drill bit 10 and first bit body 12 can be retrieved from the hole
(Figure 1g) and reused as required.       In this regard, once the second bit body 28 is
disengaged the drill string including the first bit body 12 is able to pass through the
longitudinal axial passage in the friction bolt 52. The second bit body 28 remains
behind in the drill hole 60.
Figure 2 depicts a two piece drill bit for a drill assembly similar to that depicted in
Figures 1c and is generally indicated by the numeral 140. The main difference being
that the two piece drill bit 140 in Figure 2 has a second bit body 128 with a
pentagonal outer cross sectional shape. The first bit body 112 of the two piece drill
bit 140 is similar to the first bit body 12 in Figure la and 1c but includes a different

                                              17
arrangement of cutting elements in the form of buttons 122a formed of tungsten
carbide or some other suitable hard material. The first bit body 112 also includes an
aperture 23 that is part of a conduit (not shown) for delivering fluid to the interface
between the two piece drill bit 140 and the formation being drilled during the drilling
process. The second bit body 128 is readily disposable and also defines a second
cutting part comprising cutting elements in the form of buttons 122b arranged around
the periphery of the second bit body 128.
Again, the outer diameter defined by the drill bit including the first bit body 112 is
such that the drill bit incorporating the first bit body 112 but with the second bit body
128 detached is adapted to pass through the longitudinal axial passage in a friction
bolt.
Figure 3 shows a two piece drill bit for a drill assembly similar to that depicted in
Figures 1c and 2 and is generally indicated by the numeral 240. The main difference
being that the two piece drill bit 240 in Figure 3 has a first bit body 212 with a
rectangular outer cross sectional shape and includes a different arrangement of
cutting elements in the form of buttons 222a formed of tungsten carbide or some
other suitable hard material. The first bit body 212 also includes apertures 223 that
are parts of conduits (not shown) for delivering fluid to the interface between the two
piece drill bit 240 and the formation being drilled during the drilling process. The
second bit body 228 of the two piece drill bit 240 is readily disposable and similar to
the second bit body 28 in Figure lb and 1c but includes a different arrangement of
cutting elements in the form of buttons 222b.
Again, the outer diameter defined by the drill bit including the first bit body 212 is
such that the drill bit incorporating the first bit body 212 but with the second bit body
228 detached is adapted to pass through the longitudinal axial passage in a friction
bolt.
Figure 4a depicts a drill bit for a drill assembly according to another embodiment of
the first aspect of the present invention generally indicated by the numeral 410. The
drill bit is reusable and comprises a first bit body 412 at its leading end 414 and a
shank 416 at its following end 418 adapted to engage with a drill string 54 (see
Figure 1d) via an internal threaded portion 420 in the shank 416.

                                             18
The first bit body 412 forms a cross shaped male member that is adapted to form a
frictional engagement with a compatible female member in a second bit body in the
form of a cross shaped socket and also includes a first cutting part comprising
cutting elements in the form of blades 455 formed of tungsten carbide or some other
suitable hard material. The outer diameter defined by the drill bit including the first
bit body 412 is such that the drill bit 410 is adapted to pass through the longitudinal
axial passage in a friction bolt.     This is described in more detail with respect to
another embodiment in relation to Figures 1d-1g.
Figure 4b depicts a two piece drill bit according to an embodiment of a second
aspect of the present invention. The two piece drill bit generally indicated by the
numeral 440 comprises the first and second bit bodies 412, 428 releasibly engaged
via a friction fit.  This two piece drill bit 440 is useful for one pass drilling that
simultaneously inserts a friction bolt into a formation as it is being drilled. The first bit
body 412 includes an aperture 423 that is part of a conduit (not shown) for delivering
fluid to the interface between the two piece drill bit 440 and the formation being
drilled during the drilling process.
Figures 5a and 5c depict a drill bit for a drill assembly according to another
embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention generally indicated by the
numeral 510. The drill bit is reusable and comprises a first bit body 512 at its leading
end 514 and a shank 516 at its following end 518 adapted to engage with a drill
string 54 (see Figure 1d) via an internal threaded portion 520 in the shank 516.
The first bit body 512 forms a wedge shaped male member that is adapted to form a
frictional engagement with a compatible female member in a second bit body in the
form of a socket and also includes a first cutting part comprising a cutting element in
the form of a blade 555 formed of tungsten carbide or some other suitable hard
material. The outer diameter defined by the drill bit including the first bit body 512 is
such that the drill bit 510 is adapted to pass through the longitudinal axial passage in
a friction bolt. This is described in more detail with respect to another embodiment in
relation to Figures 1d-1g.
Figure 5b depicts a two piece drill bit according to an embodiment of a second
aspect of the present invention. The two piece drill bit generally indicated by the

                                              19
numeral 540 comprises the first and second bit bodies 512, 528 releasibly engaged
via a friction fit.  This two piece drill bit 540 is useful for one pass drilling that
simultaneously inserts a friction bolt into a formation as it is being drilled.
Figures 5d and 5e depicts a two piece drill bit for a drill assembly according to
another embodiment of the second aspect of the present invention generally
indicated by the numeral 540 and including a drill bit according to another
embodiment of the first aspect of the invention that is generally indicated by the
numeral 510 and a second bit body generally indicated by the numeral 528
frictionally engaged therewith. The two piece drill bit has a leading end 514 and a
shank 516 at its following end 518 adapted to engage with a drill string 54 (see
Figure 1d) via an internal threaded portion 520 in the shank 516.
The first bit body 512 of the two piece drill bit forms a male member that is tapered
towards its leading end defining a tapered outer surface 524 and is adapted to form
a frictional engagement with the compatible female member in the second bit body
528 in the form of a tapered socket or bore. The first bit body 512 has a generally
circular cross section but includes three concave cut-outs or grooves 525 that are
shaped and positioned to engage with compatible splines on the inside surface of
the tapered socket or bore in the second bit body 528. The inclusion of the grooves
525 and splines allows for a more positive frictional engagement between the first
and second bit bodies 512, 528.       It will be appreciated that the grooves could be
included in the second bit body 528 and the splines provided in the first bit body 512,
if required.
The first bit body 512 also includes a first cutting part comprising cutting elements in
the form of buttons 522a formed of tungsten carbide or some other suitable hard
material. The first bit body 512 also includes three apertures 523 that delivering fluid
to the interface between the two piece drill bit 540 and the formation being drilled
during the drilling process via conduit 527.
The second bit body 528 has a generally circular cross section but also includes
three concave cut-outs or grooves 529 that are positioned equidistant apart on its
outer face.    The inclusion of the grooves 529 allows for a more positive frictional
engagement between the second bit body 528 and the formation being drilled and to

                                              20
allow for the cuttings created during the drilling process to pass around the sides of
the bit and hence be removed from the drilling interface. The second bit body 528
also includes a second cutting part comprising cutting elements in the form of
buttons 522b formed of tungsten carbide or some other suitable hard material.
The outer diameter defined by the first bit body 512 is such that the drill bit 510, with
the second bit body 528 detached, is adapted to pass through the longitudinal axial
passage in a friction bolt after it has been inserted into a hole in the formation being
drilled.   This is described in more detail with respect to another embodiment in
relation to Figures 1d-1g.
The two piece drill bit 540 comprises the first and second bit bodies 512, 528
releasibly engaged via a friction fit. This two piece drill bit 540 is useful for one pass
drilling that simultaneously inserts a friction bolt into a formation as it is being drilled.
Figures 5f and 5g depicts a two piece drill bit for a drill assembly according to
another embodiment of the second aspect of the present invention generally
indicated by the numeral 640 and including a drill bit according to another
embodiment of the first aspect of the invention that is generally indicated by the
numeral 610 and a second bit body generally indicated by the numeral 628
frictionally engaged therewith. The two piece drill bit has a leading end 614 and a
shank 616 at its following end 618 adapted to engage with a drill string 54 (see
Figure 1d) via an internal threaded portion 620 in the shank 616.
The first bit body 612 of the two piece drill bit forms a male member that is tapered
towards its leading end defining a tapered outer surface 624 and is adapted to form
a frictional engagement with the compatible female member in the second bit body
628 in the form of a tapered socket or bore.          The first bit body 612 has a cross
section that is generally shaped in the form of a blunt reuleaux triangle the enables
the first bit body 612 to engage with a suitable shaped inside surface of the tapered
socket or bore in the second bit body 628. The cross sectional shape of the first and
second bit bodies 612, 628 allows for a more positive frictional engagement
therebetween.
The first bit body 612 also includes a first cutting part comprising cutting elements in
the form of buttons 622a formed of tungsten carbide or some other suitable hard

                                               21
material. The first bit body 612 also includes three apertures 623 that deliver fluid to
the interface between the two piece drill bit 640 and the formation being drilled
during the drilling process via conduit 627.
The second bit body 628 also has a generally circular cross section but also includes
a first set of three concave cut-outs or grooves 629 that are positioned equidistant
apart on its outer face and second set of three smaller concave cut-outs 631 located
equidistant between each groove 629.           The inclusion of the grooves 628 and 629
allows for a more positive frictional engagement between the second bit body 628
and the formation being drilled.       The second bit body 628 also includes a second
cutting part comprising cutting elements in the form of buttons 622b formed of
tungsten carbide or some other suitable hard material.
The outer diameter defined by the first bit body 612 is such that the drill bit 610, with
the second bit body 628 detached, is adapted to pass through the longitudinal axial
passage in a friction bolt after it has been inserted into a hole in the formation being
drilled.   This is described in more detail with respect to another embodiment in
relation to Figures 1d-1g.
The two piece drill bit 640 comprises the first and second bit bodies 612, 628
releasibly engaged via a friction fit. This two piece drill bit 640 is useful for one pass
drilling that simultaneously inserts a friction bolt into a formation as it is being drilled.
Figure 6 illustrates a friction bolt 52 according to an embodiment of the seventh
aspect of the present invention including a slot 56, a collar 55 and drill bit 28
releasibly engaged at its leading end by a friction fit. The friction bolt 52 is adapted
to be received on a drill rod including a drill bit that is shaped to frictionally engage in
a socket (not shown) in drill bit 28. Once received thereon the drill assembly can be
used to drill a hole and fit a friction bolt as generally outlined in Figures le, 1f and 1g.
The foregoing is illustrative of the present invention and is not to be construed as
limiting thereof. Although a few exemplary embodiments of this invention have been
described, those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are
possible in the exemplary embodiments without materially departing from the novel
teachings and advantages of this invention. Accordingly, all such modifications are
intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined in the claims. In

                                             22
the claims, means-plus-function clauses are intended to cover the structures
described herein as performing         the recited function and not only structural
equivalents but also equivalent structures. Therefore, it is to be understood that the
foregoing is illustrative of the present invention and is not to be construed as limited
to the specific embodiments disclosed, and that modifications to the disclosed
embodiments, as well as other embodiments, are intended to be included within the
scope of the appended claims.

                                             23
                                           Claims
1. A drill bit for a drill assembly including a friction bolt defining a longitudinal axial
   passage, the drill bit comprising a first bit body at its leading end said first bit
   body including a first cutting part and being adapted to releasibly engage with a
   second bit body; wherein the drill bit is adapted to pass through the longitudinal
   axial passage in the friction bolt.
2. A drill bit according to claim 1, adapted to pass through the longitudinal axial
   passage in the friction bolt is when the friction bolt is in situ.
3. A drill bit according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the first bit body is adapted to
   frictionally engage with the second bit body wherein said frictional engagement is
   sufficiently positive to enable rotational drive applied to the first bit body to be
   transferred to the second bit body.
4. A drill bit according to claim 3 wherein the first bit body comprises a male
   member adapted to form a friction fit with a compatible female member in the
   second bit body.
5. A drill bit according to claim 4 wherein the male member defines at least one
   surface that is adapted to engage and form a friction fit with a compatible surface
   on the second bit body.
6. A drill bit according to claim 4 or 5 wherein the first bit body tapers towards its
   leading end.
7. A drill bit according to claim 6 wherein the taper comprises a taper selected from
   the group consisting of Morse T M , Brown & Sharpe T M , R8TM, Jacobs T M , JarnoTM or
   NMTB TM.
8. A drill bit according to claim 4 or 5 wherein the first bit body is adapted to form an
   interlocking friction fit with the second bit body.
9. A drill bit according to claim 8 wherein the first bit body has a cross sectional
   shape selected from elliptical, circular, oval, polygonal, triangle, square, rectangle
   or cross or "X" shaped.

                                               24
10.A drill bit according to claim 8 wherein the first bit body has a cross sectional
   shape that defines a reuleaux polygon.
11.A drill bit according to claim 8 wherein the first bit body has a cross sectional
   shape that defines a blunt reuleaux polygon.
12.A drill bit according to claim 9 or 10 wherein the reuleaux polygon is a reuleaux
   triangle.
13.A drill bit according to any one of the preceding claims further comprising at least
   one spline or groove.
14.A drill bit according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the first cutting
   part comprises a button or blade type cutting element or a combination thereof.
15.A drill bit according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the hardness of
   the first cutting part is greater than the hardness of the cutting part on the second
   bit body.
16.A drill bit according to any one of the preceding claims further comprising at least
   one conduit for delivering fluid to the interface between the first bit body and the
   material being drilled.
17.A drill bit according any one of the preceding claims further comprising a shank at
   its following end adapted to engage with a drill string.
18.A drill bit according to claim 17 wherein the shank is adapted to be threaded on to
   a drill string.
19.A two piece drill bit for a drill assembly including a friction bolt defining a
   longitudinal axial passage, the two piece drill bit comprising:
   (i)      a first bit body at its leading end said first bit body including a first cutting
            part; and
   (ii)     a second bit body including a second leading end that defines a second
            cutting part;
   wherein the first bit body and second bit body are adapted to releasibly engage
   with each other.

                                           25
20.A two piece drill bit according to claim 19 wherein the first bit body comprises a
   first bit body according to any one of claims 1-18.
21.A two piece dill bit according to claim 19 or 20 wherein the second bit body is
   disposable.
22.A two piece drill bit according to any one of claims 19 to 21 wherein the second
   bit body is adapted to frictionally engage with the first bit body.
23.A two piece drill bit according to claim 22 wherein the second bit body comprises
   a surface that is adapted to engage with a compatible surface on the first bit
   body.
24.A two piece drill bit according to claim 23 wherein the second bit body defines at
   least one female member adapted to frictionally engage with a compatible male
   member on the first bit body.
25.A two piece drill bit according to claim 24 wherein the at least one female
   member of the second bit body comprises a tapered socket.
26.A two piece drill bit according to any one of claims 19 to 25 wherein the at least
   one female member has a cross-sectional shape that is elliptical, polygonal or "X"
   shaped.
27.A two piece drill bit according to claim 25 or 26 wherein the tapered socket
   extends entirely through the second bit body to allow at least part of the first bit
   body to extend through the second bit body.
28.A two piece drill bit according to claim 27 wherein the second bit body is
   cylindrical or ring shaped with the inside of the cylinder or ring defining the bore
   or opening of the female member.
29.A two piece drill bit according to any one of claims 19 to 28 wherein the first and
   second bit bodies co-operate to form an integral cutting surface.
30.A two piece drill bit according to any one of claims 19 to 29 wherein the largest
   diameter or width of the two piece drill bit is defined by the diameter or width of
   the second bit body.

                                               26
31.A two piece drill bit according to claim 30 wherein the largest diameter or width of
   the two piece drill bit is slightly larger than internal diameter or width of the friction
   bolt in situ.
32.A drill bit according to claim 1 or a two piece drill bit according to claim 19
   wherein said cutting parts comprise at least one cutting element in the form of a
   button formed of tungsten or some other suitable material.
33.A two piece drill bit according to claim 9 wherein the second bit body is adapted
   to releasibly engage with the leading end of a friction bolt.
34.A two piece drill bit according to claim 33 wherein the releasable engagement is a
   friction fit.
35.A drill assembly comprising:
   (i)      a drill string;
   (ii)     a drill bit according to claim 1 mounted on the leading end of the drill
            string; and
   (iii)    a friction bolt defining a longitudinal axial passage.
36.A drilling system comprising:
   (i)      a drill string;
   (ii)     a drill bit according to claim 1;
   (iii)    a friction bolt defining a longitudinal axial passage; and
   (iv)     a drive means for imparting rotational and/or percussive force on the drill
            string and the friction bolt.
37.A method inserting a friction bolt, defining a longitudinal axial passage, into a
   formation, the method comprising the steps of:

                                               27
   (i)      providing a drill assembly including a friction bolt, and a two piece drill bit
            according to claim 19 mounted on a drill string and including a first bit body
            and a second bit body in releasable engagement with each other;
   (ii)     drilling a hole in the formation using the drill assembly;
   (iii)    disengaging the second bit body from the first bit body; and
   (iv)     retrieving the drill string and the first bit body from the hole through the
            longitudinal axial passage.
38.A drill bit for a drill assembly including a friction bolt defining a longitudinal axial
   passage, the drill bit comprising:
   (i)      a bit body at its leading end including a cutting part;
   (ii)     a means for releasibly engaging with the friction bolt; and
   (iii)    a means for releasibly engaging with another bit body.
39.A drill bit according to claim 38 wherein the means for releasibly engaging with
   the friction bolt is a friction fit member.
40.A drill bit according to claim 39 wherein the friction fit member is a part of the bit
   body adapted to be received in the leading end of the friction bolt.
41.A friction bolt comprising a drill bit according to claim 38.
42.A friction bolt according to claim 41 wherein the drill bit is releasibly engaged on
   the leading end of the friction bolt by a friction fit.
43.A friction bolt according to claim 41 or 42 wherein the largest outside diameter or
   width of the drill bit is greater than the largest inside diameter of the longitudinal
   axial passage.

                                      <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
                                               22a   22b
                                         22b
                                                                40
                                         28
                                         12
FIG. 1b
 a               22a
                                                           52
24
           22b
      14                                                   56         1/6
                                 22b
                                29
                                         55
                  12        FIG. 1c
      16               28
                                         54
     18                                                          50
 G. 1a                           FIG. 1d

                                   <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                                                      28
                                                      60
                              60
                                                          56
                                                      52
60                       52
                         56
                              55                               2/6
                                                     12
                               10
                               55
     55
                    54
                                                54
          FIG. 1f                                    FIG. 1g

                                           <removed-apn>              <removed-date>
122a                                     222a
       122b
                                  222b              223
              112                                           240
                    128
                           222a                                 222a
                                                           212              3/6
                    122b
                                                                228
               122a        222b                          222b
    122b
2                                               FIG. 3
                                         222a

                                                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
      422b                               522b                 522b
        423                                                         555
       455                   540
                                                                  528
  422b                                   522b                522b
455   FIG. 4b                                           FIG. 5b
                                   555
      455
                                    512
                                                                          4/6
        414
                                   514
  416
                                    516
             520
                                   518
         418
                                         520
         510                                                    510
                   FIG. 5a                        FIG. 5c

<removed-date>
                                                              5/6
                                          512                                     622b   612
                            522b                                           631
                                                522a                                            622a
               525                                                622b
                                                   527                                                 623
              528
                                                       522b       628
                                                                                                        622b
              529
<removed-apn>
                                                                  629
                A                                      A             B                             B
              522a
                                                                    622a
              525                                  523
                     522b
                                                                                         622a
                                                                                                FIG. 5g
                                            522a                           622b
                            FIG. 5e
                                   522a            522b                             622a
                                                                                                   622b
               512
                                                                   612
                                                                                                             614
               528                                          514
                                                                   628
                                                                                                        624
                                                        524
                527                                                 623
              540
                                                                                                   616
                                                   516
                                                                                                        640
               510                                                610
                                                                                                       618
                                                           518
                520                                                 620
                                                FIG. 5d                                         FIG. 5f

<removed-date>
                         6/6
                        22b
                                 28
<removed-apn>
                   27            26
                                 52
                                 56
              55
                        FIG. 6

