                                            ABSTRACT
Disclosed herein are medical devices comprising a single-lobed thon-walled, expandable body
("ballstent" or "blockstent") and a flexible, elongated delivery device ("delivery catheter") and
systems and methods for use for occluding segments of blood vessels and other biological
conduits. Expandable bodies comprising gold, platinum or silver that can be compressed,
positioned in the lumen of an aneurysm or blood vessel, and expanded to conform to the
shape of the aneurysm or segment of blood vessel or biological conduit are disclosed.

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
                 EXPANDABLE BODY DEVICE AND METHOD OF USE
                  CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
        [0001]    The present application claims priority to PCT International Patent
Application No. PCT/US1 2/21620, which was filed on January 17, 2012, entitled
"Detachable Metal Balloon Delivery Device and Method," and claims priority to U.S.
Provisional Application No. 61/433,305 ("the '305 Application"). The '305 Application
was entitled "Detachable Metal Balloon Delivery Device and Method" and was filed on
January 17, 2011. The present application also claims priority to PCT International
Patent Application No. PCT/US1 2/21621, which was filed on January 17, 2012, entitled
"Ballstent Device and Methods of Use," and also claims priority to the '305 Application.
The present application also claims priority to PCT International Patent Application No.
PCT/US1 2/00030, which was filed on January 17, 2012, entitled "Blockstent Device and
Methods of Use," and also claims priority to the '305 Application. Each of the above
listed patent applications is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                         FIELD OF THE PRESENT DISCLOSURE
        [0002]    The present disclosure relates to devices and systems including an
expandable body and a delivery catheter for the treatment of saccular aneurysms of the
vascular system or the occlusion of blood vessel segments, where the expandable body
ultimately remains in the aneurysm or blood vessel segment in an expanded state.
Further, the present disclosure relates to components for, and methods of, attaching the
expandable body to the delivery catheter, as well as components for, and methods of,
separating the expanded body from the delivery catheter, such that the expanded body
remains in place in an expanded state while the delivery catheter is removed from the
patient's body.
                                             1

     WO 2013/109309                                                      PCT/US2012/047072
                      BACKGROUND OF THE PRESENT DISCLOSURE
        [0003]       An aneurysm is an abnormal outward bulging of a blood vessel that
can occur anywhere in the body. This bulge weakens the blood vessel wall, making it
susceptible to rupture, which results in bleeding or hemorrhage. Aneurysms are
common in the arterial circulation of the brain, where they are known as cerebral
aneurysms. When cerebral aneurysms rupture, this often leads to a hemorrhagic
stroke, and sometimes brain damage and death. Cerebral aneurysms are a common
condition, affecting an estimated 2% of the adult population. Approximately 90% of
cerebral aneurysms are saccular with a rounded, pouch-like shape. Invasive surgery
remains a mainstay in their treatment, with the surgery involving opening the skull and
sealing the aneurysms by placing a small surgical clip on the outside of the neck,
thereby limiting blood flow into the aneurysm sac.
        [0004]       Alternatively, minimally invasive, catheter-based, endovascular
treatments have been developed wherein a series of small metal coils are used to fill
the aneurysm sac, effectively stabilizing it. In order to treat a blood vessel or aneurysm
with coils, a physician inserts a catheter into a lumen of the vascular system and
maneuvers the catheter tip into the aneurysm sac. With the catheter tip in position, the
physician passes small coils through the catheter into the lumen of the vessel or the
cavity of the aneurysm. Although effective, coiling of saccular cerebral aneurysms has
drawbacks. First, coil placement is difficult to control, often resulting in coil protrusion
into the parent vessel or coil migration to non-target locations. Second, coils only
partially fill the aneurysm sac. The accumulation of thrombus and scar tissue is
required to seal the aneurysm, a process that takes weeks to occur and is sometimes
incomplete, often resulting in aneurysm recanalization or rupture, and reducing the
effectiveness of coils in the treatment of acute aneurysm rupture with subarachnoid
hemorrhage. Incomplete filling of saccular aneurysms with coils is especially common
in the neck region of saccular aneurysms, where coil density can be low and blood flow
rates high. Third, numerous coils are usually required to treat the aneurysm, resulting in
high costs and long treatment times. Fourth, coils are susceptible to compaction,
further exposing the aneurysm neck and leading to substantial rates of aneurysm
recurrence.
                                                 2

     WO 2013/109309                                                       PCT/US2012/047072
        [0005]     More recently, traditional tubular stents have been adapted for the
treatment of cerebral aneurysms. These stents are placed on delivery devices and
positioned in the parent vessel adjacent to the aneurysm. These stents are then
expanded in the parent vessel with the delivery device, followed by removal of the
delivery device. The expanded metal stent acts to seal the neck of the aneurysm and
keep blood flow out of the aneurysm sac in order to promote aneurysm thrombosis.
Although effective, the use of these "flow diverting" stents has drawbacks. First, the
stents may cover and divert blood flow away from important arterial branches adjacent
to the aneurysm, sometimes resulting in ischemia and stroke. Second, the stents are a
source of thrombus and intimal hyperplasia formation in the parent vessel, which can
result in narrowing in the parent vessel lumen, ischemia, and stroke.
        [0006]     In other clinical situations, patients can benefit from the occlusion of
certain artery or vein segments through endovascular means. Clinical settings where
endovascular vessel occlusion is beneficial include reducing bleeding from an injured
vessel, reducing blood flow to tumors, and rerouting the path of blood in the vascular
system for other purposes. Alternatively, minimally invasive, catheter-based,
endovascular treatments have been developed to occlude blood vessel segments.
Endovascular medical devices for blood vessel occlusion include balloon catheters
wherein the balloon can be inflated to fill the lumen of a blood vessel segment and
detached from the catheter. There are two major drawbacks to the use of detachable
balloon catheters for blood vessel occlusion. First, the balloons are made of polymers
that generally resist tissue incorporation. This limits fixation of the devices where they
are placed. Second, the balloons are configured with elastic walls which are expanded
with pressurization and valves designed to maintain that pressure after detachment.
Unfortunately, there is a substantial rate of balloon and valve failure, resulting in
deflation. Without tissue incorporation, balloon deflation can lead to balloon migration
and occlusion of non-target vessel segments.
        [0007]     Endovascular medical devices for blood vessel occlusion include metal
coils that are used to fill a portion of the lumen of a blood vessel segment to induce
thrombosis and occlusion of the blood vessel segment. There are several major
drawbacks to the use of metal coils for blood vessel occlusion. First, numerous coils
                                                 3

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
are usually required to occlude the blood vessel segment, resulting in higher costs and
longer treatment times. Second, coil placement is difficult to control, often resulting in
coil placement in non-target vessel segments. Third, coils only partially fill the blood
vessel. The accumulation of thrombus and scar tissue is required to occlude the blood
vessel, a process that takes weeks to occur and is sometimes incomplete, often
resulting in incomplete occlusion or recanalization and a failed treatment.
        [0008]     More recently, endovascular medical devices for blood vessel
occlusion have been developed that include basket structures that are used to fill a
portion of the lumen of a blood vessel segment to induce thrombosis and occlusion of
the blood vessel segment. Although only a single basket structure is usually required to
occlude a blood vessel segment, and the devices are generally easier to control, these
devices only partially fill the blood vessel and require the accumulation of thrombus and
scar tissue to occlude the blood vessel. As with coils, this process takes weeks to occur
and is sometimes incomplete, often resulting in incomplete occlusion or recanalization
and a failed treatment.
        [0009]    Therefore, there remains a need for medical devices, systems, and
methods for treating saccular aneurysms, including cerebral aneurysms, which result in
a more effective and complete sealing of saccular aneurysms that is more durable and
permanent. It is further desired to have medical devices, systems, and methods that
seal aneurysm sacs more quickly. Finally, it is desired to have medical devices,
systems, and methods that can be performed more easily and in less time, with a lower
risk of complications, and at a lower cost, when compared with existing treatments.
        [0010]    There also remains a need for catheter-based medical devices,
systems, and methods for the occlusion of blood vessel segments that are simple to
perform, result in a rapid, controlled, and complete occlusion, have a low risk of
recanalization, device migration, or other complications, and can be purchased at a
reasonable cost.
                      SUMMARY OF THE PRESENT DISCLOSURE
        [0011]     Disclosed herein are medical systems and devices for the treatment of
saccular aneurysms using an expandable body or structure. Also disclosed are medical
                                               4

      WO 2013/109309                                                     PCT/US2012/047072
systems and devices for the occlusion or blockage of blood vessel segments, including
arteries, veins, and other vascular conduits of the vascular system using an expandable
body or structure. The expandable body may be configured for use as a balloon, a
ballstent, or a blockstent. The terms expandable body, expandable structure,
expandable balloon, ballstent, and blockstent, as used herein, refer to an expandable
body having a single-layered or multi-layered construction and wherein the expandable
body may be first introduced in a non-expanded state into a patient using a delivery
device, second, negotiated in the non-expanded state through the cardiovascular
system of the patient to a target treatment site (i.e., implantation site), third, expanded at
the target treatment site into an expanded state, and, fourth, detached from the delivery
device to remain in the patient's body in an expanded configuration at the target
treatment site. Also disclosed herein are methods of manufacturing and using the
medical systems and medical devices.
         [0012]     A medical system disclosed herein may be for filling a biological space
of a patient. Such a medical system includes a single lobed metallic expandable body
(e.g., a ballstent or blockstent) and delivery device. Filling of a biological space includes
filling at least a portion of a lumen of a ruptured or non-ruptured aneurysm or a lumen of
a blood vessel segment, including arteries and veins.
         [0013]     The single lobed metallic expandable body includes a distal region, a
proximal region generally opposite the distal region, and an intermediate region
transitioning from the distal region to the proximal region. A center axis extends
proximal-distal between the proximal region and distal region of the single lobed metallic
expandable body. A wall of the single lobed metallic expandable body extends
generally continuously through the intermediate region from the distal region to the
proximal region to define an exterior surface of the expandable body and an interior
surface of the expandable body. The interior surface defines an interior volume of the
expandable body, wherein the expandable body is configured to expand from a
deliverable (i.e., collapsed or non-expanded) configuration to an expanded
configuration.
         [0014]     The delivery device has a longitudinally extending body that includes a
proximal end and a distal end generally opposite the proximal end. The distal end of
                                                5

     WO 2013/109309                                                      PCT/US2012/047072
the delivery device is operably coupled to the proximal region of the expandable body.
In one embodiment, when the expandable body is in the deliverable configuration, the
wall assumes a pleated configuration having a plurality of pleats folded over in a
clockwise direction relative to the center axis, or, alternately, in a counter-clockwise
direction relative to the center axis to form a folded-over region of the expandable body.
Conversely, when the expandable body is in the expanded configuration, the plurality of
pleats is not folded over and the pleated configuration substantially ceases to exist.
        [0015]     In one embodiment, the medical system includes an electrolysis
system having an electrical circuit partially supported on the delivery device and
configured to decouple a proximal region of the expandable body from a distal end of
the delivery device by electrolysis. In other embodiments, the medical system includes
an electrical system having an electrical circuit partially supported on the delivery device
to supply electrical energy to a polymer link coupled to the proximal region of the
expandable body and the delivery device. The supplied electrical energy heats the link
thereby causing the link to release. The electrical system can also heat the polymer
coupling by passing an electric current through a resistive heating element or wire
adjacent to the polymer coupling.
        [0016]     Methods for filling a biological space of a patient are also disclosed
herein. One method includes providing a single-lobed metallic expandable body
configured to expand from a deliverable configuration to an expanded configuration.
The expandable body is delivered into the biological space of the patient in a deliverable
configuration via a delivery device having a distal end operably coupled to a proximal
region of the expandable body. A fluid medium can be delivered into the interior volume
of the expandable body via the delivery device to cause the expandable body to
assume the expanded configuration. After expansion, the expandable body is
decoupled from the delivery device.
        [0017]      In one embodiment, the method includes using an electrolysis system
having an electrical circuit partially supported on the delivery device to decouple a
proximal region of the expandable body from a distal end of the delivery device by
electrolysis. In other embodiment, the method includes using an electrical system
having an electrical circuit partially supported on delivery device to supply electrical
                                                6

     WO 2013/109309                                                      PCT/US2012/047072
energy to a polymer link coupled to the proximal region of the expandable body and the
delivery device. The supplied electrical energy heats the link thereby causing the link to
release. The electrical system may also be configured to heat the polymer coupling by
passing an electric current through a resistive heating element or wire adjacent to the
polymer coupling.
        [0018]     Methods for manufacturing a system for filling a biological space of a
patient are also disclosed herein. One method includes manufacturing a single lobed
metallic expandable body having a distal region, a proximal region generally opposite
the distal region, and an intermediate region transitioning from the distal region to the
proximal region. A center axis extends proximal-distal between the proximal region and
distal region of the single lobed metallic expandable body. A wall of the single lobed
metallic expandable body extends generally continuously through the intermediate
region from the distal region to the proximal region to define an exterior surface of the
expandable body and an interior surface of the expandable body. The interior surface
defines an interior volume of the expandable body.
        [0019]     The methods also include manufacturing a delivery device having a
longitudinally extending body that includes a proximal end and a distal end generally
opposite the proximal end, operably coupling the distal end of the delivery device to the
proximal region of the expandable body. The methods of manufacturing also include
forming the wall of the expandable body into a pleated configuration. The pleated
configuration includes a plurality of pleats folded over in a clockwise direction relative to
the center axis, or alternately, a counter-clockwise direction relative to the center axis to
form a folded-over region of the expandable body.
        [0020]     Another method of manufacturing a system for filling a biological space
of a patient includes coupling a stainless steel ring to a proximal end of a sacrificial
mandrel, depositing a metal layer over the sacrificial mandrel and at least over a portion
of the stainless steel ring, and eliminating the sacrificial mandrel to leave behind the
metal layer in the form of a hollow body having the shape of the sacrificial mandrel. The
stainless steel ring is therefore joined to and extending from a proximal region of the
hollow body.
                                               7

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
        [0021]     The method can include applying an electrical insulation material to an
exterior surface and an interior surface of the hollow body and an exterior surface of the
stainless steel ring and creating an anode by rendering a portion of the exterior surface
of the region of the neck composed of the stainless steel ring free of the electrical
insulation material. The method further includes coupling the stainless steel ring to a
distal end of a delivery device and electrically coupling an electrolysis system to the
potential anode through a conduction path that travels through the delivery device.
        [0022]      In the various embodiments of the systems and methods described
above, the walls of the expandable body can include at least one metal layer having a
thickness ranging between approximately 5 pm and 50 pm. In one example, the metal
layer of the distal, intermediate, and proximal regions may include gold or platinum.
The wall of the expandable body may also include an inner layer of a non-metallic
coating extending over an inner surface of the metal layer and an outer layer of a non
metallic coating extending over an outer surface of the metal layer. The non-metallic
coatings may be an electrical insulation material, including, for example, Parylene. For
example, an inner layer and outer layer of Parylene may coat the gold or platinum metal
layer.
        [0023]     A surface of the metal layer may include rounded, pebbled, or granular
surface structures that have a surface height of approximately 0.1 Pm to approximately
10 pm. The outer surface of the metal layer may include generally tubular protrusions.
In one embodiment, some of the generally tubular protrusions are branched. In another
embodiment, some are joined on both ends to the metal layer to form loops.
        [0024]     The metal layer of the expandable body may be produced by
electroforming on a mandrel, wherein optionally all or a portion of the mandrel is
sacrificial. Portions of the mandrel may be formed of sacrificial aluminum components,
as well as non-sacrificial steel or stainless steel components. The mandrel may have a
lapped finish with no more than approximately 0.1 micron between peak and valley of
rough surface features. Alternately, the mandrel may have a pleated outer surface that
generally replicates a pleated configuration of the expandable body that is intermediate
in shape between the deliverable configuration and the expanded configuration. A non
sacrificial stainless steel mandrel component may include a surface layer of gold or
                                               8

     WO 2013/109309                                                      PCT/US2012/047072
platinum that extends over at least a portion of one of an inner surface or an outer
surface of the stainless steel surface layer of the non-sacrificial mandrel component.
       [0025]     In various embodiments, the expandable body may undergo one or
more annealing processes. The expandable body may be annealed before and after
being folded into the deliverable configuration. Further, the expandable body may
undergo an annealing process while comprising a non-metallic coating.
       [0026]     The wall of the expandable body may include pores that may extend
completely through the thickness of the wall from the interior to the exterior surface.
The pores range from 1 micron to 500 microns in diameter. As such, the expandable
body may be inflated by a fluid supply device in fluid communication with the interior
volume of the expandable body via the delivery device. The fluid supply device is
configured to provide a supply fluid flow rate to the interior volume that exceeds an
escape fluid flow rate from a plurality of pores at a fluid delivery pressure.
       [0027]     When in the delivery configuration, the folded-over region of the
expandable body may define a wire-receiving channel. In one embodiment, however,
no portion of the delivery device is found within the folded-over region of the expandable
body. Each pleat includes a ridge line extending proximal-distal and radially away from
the center axis and each pleat is separated from any immediately adjacent pleat by an
interposed trough extending proximal-distal, such that the pleated configuration has an
alternating ridge-trough arrangement. When folded each pleat is folded over an
immediately adjacent pleat in a clockwise direction relative to the center axis, or in a
counter-clockwise direction relative to the center axis. In one embodiment, no portion of
the delivery device is found within the folded-over region of the expandable body. In
another embodiment, the folded-over region of the expandable body may define a
channel for receiving a guidewire.
       [0028]     In various embodiments, the expandable body is inflatable to achieve
the expanded configuration. The expandable body is inflated via the delivery of a fluid
medium to the interior volume of the expandable body. The fluid medium typically
includes a liquid or gas. During expansion, pressure within various embodiments of the
expandable body is three atmospheres. Other suitable pressures include two
atmospheres and one atmosphere or less.
                                              9

      WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
        [0029]      During inflation, the pleated configuration and the plurality of pleats of
the expandable body that are present in the deliverable configuration are substantially
eliminated. When expanded, the expandable body possesses sufficient strength to
maintain itself in the expanded configuration within a biological space after separation
from the delivery device.
        [0030]      The metallic expandable body and the delivery device are configured
to allow the interior volume of the expandable body to, optionally, be at least partially
filled with a solid or semi-solid support structure. The support structures include metallic
or polymeric coils or wires, metallic or polymeric expansile structures, beads, balls,
microspheres, a bioresorbable material, or combinations thereof. In one embodiment,
solid or semi-solid material or members not derived from the patient are not required in
the interior volume of the expandable body to cause the expandable body to assume or
maintain the expanded configuration after separation of the expandable body and the
delivery device.
        [0031]      When the expandable body is in the expanded configuration, the
expandable body has an overall shape that is a sphere or an oblong shape. In one
particular embodiment where the expandable body is to serve as a ballstent, the
intermediate region, the proximal region, and the distal region combine to form a
generally spherical shape. In another particular embodiment where the expandable
body is to serve as a blockstent, the intermediate region is generally cylindrical and the
proximal region and the distal region are both generally hemispherical.
        [0032]      The expandable body may include a neck extending proximally away
from the proximal region to operably couple to the distal end of a delivery device. In
one embodiment, both the expandable body and the neck are formed entirely from a
malleable metal such as gold or platinum. In another embodiment, at least a portion of
the neck includes stainless steel while the remainder of the expandable body includes a
malleable metal such as gold or platinum. The delivery device may be operably
coupled the neck portion of the proximal region of the expandable body by an elastic
sleeve. The elastic sleeve may be formed of ChronoPrene, silicone, or PEBAX@. A
PEBAX@ sleeve may have a durometer ranging between 25 and 80 Shore D. The
delivery device may be engaged to the expandable body by a friction fit. Additionally, a
                                                10

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
vacuum may be present in the catheter. The expanded expandable body and the
delivery device may be separated by pulling apart the delivery device and the
expandable body. The delivery device includes a longitudinally extending body, which
may have a hydrophilic or lubricious coating. This coating may also be present on the
expandable body. The distal segment of the longitudinally extending body is operably
coupled to a proximal region of the expandable body. For example, the distal end of the
longitudinally extending body may be received in the neck at the proximal region of the
expandable body, such that the outer surface of the distal segment of the longitudinally
extending body is in contact with an inner surface of the neck of the expandable body.
In another example, the distal segment of the longitudinally extending body terminates
near a proximal edge of a ring-shaped region of exposed metal in the neck of the
expandable body.
        [0033]    The various systems and methods may include or use an electrolysis
system configured to deliver constant current, a constant voltage, or a square wave
voltage to the exposed metal surface on the neck to detach the expandable body. The
separation occurs in an annular, ring-shaped non-coated or exposed metal surface
region of the neck formed of stainless steel or gold and exposed by, for example, laser
etching. During electrolysis, the ring-shaped non-coated or exposed metal surface
region of the neck acts as an anode. When delivering a square wave voltage, the
voltage of the anode is modulated based on a comparison between the voltage of the
anode and the voltage of a reference electrode supported on the delivery device or
residing external to the delivery device, such as with a needle or electrode pad residing
on or in the patient.
        [0034]    One method of manufacturing the expandable body includes: a)
providing a sacrificial mandrel comprising a pleated outer surface; b) depositing a metal
layer over the sacrificial mandrel; c) removing the sacrificial mandrel and leaving behind
the metal layer in the form of a hollow pleated body; d) coating with a non-metallic
material an interior surface and an exterior surface of metal layer of the hollow pleated
body; and e) folding the hollow pleated body to further increase the extent to which the
hollow pleated body is pleated, the folding comprising folding over a plurality of pleats in
                                             11

      WO 2013/109309                                                   PCT/US2012/047072
a clockwise direction relative to a center axis of the hollow pleated body, or a counter
clockwise direction relative to the center axis.
         [0035]    The portion of the electrolysis system supported on the delivery device
includes one or more conductors embedded in the wall of the catheter that act as both
electrical conductors for the electrical system and structural reinforcement for the
catheter wall. The conductors are wires, cables, or other electrical conductors that may
be routed through the catheter wall in a spiral, braided, or straight configuration. One of
the conductors is in electrical communication with a portion of the expandable body that
can function as an anode, such as at or near a ring-shaped region of the neck having an
exposed metal surface, while another of the conductors is in electrical communication
with a structure supported on the delivery device that can function as a cathode, such
as a platinum metal ring. In one embodiment, one of the conductors is in electrical
communication with a structure supported on the delivery device that can function as a
reference electrode.
                                DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES
         [0036]    FIGS. 1A-H are side and end views of embodiments of the expandable
body of the medical device.
         [0037]    FIG. 2 is a plan view of an embodiment of the delivery catheter of the
medical device.
         [0038]    FIGS. 3A-C are plan views of an embodiment of the medical device.
         [0039]    FIGS. 4A-E are views of an embodiment of the medical device
illustrating a sequence of steps associated with the delivery of the expandable body to
an aneurysm and deployment.
         [0040]    FIGS. 4F-J are views of an embodiment of the medical device located
in a vessel lumen and illustrating a sequence of a sequence of steps associated with
blocking or occluding the lumen of a vessel segment.
         [0041]    FIGS. 5A-H are side and end views of embodiments of the expandable
body of the medical device.
         [0042]    FIG. 6 is a plan view of an embodiment of the delivery catheter of the
medical device.
                                              12

      WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
         [0043]    FIGS. 7A-C are plan views of an embodiment of the medical device.
         [0044]    FIGS. 8A-E are views of an embodiment of the medical device
illustrating a sequence of steps associated with the delivery of the expandable body to
an aneurysm and deployment.
         [0045]    FIGS. 8F-J are views of an embodiment of the medical device located
in a vessel lumen and illustrating a sequence of a sequence of steps associated with
blocking or occluding the lumen of a vessel segment.
         [0046]    FIGS. 9A-D are hemispherical cross-sectional views taken along a
diameter of embodiments of the expandable body.
         [0047]    FIG. 9E is a longitudinal cross-section of the expandable body
supported on a distal end of a delivery catheter, wherein the expandable body is
spherical and may be employed as an embodiment of a ballstent.
         [0048]    FIG. 9F is a partial cross-section through the wall of the ballstent of
FIG. 9E.
         [0049]    FIG. 9G is a longitudinal cross-section of the expandable body
supported on a distal end of a delivery catheter, wherein the expandable body is
cylindrical with hemispherical ends and may be employed as an embodiment of a
ballstent or blockstent.
         [0050]    FIG. 9H is a partial cross-section through the wall of the expandable
body of FIG. 9G.
         [0051]    FIG. 91 is a longitudinal cross-section of the expandable body
supported on a distal end of a delivery catheter, wherein the expandable body is
spherical and may be employed as an embodiment of a ballstent.
         [0052]    FIG. 9J is a partial cross-section through the wall of the ballstent of
FIG. 91.
         [0053]    FIG. 9K is a longitudinal cross-section of the expandable body
supported on a distal end of a delivery catheter, wherein the expandable body is
cylindrical with hemispherical ends and may be employed as an embodiment of a
ballstent or blockstent.
         [0054]    FIG. 9L is a partial cross-section through the wall of the expandable
body of FIG. 9K.
                                               13

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
       [0055]     FIGS. 1OA-B are plan views of the ballstent and blockstent,
respectively, after the insertion of an internal support structure.
       [0056]     FIGS. 11 A-B are plan views of embodiments of the ballstent and
blockstent, respectively, wherein the shape of the expanded body is being changed by
applying an external force using a balloon catheter.
       [0057]     FIGS. 12A-E are plan views of embodiments of a ballstent and
blockstent with a porous surface layer facilitating tissue ingrowths in an aneurysm.
       [0058]     FIGS. 12F-I are plan views of embodiments of the ballstent and
blockstent with external surface projections for anchoring the expanded body to the
surrounding tissues.
       [0059]     FIG. 13 is a plan view of an embodiment of the ballstent having an
elastomer joint.
       [0060]     FIG. 14A is a perspective view of an embodiment of an expandable
body as compressed against a delivery catheter.
       [0061]     FIG. 14B is a perspective view of an embodiment of a compressed
expandable body.
       [0062]     FIG. 14C is a perspective view of an embodiment of a compressed
expandable body that defines an off-center channel.
       [0063]     FIG. 14D is a perspective view of an embodiment of a compressed
expandable body.
       [0064]     FIGS. 15A-D are photographs depicting an exemplary manner of
folding and compressing an expandable body.
       [0065]     FIGS. 16A-B are transverse cross-sections of embodiments of the
delivery catheter of the medical device.
       [0066]     FIGS. 17A is a plan view of an embodiment of the medical device with
a lumen configured to accept a guide catheter, rather than a guide wire.
       [0067]     FIG. 17B is a transverse cross section of the device as taken along
section line A-A in FIG. 17A.
       [0068]     FIG. 18 depicts a hemispherical cross-sectional view taken along a
diameter of an embodiment of the expandable body and a portion of the delivery
catheter.
                                              14

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
       [0069]      FIG. 19 is a plan view of a component and a method for separating an
expandable body from a delivery catheter.
       [0070]      FIG. 20 is a plan view of a component and a method for separating an
expandable body from a delivery catheter.
       [0071]      FIG. 21A is a plan view of a component and a method for separating
an expandable body from a delivery catheter.
       [0072]      FIGS. 21 B-C are cross sections taken along section line B-B in FIG.
21A.
       [0073]      FIG. 22 is a plan view of a component and a method for separating an
expandable body from a delivery catheter.
       [0074]      FIGS. 23A-B are perspective views of partial cross-sections of an
embodiment of the medical device wherein the expandable body is attached to the
delivery catheter, wherein FIG. 23A depicts a compressed expandable body and FIG.
23B depicts an expanded expandable body.
       [0075]      FIGS. 24A-B are a perspective view and a longitudinal cross-sectional
view, respectively, of embodiments of the delivery catheter of the medical device
wherein the delivery catheter has been advanced through the lumen of a guide catheter.
       [0076]      FIG. 25A is a perspective view of a partial cross-section of an
embodiment of the medical device wherein the neck of the expandable body is attached
to the delivery catheter, an elastomeric sleeve holds the neck of the expandable body to
the delivery catheter, and the expandable body is expanded.
       [0077]      FIG. 25B is a perspective view of a partial cross-section of an
embodiment of the medical device wherein the neck of the expandable body is attached
to the delivery catheter with an elastomeric sleeve.
       [0078]      FIG. 25C-D are plan views of an expandable body attached to a
delivery catheter with an elastomeric sleeve.
       [0079]      FIGS. 26A-B are a perspective view and plan view, respectively, of an
embodiment of the medical device wherein the expandable body is attached to the
delivery catheter with an adhesive that can be warmed with a resistive heating element.
       [0080]      FIGS. 27A-B are plan views an aneurysm filled by two ballstents and a
blood vessel filled by two blockstents, respectively.
                                              15

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
        [0081]     FIG. 28 is a perspective view of an arrangement for inflating or
deflating an expandable body.
        [0082]     FIG. 29A is a plan view an embodiment of the medical device wherein
the expandable body is attached to the delivery catheter with an adhesive and
separated from the delivery catheter by electrolysis of a portion of the neck of the
expandable body.
        [0083]     FIGS. 29B-F are transverse cross-sectional and plan views of various
delivery catheters.
        [0084]     FIG. 29G is a plan view of a catheter supporting one or more electrode
rings.
        [0085]     FIGS. 29H-1 are partial cross-section and perspective views of an
expandable body attached to a delivery device.
        [0086]     FIG. 30A is a table providing exemplary dimensions for embodiments
of the expandable body when in spherical form. The dimensions are provided for
example and not limitation.
        [0087]     FIG. 30B is a table providing exemplary dimensions for embodiments
of the delivery catheter, the guide wire, and the expandable body when in the form of a
blockstent having a cylindrical intermediate portion and hemispherical ends. The
dimensions are provided for example and not limitation.
        [0088]     FIG. 31A illustrates various dimensions for an expandable body having
a cylindrical intermediate portion and hemispherical ends.
        [0089]     FIGS. 31 B-C illustrate various dimensions for a neck region of an
expandable body.
        [0090]     FIG. 31 D depicts various shapes for expandable bodies when in the
form having a cylindrical intermediate portion and hemispherical ends.
        [0091]     FIGS. 32A-C depict a sequence for electroforming an expandable body
on a mandrel.
        [0092]     FIG. 33 depicts an embodiment of a mandrel for electroforming a metal
expandable body.
        [0093]     FIG. 34 depicts another embodiment of a mandrel for electroforming a
metal expandable body.
                                               16

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
        [0094]     FIG. 35 is a partial cross-section of metal expandable body produced
by electroforming.
        [0095]     FIGS. 36A-D are photographs of various embodiments of mandrel
models and metal expandable bodies formed thereon.
        [0096]     FIG. 36E shows an external surface of a metal expandable body
according to one embodiment.
        [0097]     FIGS. 37A-B respectively depict coatings on an exterior surface and an
interior surface of a metal expandable body in the spherical form of a ballstent.
        [0098]     FIGS. 37C-D respectively depict coatings on an exterior surface and
an interior surface of a metal expandable body in the form of a blockstent.
        [0099]     FIGS. 37E-H are various plan views and cross-sections depicting a
region of exposed metal surface wherein the metal expanded body is detached from the
delivery catheter by electrolysis.
        [0100]     FIGS. 38A-B are plan views of embodiments of the ballstent medical
device and the blockstent medical device, respectively.
        [0101]     FIG. 39 is a cross-sectional view of a hub for use with a ballstent or
blockstent medical device wherein detachment of the expanded body is performed by
passing an electrical current into the medical device.
        [0102]     FIG. 40 is a top plan and side plan view of a handheld controller for
use with a ballstent or blockstent medical device wherein detachment of the expanded
body is performed by passing an electrical current into the medical device.
        [0103]     FIGS. 41A-C depict an expandable body folding and wrapping tool.
        [0104]     FIGS. 42A-C depict a collet assembly for use with an expandable body
folding and wrapping tool.
        [0105]     FIGS. 43A-B depict a metal ballstent at various stages of folding and
wrapping.
        [0106]     FIGS. 44A-B depict another expandable body folding tool.
        [0107]     FIGS. 44C is a partial cross-sectional view of another expandable body
folding tool.
                                               17

      WO 2013/109309                                                      PCT/US2012/047072
         [0108]     FIGS. 45-47 are flowcharts illustrating the steps for manufacturing the
expandable body, a delivery catheter, and a medical kit containing a medical device,
respectively.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
         [0109]     The present disclosure relates to a medical device including a delivery
device and an expandable structure or expandable body that may be referred to as a
"ballstent" or a "blockstent," depending on the application in which the expandable body
is used. The terms expandable body, expandable structure, expandable balloon,
ballstent, and blockstent can generally be used interchangeably. Particular
embodiments of the expandable body may be referred to a ballstent or a blockstent
according to the structure and/or use of the body.
         [0110]     The expandable body is a thin-walled stent-like device that can be
expanded into a semi-rigid form that can remain in the body for an extended period.
Specifically, the expandable body, when acting as a ballstent, is configured for use in
filling and sealing saccular aneurysms of blood vessels, especially saccular cerebral
aneurysms and ruptured aneurysms. The expandable body, when acting as a
blockstent, is configured for use in blocking or occluding the lumen of segments of
arteries, veins, and other biological conduits.
         [0111]     The delivery device is configured to deliver the ballstent to an
aneurysm and to provide a pathway, through the lumen of a hollow cylindrical member
or lumen, for a fluid medium to move into the void of the ballstent, in order to expand it
and fill at least a portion of the volume of the aneurysm sac. Similarly, the delivery
catheter can be configured to deliver a blockstent to a blood vessel segment and to
provide a pathway, through a cylindrical member or lumen, for fluid to move into the
central void of the blockstent, in order to expand it and fill at least a portion of the lumen
of the blood vessel segment. Expanding the expandable body, as used herein, can
refer to partial or complete expansion of the body using a fluid (i.e., a liquid, gas, gel, or
combination thereof) or a solid (i.e., a solid body, a lattice, granular particles, etc., or a
combination thereof).
                                               18

     WO 2013/109309                                                       PCT/US2012/047072
        [0112]     The expandable body can be formed by depositing a metal layer over
a mandrel using an electroforming process. During the electroforming process, a metal
ring, such as a stainless steel or gold ring, may be incorporated into the metal layer to
create a neck for the expandable body. The mandrel may be a sacrificial mandrel that
can be eliminated from the expandable body after electroforming, to yield a hollow
metallic expandable body.
        [0113]     The hollow metallic expandable body undergoes one or more
annealing processes. The interior and exterior surfaces of the metallic expandable
body may be coated with a non-metallic material, such as a polymer or an electrically
insulating material. The metallic expandable body may be annealed before and after
the coated metallic expandable body has been caused to assume a deliverable (i.e.,
collapsed or non-expanded) folded or pleated configuration.
        [0114]     The metallic expandable body can be folded into a deliverable
configuration for introduction into a blood vessel segment or aneurysm. When folded
into the deliverable configuration, the metallic expandable body is formed into a pleated
configuration, having a number of pleats, which may be wrapped around a central axis
of the metallic expandable body.
        [0115]     When used to fill an aneurysm, the delivery device and an attached
ballstent are advanced into the lumen of the aneurysm sac. Similarly, when used to
occlude a blood vessel or other biological conduit, the delivery device and an attached
blockstent are advanced into the lumen of vessel or conduit. The delivery device can
also deliver a fluid, a solid, or a combination thereof, to the interior void of the
expandable body to expand the body in the lumen of the aneurysm sac or vessel
segment, and to help maintain the expansion of the expanded body. The expanded
body may be detached from the delivery device by one or more of a variety of
arrangements and methods including mechanical, electrical, thermal, chemical,
hydraulic, or sonic arrangements and methods.
        [0116]     The medical device can be used as part of various systems, methods,
and medical kits. These systems, methods, and medical kits can be used to treat
saccular arterial aneurysms, such as a saccular cerebral aneurysm, and to occlude a
                                               19

     WO 2013/109309                                                      PCT/US2012/047072
blood vessel or other biological conduit, such as a ductus arteriosus, bronchus,
pancreatic duct, bile duct, ureter, and fallopian tube. Alternatively, these systems,
methods, and medical kits can be used to treat a variety of medical conditions.
 The Expandable Body
        [0117]    In various embodiments, an expandable body configured for the
occlusion of saccular cerebral aneurysms is generally referred to as a ballstent, and can
have a spherical, oblong, or cylindrical shape with rounded ends. In various other
embodiments, an expandable body configured for the occlusion of the lumen of blood
vessel segments is generally referred to as a blockstent, and can take an oblong or
cylindrical shape.
        [0118]    A ballstent 100, is shown in FIG. 1A in an expanded state. This
embodiment has an external proximal neck 116 that defines an opening 112 for the
passage of fluids, liquids, gases, gels, or solids into the void of the ballstent. Another
embodiment of the spherical ballstent 100 is shown in FIG. 1B in an expanded state.
This embodiment has an internal neck 116 that defines an opening 112, also for the
passage of fluids, liquids, gases, gels, or solids into the void of the ballstent. Other
embodiments of the expandable body, namely, a blockstent 150 are shown in FIGS.
1C-1 F, wherein the blockstent 150 is cylindrical with substantially planar opposed ends
and having an external proximal neck 116 (FIG. 1C) or an internal proximal neck 116
(FIG. 1D). FIGS. 1E-1 H depict expandable bodies that may be used as ballstents 100
or blockstents 150 with external or internal proximal necks 116.
        [0119]    Another spherical embodiment of the ballstent 100 is shown in FIG. 5A
in an expanded state. This embodiment has an external proximal neck 116 that defines
an opening 112 for the passage of fluids, liquids, gases, gels, or solids into the void of
the ballstent. This embodiment also has an external distal neck 118 that defines an
opening 114 for the passage of a guide wire 302. Another spherical embodiment of the
ballstent 100 is shown in FIG. 5B in an expanded state. This embodiment has an
internal proximal neck 116 that defines an opening 112, also for the passage of fluids,
liquids, gases, gels, or solids into the void of the ballstent. Further, this embodiment
has an internal distal neck 118 that defines an opening 114 for the passage of a guide
                                              20

     WO 2013/109309                                                     PCT/US2012/047072
wire 302. In other embodiments, the ballstent can be constructed without a neck; such
that the ballstent has at least one opening 112 or 114 without any wall structures that
protrude away from or into the ballstent. FIGS. 5E and 5H depict expandable bodies
that may be used as ballstents 100 or blockstents 150 with external or internal proximal
necks 116.
        [0120]     Ultimately, the metallic expandable bodies disclosed herein may have
a variety of configurations and any of the configurations may be employed for a variety
of uses including occluding aneurysms and segments of biological conduits, including
arteries and veins. Generally speaking, some configurations may lend themselves
more readily or effectively to one application or another. For example, the spherical
expandable bodies 100 of FIGS. 1A-B and 5A-B may be advantageous when acting as
a ballstent for the filling of the lumen (or void) a saccular aneurysm, and the elongated
expandable bodies 150 of FIGS. 1C-F and 5C-F may be advantageous when acting as
a blockstent for the occluding the lumen of a segment of a biological conduit.
        [0121]     The metallic expandable body, such as the ballstents 100 or
blockstents of FIGS. 1A-F and 5A-F, may be composed of a single continuous layer or
wall 102, as shown in FIG. 9A. The wall 102 includes a material, preferably a metal that
is biocompatible and ductile, that can form a thin-wall construction, and can assume a
variety of shapes after expansion. By way of example and not limitation, the metal can
be selected from the group consisting of gold, platinum, silver, nickel, titanium,
vanadium, aluminum, tantalum, zirconium, chromium, silver, magnesium, niobium,
scandium, cobalt, palladium, manganese, molybdenum, alloys thereof, and
combinations thereof. Preferred metals include gold, platinum, and silver, alloys
thereof, and combinations thereof. Expandable bodies can also be made from
alternative materials that can be formed into thin-walled structures that are sufficiently
rigid or semi-rigid to tolerate compression and expansion, and can maintain an
expanded state in vivo. Alternative materials include polymers or plastics that are
reinforced with metal coils or braids, and other materials with similar properties. The
materials forming the wall 102 and the thickness of the wall are selected such that the
expandable body 100 or 150 has sufficient rigidity to remain in an expanded state in
vivo under typical physiologic conditions after expansion and separation from the
                                                21

     WO 2013/109309                                                        PCT/US2012/047072
delivery catheter, even where the pressure inside and outside the central void or space
108 is the same or similar.
        [0122]     It is desirable that the materials used to form and support the
expandable body 100 or 150 have sufficiently mechanical properties of ductility,
malleability, and plasticity to be compressed or folded without tearing and later
expanded without rupturing. In general, ductility is a measure of a material's ability to
be deformed without breaking, while the malleability of the material determines the ease
of deforming without breaking when the metal is subjected to pressure or forces. The
ductility and malleability of a material factor into the plasticity of the material, which
generally refers to a property of the material that permits it to undergo a permanent
change in shape without rupture or breakage. As such, the expandable bodies may be
composed of any biocompatible materials having sufficient ductility, malleability, and
plasticity to undergo one or more compressions, folding processes, and expansions.
        [0123]     The central layer 122 of the wall 102 has an interior surface 106 and
exterior surface 124 that define a wall thickness 120. In particular, for FIGS. 9A and 9B,
the distance between the interior surface 106 and the exterior surface 124 is the overall
wall thickness 120 of the wall 102. Preferably, the central layer 122 of the wall 102 has
a thickness 120 from about 3 pm to about 50 pm and is preferably, approximately 10
pm thick. The wall thickness 120 can be uniform. For example, the wall 102 may have
a uniform thickness of 3 pm, 5 pm, 10 pm, 15 pm, 20 pm, 30 pm, 40 pm, or 50 Pm.
Alternatively, the thickness of the wall 102 at different locations may vary in thickness.
Alternatively, the expandable body 100 or 150 may be composed of a single porous
layer or wall 122, as shown in FIG. 9B, with pores or microperforations 1300 wherein at
least some or all of the microperforations extend all the way from the internal surface
106 to the external surface 124. For this embodiment, the wall 102 may be of a uniform
thickness or a varied thickness. During expansion of the ballstent 100 of this
embodiment, the fluid medium may travel under pressure from the void or space 108,
through the wall 102 and leave the ballstent at the exterior surface 124. Preferably, for
this embodiment, the microperforations 1300 may range from 1 pm - 500 pm in
diameter.
                                               22

     WO 2013/109309                                                     PCT/US2012/047072
        [0124]    The expandable body 100 or 150 includes a central wall or layer 122,
optionally with an exterior wall or layer 104, and optionally with an interior wall or layer
214, as shown in FIG. 9C. As mentioned, the construct of the central layer or wall 122
and the layers 104 and 214 can be uniform, porous, or combinations thereof. In one
embodiment of the ballstent 100 used to treat an aneurysm, the wall 102 includes a
plurality of microperforations 1300 that extend completely through the thickness 120 of
the wall 102.
        [0125]     In one construction, the central layer or wall 122 is continuous and
formed of gold. Optionally, to this preferred construction, an exterior layer 104 formed
of porous gold can be added. Optionally, an interior layer 214 formed of Parylene T M
may be present. Optionally, an exterior layer 104 formed of Parylene T M may be
present. In certain embodiments where electrolysis is used to separate the expanded
expandable body 100 or 150 from the delivery catheter, certain portions of the ballstent
or the blockstent (such as the neck or body) are coated with an insulator or polymer,
such as Parylene T M . These portions include the external surface, the internal surface,
or both the internal and external surfaces, while a portion of the neck or body remains
uncoated or non-insulated. In this instance, the uncoated or non-insulated portion of the
wall is dissolved (corroded) by the passage of an electrical current into the uncoated or
non-insulated region of the wall during electrolysis. In certain embodiments, the
uncoated or non-insulated portions of the wall are created by masking during the
coating process. In other embodiments, the coating or insulation is removed from the
uncoated or non-insulated portions of the wall, as through etching or ablation, such as
with laser etching or laser ablation.
        The Expandable Body Exterior
        [0126]    As discussed, the expandable body 100 or 150 may have one or more
additional coating or layer(s) 104 on the exterior surface 124 of the central layer 122, as
shown in FIG. 9C. The wall 102 and any additional exterior layers define an exterior
surface 110 that, when expanded, contacts the internal wall of the aneurysm or blood
vessel. The exterior layer 104 can be of a uniform or varied thickness, preferably
between about 1 pm and about 59 pm. In one embodiment, the exterior layer 124 has a
                                              23

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
thickness between 0.1 pm and 10 pm. In a specific embodiment, the exterior layer 124
has a thickness of about 1 pm.
        [0127]     The exterior layer 124 can be formed of polymers, latex, elastomers, or
metals. The exterior layer 124 may be an electric insulator, and in a preferred
embodiment, the exterior layer 124 is formed of a Parylene T M coating. The exterior
coating or layer 104 of the expandable body 100 or 150 may be porous and contain a
plurality of pores 200, as shown in FIGS. 9C and 9D. Alternatively, the exterior layer
104 can be smooth, with limited porosity or projections. For example, the exterior layer
104 may be a polished metal surface. In one embodiment, portions of the exterior layer
104 can be smooth, while other portions can be porous or contain projections. In one
embodiment, the surface variations can include a pattern. FIG. 36E depicts structures
of the exterior surface 110 after electroforming. As shown, the exterior surface 110 of
the wall 102 may have rounded, pebbled, or granular structures. In various
embodiments, the rounded, pebbled, or granular surface structures have a height of
approximately 0.1 pm to approximately 10 pm.
        [0128]     When configured as a porous or spongy layer, the exterior layer 104
can contain (or be configured to contain) solutions that include pharmaceutical drugs,
pharmacologically active molecules, or pharmaceutical compositions within the pores
200. As such, solutions such as pharmaceutical drugs, pharmacologically active
molecules, or pharmaceutical compositions can be delivered to the treatment site.
Drugs, pharmacologically active molecules, or pharmaceutical compositions that
promote thrombosis, stimulate cell proliferation or extracellular matrix production, or
tissue growth are examples of agents that can be placed in the pores 200 of the exterior
layer 104. The pharmaceutical drugs, pharmacologically active molecules, or
pharmaceutical compositions are incorporated into the pores 200 of the wall or the
exterior layer 104 prior to positioning the expandable body 100 or 150 at the desired
location. The drug compositions may be delivered into the pores 200 via capillary or
wicking action. The pores 200 range from about 0.01 pm to about 500 pm in diameter.
Pore diameters for each expandable body may vary according to the specific drugs,
pharmacologically active molecules, or pharmaceutical compositions to be incorporated
and the desired rate of release in vivo. By way of example and not limitation, the
                                             24

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
expandable body 100 or 150 may have a porous exterior layer 104 where the pore
diameter averages from about 0.01 pm to about 0.05 pm, about 0.05 pm to about 0.5
pm, 0.5 pm to about 5 pm, about 5 pm to about 25 pm, about 25 pm to about 500 pm,
about 0.05 pm to about 500 pm, or about 0.01 pm to about 500 pm.
       [0129]      The pharmaceutical drugs, pharmacologically active molecules, or
pharmaceutical compositions may include thrombin, platelet-derived growth factor,
Ethiodol@, Sotradecol@, or combinations thereof. Other pharmaceutical compounds
and compositions that promote thrombosis, stimulate cell proliferation, stimulate the
synthesis of extracellular matrix, or the growth of tissue into the porous external wall of
the expandable body 100 or 150 may also be used. Such drugs or pharmaceutical
compositions may include molecules to promote cell proliferation, extracellular matrix
production, or tissue growth, such that the expanded expandable body 100 or 150 will
become more firmly attached to the tissue at the treatment location. The dosages and
manner in which the pharmaceutical drugs, pharmacologically active molecules, or
pharmaceutical compositions are incorporated into the wall 102 or exterior layer 104 are
a matter of choice depending on the treatment performed. Other compounds may be
used to promote blood clotting or thrombosis around the expandable body. For
embodiments of the expandable body 100 or 150 with a porous layer 104, over time, the
ballstent or the blockstent remains expanded with the expanded body eventually
becoming affixed to the surrounding tissue.
       [0130]      As can be understood from FIGS. 12A-D, the exterior surface 110 of
the expandable body 100 or 150 may also include one or more projections (which may
be generally tubular or have other configurations) that can increase the strength of the
attachment of the expanded body to the adjacent tissue, and thereby reduce the risk of
movement or migration. The projections may have a length that ranges between about
0.01 pm to about 167 pm. Some projections can have a branched construction, while
others may be joined on both ends to the exterior surface 110 to form loops. In some
embodiments, the projections are rigid, or semi-rigid. In other embodiments, the
projections are flexible and hair-like, and may further comprise globular ends, similar to
the projections on the surface of the footpad of the gecko. The projections may be
attached to the expandable body 100 or 150 after formation. Alternatively or
                                             25

      WO 2013/109309                                                   PCT/US2012/047072
additionally, the projections may be incorporated into the expandable body during
electroformation.
        [0131]      The projections are features designed to secure the expandable body
100 or 150 in place once it has been expanded in the lumen of an aneurysm sac or
blood vessel segment. These features can be biological or physical, or a combination
thereof. In one embodiment, the exterior surface 110 of the expandable body 100 or
150 may be coated with molecules that can bind to adjacent thrombus or tissue. These
molecules can be affixed to the expandable body 100 or 150 through a variety of
methods, including chemical bonds such as with hydrogen bonding or covalent bonding.
Alternatively, these molecules can be affixed through encapsulation of the porous layer
or encapsulation of various projections. Representative molecules that can be affixed to
the wall of the ballstent 100 or the blockstent 150 include fibrin, and molecules that can
link to fibrin through covalent and non-covalent bonding. With such a coating, the
expandable body 100 or 150 can be anchored to the fibrin-rich clot that forms between
the wall of an aneurysm and the ballstent 100 or between the wall of a blood vessel
segment and the blockstent 150.
        [0132]       In another embodiment, the ballstent 100 may comprise a porous
external layer or wall 104 or a wall with external projections to promote thrombus
formation on the external surface 110 or in the pores 200 and promote cell proliferation,
extracellular matrix production, or tissue growth into or around the wall 102 of the
ballstent 100 such that the ballstent 100 will, over time, become more strongly attached
to the tissue in the adjacent aneurysm wall.
        [0133]      As shown in FIGS. 12A-D, the central layer 122 and the porous
exterior layer 104 of the ballstent 100 placed into the aneurysm 700 may be configured
to promote thrombus 1206 formation on the exterior layer. The thrombus may be
comprised of red blood cells 1208, platelets 1210, and fibrin 1212. Overtime, the
thrombus 1206 may be partially absorbed into the exterior layer 104, as new endothelial
cells 1214 are formed over the thrombus. The new endothelial cells may form a seal of
connective tissue 1216 across the opening of aneurysm 700. In addition to sealing the
opening of the aneurysm 700, connective tissue 1216 from the wall 704 of the
                                              26

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
aneurysm may grow into the porous exterior layer 104 of the ballstent 100 to adhere
the ballstent to the wall of the aneurysm, as shown in FIG. 12E.
       [0134]      In other embodiments, the projections may be generally tubular,
straight, curved, hook-shaped, or configured as pigtail hooks 1800 as shown in FIGS.
12F-G. The projections may improve the attachment of the blockstent 150 within a
blood vessel, as illustrated in FIGS. 12H-l. In another embodiment, the exterior surface
124 or 110 of the expandable body 100 or 150 further comprises one or more
projections therefrom, which can be used to anchor the expandable body 100 or 150 to
the surrounding tissue, specifically the wall a saccular aneurysm or a biological conduit
such as an artery or vein, and hold the expandable body in the desired location. In a
macroscopic form, the projections may be composed of nitinol or any other suitable
biocompatible material.
       [0135]      FIG. 12G depicts an expanded ballstent 100 that is anchored to the
wall 704 of an aneurysm 700. The size and shape of the projections may be selected
based upon the condition being treated, and may be designed and dimensioned to
provide sufficient anchoring support without causing excessive damage to the wall of
the aneurysm or the surrounding tissue. Alternatively, microscopic projections or
filaments may be used to anchor the ballstent. For some embodiments, these
microscopic projections range in length from 0.01 pm to about 57 pm, and can be
straight or branching. In various embodiments, both ends of one or more of the
projections may be joined to the exterior surface 110 of the ballstent 100 and/ or the
exterior surface 216 of the wall 102 to form a loop. Similarly, FIG. 12H depicts an
expanded blockstent 150 having pigtail hooks 1800, while FIG. 121 depicts an expanded
blockstent 150 that is anchored to the wall 1802 of a blood vessel 1804.
       The Expandable Body Interior
       [0136]      In some embodiments, the expandable body 100 or 150 may include
an additional layer or liner 214 on the interior surface 106 of the central layer 122, as
shown in FIGS. 9D, 9F, 9H, 9J, and 9L. The interior layer may be made from the same
materials as the central layer, or can be made of different materials. The interior layer
may be formed of gold, platinum, silver, alloys thereof, or combinations thereof. The
                                              27

     WO 2013/109309                                                     PCT/US2012/047072
additional layer 214 on the interior surface 106 of the central layer 122 of the
expandable body 100 or 150 may also be formed of a polymer, plastic, latex, rubber,
woven or knitted fiber material, metal, or another material, or combinations thereof.
Preferably, the interior layer 214 is an elastomeric coating that is bonded to the interior
surface 106 of the central layer 122. The interior layer 214 can be a variety of
thicknesses, preferably ranging between about 0.1 pm and about 59 pm. In one
embodiment, the interior layer 214 has a thickness between about 0.1 Pm and about 10
pm. The total thickness of the wall 102, including the central layer 122, the exterior
layer 104, and the interior layer 214 is preferably between about 2 Pm and about 50 pm,
regardless if the wall contains one, two, three, or more layers. The interior layer 214
can be comprised of polymers, latex, or elastomers. In a preferred embodiment, the
interior layer 214 is comprised of Parylene T M . The interior layer 214 also adds
mechanical properties (such as strength) to the wall 102. Further, the interior layer 214,
optionally, can form a seal that prevents the escape of a fluid medium from the
expandable body 100 or 150, should the central layer 122 contain a defect or hole. The
central layer 122 and any additional layers define an interior surface 106 or 218,
respectively, such that when the ballstent or the blockstent is expanded, with a fluid,
liquid, gas, or solid, a central void or space 108 is defined. As shown in FIG. 9D, the
distance between the interior surface 218 and the exterior surface 110 is the overall wall
thickness 120 of the wall 102.
        The Expandable Body Neck(s) and Openinq(s)
        [0137]     As illustrated in FIGS. 1A-H, and FIGS. 5A-H, the ballstent 100 and the
blockstent 150 have one or more openings 112 and 114 defined by the wall 102 or by
one or more necks 116 and 118. In various embodiments, the ballstent or blockstent
have one or more openings 112 and 114 defined by necks 116 or 118 (see FIGS. 1A,
1C, 1E, 1G, 5A, 5C, 5E, and 5G) or one or more openings 112 and 114 but do not have
necks 116 or 118 (see FIGS. 1B, 1D, 1F, 1H, 5B, 5D, 5F, and 5H). In all embodiments,
a fluid medium can enter the opening 112 and move into the central void or space 108
defined by the interior surface 106 or 218, thereby expanding the expandable body. In
various embodiments, one or both of the necks 116 and 118 may extend outwardly from
its respective end region of the ballstent 100 and blockstent 150 as shown in FIGS. 1A,
                                              28

      WO 2013/109309                                                   PCT/US2012/047072
1C, 1E, 1G, 5A, 5C, 5E, and 5G. Alternately, one or both of the necks 116 and 118
may extend inwardly from its respective end region and into the interior void 108, as
illustrated in FIGS. 1B, 1D, 1F, 1H, 5B, 5D, 5F, and 5H. The proximal necks 116 can be
used for attaching the expandable body 100 or 150 to the delivery catheter and may
function in separating the ballstent or the blockstent from the delivery catheter. In
various embodiments, the necks 116 and 118 and the wall 102 may be formed by
different metals. For example, in one embodiment, the neck(s) 116 and 118 and the
wall 102 may be formed by gold. In other embodiments, the neck 116 and 118 may
comprise stainless steel and the wall 102 may be formed by gold, platinum, or another
malleable metal. The neck 116 and 118 may comprise multiple metals, such as
stainless steel and another metal such as gold or platinum, including embodiments
wherein the various regions of the expandable bodies 100 and 150 are distinct in their
metal content and embodiments wherein the different metals are formed in layers in the
various regions.
         [0138]     Additionally, the necks 116 and 118 can be designed and
dimensioned such that the opening 112 or 114 can be closed or partially closed before,
during, or after separation of the expanded body from the delivery catheter. One or
more openings 112 or 114 may remain open. Optionally, before, during, or after
separation, the necks 116 and 118 may be folded, pinched, or closed to form a seal.
The necks 116 and 118 have a length N1, as shown in FIGS. 31 A and 37E, ranging
between about 0.5 mm and about 20 mm, preferably a length between about 0.5 mm
and about 5 mm. In one embodiment, the neck length N1 is approximately 1.27 mm
.08 mm.
         [0139]    The necks 116 and 118 have an outer diameter N2 and an inner
diameter N3 that defines the openings 112 and 114, respectively. The outer diameter
N2 is in a range between about 0.25 mm and about 2 mm and the inner diameter N3 is
in a range between about 0.24 mm and about 1.95 mm as shown in FIG. 37F. In one
embodiment, the neck outer diameter N2 is approximately 0.99 mm  0.01 mm and the
neck inner diameter N3 is approximately 0.89 mm  0.01 mm.
                                              29

     WO 2013/109309                                                     PCT/US2012/047072
        [0140]     The thickness of the walls of either or both of the necks 116 and 118
may be the same as the main body of the ballstent or the blockstent or may be thinner
or thicker than the wall of main body. Preferably, either or both of the necks 116 and
118 have a wall thickness N4 between about 3.0 pm and about 60.0 pm, as shown in
FIG. 37H, which is a close-up view of region B from FIG. 37F. In one particular
embodiment, the neck has a thickness of approximately 50.0 pm. In one embodiment
of the ballstent 100 where the neck(s) 116 and 118 extend into the central void space
108 as indicated in FIGS. 1B and 5B, the external surface 110 of the expanded ballstent
retains a more rounded surface contour, to increase the strength of the expanded
ballstent and to reduce risk of damage to the aneurysm wall or the adjacent tissue
during placement of the ballstent.
        [0141]     One or both of the necks 116 or 118 can be coated or insulated on the
inner wall, outer wall, or both. In some embodiments, a strip of conductive material,
including an uncoated or non-insulated section of a weld or solder, or portion of the
ballstent or the blockstent itself, is left exposed, uncoated, or non-insulated or later
exposed after coating to form a ring-shaped exposed surface of metal or conductive
materials that can be subjected to electrolysis to achieve separation between the
expanded expandable body and the distal end of the delivery device. For example, as
can be understood from FIGS. 9E, 9G, 91, 9K, 35, and 37A-37D, in one embodiment, at
least a portion of an inner surface of the metal layer of the neck of the metallic
expandable body is electrically insulated by having an outer surface of a distal portion of
the delivery device extending along the inner surface of the metal layer of the neck of
the metallic expandable body. For the inner surface of the neck 116, a proximal
boundary of the ring-shaped exposed metal surface may be defined by a distal
boundary of the delivery device in the neck region and a distal boundary of the ring
shaped exposed metal surface may be defined by a boundary of the inner insulation
layer in the neck region. For the outer surface of the neck 116, both the proximal and
distal boundary of the ring-shaped exposed metal surface may be defined by a
boundary of the outer insulation layer in the neck region. In such an embodiment, the
distal end of the delivery device may distally terminate near a proximal edge of the ring
shaped exposed metal surface of the neck. As indicated in FIG. 29A, a conductive wire
                                                30

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
can be engaged in electrical contact with the uncoated or non-insulated portion of the
weld or solder, or expandable body 100 or 150 to allow the uncoated or non-insulated
portion to be dissolved (corroded) or removed via electrolysis.
        [0142]    In other embodiments, one or both necks 116 and 118 may be scored
to create a number of circumferential perforations 2406, as shown in FIG. 22. The
perforations may be torn to detach the expandable body from a delivery device, as
explained more fully below regarding methods to detach an expanded expandable body
100 or 150.
        Expandable Body Shapes and Dimensions
        [0143]    FIGS. 9E-9F and 91-9J illustrate a ballstent 100 and a catheter 220 that
may be used to deliver the ballstent. The ballstent 100 includes a distal region 202 that
includes the distal end 204 of the ballstent. Adjacent to the distal region 202 is an
intermediate region 206 where the ballstent transitions from the distal region 202 to a
proximal region 208 that includes a proximal end 210 of the ballstent. The proximal
region 208 is generally opposite the distal region 202. A center axis 212 extends
proximal-distal between the proximal region 208 and the distal region 202. The
ballstent wall 102 extends generally continuously through the intermediate region 206
from the distal region 202 to the proximal region 208. The ballstent 100 is in the form of
a single lobed metallic expandable body.
        [0144]    In one embodiment, when the ballstent 100 is expanded, the
intermediate region 206, the proximal region 208, and the distal region 202 combine to
form a generally spherical shape. In various embodiments, the dimensions of the
ballstents 100 are selected based upon the size and shape of the saccular aneurysm
being treated. Preferred shapes of the ballstent 100 include round, oblong, and
irregular. The diameter of the round expanded ballstent 100 ranges from about 2 mm to
about 30 mm, and preferably has an expanded diameter ranging from about 2 mm to
about 20 mm. The expanded length of oblong ballstents preferably ranges between
about 2 mm to about 30 mm. The ballstent 100 may have an expanded volume that
ranges between about 0.001 cc to about 65 cc. In preferred embodiments, the
expanded diameter of the spherical ballstent 100 ranges from about 2 mm to about 10
                                             31

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
mm, while the preferred expanded volume ranges from about 0.004 cc to about 40 cc.
In preferred embodiments, the expanded length of the oblong ballstent 100 ranges
between about 2 mm to about 30 mm. By way of example and not limitation, FIG. 30A
provides exemplary dimensions for an embodiment of the spherical ballstent 100.
        [0145]     FIGS. 9G-9H and 9K-9L illustrate a block stent 150 and a catheter 220
that may be used to deliver the blockstent. In such an embodiment, the blockstent 150
includes a generally cylindrical intermediate region 206, a generally hemispherical
proximal region 208 and, a generally hemispherical distal region 208. In this
embodiment, the intermediate region 206 may have a radius R1 that is equal to the
radius R2 of both the proximal region 208 and the distal region 208, as shown in FIG.
31A. In various embodiments, the catheter 220 is typically engaged to the proximal
region 208 of the expandable body.
        [0146]     In other embodiments, one or more portions of the expandable body
wall 102 may be thicker than the remaining portions of the wall. By way of example and
not limitation, the wall in the middle of the body of the expandable body may be thicker
or thinner than the wall in the proximal and distal portions of the expandable body, or
the wall of a neck may be thicker or thinner than the main body of the expandable body.
In various embodiments, the wall thickness 120, as shown in FIGS. 9A-D, may be
scaled relative to the overall diameter of the expandable body to avoid undesired
increases in wall stress with increases in diameter. In various embodiments of the
expandable body 100 or 150, a balance should be stuck between a wall thickness 120
that is thin enough to enable the various small compressed forms of the delivery
configuration and to permit expansion of the expandable body at lower pressures and a
wall thickness that is thick enough to resist compression after delivery and detachment.
Therefore, the average wall thickness 120 is preferably in a range between about 10.0
pm and about 50.0 pm. By way of example and not limitation, the wall thickness 120 for
an expandable body 100 or 150 having an expanded diameter of about 4.0 mm may be
about 10.0 pm, while the wall thickness for an expandable body having an expanded
diameter of about 10.0 mm may be about 25.0 pm.
                                               32

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
        [0147]    As shown in FIG. 31A, the blockstent 150 may have a generally
cylindrical shape with rounded or hemispherical ends. In other embodiments, the
blockstent 150 may have a generally cylindrical shape with flattened or flat ends as
shown in FIGS. 9H and 9K, such that the total length of the blockstent is approximately
equal to the length of the intermediate region 206. The blockstent 150 is in the form of
a single lobed metallic expandable body.
        [0148]    The near right angles formed between the intermediate region 206 and
the distal end 204 and between the intermediate region 206 and the proximal end 210
may create a concentration of stresses that may affect the overall structural strength of
the blockstent. To reduce this stress concentration, the intersections 205 and 207 of
the intermediate region 206 with the distal and proximal ends 204 and 210, respectively,
has as a radius R3, (see FIG. 31 A). As R3 increases, the concentration of stress at the
intersections 205 and 207 is reduced. Conversely, if R3 is too large, the subsequent
changes to the geometry of the hemispherical distal and proximal ends 202 and 208,
respectively, may compromise the structural strength of the blockstent. Therefore, an
optimal configuration of the blockstent 150 includes intersections 205 and 207 having a
radius R3 that is limited to less than approximately 10-20% of the radius R2 (see FIG.
31A) of the hemispherical distal and proximal ends 202 and 208.
        [0149]    In various embodiments, the blockstent 150 has an expanded diameter
ranging from about 2 mm to about 30 mm. Assuming no change in wall thickness 120,
the stress in the wall of expandable body 100 or 150 will increase, as the radius R1 (see
FIG. 31A) of the intermediate region 206 increases. Therefore, in some embodiments,
the diameter of the blockstent 150 is limited by the ultimate tensile strength of the
material (e.g. gold) used to form the blockstent and by the pressure required to expand
the compressed blockstent. As can be understood from FIG. 31A, the blockstent 150
may have an expanded length Li of between about 2 mm to about 120 mm. Preferably,
the length is between about 5 mm to about 60 mm, and in a particular embodiment the
expanded length Li is approximately 40 mm  0.03 mm and the length L2 of the
intermediate region 206 may be approximately 24mm  0.03mm. FIG. 31 D depicts a
variety of oblong blockstents 150A-D representative of various embodiments.
                                             33

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
        [0150]      The concentration of stress between the neck 116 and the proximal
end 208 of the expandable body 100 or 150 may be reduced or offset by increasing the
radius R4 between the neck and the proximal end, as shown in FIGS. 31 B-C. For
example, the stress experienced by the wall 102 in FIG. 31 B having a radius of R4 is
greater than the stress experienced by the wall in FIG. 31C having a radius of R4',
where R4' is greater than R4. In addition, stress may be concentrated at the point
where the neck 116 transitions to the wall of the proximal end 208 of the expandable
body 100 or 150 due to a metallic ring incorporated into the neck 116 during formation
of the expandable body. This stress concentration may be mitigated by reducing the
overall wall thickness N4 of the neck 116. By way of example and not limitation, the
neck 116 shown in FIG. 31 B may have a wall thickness N4 of approximately 25.0 Pm,
while the neck shown in FIG. 31C may have a wall thickness N4' of approximately 12.5
Pm.
         Expansion of the Expandable Body
        [0151]      The central void or space 108 of the expandable body 100 or 150 can
be filled with fluids, gels, solids, or combinations thereof to expand or inflate the
expandable body 100 or 150. The terms expand, inflate, and forms thereof may be
used interchangeable to refer to the action of changing the expandable body from the
delivery configuration to an expanded or at least partially expanded configuration. A
fluid medium is a substance having particles that easily move and change their relative
position without a separation of the mass. Fluid media that may be used to expand the
expandable body 100 or 150 include liquids, gases, gels, and combinations thereof. By
way of example and not limitation, the fluid medium may be water, a saline solution, a
radiographic contrast solution, or a mixture thereof. In one embodiment, the fluid
medium may further include a solution or suspension of a drug, pharmacologically
active molecules, or a pharmaceutical preparation.
        [0152]      In various embodiments, the shape and multi-layer construction of the
expandable body 100 or 150 permits the expandable body to remain in an inflated or
expanded configuration without the use of any support structures not derived from the
patient. For example, the fluid medium used to inflate the expandable body 100 or 150,
                                               34

     WO 2013/109309                                                      PCT/US2012/047072
and optionally blood from the patient, will fill the interior void 108 and cause the ballstent
or the blockstent to remain in an expanded configuration. In addition, support structures
derived from the patient, including but not limited to blood clots and tissue ingrowths,
may support and maintain the structural integrity of the expanded ballstent 100 or the
blockstent 150.
        [0153]     In one embodiment, the microperforations 1300 also aid in maintaining
the structural integrity of the expanded expandable body 100 or 150 when treating an
aneurysm by permitting fluid to traverse the wall 102 of the expandable body, thereby
maintaining a pressure equilibrium between the interior void 108 and the exterior
environment of the expandable body. The microperforations 1300 may also aid in
maintaining the structural integrity of the expanded expandable body 100 or 150 when
treating an aneurysm by permitting the growth of tissue to traverse the wall 102 of the
expandable body, thereby maintaining a firm attachment between the expandable body
and the adjacent tissue. Such microperforations may be advantageous in some
embodiments of the ballstent 100. Conversely, in some embodiments of the blockstent
150, the microperforations 1300 may be disadvantageous as permitting fluid
components of the blood to traverse the wall 102 of the blockstent may prevent the
blockstent 150 from completely occluding the desired blood vessel or conduit.
        [0154]     In another embodiment, the shape of an expanded expandable body
100 or 150 is maintained by placing solid material or support structures into the central
void or space 108. Examples of this solid material include metal or polymeric coils or
wires, metal or polymeric solid support structures, bioresorbable materials, radially
expansile materials, beads, particles, granules, spheres, or microspheres. In certain
embodiments, these solid materials can also be used to help expand the expandable
body 100 or 150. In other embodiments, these solid materials are added after
expansion. In one embodiment, as shown in FIG. 1OA, the aneurysm 700 within the
blood vessel 1202 is filled with a ballstent 100 containing at least one coil or expansile
wire 1204. In another embodiment, as shown in FIG. 1OB, the lumen 1202 of the blood
vessel segment 720 is filled with a blockstent 150 containing at least one coil or
expansile wire 1204. In one aspect, the expandable body 100 or 150 may be expanded
by the coil or expansile wire 1204 only. In other aspects, the expandable body 100 or
                                               35

      WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
150 may be expanded by a fluid medium, and the solid materials may be added later to
provide support to maintain the expanded shape of the expandable body, or vice versa.
Other suitable biocompatible solid materials may also be used. The solid fill members
can function as a lattice to insure the structural integrity of the expandable body 100 or
150. For example, the coil 1204 can promote the structural integrity of the expandable
body 100 or 150 and reduce compression of the expandable body 100 or 150. In one
embodiment, solid material may be designed and manufactured to match an
expandable body of a particular size or shape, and may be packaged as part of the
medical device for use with the packaged expandable body.
         [0155]     In the event that the expandable body 100 or 150 is not appropriately
sized or positioned for the desired treatment, the expandable body may be intentionally
collapsed and recaptured. In one embodiment, where the expandable body 100 or 150
is still attached to the delivery catheter, a negative pressure can be generated within the
delivery catheter to assist in the collapse of the expandable body. In this embodiment,
the expandable body 100 or 150 may re-collapse due to the vacuum pressure alone.
         [0156]     In other embodiments, additional efforts are necessary to collapse the
expandable body 100 or 150 after deployment due to the inherently stable geometry of
expandable body. Additionally, structural features may be incorporated into the
expandable body 100 or 150 to facilitate an intentional collapse. For example, a series
of vertical grooves may be created in expandable body 100 or 150 during the
electroformation process to create geometric stress concentrations that encourage
collapse under sufficient vacuum pressure. Another example is to coat the expandable
body 100 or 150 with a thick polymer coating and then remove a majority of the thick
polymer coating by laser etching to leave a series of "ribs" along exterior surface 110 of
the expandable body 100 or 150. The ribs may be formed laterally or longitudinally
around the expandable body 100 or 150.
         [0157]     In other embodiments, one or more tools designed to collapse the
expandable body 100 or 150 may be used. In one example, an elongated tubular
collapsing tool having a number of outwardly biased or splayed "fingers" may be
inserted into a guide catheter. The fingers are collapsed inward when the collapsing
                                               36

      WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
tool is inserted into the guide catheter and over the delivery catheter. When the
collapsing tool exits the distal end of the guide catheter, the fingers spring out radially
and encircle the expanded expandable body 100 or 150. The collapsing tool is the
retracted back into the guide catheter such that the fingers engage and compress and
deflate the expanded expandable body 100 or 150. A vacuum may also be applied
throughout the process to encourage collapse of the expandable body 100 or 150.
        The Expandable Body in Use
        [0158]     Advantageously, as illustrated in FIG. 11A, the ballstent 100 can be
delivered into the lumen 701 of a saccular aneurysm 700, expanded, and then
separated from the delivery catheter 300, such that the delivery catheter can be
removed while the expanded ballstent remains in place filling a portion, substantially all,
or all of the lumen of the aneurysm in an expanded state. The expanded ballstent 100
will typically conform to the shape of the saccular aneurysm cavity in which it is placed.
The expanded ballstent 100 can also be shaped with external force, such as a physical
force applied by the inflated balloon portion 1102 of an adjacent balloon catheter 1100,
as shown in FIG. 11 A. With precise placement and shaping, the ballstent 100 can be
positioned such that the aneurysm lumen 701 or cavity is completely or substantially
filled and sealed, and further with none of the ballstent, or a minimal amount of the
ballstent, extending into the lumen of the parent vessel 1202 from which the aneurysm
has formed. In another embodiment, the expanded blockstent 150 can also be shaped
with external force, such as a physical force applied by the inflated balloon portion 1102
of an adjacent balloon catheter 1100, as shown in FIG. 11 B.
        [0159]      In one embodiment of treating a saccular aneurysm, various expanded
ballstent shapes are acceptable as required to treat saccular aneurysms of various
shapes, including circular, oblong, and irregular, so long as the shape is generally
rounded and the expanded ballstent including a single lobe. Regardless of the formed
shape, when a ballstent is expanded in the lumen or cavity 701 of an aneurysm sac
700, in one embodiment, the ballstent is designed to conform, at least partially, to the
shape of the cavity.
                                              37

     WO 2013/109309                                                   PCT/US2012/047072
        [0160]      Research suggests that the presence of an intact endothelium
correlates with expansion of the lumen of blood vessels and aneurysms in certain
clinical situations. In these settings, endothelial cells sense changes in the lumen of
blood vessels or aneurysms and stimulate biological processes that lead to an increase
in cellular and enzyme activity in the wall of blood vessel segments or aneurysms
associated with changes in the extracellular and cellular components of the wall and
expansion or enlargement of the lumen. Research has also shown that endothelial cells
require flowing blood on their luminal surface to remain healthy and viable. Therefore, a
medical device, system, or method that could reduce or eliminate flowing blood over the
luminal surface of endothelial cells lining an aneurysm or blood vessel segment could
thereby reduce endothelial cell viability, biochemical signaling from endothelial cells,
and increases in cellular and enzymatic activity associated with blood vessel or
aneurysm expansion or enlargement, which is an important goal in preventing or
treating aneurysms. Given this, in certain embodiments, the ballstent 100 is fully
expanded to treat a saccular aneurysm. In addition to the physical nature of the filling
and blocking effect of the expanded ballstent in the aneurysm sac, this treatment also
reduces endothelial viability in the aneurysm sac. In other embodiments, the ballstent
100 need not be fully expanded to treat a saccular aneurysm, but may successfully seal
the aneurysm or reduce endothelial cell viability while partially expanded. In all
embodiments, the ballstent remains in an expanded state (partially or completely) after
detachment from the delivery catheter. An expanded state refers to the at least partial
distention of the ballstent 100, such as at least 20%, 50%, 75%, or 90% and up to 100%
of the maximum ballstent volume.
        [0161]      In various embodiments, the blockstent 150 need not be fully
expanded to occlude a blood vessel segment. For example, the blockstent 150 may be
partially expanded, or may be completely expanded. In all embodiments, the blockstent
remains in an expanded state (partially or completely) after detachment from the
delivery catheter. An expanded state refers to the at least partial distention of the
blockstent 150, such as at least 10%, 20%, 50%, 75%, or 90% and up to 100% of the
maximum blockstent volume.
                                              38

     WO 2013/109309                                                      PCT/US2012/047072
Forming the Expandable Body
       [0162]       In an exemplary method of forming the expandable body 100 or 150,
the central layer 122 of the wall 102 of the ballstent 100 or the blockstent 150 may be
formed by vapor deposition, wherein vapors from one or more polymers, pure metals, or
metal alloys are condensed upon a substrate or mold (e.g., mandrel). The mold may be
removed to provide a hollow shell formed of the pure metal or metal alloy.
       [0163]       In a preferred embodiment, the central layer 122 of the wall 102 is
formed by electroforming or electroplating a metallic shell over a removable form or
mold (e.g., mandrel). For example, as shown in FIGS. 32A-C, a multi-part mandrel
3200 for electroforming the expandable body 100 or 150 is shown in partial cross
section. The mandrel 3200 includes a steel base 3202 and form member 3204 that is
removable from the base. Preferably, the form member 3204 is composed of a rigid
material, including but not limited to aluminum or stainless steel. Although shown as a
sphere, other embodiments of the form member 3204 may be other shapes, including
but not limited to the shape of a partially pleated or partially folded body 3204 that
results in an expandable body 100 or 150 having a configuration intermediate to the
deliverable (i.e., fully collapsed or pleated and folded) configuration and the fully
expanded configuration, such a partially pleated mandrel 3204 being depicted in FIG.
33. In addition, the protrusions, as shown in FIGS. 12F-1, may be fashioned onto the
form member 3204, such that the protrusions are formed during the electroforming or
electroplating process. The form member 3204 may be spherical as shown in FIGS.
32A-B and 34 to generate a spherical expandable body 100 or 150. The form member
3204 may be a cylindrical body having hemispherical ends to generate similarly shaped
expandable bodies 100. In various embodiments, the mandrel 3200 or at least the
removable form 3204 is sacrificial, such that it is consumed during the process of
forming the expandable body 100 or 150.
       [0164]       To form a metal expandable body, the form member 3204 is removed
from the base 3202. A portion of the form member 3204 may be threaded so that it can
engage a threaded spindle 3206 extending from the base 3202. After the form member
3204 is detached from the base 3202, a metallic ring 3208 is positioned on the threaded
                                              39

     WO 2013/109309                                                     PCT/US2012/047072
spindle 3206. In one embodiment shown in FIG. 34, the threaded spindle 3206 includes
a shoulder 3212 that has a diameter greater than that of the threaded spindle 3206,
such that the metallic ring 3208 can be seated in a desired position.
       [0165]      The metallic ring 3208 is a non-sacrificial component of the mandrel
3200. In one embodiment, the metallic ring 3208 is any biocompatible metal that is
reactive to electrolysis. For example, the metallic ring 3208 may be composed of gold,
316L stainless steel, or 304 stainless steel. Preferably, the metallic ring is composed of
304 stainless steel, as 304 stainless steel has a lower nickel content than 316L
stainless steel and will minimize the risk of cytotoxicity during electrolysis. In some
embodiments, 304 stainless steel is preferred as it has a pitting potential (approximately
0.18 V - 0.38 V) that is lower than the hydrolysis potential of water (approximately 0.82
V). Therefore, electrolysis with 304 stainless steel may be performed under more
controlled conditions with more repeatable results than electrolysis performed with 316L
stainless steel or gold, whose pitting potentials (approximately 0.98 V - 1.18 V and
approximately 0.7 V - 0.9 V, respectively) exceed the hydrolysis potential of water.
       [0166]      In various embodiments, the metallic ring 3208 is between
approximately 0.025 inches and approximately 0.150 inches in length, with a wall that is
between approximately 25.4 pm and approximately 254.0 pm thick. In one
embodiment, the metallic ring 3208 is 0.05 inches in length. A gold plating or coating
may optionally be applied to at least a portion 3210 of the metallic ring 3208 to
encourage the deposition of gold that will be used to form a gold expandable body.
Similarly, a plating or coating composed of another metal, including but not limited to
platinum, may be used to encourage the deposit of the other metal. As such, the
metallic ring 3208 will be integrated into the expandable body 100 or 150 and form a
portion of the neck 116 of the expandable body.
       [0167]      Once the metallic ring 3208 and the form member 3204 are positioned
on the threaded spindle 3206, the mandrel 3200 is placed in an electrolytic bath (not
shown) containing metallic ions, such as gold, where the gold ions are deposited on the
form member and at least a portion of the metallic ring 3208. In particular, the mandrel
3200 is positioned such that the expandable body 100 or 150 is electroformed over the
                                              40

     WO 2013/109309                                                     PCT/US2012/047072
form member 3204 and the portion of the metallic ring 3208 having the gold flash,
thereby bonding the metallic ring to the expandable body. Preferably, the remaining
portion of the metallic ring 3208 is not coated by gold.
        [0168]     In various embodiments and as can be understood from FIGS. 9A-D,
the thickness 120 of the ballstent wall 102 can be controlled by varying the
electroforming process. For example, by adjusting the duration of the electroforming
process walls of greater or lesser thickness may be formed. Similarly, the wall
thickness 120 may be varied in certain locations by applying one or more masks to the
mandrel 3200. In addition, the location of the mandrel 3200 relative to the anode in the
solution bath will also affect the thickness of the wall. For example, an internal feature
at the neck of the expandable body 100 or 150 may have a thinner wall than the
rounded spherical portion of the expandable body. The expandable body 100 or 150
may be formed intentionally with a thinner, and therefore weaker, neck region that can
be severed to separate the expandable body from the neck 116, including a neck that
includes the metallic ring 3208. Alternatively or additionally, a stress concentration ring
in the form of a line or strip may be defined in the neck or in the proximal portion 208 of
the expandable body 100 or 150, more specifically, a ring-shaped region of exposed
metal (e.g., stainless steel portion of the ring 3208 or a gold portion of the neck 116) to
help facilitate separation of the delivery tool from the expandable body at the ring
shaped region of the exposed metal. Such a stress concentration line may be formed
into the ring-shaped region of the exposed metal via laser etching, various mechanical
operations such as sawing or grinding, or by electrolysis.
        [0169]      After formation, the expandable body 100 or 150 and the form
member 3204 are removed from the mandrel base 3202, where the form member is
removed to leave only the metallic ring 3208 and the expandable body, shown in a
partial cross-section in FIG. 35. In one embodiment, the aluminum form member 3204
is removed though the neck 116 by chemical and/or thermal leaching. In another
embodiment, a hole is drilled into the aluminum form member 3204 though the neck 116
by mechanical operations, such as, but not limited to, drilling with an auger bit. The
hole may be used to accelerate and regulate the chemical leaching or etching process
to remove the aluminum form member 3204 from the expandable body 100 or 150.
                                               41

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
Preferably, combinations of mechanical, chemical, and thermal methods are used to
ensure that all of the constituents of the form member 3204 are removed. It is desirable
to completely remove the form member 3204 from the expandable body 100 or 150 to
ensure sufficient plasticity or malleability of the expandable body and to minimize any
toxic effects after implantation, such as may be the case specifically when the
expandable body comprises residual aluminum.
        [0170]      To reduce the presence of stress concentrations regions or surface
variations of the expandable body 100 or 150 and to eliminate the transfer of concentric
machine marks from the form member 3204, the mandrel 3200 and in particular the
form member may be polished or lapped before electroforming the expandable body.
An unpolished form member 3204 and a resulting gold expandable body 100 or 150 are
shown in FIGS. 36A and 36B, respectively. Conversely, a polished form member 3204
having a lapped finish and the resulting gold expandable body 100 or 150 are shown in
FIGS. 36C and 36D, respectively. In one embodiment, polishing the form member 3204
reduces the distance between the highest and lowest points of surface imperfections or
features to approximately 0.1 pm or less.
        [0171]      Once the form member 3204 has been removed from the expandable
body 100 or 150, the expandable body may undergo an annealing process to improve
the pliability of the expandable body. In one embodiment, the expandable body is
heated to approximately 3000 C for approximately 1 hour and then immediately
quenched in a bath of distilled water at room temperature. In other embodiments, the
expandable body 100 or 150 is folded or otherwise deformed after a first annealing
process and then subjected to one or more additional annealing processes. In further
embodiments, the expandable body 100 or 150 is folded or otherwise deformed and
then subjected to one or more annealing processes.
        [0172]      The interior and exterior surfaces of the expandable body 100 or 150
may be cleaned to remove any contaminants remaining from manufacture. For
example, in one embodiment, the expandable body 100 or 150 is placed in an ultrasonic
cleaner that contains an isopropyl alcohol bath for approximately 10 minutes. The
expandable body 100 or 150 is then removed from the bath and injected with distilled
                                               42

     WO 2013/109309                                                   PCT/US2012/047072
water to remove any contaminants remaining in the interior of the expandable body.
Optionally, the expandable body 100 or 150 may be dried in a vacuum oven held at
approximately 900 C.
       [0173]      As shown in FIGS. 37A and 37B, the exterior surface 110 of the
ballstent 100, the interior surface 106, or both are coated with a polymer such as
Parylene T M or an acrylic polymer. The polymer can be added by incorporating a pre
formed material into the desired orientation, by vapor deposition, or other methods. In
some embodiments, at least a portion of the neck 116 or the interior surface 3304 of the
metallic ring 3208 is not coated. In one embodiment, the ballstent 100 may be
annealed, as previously described, at least once after the application of the non-metallic
coating. FIGS. 37C and 37D show a similarly coated blockstent 150.
       [0174]      In embodiments of the expandable body 100 or 150 where the wall 102
is composed of a material that his highly non-reactive during electrolysis, such as
platinum, the interior and exterior of the neck 116 may be coated, while the remaining
surfaces are not coated. Similarly, in some embodiments where the expandable body
100 or 150 will be detached by an operation other than electrolysis, only the interior
surface 106 may be coated with the non-metallic coating.
       [0175]      In some embodiments, after coating, a portion of the polymer coating is
removed from the exterior surface 3300 to expose the metal surface in a strip or ring
configuration, as shown in FIGS. 37E-H. In other embodiments the exposed metal
surface may be formed by masking this region before coating, and then removing the
masking material. Electrolysis can be used to separate the expanded expandable body
from the remainder of the neck 3300 and the delivery catheter at the region comprising
the exposed metal surface. The width W of the detachment site (i.e. the exposed metal
surface in a strip or ring configuration) 3302 may be in a range between about 0.1 mm
and about 0.4 mm. The detachment site W may be located anywhere along the length
N1 of the neck 116. In some embodiments W may be located in the region of the neck
formed by the metallic ring 3208. In one particular embodiment, the exposed strip of the
detachment site 3302 has a width W of 0.25 mm  0.03 mm and is located at a length
N5 of approximately 0.51 mm  0.03 mm from the end of the neck 116. The metallic
                                              43

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
strip may be exposed by any suitable method, including but not limited to laser etching
or laser ablation. In other embodiments, the metallic strip of the detachment site 3302
may be exposed before or after the folding or compression of the expandable body 100
or 150. By way of example and not limitation, in one embodiment, the exposed metal in
the region 3302 is gold, while in other embodiments the exposed metal is stainless
steel.
        [0176]     In various embodiments, the wall 102 of the expandable body 100 or
150 is perforated to create a plurality of microperforations 1300, as shown in FIG. 9B.
By way of example and not limitation, the microperforations 1300 may be created by
laser perforating the wall 102. The microperforations 1300 or pores may range from
approximately 1 pm to approximately 500 pm in diameter and may extend completely
through the thickness of the wall 1022 from the interior void 108 to the exterior surface
110. Alternatively, a microperforated expandable body 100 or 150 may be formed
during the electroforming process, such as with the use of a masking pattern.
        [0177]    After perforating, the expandable body surfaces 110 and 106 may be
coated with a polymer that does not completely cover the microperforations 1300,
thereby leaving channels between the inner and outer surfaces. Alternately, the
expandable body 100 or 150 may be laser perforated after coating. The
microperforations 1300 permit the exchange of fluid between the interior void 108 of the
expandable body 100 or 150 and the environment exterior to the expandable body.
        [0178]     In various embodiments, the exterior layer 104 may be formed on the
outside of the central layer 122 of the expandable body 100 or 150 by additional
electroplating or electroforming, by vapor deposition, or by sputter deposition, wherein
material is eroded from a target (e.g., a metal or metal alloy) and is then deposited onto
a substrate (e.g., a mandrel or mold) forming a thin layer on the substrate. Similarly, an
interior layer 214 may be formed on the inside of the central layer 122 of the
expandable body 100 or 150 by additional electroplating or electroforming, or by vapor
deposition, or by sputter deposition.
        [0179]     In various embodiments, an additional polymer coating is applied to the
expandable body 100 or 150 to tune the strength and flexibility characteristics of the
                                             44

     WO 2013/109309                                                   PCT/US2012/047072
wall 102. For example, the additional reinforcement polymer may be applied via dip,
spin, or spray coating, or through deposition processes specialized for the specific
polymer. The additional coating may be Parylene, biocompatible polyurethanes, PTFE,
and silicone, among others. In one embodiment, this coating can be limited to the neck
116 of the expandable body 100 or 150 by using a mechanical or chemical template. In
various embodiments, detailed geometries and designs can be laser etched into the
reinforcement coating to further optimize the wall properties with the folding geometry.
Further, the removal of the reinforcement coating in regions where it in not needed
would also remove unnecessary material from the final diameter of the collapsed and
wrapped expandable body 100 or 150.
       [0180]     The wall 102 of the main body of the expandable body 100 or 150 may
be formed by different methods than the neck 116. The central layer 122 of the
expandable body 100 or 150 may be formed by different methods than the exterior layer
or coating 104 or the interior layer or coating 214. In various other embodiments, the
expandable body 100 or 150 may be formed by manipulating and securing one or more
sheets of metal in the desired configuration to form the wall 102 and/or the exterior layer
104. These two-dimensional sheets may further comprise rubber, plastic, polymer,
woven or knitted fiber materials, or other materials, or combinations thereof. By way of
example and not limitation, one or more two-dimensional sheets of a metal may be
folded into an expandable body shape and welded, soldered, glued, or bonded together.
Similarly, two-dimensional sheets of material may be manipulated and secured to form
the exterior layer 104 or the interior layer 214.
The Delivery Device
       [0181]     The expandable body 100 or 150 is advanced and positioned within
human body by an elongated portion of the medical device known as the "delivery
device" or "delivery catheter". In one embodiment, a delivery device is an elongated
surgical instrument that defines at least one lumen, or potential lumen. The delivery
device has a proximal and a distal end and is dimensioned to deliver a fluid medium
from a fluid medium source at the proximal end of the device into the central void or
space 108 of the expandable body 100 or 150, which is attached to the distal end of the
                                              45

      WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
delivery device. Further, any medical device or component of a medical device that can
position the expandable body 100 or 150 at a desired location in the vascular system,
such as the lumen of a saccular aneurysm or lumen of a target blood vessel, facilitate
the expansion of the expandable body, and then facilitate the separation of the
expandable body from the delivery device is generally acceptable as a delivery device.
Typically, the delivery device is a catheter (a "delivery catheter"). Preferably, the
delivery catheter may be any flexible catheter, hollow wire, removable core wire, or
combinations thereof, suitable for accessing locations with the vascular system
including the delivery catheters 300 and 400, shown in FIGS. 2 and 6. The delivery
device may also be any other type of catheter, hollow wire, or removable core wire, or
alternatively a needle or trochar, a stylet, or combinations thereof, suitable for accessing
locations within the vascular system or in other biological conduits. In various
embodiments, the delivery device is a catheter 300 or 400 that can carry an attached
compressed expandable body 100 or 150 to the lumen of a saccular aneurysm or the
lumen of a target blood vessel. Preferably, the delivery device or delivery catheter
extends only into the neck of the expandable body 100 or 150, such that no portion or
component of the delivery device, including but not limited to a guidewire or an
obturator, extends into the interior void 108 of the expandable body.
         [0182]    A catheter is a flexible, tubular, elongate medical device configured for
insertion into bodily compartments, including blood vessels, to permit the injection or the
withdrawal of fluids, amongst other functions. Catheters are often formed of polymers
or plastics and optionally further include metal, such as in a coil or braid configuration
for reinforcement. Catheters can be configured to enable attachment to expandable
bodies 100 or 150, facilitate the delivery of compressed expandable bodies to the lumen
of an aneurysm sac or lumen of a target blood vessel or other biological conduit,
facilitate the expansion of compressed expandable bodies, and separate from
expanded expandable bodies. In some embodiments, the delivery catheter 300 or 400
can be configured to pass through the vascular system with the attached expandable
body 100 or 150 in a compressed form, as shown in FIGS. 3A and 7A. After expansion,
the expandable body 100 or 150 is separated from the delivery catheter 300, thereby
allowing the expanded expandable body to remain in place while the delivery catheter is
                                               46

     WO 2013/109309                                                     PCT/US2012/047072
removed from the body. In this way, delivery catheters are similar to angioplasty
balloon catheters, which are configured to enable attachment to traditional tubular
stents, to facilitate the delivery of attached compressed traditional tubular stents to the
lumen of a specific segment of a blood vessel or other biological conduit, enable
expansion of compressed traditional tubular stents, and separate from expanded
traditional tubular stents.
         [0183]     The delivery catheter 300 and 400 is composed of a biocompatible
material. By way of example and not limitation, the delivery catheter 300 and 400 and
various components thereof may be formed of silicone rubber, natural rubber, polyvinyl
chlorides, polyurethane, copolyester polymers, thermoplastic rubbers, silicone
polycarbonate copolymers, polyethylene ethyl-vinyl-acetate copolymers, woven
polyester fibers, or combinations thereof. In one embodiment, the wall of the delivery
catheter 300 and 400 may be reinforced with a metal, such as coiled or braided
stainless steel or nitinol, to enhance control and reduce kinking of the delivery catheter
300 and 400 during use. Metals suitable for delivery catheter reinforcement include
stainless steel and nitinol.
         [0184]     As shown in FIG. 2, 3A-B, 6, 7A-B and 16A-B, the delivery catheter
300 and 400 will have a hollow, or potentially hollow, cylindrical member that defines a
lumen to allow for passage of a fluid medium from the proximal end of the delivery
catheter to the distal end of the delivery catheter and into the central void 108 of the
expandable body. The delivery catheter 300 or 400 is designed and dimensioned such
that it can be inserted in the body to deliver the compressed expandable body 100 or
150 to a desired location, facilitate the expansion of the expandable body, and facilitate
the separation of the expanded expandable body from the delivery catheter. When a
single lumen delivery catheter 400 is used, the compressed expandable body may be
positioned in the lumen of a saccular aneurysm or lumen of the target blood vessel after
being advanced through a separate larger guide catheter that is positioned with its distal
end within or near the aneurysm or target location within the target blood vessel. Once
in the lumen of the aneurysm sac or lumen of the target blood vessel and out of the
guide catheter, the compressed expandable body 100 or 150 can be expanded, and
then the expanded expandable body and the delivery catheter can be separated, and
                                               47

     WO 2013/109309                                                   PCT/US2012/047072
the delivery catheter and the guide catheter can be removed from the body, while the
expanded expandable body remains in place. The hollow, or potentially hollow,
cylindrical member 306 of delivery catheter 400 has a wall thickness ranging from about
0.05 mm to about 0.25 mm. Preferably, wall thickness of the hollow cylindrical member
306 ranges from about 0.1 mm to about 0.2 mm. The lumen 312 defined by the hollow
cylindrical member 306 for the purpose of enabling the passage of a fluid medium into
the central void or space of the expandable body 108 has a diameter ranging from
about 0.4 mm to about 1.0 mm. The proximal end of the hollow cylindrical member 306
includes a port or hub 3408 to communicate with a pressurized fluid medium source,
such as a syringe 314 or a pump (not shown) containing, for example, water, saline or a
radiographic contrast solution. The fluid media for expanding the expandable body are
received into the delivery catheter 300 or 400 through the hub or port 3408.
        Single Lumen Catheters
        [0185]    FIG. 2 depicts a longitudinal view of a single lumen embodiment of the
delivery catheter portion 400 of the medical device 500, and FIG. 16A depicts a
transverse cross-section of the single lumen catheter. As shown in FIGS. 4A-E, for the
single lumen embodiment, the delivery catheter 300 moves through the lumen of a
guide catheter 800 to deliver the compressed ballstent 100 to the lumen 701 of a
saccular aneurysm 700. For this single lumen embodiment, the delivery catheter 400
does not include a hollow cylindrical member that defines a lumen that is dimensioned
to allow for the passage of a guidance member, or guide wire.
        [0186]    The dimensions of the delivery catheter 300 or 400 are a matter of
design choice depending upon the size of aneurysm to be treated and the location of
the aneurysm in the vascular system. The distance between the aneurysm to be
treated and the site of insertion of the medical device into the vascular system, will
determine, in part, the length of the delivery catheter 300 or 400. Delivery catheter
lengths range between about 5 cm and about 300 cm, with preferable ranges between
about 75 cm and about 225 cm. The smallest diameter blood vessel segment in the
path between the site of insertion of the medical device into the vascular system and the
aneurysm to be treated will determine, in part, the diameter of the delivery catheter.
                                              48

      WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
Delivery catheter diameters range between 2 Fr and 7 Fr, with preferable ranges
between 2 Fr and 5 Fr. Similarly, when occluding a blood vessel as illustrated in FIGS.
4F-J, the smallest diameter blood vessel segment in the path between the site of
insertion of the medical device into the vascular system and the blood vessel to be
treated, will determine, in part, the diameter of the delivery catheter. As such, delivery
catheter diameters for delivering a blockstent 150 range between 2 Fr and 12 Fr, with
preferable ranges between 2 Fr and 5 Fr.
         [0187]    FIGS. 3A-C depict longitudinal views of a single lumen embodiment of
the delivery catheter portion of a medical device 500. FIG. 3A depicts a longitudinal
view of a single lumen embodiment of the medical device 500 with the ballstent 100 in a
compressed form. FIG. 3B depicts a longitudinal view of a single lumen embodiment of
the medical device 500 with the ballstent 100 in an expanded form, while FIG. 3C
depicts the medical device with the blockstent 150 in an expanded form.
         [0188]    In some embodiments, the proximal end of the delivery catheter 400 is
configured with a hub 3408 that may facilitate a Luer-LokTM or Luer-Sip T M type
connection for connecting a fluid medium source, such as a syringe 314, to the lumen
312 of a hollow cylindrical member configured to transmit the fluid medium from the
proximal end of the delivery catheter to the central void or space of the expandable
body 100 or 150. As shown, in FIG. 28, the lumen 312 of a delivery catheter 400 is
connected to a fluid medium source, such as the syringe 314, through a female Luer
fitting 2802. A stopcock 2804 or flow switch may be positioned between the fluid
medium source and the delivery catheter 400 to enable greater control over the
movement of the fluid medium into and out of the delivery catheter.
         [0189]    As shown in FIGS. 3A-B and 4A-E, in one embodiment of the medical
device 500, the delivery catheter 400 advances the attached compressed ballstent 100
through the lumen of a larger guide catheter 800, beyond the distal end of the guide
catheter, and into the lumen 701 of the aneurysm sac 700. Once the compressed
ballstent 100 has been placed in the lumen 701 of the aneurysm sac 700, a removable
wire or obturator 404 is removed from the delivery catheter. The removable wire or
obturator 404 may include a handle 408 or other device to facilitate insertion and
                                             49

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
removal. Then, a fluid medium source, such as the syringe 314 can be connected to
the hub 3408 and a fluid medium can be moved from the syringe 314 into the central
void or space 108 of the ballstent 100, resulting in expansion of the ballstent within the
lumen 701 of the aneurysm sac 700 and filling at least a portion of the aneurysm sac.
Fluid media such as water, saline, solutions of radiographic contrast agents, or solutions
of drugs, such as thrombin, can be used to expand the compressed ballstent 100. As
shown in FIG. 4E, after the ballstent 100 is expanded, the delivery catheter 400 and the
ballstent 100 are separated and the delivery catheter and guide catheter 800 are
removed while leaving the expanded ballstent in the lumen 701 of the aneurysm sac
700. A variety of methods and devices can be used to separate the delivery catheter
from the ballstent 100. In one embodiment as indicated in FIGS. 2, 3A and 3B, the
delivery catheter 400 comprises an electrolysis wire 320 or the insulated conductor wire.
For this embodiment, after the ballstent 100 is expanded, a DC current is applied to the
electrolysis wire 320 or the insulated conductor wire to dissolve a portion of the weld or
solder 316 between the ballstent 100 and the delivery catheter 400, or alternatively to
dissolve a portion of the ballstent 100 by electrolysis. Once the weld or solder 316 is
dissolved or corroded, or alternatively a portion of the ballstent 100 is dissolved or
corroded, the delivery catheter 400 is separated from the ballstent and the delivery
catheter and the guide catheter 800 are removed.
        [0190]     A similar method may be used to occlude a blood vessel with a
blockstent 150. As shown in FIGS. 3A, 3C, and 4F-J, in one embodiment of the medical
device 500, the delivery catheter 400 advances the attached compressed blockstent
150 through the lumen of a larger guide catheter 800, beyond the distal end of the guide
catheter, and into the lumen 721 of the target blood vessel segment 720. Once the
compressed blockstent 150 has been placed in the lumen 721 of the target blood vessel
segment 720, the removable wire or obturator 404 is removed from the delivery
catheter. The removable wire or obturator 404 may include a handle 408 or other
device to facilitate insertion and removal. Then, a fluid source, such as the syringe 314
can be connected to the hub 3408 and fluid can be moved from the syringe 314 into the
central void or space 108 of the blockstent 150, resulting in expansion of the blockstent
within the lumen 721 of the blood vessel segment 720 and filling of the blood vessel. As
                                             50

     WO 2013/109309                                                     PCT/US2012/047072
shown in FIG. 4J, after the blockstent 150 is expanded, the delivery catheter 400 and
the blockstent 150 are separated and the delivery catheter and guide catheter 800 are
removed while leaving the expanded blockstent in the lumen 721 of the blood vessel
segment 720. A variety of methods and devices can be used to separate the catheter
from the blockstent 150. In one embodiment as indicated in FIGS. 2, 3A and 3C, the
delivery catheter 400 comprises an electrolysis wire 320 or an insulated conductor wire.
For this embodiment, after the blockstent 150 is expanded, a DC current is applied to
the electrolysis wire 320 or the insulated conductor wire to dissolve a portion of the weld
or solder 316 between the blockstent 150 and the delivery catheter 400 or alternatively
to dissolve a portion of the blockstent 150. Once the weld or solder 316 is dissolved, or
alternatively a portion of the blockstent 150 is dissolved, the delivery catheter 400 is
separated from the blockstent and the delivery catheter and the guide catheter 800 are
removed.
       Single Lumen Catheters
       [0191]       In various embodiment as illustrated in FIGS. 29B-C, a single lumen
catheter 1000 has a coil-reinforced wall 1002 consisting of one, two, or three electrical
conductor (e.g., wires, cables or etc.) to provide conductive path(s) for performing
electrolysis, as explained more fully below. In one embodiment, the external surface
1004 of the wall 1002 is composed of polyimide and has a hydrophilic or lubricious
coating, while the conductive path(s) includes 0.001 inch x 0.003 inch flat 304V
stainless steel coils 1006. The conductor coils 1006 can be configured in a one, two, or
three conductor arrangement 1008 as shown in FIGS. 29B-C and FIGS. 29D-F, as
discussed below with regard to performing electrolysis. The conductors of the coil 1006
and any other conductors may be straight, braided, or coiled. The conductive path
defined by the conductor coils 1006 can be coated in an insulating polymer such as
Parylene T M , while the interior lumen 1012 can be lined with a PTFE composite.
       [0192]       In certain embodiments, a modified infusion wire having a removable
core can be used as a single lumen delivery catheter. An infusion wire is a modified
guide wire wherein the solid metal core can be removed to leave a lumen that can be
used to inject the fluid media. An infusion wire with a removable core can be modified
                                              51

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
such that an expandable body 100 or 150 can be attached to the distal end and
expanded through the wire lumen, after the removal of the core wire.
        [0193]    In some embodiments all or a portion of the interior and exterior
surfaces of the delivery device can be further coated with a hydrophilic or lubricious
coating. In other embodiments, all or a portion of the expandable body 100 or 150 can
also be coated with a hydrophilic or lubricious coating.
        Dual Lumen Catheters
        [0194]    As shown in FIG. 6 and FIG. 16B, the delivery catheter 300 may
include an additional hollow cylindrical member that defines a second lumen 324 to
receive a guidance member, such as a guide wire 302, to assist in the guidance of the
ballstent 100 component of the medical device to the desired location, as can be
understood from FIGS. 7A-B and 8A-E. This second lumen 324 is generally adjacent
and parallel to the first lumen 312. As shown in FIG. 6 and FIG. 16B the delivery
catheter may be a double lumen catheter, with one lumen 312 configured to enable the
passage of the fluid medium from a fluid medium source at the proximal end of the
delivery catheter to the central void or space 108 of the ballstent at the distal end of the
delivery catheter, and the other lumen 324 configured to accept a guidance member,
such as a guide wire 302, to facilitate advancement and positioning of the medical
device in the vascular system. As shown in FIG. 16B, the delivery catheter 300
includes two hollow cylindrical members, each with a lumen, wherein the hollow
cylindrical members 304 or 306 have a wall thickness ranging from about 0.05 mm to
about 0.25 mm. Preferably, the hollow cylindrical member 304 or 306 wall thickness
ranges from about 0.1 mm to about 0.2 mm. The lumen defined by the hollow
cylindrical member 304 for the accepting a guide wire 302 has a diameter ranging from
about 0.25 mm to about 0.5 mm. The diameter of the lumen for the passage of the fluid
medium into the ballstent 100 and the diameter of the lumen for accepting a guidance
member 324 may be similarly dimensioned. Alternatively, the diameter of the lumen for
the passage of the fluid medium into the ballstent may be larger or smaller than the
diameter of the lumen for accepting a guidance member, such as the guide wire 302.
                                             52

      WO 2013/109309                                                     PCT/US2012/047072
         [0195]      For a delivery catheter with two lumens, the first and second hollow
cylindrical members may be similarly dimensioned. Alternatively, the second hollow
cylindrical member may have a larger diameter to accept the guidance member, or a
smaller diameter. The proximal end of the second hollow cylindrical member 304 is
engaged to the hub 3408. The hub 3408 facilitates the insertion of the guide wire 302
into the second hollow cylindrical member 304. As can be understood from FIGS. 6,
7A-B, 8A-E, and 16B, the guide wire 302 is fed through the second hollow cylindrical
member 304 and extended out of the distal end of the delivery catheter 300. In this
embodiment, the delivery catheter 300 is advanced over the guide wire 302 until the
compressed ballstent 100 is positioned in the lumen of a saccular aneurysm. Once the
compressed ballstent 100 is in the desired position, the ballstent 100 is expanded by the
fluid medium provided to the first hollow cylindrical member 306 by the syringe 314
connected to the ballstent expansion hub 3408. Fluid media such as water, saline,
solutions of radiographic contrast agents, or solutions of drugs, such as thrombin, can
be used to expand the compressed ballstent. The guide wire 302 is preferably an
angiographic wire of sufficient length for the distal tip of the guide wire to reach the
aneurysm, and a proximal end extending out and away from the point of entry into the
vascular system. In some embodiments, the guide wire 302 has a straight or angled
distal tip, while in other embodiments, the guide wire 302 has a curved J-shaped distal
tip, typically constructed from a shape-memory alloy or a braided metal that causes the
tip to return to the J-shape after any applied stress is removed. The materials and
dimensions of the guide wire 302 may be selected based upon the diameter, length,
and tortuosity of the blood vessels being traversed. Typically, the guide wire 302 may
be composed of any suitable biocompatible materials and have an outer diameter
ranging between about 0.3 mm to about 0.95 mm.
         [0196]     FIGS. 7A-C depict longitudinal views of a double lumen embodiment of
the delivery catheter portion 300 of the medical device 500. FIG. 7A depicts a
longitudinal view of a double lumen embodiment of the medical device 500 with the
expandable body 100 or 150 in a compressed form, while FIG. 7B depicts a longitudinal
view of a double lumen embodiment of the medical device 500 with the ballstent 100 in
an expanded form. FIG. 7C depicts the medical device with the blockstent 150 in an
                                               53

     WO 2013/109309                                                        PCT/US2012/047072
expanded form. The delivery catheter 300 is used to advance the ballstent 100 over a
guide wire 302 and into the lumen of the aneurysm sac. The delivery catheter 300 is
also used to deliver a fluid, liquid, gas, solid, or a combination thereof, to expand the
ballstent 100 in the lumen 701 of the aneurysm sac 700. In one embodiment, an
electrolysis wire 320 or an insulated conductor wire is connected or electrically coupled
to either a weld or solder joining the ballstent or blockstent to the delivery catheter. In
another embodiment, an electrolysis wire 320 or an insulated conductor wire is
connected or electrically coupled to a portion of the ballstent 100 at an exposed metal
surface 3302
        [0197]    As shown in FIGS. 6, 7A-B, and 8A-E, in one embodiment of the
medical device 500, the delivery catheter 300 advances the attached compressed
ballstent 100 over a guide wire 302 and into the lumen 701 of the aneurysm sac 700.
Once the compressed ballstent 100 has been placed in the lumen 701 of the aneurysm
sac 700, the guide wire 302 is removed. Then the wire or obturator 404 is removed
from the delivery catheter 300. The wire or obturator 404 may include a handle 408 or
other device to facilitate insertion and removal. Then, a fluid medium source, such as
the syringe 314 is connected to the hub 3408 and a fluid medium is moved from the
syringe 314 into the central void or space 108 of the ballstent 100 resulting in expansion
of the ballstent until it fills at least a portion of the lumen of the aneurysm sac 701. As
shown in FIG. 8E, after the ballstent 100 is expanded, the delivery catheter 300 and the
ballstent 100 are separated and the delivery catheter is removed while leaving the
expanded ballstent 100 within the lumen 701 of the aneurysm sac 700. In one
embodiment, an electrolysis wire 320 or an insulated conductor wire is connected or
electrically coupled to either a weld or solder joining the ballstent 100 and the delivery
catheter, or to an exposed metal surface 3302 of the ballstent. For this embodiment,
after the ballstent 100 is expanded, a DC current is applied to the electrolysis wire 320
or the insulated conductor wire to dissolve or corrode a portion of the weld or solder 316
between the ballstent 100 and the delivery catheter 300, or alternatively to dissolve or
corrode the exposed metal surface 3302 of the ballstent 100 by electrolysis. Once the
weld or solder 316 is dissolved or corroded, or alternatively the exposed metal surface
portion of the ballstent 100 is dissolved or corroded, the delivery catheter 300 is
                                                   54

     WO 2013/109309                                                       PCT/US2012/047072
separated from the ballstent 100 and the delivery catheter 100 and the guide catheter
800 are removed.
       [0198]     A similar method may be used to occlude a blood vessel with a
blockstent 150. As shown in FIGS. 6, 7A, 7C, and 8F-J, the delivery catheter 300
advances the attached compressed blockstent 150 over a guide wire 302 and into the
lumen 721 of the blood vessel segment 720. Once the compressed blockstent 150 has
been placed in the lumen 721 of the blood vessel segment 720, the guide wire 302 is
removed. Then the wire or obturator 404 is removed from the delivery catheter 300.
The wire or obturator 404 may include a handle 408 or other device to facilitate insertion
and removal. Then, a fluid source, such as the syringe 314 is connected to the hub
3408 and fluid is moved from the syringe 314 into the central void or space 108 of the
blockstent 150 resulting in expansion of the blockstent until it fills at least a portion of
the lumen of the blood vessel 721. As shown in FIG. 8J, after the blockstent 150 is
expanded, the delivery catheter 300 and the blockstent 150 are separated and the
delivery catheter is removed while leaving the expanded blockstent 150 within the
lumen 721 of the blood vessel segment 720. In one embodiment, the delivery catheter
comprises an electrolysis wire or an insulated conductor wire is connected or electrically
coupled to either a weld or solder joining the blockstent 150 and the delivery catheter, or
to the exposed metal surface 3302 of the blockstent. For this embodiment, after the
blockstent 150 is expanded, a DC current is applied to the electrolysis wire 320 or
insulated conductor wire to dissolve or corrode a portion of the weld or solder 316
between the blockstent 150 and the delivery catheter 300 or alternatively to dissolve or
corrode the exposed metal surface 3302 of the blockstent 150. Once the weld or solder
316 is dissolved or corroded, or alternatively, the exposed metal surface portion of the
blockstent 150 is dissolved or corroded, the delivery catheter 300 is separated from the
blockstent 150 and the delivery catheter 150 and the guide catheter 800 are removed.
       Guidance Members
       [0199]     As shown in FIGS. 8A-E, for an embodiment using a double lumen
catheter, the delivery catheter 300 moves over a guidance member or guide wire 302 to
deliver the compressed ballstent 100 to the lumen 701 of a saccular aneurysm 700.
                                             55

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
Examples of a guidance member include a flexible guide wire. The guide wire 302 can
comprise metal in the form of a flexible thread, coil, or slender rod. For example, the
basic angiography guide wire consists of a fixed solid metal core covered by a metal
spring coil. In other situations, a delivery catheter is advanced over a needle or trochar.
The guide wire 302 occupies a lumen in the delivery catheter, with such lumen defined
by the tubular portion of the delivery catheter. Once located in place, the guide wire 302
can be removed in order to allow the injection or withdrawal of a fluid medium.
        [0200]     As shown in FIGS. 17A-B, in another embodiment, the delivery
catheter of the medical device can be configured with a lumen that can accept a guide
catheter 800 as a guidance member. With this configuration, the medical device can be
advanced in a tri-axial configuration, with the medical device 500 advanced over a guide
catheter 800, which is advanced over a guide wire. In certain embodiments, the
proximal hub on the guide catheter can be removed to allow the lumen of the hollow
cylindrical member 304 of delivery catheter 300 of the medical device 500 to accept the
guide catheter 800. In certain instances, this embodiment of the medical device can
result in better control over the delivery of the compressed expandable body to the
aneurysm or target blood vessel lumen and better trackability of the compressed
expandable body 100 or 150 as it is advanced to the desired location. As shown, in one
aspect, the hollow cylindrical member 304 of delivery catheter 300 may be annular
shaped and fully encircle the guidance catheter 800, while in other aspects, the delivery
catheter may engage 60%, 70%, 80%, 90% or more of the circumference of the
guidance catheter.
        Exemplary Ballstent Catheter and Blockstent Catheter Medical Devices
        [0201]     FIG. 38A depicts an embodiment of a ballstent catheter medical device
3400A. As shown, the ballstent catheter medical device 3400A includes a delivery
catheter 3402 configured at a distal end 3404 for engaging the ballstent 100. The
proximal end 3406 of the delivery catheter 3402 is engaged to a hub 3408 that permits
electrical and fluid communication with the ballstent 100 through the catheter. A syringe
314 may be used to delivery a fluid medium to the ballstent 100. The device 3400A
                                               56

     WO 2013/109309                                                     PCT/US2012/047072
also includes an electrical connector 3422 for establishing electrical communication
from a power source 3418 to the ballstent 100.
        [0202]     FIG. 38B depicts an embodiment of a blockstent catheter medical
device 3400B. As shown, the medical device 3400B includes a delivery catheter 3402
configured at the distal end 3404 for engaging the blockstent 150. The proximal end
3406 of the delivery catheter 3402 is engaged to a hub that permits electrical and fluid
communication with the blockstent 150 through the catheter. A syringe 314 may be
used to delivery a fluid medium to the blockstent 150. The device 3400B also includes
an electrical connector 3422 for establishing electrical communication from a power
source (not shown) to the blockstent 150.
        [0203]     A cross-section view of the hub 3408 is shown in FIG. 39. The hub
3408 includes a first connection port 3410 that is configured with a Luer hub or taper
that may facilitate a Luer-LokTM or Luer-Slip     type connection for connecting a fluid
medium source, such as a syringe 314, to the lumen 312 of a hollow cylindrical member
of the delivery catheter 3402 configured to transmit the fluid medium from the proximal
end of the delivery catheter to the central void or space 108 of the expandable body 100
or 150. Optionally, the first connection port 3410 is also configured to engage an
obturator wire 404 or a guidewire 302.
        [0204]     The second connection port 3414 is configured to allow for electrical
communication with the catheter 3402. For example, one or more electrolysis wire(s)
320 in electrical communication with electrodes mounted on the catheter 3402 and/or
the ballstent 100 may extend through a channel 3416 of the hub 3408 and into the
second connection port 3414. Alternatively, one or more resistive wires may extend
through the channel 3416 of the hub 3408 and into the second connection port 3414. A
power source or source of electricity, such as a handheld controller 3418 shown in
FIGS. 38A and 40, may communicate with the wire 320 to perform various functions
including, but not limited to, electrolysis or heating a heat-sensitive material.
        [0205]     In a preferred embodiment, the second connection port 3414 is bonded
to a threaded nut 3420, such that an electrical terminal 3422 may be secured to the nut
and the hub 3408. The electrical terminal 3422 is in electrical communication with the
                                               57

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
one or more conductive wires and configured to receive an electrical connector from an
external power source, such as the handheld controller 3418. By way of example and
not limitation, the electrical connector 3424 may be a 3.5 mm audio jack. Other
electrical connectors may also be used.
        [0206]     As shown in FIG. 40, the handheld controller 3418 can be connected
to the electrical terminal 3422 through a jack 3424 to deliver an electrical current
through the catheter 3402 for detaching the expandable body 100 or 150. For example,
in one embodiment, the catheter 3402 includes a conductive coil 1006 that may be
arranged in a one, two, or three conductor arrangement 1007, 1008, and 1010,
respectively, as shown in FIGS. 29C and 29E and 29F. The various conductor
arrangements 1008 and 1010 provide both reinforcing strength and a conductive
pathway along the length of the catheter 3402. The handheld controller 3418 provides
a current or a voltage potential to the electrodes 1014, 1016, and optionally 1026,
extending through the catheter 3402 to detach the expandable body 100 or 150 by
electrolysis or thermal detachment, as explained below. In one embodiment, the
handheld controller 3418 includes a body 3426, a power supply such as a battery, one
or more actuation buttons 3428, and one or more indicators 3430 to indicate the status
of the controller, the detachment of the expandable body 100 or 150, and the status of
the power source, such as the battery.
Folding the Expandable Body
        [0207]      In order to facilitate advancement of the expandable body through the
vascular system, some embodiments of the expandable body 100 or 150 comprise two
or more metallic portions 1900A-B that are joined by a flexible joint 1902, as shown in
FIG. 13. In certain embodiments, this flexible joint can comprise a variety of materials
that are flexible and biocompatible, including various polymers or elastomers. The joint
1902 allows for better maneuverability and increased trackability as the compressed
expandable body is advanced to the desired location. In other embodiments, the
expandable body 100 or 150 may include three or more metallic or rigid portions that
are joined through two or more flexible joints.
                                                58

     WO 2013/109309                                                     PCT/US2012/047072
        [0208]     In order to facilitate advancement of the expandable body through the
vascular system, the expandable body 100 or 150 can be compressed into various
shapes and dimensions. Optionally, this compression can include various forms and
patterns of folding or pleating. For example, one or more pleats can be made in the
expandable body 100 or 150 and then the pleats can be wrapped into a cylindrical
shape. Alternatively, the expandable body 100 or 150 may be flattened into a planar
shape and then rolled into a cylindrical shape. Alternatively, the expandable body 100
or 150 may be compressed into a compact spherical shape. Additionally, the portions
of the expandable body 100 or 150 may be twisted during compression. In certain
instances, the expandable body may be compressed around the delivery catheter 300,
as in FIG. 7A. In other instances, the expandable body may be compressed around the
obturator 404, as in FIG. 3A. In other embodiments, the expandable body 100 or 150
may be compressed on itself, without a central catheter or obturator.
        [0209]     In FIG. 14A, the expandable body 100 or 150 has been pleated,
folded, and wrapped around the hollow cylindrical member 304 of the delivery catheter
300. In FIG. 14B, the expandable body 100 or 150 is pleated and wrapped without
being wrapped around the delivery catheter. In another embodiment, the expandable
body 100 or 150 is folded into pleats, then the pleats of the folded expandable body are
wrapped around the hollow cylindrical member 304 of the delivery catheter 300, and the
expandable body is compressed against the delivery catheter, as shown in FIG. 14C. In
another embodiment, the expandable body 100 or 150 is folded into pleats, then the
pleated folds of the folded expandable body are wrapped around the removable wire or
obturator 404, and then the expandable body is compressed against the removable wire
or obturator 404. In another embodiment, the expandable body 100 or 150 is folded
into pleats, and then the pleated folds are rolled into a generally cylindrical shape
without a removable wire or obturator or catheter acting as central fixation point, as
shown in FIG. 14D.
        [0210]     In various embodiments, the expandable body 100 or 150 is attached
to the delivery catheter 300, 400, then the pleats are formed, and then the pleated folds
are wrapped and compressed onto the delivery catheter 300, or the obturator 404. In
another embodiment, the expandable body 100 or 150 is first folded to form pleats, and
                                               59

     WO 2013/109309                                                  PCT/US2012/047072
then attached to the delivery catheter 300, 400, and then the pleated folds are wrapped
and compressed onto the outer surface of the delivery catheter 300, or obturator 404.
In another embodiment, the expandable body 100 or 150 may be folded and
compressed into a variety of shapes in a manner similar to Japanese origami, as shown
in FIGS. 15A-D.
        [0211]     The expandable body 100 or 150 may be folded to form one or more
pleats, which may be further folded, rolled, and compressed, similar to the folding of
non-compliant angioplasty expandable bodies. In various other embodiments, the
pleated expandable body is folded and compressed to fit on the end of a flexible guide
wire and travel within a hollow cylindrical member of a separate catheter. The
expandable body 100 or 150 may be folded and compressed using any suitable
arrangements and methods. It is desired that the expandable body 100 or 150 have
smooth even folds.
        Expandable Body Folding Tool
        [0212]    In one embodiment, the expandable body 100 or 150 may be folded
using a folding tool 3500 as shown in FIGS. 41 A-C. The folding tool 3500 is configured
to form pleats within the expandable body 100 or 150 and to wrap the expandable body
to further minimize the cross-sectional area of the collapsed expandable body. The
folding tool 3500 includes a folding assembly 3502 and a removable collet assembly
3504.
        [0213]    The folding assembly 3502 includes a base 3506 defining a centrally
positioned opening 3508 for receiving the collet assembly 3504. The centrally
positioned opening 3508 is threaded such that the collet assembly can be secured to
the base 3506. On top of the base 3506, an annular folding die 3510 is positioned
coaxially with the opening 3508. The annular folding die 3510 is slidably engaged to the
base 3506, such that the annular folding die may rotate about the central axis 3512.
        [0214]    The annular folding die 3510 includes a flat annular ring 3514 having
an outer diameter D1, an inner diameter D2, and a plurality of projections 3516 that
extend diagonally away from the inner surface 3518 of annular ring towards the axis
3512 and nearly converge at the axis at a height H above the annular ring. The distal
                                             60

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
end 3520 of each projection 3516 defines a vertical-oriented blade 3522 having a height
h and extending radially inwards a distance d towards the axis 3512. In one
embodiment, the thickness blade 3522 tapers along d as it approaches the axis 3512, in
another embodiment, the blade has a uniform thickness. In one embodiment, the
projections 3516 are flexible and integrated with the ring 3514, or alternately,
mechanically engaged to the ring.
        [0215]     The annular ring 3514 is held against the base 3506 by a cover plate
3524. The cover plate 3524 is mechanically engaged by fasteners 3526 to the base
3506 and one or more stand-offs 3528. The cover plate 3524 defines a first central
recess 3530 having a diameter D3 and a second central recess 3532 that is coaxial with
the first central opening and having a diameter D4 that is smaller than D3. The
diameter D3 of the first central recess 3530 is greater than the outer diameter D1 of the
annular ring 3514, such that the annular ring can rotate within the first central recess.
The diameter D4 is greater than the inner diameter D2 of the annular ring, 3514 but less
than the outer diameter D1, such that the cover plate 3524 can hold the annular folding
die 3510 against the base 3506, but still permit rotation of the annular folding die 3510.
        [0216]     The cover plate 3524 also includes at least one arcuate channel 3534
that receives a bolt (not shown) engaged to the annular ring 3514 and a thumbscrew
3536, such that the thumbscrew can be used to rotate the annular folding die 3510.
The cover plate 3524 also defines one or more openings 3538 to receive one or more
compression ring slide shafts 3540. The slide shafts 3540 are slidably engaged to a
compression ring slide 3542 that engages the annular folding die 3510. In one
embodiment, return springs 3544 are engaged to the slide shafts 3540 and the
compression ring slide 3542 to apply a biasing force that returns the compression ring
slide to a default position.
        [0217]     The compression ring slide 3542 defines an annular opening 3544 that
engages the projections 3516 of the annular fold die 3510. The compression ring slide
3542 also defines a drive hole 3546 to receive a drive screw 3548 with a knob 3550,
through an optional bushing nut 3552. Rotation of the drive screw 3548 causes the
compression ring slide 3542 to translate along the compression ring slide shafts 3540.
                                             61

     WO 2013/109309                                                  PCT/US2012/047072
For example, rotation of the drive screw 3548 may cause the compression ring slide
3542 to translate along the compression ring slide shafts 3540 towards the base 3506.
As the compression ring slide shafts 3540 moves towards the base 3506, the annular
opening 3544 engages the projections 3516 causing each blade 3522 to translate
radially inward towards the axis 3512 and an expandable body 100 or 150 held in the
removable collet assembly 3504.
        [0218]    Referring now to FIGS. 42A-C, the removable collet assembly 3504
includes a collet 3554 to compress a compression tube 3556 and a center pin 3558
received within the compression tube. In one embodiment, the compression tube 3556
may compress and hold the neck 116 of an expandable body 100 or 150 that is placed
on the center pin 3558. In one embodiment, a tacky elastomeric material (not shown) is
placed around the neck to protect the neck from the clamping surfaces of the collet
3554. The collet 3554 is held against a collet piston 3560, by a cap 3562. The collet
piston 3560 also receives a piston stop 3564 and one or more anti-rotation pins 3566
that prevent undesired rotation of the piston stop and collet 3554, which prevents
rotation of the compression tube 3556 and the center pin 3558. The collet piston 3560
engages a piston spring 3568 within a base 3570, where the piston spring permits
longitudinal translation of the collet piston 3560.
        [0219]    By way of example and not limitation, an expandable body 100 or 150
to be folded may be engaged to the removable collet assembly 3504, by placing the
center pin 3558 within the neck 116 and positioning the compression tube 3556 to
engage the exterior surface of the neck. The collet assembly 3504 is assembled so that
the collet 3554 compresses the compression tube 3556 against the neck 116 and the
center pin 3558. The collet assembly 3504 is then attached to the folding assembly
3502.
        [0220]    The drive screw 3548 is rotated to translate the compression ring slide
3542 along the slide shafts 3540 towards the base 3506. As the compression ring slide
3542 moves towards the base 3506, the annular opening 3544 engages the projections
3516 causing each blade 3522 to translate radially inward and engage the expandable
body 100 or 150. Each blade 3522 deforms the expandable body to form a plurality of
                                               62

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
pleats 3600, as shown in FIGS. 43A-B. Each pleat 3600 includes a ridge line 3602
extending proximal-distal and radially away from the axis 3512. Each pleat is separated
from any immediately adjacent pleat by an interposed trough 3604 extending proximal
distal.
        [0221]    After the plurality of pleats 3600 are formed, the compression ring slide
3542 is raised slightly, causing each blade 3522 to partially disengage with the
expandable body 100 or 150 held in the removable collet assembly 3504. The annular
folding die 3510 is rotated about the axis 3512 by translation of the bolt and a
thumbscrew 3536 along the at least one arcuate channel 3534. In one embodiment, the
rotation of the annular folding die 3510 folds each pleat 3600 of the plurality of pleats
over an immediately adjacent pleat 3600 in a clockwise direction relative to the center
axis 3512 or, alternately, in a counter-clockwise direction.
        [0222]    FIGS. 43A-B are, respectively, side and axial end views of the
expandable body 100 or 150 in a progressive series of stages of being collapsed,
folded, and wrapped. Starting in an inflated configuration indicated as 3800, the
expandable body 100 or 150 is simultaneously compressed and folded by the folding
tool 3500, as indicated as 3802-3806. Once the pleats 3600 are fully formed as
indicated at 3806, the folding tool 3500 may be used to rotate the formed pleats 3600
and wrap the pleats upon the expandable body 100 or 150 into a fully compressed
deliverable configuration, indicated as 3808. Preferably, as can be understood from
FIGS. 9E, 9G, and 14B, the expandable body 100 or 150 is wrapped upon itself and not
a delivery device. More specifically, the delivery device 220 only extends into the neck
of the expandable body 100 or 150; no part of the delivery device 220 extends into
folded over region of the expandable body. In other words, the delivery device only
extends into the neck of the expandable body 100 or 150 but does not extend into the
volume 108 of the expandable portion of the expandable body. In such an embodiment
as can be understood from FIGS. 14B-C, the folded region of the expandable portion of
the expandable body may define a center channel 1400A or an off-center channel
1400B that can accept a guide wire or other delivery device. Alternately, as can be
understood from FIG. 14D, the folded region may not receive a guide wire or other
delivery device and therefore does not define a channel. In other embodiments, as can
                                               63

      WO 2013/109309                                                     PCT/US2012/047072
be understood from FIG. 14A, the expandable body is wrapped around a distal region of
the delivery device.
        [0223]     The expandable body 100 or 150 is preferably folded such that a distal
end portion 202 of the expandable body extends distally away from the interior void of
the expandable body, and a proximal end portion 208 of the expandable body extends
proximally away from the interior void 108 of the expandable body. In other
embodiments, the expandable body 100 or 150 may be folded such that the distal end
portion 202 is folded proximally inward towards the interior void 108, and the proximal
end portion may also be folded distally inward towards the interior void.
        [0224]     FIGS. 44A-B depict an alternate embodiment of the folding tool 3500.
In this embodiment, the compression ring slide 3700 is an annular ring that is manually
pushed against a non-rotatable annular folding die 3702. In addition, the collet
assembly 3704 is manually rotated to rotate the expandable body 100 or 150 after
forming the plurality of pleats 3600 to effect folding of the pleats in either a clockwise or
counterclockwise manner.
        [0225]     FIG. 44C depicts a partial cross-sectional view of an expandable body
100 or 150 within the folding tool 3500. In one embodiment, the expandable body 100
or 150 is partially or completely expanded prior to folding. The collet assembly 3504
may be in fluid communication with one or more pressurized fluid or air lines 3572 such
that a fluid medium or a gas may be delivered to the expandable body 100 or 150
through the hollow center pin 3558. The pressurized air line 3572 extends from the
collet assembly 3504 to a low pressure inflation device, such as an air pump or an
endoflator, (not shown) or alternately, a fluid source, such as a syringe 314. In one
embodiment, a low pressure check valve 3574 is configured in line with the pressurized
air line 3572. In another embodiment, the pressurized air line 3572 is split and
connected to the low pressure inflation device and a separate a low pressure check
valve 3574. In one embodiment, the check valve 3574 may be configured to split open
or otherwise release air under a specific internal air pressure to allow air to bleed out of
the check valve and prevent the over inflation of the expandable body 100 or 150 during
folding.
                                              64

     WO 2013/109309                                                     PCT/US2012/047072
        [0226]       After the expandable body 100 or 150 is mounted into the collet
assembly 3504, the collet assembly holds the expanded body neck 116 neck tightly
around the central pin 3558 to form an air tight seal with the pressurized air line 3572.
Approximately 1-5 psi of positive pressure is delivered to the air line 3572 to the
expandable body 100 or 150. As the folding die 3510 engages the expandable body
100 or 150, the gradually decreasing internal volume of expandable body increases the
internal pressure therein. The increase in pressure is mitigated by the check valve
3574, such that the internal pressure within the expandable body is constant while being
folded. Maintaining a constant, positive pressure inside the expandable body 100 or
150 prevents the expandable body from collapsing in areas not in direct contact with the
folding die 3510. This allows for a smoother, more regular collapse of the expandable
body 100 or 150.
Attaching and Detaching the Expandable Body
        [0227]      The expandable body 100 or 150 may be attached to, or engaged with,
the delivery catheter in a variety of ways. For example, the expandable body 100 or
150 may be affixed to the delivery catheter by a friction fit, using an adhesive, or glue,
by a weld or solder, by a junction or uniting of components, or by the application of a
compressive force from a clamp, ring, elastomer sleeve or wrap, or compressive
balloon. Various methods and devices may be used to separate the expanded
expandable body from the delivery catheter. By way of example and not limitation,
these methods and devices may be broadly categorized as physical or mechanical,
electrical, thermal, chemical, hydraulic, and sonic.
        Mechanical Attachment by Friction
        [0228]      In one embodiment, a physical or mechanical attachment is made
between an expandable body and a delivery catheter, wherein the coupled parts are
configured to fit tightly together and remain together by friction. After expansion of the
expandable body, the physician slips the distal end of delivery catheter out of the neck
of the expandable body to effect separation, a process that may be facilitated by moving
a guide catheter 800 forward to abut the expanded expandable body 100 or 150 prior to
withdrawing the delivery catheter, as shown in FIG. 23B. In one embodiment shown in
                                             65

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
FIG. 18, the neck 1600 of the expandable body 100 or 150 engages the distal end 1706
of the core wire or obturator 404 by friction. As shown in FIGS. 18, 23A-B, and 24A-B,
the distal portion 1706 of the core wire or obturator 404 of the delivery catheter 400 has
a smaller diameter than the more proximal portion 1707. In other embodiments, the
distal portion 1706 of the core wire or obturator 404 of the delivery catheter 400 has the
same diameter as the more proximal portion 1707. After the compressed expandable
body 100 or 150 is positioned in the lumen of a saccular aneurysm, the core wire or
obturator 404 is removed. This creates a fluid medium pathway through the lumen 312
of the delivery catheter 400 and into the central void or space 108 of the expandable
body 100 or 150. Once the obturator 404 is removed, a fluid medium source 314 can
be connected to hub 3408 and the fluid medium can be injected into the void 108 of the
expandable body 100 or 150 until it is expanded. After the expandable body 100 or 150
is expanded, the distal end of the guide catheter 800 is advanced forward against the
wall of the expanded expandable body 100 or 150 and the distal end of the delivery
catheter 400 is withdrawn from the neck of the expandable body 1600 to separate the
delivery catheter from the expanded expandable body, allowing the delivery catheter to
be removed while leaving the expanded expandable body in the lumen of the saccular
aneurysm or the lumen of the target vessel segment. In this way, the guide catheter
800 functions as a buttress against the exterior surface of the expandable body 100 or
150, while the expanded expandable body is separated from the delivery catheter.
        [0229]     Alternatively, the expandable body and delivery catheter can be
separated by other physical methods. In another embodiment, as shown in FIG. 25A, a
mechanical attachment is made between an expandable body and a delivery catheter
wherein an external neck 116 on the expandable body 100 or 150 is configured to fit
tightly around the distal end of the hollow cylindrical member 306 of the delivery
catheter 400. An elastic sleeve or wrap 1302 is attached to distal end 1304 of the
hollow cylindrical member 306 of the delivery catheter 400 and extended around at least
a portion of the external neck 116 of the expandable body 100 or 150 to hold the neck
of the expandable body against the distal end of the hollow cylindrical member 306 of
the delivery catheter 400. Once the expandable body is expanded in the lumen of the
saccular aneurysm or the lumen of the target vessel segment, the expanded
                                              66

     WO 2013/109309                                                  PCT/US2012/047072
expandable body 100 or 150 is separated from distal end of the hollow cylindrical
member 306 of the delivery catheter 400 by using the guide catheter 800, similar to
above, to buttress the expandable body while the distal end of the hollow cylindrical
member 306 of the delivery catheter 400 is pulled away from the expanded expandable
body.
        Mechanical Attachment by an Elastomer Sleeve
        [0230]     As shown in FIGS. 25B-D, an elastomer sleeve or wrap 1302 is
compressively or frictionally engaged around the distal end 1304 of the delivery device
306. To engage the expandable body 100 or 150 to the delivery device, according to
one embodiment, the elastomer sleeve 1302 is rolled back away from the distal end
1304 of the delivery device 306, the neck 116 of the expandable body is slipped over
the distal end of the delivery device 306 and the elastomer sleeve is rolled back towards
the distal end of the delivery device to engage and compress around the exterior
surface 3300 of the expandable body neck. The neck of the expandable body 116 is
therefore held between the distal end of the delivery device 306 and the elastomer
sleeve 1302.
        [0231]      In a preferred embodiment, shown in FIGS. 25A-B, the delivery device
306 does not extend into the interior void 108 of the expandable body 100 or 150, such
that the expandable body may be collapsed, folded, and/or pleated onto itself. The
elastomer sleeve 1302 secures the expandable body 100 or 150 to the delivery device
306 during positioning, inflation, and detachment. In one embodiment, the elastomer
sleeve 1302 secures the neck 116 of the expandable body 100 or 150 to the delivery
device 306 as electrolysis is performed at the exposed strip 3302. In another
embodiment, the expandable body 100 or 150 may be detached from the delivery
device 306 by pulling the delivery device away from the expandable body 100 or 150
after expansion.
        [0232]     The elastomer sleeve 1302 may have an inner diameter ranging
between about 0.025 inches and 0.04 inches, with a thickness ranging between about
0.002 inches and 0.01 inches. In a preferred embodiment, the elastomer sleeve 1302
has an inner diameter of approximately 0.028 inches with a wall thickness of about
                                             67

     WO 2013/109309                                                       PCT/US2012/047072
0.008 inches. The elastomer sleeve 1302 may be any suitable biocompatible
elastomer, including but not limited to ChronoPreneTM manufactured by AdvanSource
Biomaterials of Wilmington, MA or polyether block amide (PEBA), commonly known
under the trade name of PEBAX@, manufactured by Arkema of Colombes, France. In a
preferred embodiment, the elastomer sleeve 1302 is composed of 2533 or 25 Shore D
durometer PEBAX@.
         [0233]     In one embodiment, shown in FIG. 25D, the elastomer sleeve 1302
may be manufactured to include a number of ribs 1306. The ribs 1306 provide
structural support to the sleeve 1302. The ribs also permit the elastomer sleeve 1302 to
stretch in laterally, in a direction perpendicular to the ribs as indicated by 1308. In this
embodiment, the elastomer sleeve 1302 does not stretch longitudinally in line with the
ribs 1306.
         Mechanical Detachment Arrangements
         [0234]     In various other embodiments, the expandable body 100 or 150 is
attached to the distal end of the hollow cylindrical member 306 of the delivery catheter
400 with an adhesive, glue, weld, or solder. In these embodiments, the expanded
expandable body 100 or 150 is separated from delivery catheter 400 by one or more
mechanical methods. The expanded expandable body 100 or 150 may be separated
from the delivery device by a number of mechanical methods that cut, tear, or otherwise
physically degrade a portion of the expandable body to separate the remainder of
expandable body from the delivery catheter 400.
         [0235]    As shown in FIG. 19, in one embodiment, a flexible, thin loop of
material 2200 may be positioned to encircle the outside of the external neck of the
expandable body 2202. The loop of material can be formed of various thin, strong, and
flexible materials such as a wire, polymer strand, filament, string, thread, or snare. After
expansion of the expandable body, the loop can be pulled toward the proximal end of
the delivery catheter 2204 to sever the neck 2202 of the expandable body 100 or 150,
and separate the expanded expandable body from the delivery catheter. Preferably, the
loop is pulled through a lumen in the delivery catheter dimensioned to accept the loop
as it is pulled back. In another embodiment (not shown), a flexible thin loop of material
                                              68

     WO 2013/109309                                                       PCT/US2012/047072
(in certain embodiments representing a loop snare or modified loop snare) can be
advanced by a second catheter until the loop is placed around the outside of the
proximal portion of the external neck of an expanded expandable body. The loop can
then be snugged against the neck and withdrawn into the second catheter in order to
sever the neck 116 of the expandable body 100 or 150 and separate the expandable
body from the delivery catheter.
        [0236]     In another embodiment shown in FIG. 20, a distal end 2500 of a thin
loop of material (such as a wire, polymer strand, filament, string, or thread) is affixed in
a loop to the expandable body neck 2202, while the proximal end 2506 of the loop
material extends to the proximal end of the delivery catheter 2204. After expansion of
the expandable body 100 or 150, the loop of material is pulled toward the proximal end
of the delivery catheter 2204, which tears a portion of the neck 2202 away from the
expanded expandable body 100 or 150 to separate the expandable body from the
delivery catheter.
        [0237]     In another embodiment shown in FIGS. 21 A-C, the neck 2202 of the
expandable body 100 or 150 may be cut by one or more blades 2302A-D. In this
embodiment, a cutting device 2304 is advanced over the delivery catheter 2204. The
cutting device 2304 has a cutting region 2308 that includes the blades 2302A-D. When
the expanded expandable body 100 or 150 is to be separated from the delivery
catheter, the cutting device 2304 is positioned such that the neck 2202 is within the
cutting region 2308. The blades 2302A-D may then be actuated to sever the neck
2202. By way of example and not limitation, the blades 2302A-D may be actuated by
rotation of the cutting device, insertion of a wire, retraction of a wire, or other suitable
methods. FIGS. 21 B-C are cross-sectional views along line B-B of the cutting region
prior to (FIG. 21 B) and during actuation of the blades (FIG. 21 C).
        [0238]     In another embodiment, shown in FIG. 22, the neck 2202 of the
expandable body 100 or 150 may define a plurality of circumferential perforations 2406.
The perforations 2406 are torn as the delivery catheter 2204 is pulled away from the
expandable body 100 or 150.
                                               69

     WO 2013/109309                                                      PCT/US2012/047072
        [0239]     In another embodiment, a ring structure is fixed to the distal end of the
delivery catheter, while a second ring structure is fixed to the proximal end of the
expandable body, with a mating of the two rings attaching the expandable body to the
delivery catheter. After expansion of the expandable body, the rings can be
disengaged, resulting in separation of the expanded expandable body 100 or 150 and
the delivery catheter. The unlocking of the rings could be accomplished by actuating a
spring-loaded clamp or other similar methods in order to release the expandable body.
        [0240]     In other embodiments, hydraulic methods may be used to separate the
expanded expandable body 100 or 150 from the delivery catheter device. In one
embodiment, the expanded expandable body 100 or 150 separates from the delivery
catheter after the fluid medium is injected through a lumen to actuate a mechanical joint
between the expandable body 100 or 150 and the delivery catheter, resulting in
separation of the expanded expandable body 100 or 150 and the delivery catheter.
        Detachment by Electrolysis
        [0241]    One method for using electrolysis to detach the expandable body 100
or 150 may be performed using the one, two, or three electrical conductor single lumen
catheters 1000, as shown in FIGS. 291B-F. The one or two conductor arrangement 1007
and 1008, respectively, may be used to perform constant current electrolysis. The three
conductor arrangement 1010 may be used to perform constant voltage electrolysis or
electrolysis using a square-wave voltage potential. In any of these arrangements, the
electrical conductors may be composed of any biocompatible conductive material
including platinum, stainless steel, gold, or silver, and alloys thereof. In one example,
the electrical conductors may be a platinum-iridium alloy.
        [0242]    When using the one or two electrical conductor arrangement 1008 to
perform constant current electrolysis, there is less control over the voltage potential in
the anode or working electrode 1014. As such, the voltage potential at the working
electrode 1014 increases until the potential and current flowing to the working electrode
1014 is sufficient to cause oxidation of ions in the bloodstream at the working electrode.
For example, the current may break down H2 0 molecules in the bloodstream to form H'
ions and electronegative 02 molecules. The 02 molecules then bond to the exposed
                                              70

     WO 2013/109309                                                   PCT/US2012/047072
gold at the detachment site of a gold expandable body 100 or 150 and dissolve the
exposed gold strip. The polymer coating on the expandable body 100 or 150 is a
dielectric that prevents the H* ions and 02 molecules from reacting with the coated
portions of the expandable body.
        [0243]     In one embodiment, approximately 0.01 to 5.0 mA of constant current
is provided between the anode or working electrode 1014 and a cathode or ground
electrode 1016 electrically engaged to one or more conductive cathode rings 1028
bonded to the catheter 1000, as shown in FIG. 29G. Another embodiment of the two
electrical conductor arrangement 1008 is shown in FIGS. 29H-l. In this embodiment,
the proximal end 1018 of a thermoset polymer segment 1020 is bonded to a distal end
1022 of the catheter 1000, while the distal end 1024 of the thermoset polymer segment
is bonded to metallic ring 3208 formed in the neck 116 of the expandable body 100 or
150. The working electrode 1014, in a partial cross-section of the thermoset polymer
segment 1020 as shown in FIG. 29H, is embedded within the polymer segment 1020
and bonded to the metallic anode ring 3208. In one aspect, the anode or working
electrode 1014 may be bonded directly to the metallic ring 3208 using a silver adhesive
or any other suitable adhesive.
        [0244]     In another embodiment, the three electrical conductor arrangement
1010 may be used to provide more control and selectivity in the voltage potential of the
working electrode 1014. In addition to the working electrode 1014 and the ground
electrode 1016, the three electrical conductor arrangement 1010 includes a reference
electrode 1026 and a potentiostat (not shown) that are used to monitor and control the
voltage potential of the working electrode relative to the reference electrode. In various
embodiments, the reference electrode 1026 is preferably made of platinum, silver, or
silver chloride.
        [0245]     By way of example and not limitation, the three electrical conductor
arrangement 1010 can be used to detach the expandable body 100 or 150 using a
constant current, a constant voltage or an alternating square wave-potential voltage.
The anode or working electrode 1014 is modulated based on a comparison between the
voltage of the working electrode and the voltage of the reference electrode 1026, which
                                            71

     WO 2013/109309                                                      PCT/US2012/047072
in this embodiment is supported on the delivery catheter. In one embodiment, the
potentiostat is configured to provide a voltage in the range between approximately
+0.5V and +1.5V at the working electrode 1014 relative to the reference electrode 1026.
        [0246]    In various embodiments, the electrical current travels from the cathode
ring 1028 that is supported on the delivery catheter 1000 to a location outside the body
of the patient by a conductive electrode 1016 embedded in the wall of the delivery
catheter. The electrode 1016 also provides structural reinforcement for the wall of the
delivery catheter 1000.
        [0247]    In another embodiment, the expandable body 100 or 150 and the
delivery catheter 300 may be joined by one or more non-insulated welds 316, solder, or
an adhesive 318, as shown in FIG. 29A. An electrolysis electrical conductor 320, which
may be in the form of a wire, or cable that relies on the surrounding electrical insulating
material of the catheter wall and/or a dedicated electrical insulating jacket of the
electrical conductor itself for electrical insulation, extends along the length of the
delivery catheter from the proximal end of the delivery catheter 400 to the distal end of
the delivery catheter. The proximal end of the electrical conductor 320 is electrically
coupled to a power source or source of electrical current 3100 outside the patient's
body. The power source 3100 is also in electrical communication with a needle or
electrode patch 3106 on the patient's skin that functions as the cathode for the
electrolysis process. The distal end of the electrolysis electrical conductor 320 is
coupled to the proximal portion of the expandable body 100 or 150, which is also
coupled to the distal portion of the delivery catheter. The expandable body 100 or 50 is
functioning as the anode for electrolysis. In this manner, the electrolysis electrical
conductor 320 is in electrical communication with the portion 3102 of the expandable
body that is not electrically insulated and that is not bonded to the delivery catheter. In
various embodiments, the electrolysis electrical conductor 320 can lie within the wall of
the delivery catheter 300 as shown in FIG. 29A, along the exterior surface of the
delivery catheter, or within a lumen of the delivery catheter.
        [0248]    In some embodiments, the electrolysis electrical conductor 320 is
insulated, wherein a proximal portion 3102 of the expandable body 100 or 150 is not
                                                72

     WO 2013/109309                                                       PCT/US2012/047072
insulated, which is similar to detachment site 3302. In some embodiments, the
electrolysis electrical conductor 320 and the remainder of the expandable body 100 or
150 and 116 are insulated, while a proximal portion 3102 of the expandable body is not
insulated. In other embodiments, the neck 116 of the expandable body 100 or 150 is
comprised of metal that can readily undergo electrolysis (such as stainless steel or gold)
wherein the remainder of the expandable body is comprised of a metal that does not
readily undergo electrolysis, such as platinum. For this embodiment, the platinum
portion of the expandable body 100 or 150 need not be insulated. An electrical current
or charge is applied to the electrolysis electrical conductor 320 after the expandable
body 100 or 150 is expanded. The current is applied in an amount and for a time
sufficient to dissolve at least a portion of the non-insulated portion 3102 of the
expandable body 100 or 150, resulting in separation of the delivery catheter from the
expandable body, leaving the expandable body expanded at the desired position while
the delivery catheter 300 is removed.
        [0249]     An electrical current is applied to the electrolysis electrical conductor
320 after the expandable body 100 or 150 is expanded. The current is applied in an
amount and for a time sufficient to dissolve at least a portion of the weld or solder and
separate the delivery catheter from the expandable body 100 or 150, leaving the
expandable body expanded at the desired position while the delivery catheter is
removed. In another embodiment, the current is applied in an amount and for a time
sufficient to dissolve at least a portion of the expandable body and separate the delivery
catheter from the expandable body 100 or 150, leaving the expandable body expanded
at the desired position while the delivery catheter is removed. In one embodiment the
current is a direct current (DC) while in another embodiment, the current is an
alternating current (AC).
        [0250]     Typically, during constant current electrolysis, gas bubbles formed as a
byproduct of the electrolysis tend to form an insulating barrier at the detachment site.
The gas bubble barrier in combination with an aggregation of non-ionic blood
constitutes (fats, proteins, and amino acids, among others) at the detachment site tends
to increase impedance at the detachment site and increase the time necessary for
                                               73

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
detachment, as the rate of electrolysis is decreased. Similarly, blood may begin to clot
at the detachment site 3302 further impeding the detachment processes.
        [0251]     Electrolysis is preferably performed when the expandable body 100 or
150 is positioned such that the detachment site 3302 is within a constant stream of ionic
blood constituents. For example, when the ballstent 100 is positioned to fill an
aneurysm, the detachment site 3302 is positioned such that the detachment site
protrudes into the adjacent blood vessel or near the adjacent blood vessel. While in or
near the adjacent vessel, the detachment site 3302 is exposed to a constant stream of
ionic blood constituents that aid in the electrolysis process to detach the ballstent 100.
The constant stream of blood also minimizes the incidence of blood coagulation at the
detachment site 3302 during electrolysis, thereby potentially reducing the time required
to separate the expanded expandable body 100 or 150 and the deliver catheter.
        [0252]     In another embodiment, voltage controlled electrolysis is performed
using an alternating square wave potential voltage. By way of example and not
limitation, the potential at the anode or working electrode 1014 alternates between
approximately +0.5V and approximately +0.8V, relative to the reference electrode 1026,
at a frequency in a range between 0.1 Hz and 10 Hz. In one aspect, the rate at which
the voltage potential of the anode or working electrode 1014 varies may be configured
to allow for removal of oxides that form on the surface of the anode or working electrode
and any aggregation of protein that may form. In this embodiment, oxides are removed
during the "depassivation" period of lower voltage while aggregated proteins are
removed during the "passivation or hydrolysis" period of higher voltage. The removal of
both oxides and aggregated proteins is promoted by the voltage cycling. Therefore, the
use of an alternating square wave potential voltage or the use of square wave voltage
pulses may allow for a shorter and more consistent detachment times.
        [0253]     In various embodiments, the voltage ranges used to perform voltage
controlled electrolysis may vary in response to the composition of the material at the
detachment site 3302 and the reference electrode. For example, if the detachment site
3302 is composed of gold and the reference electrode 1026 is composed of platinum
then the voltage at the gold anode may alternate between approximately +0.6V and
                                               74

      WO 2013/109309                                                   PCT/US2012/047072
approximately +1.4V relative to the reference electrode at approximately 1 Hz.
Conversely, the voltage potential at a detachment site 3302 composed of 304 stainless
steel may alternate between approximately +0.1V and approximately +0.4V relative to
the platinum reference electrode 1026 at approximately 1Hz. In one embodiment, the
detachments site 3302 is 316L stainless steel. In this embodiment, electrolysis is
performed such that the potential at the 316L stainless steel anode alternates between
approximately +0.7V and approximately +1.2V relative to the platinum reference
electrode 1026 at approximately 1Hz. In various embodiments, it is desirable for the
lower voltage of the alternating square wave voltage potential to be below the hydrolysis
potential of water.
         Detachment by Thermal Operation
         [0254]    In another embodiment, as shown in FIGS. 26A-B, a mechanical
attachment is made between an expandable body and a delivery catheter wherein a
portion of the expandable body is attached to the distal portion of the delivery catheter
using a binding link 2700. The binding link 2700 may be an adhesive, a metal (e.g. gold
foil), a polymer, a polymer binding agent, or other material that reacts to heating (such
as with a low melting temperature binding agent) when applied between the hollow
cylindrical member 306 of the delivery catheter 400, and the expandable body. The
binding link 2700 may also be a tube or ring of temperature-sensitive material (e.g. gold
foil, a polymer, or other binding agent) that joins the expandable body 100 or 150 to the
delivery catheter. By way of example and not limitation, polymer binding links may be
composed of hydrogel polymer, polyurethane, polyethylene terephthalate, polyethylene,
high density polyethylene, polyetherethylketone, polyphenylenesulfide, polyolefin,
polyolefin elastomer, polyamide, polypropylene, Hytrel@, ethylene vinyl alcohol (EVA),
wholly aromatic polyester polymers including liquid crystal polymers (LCP) such as
Vectran, and combinations thereof.
         [0255]    After expansion of the expandable body 100 or 150, an electrical
current is passed through the resistance heating element 2702 in electrical
communication with an electrical conductor (e.g., wire or cable) 2704, resulting in
warming or heating of the heat sensitive material that forms the binding link 2700. As
the binding link 2700 is heated, the expandable body 100 or 150 may be separated from
                                              75

      WO 2013/109309                                                   PCT/US2012/047072
the delivery catheter 306 through one or more methods. For example, heating the
binding link 2700 may cause the link to reach its liquid transition temperature, thereby
causing the link to reflow and separate the link. In another example, heating the binding
link may weaken the link, by changing the strength of the material. Therefore, if the
binding link 2700 is under a tensile load, the increase in temperature will weaken the
binding link until it fails under the load. In yet another example, heating the binding link
2700 may cause the link to deform and undergo a significant dimensional change. If the
binding link 2700 is heated only at a specific point, the link may undergo a non
symmetric change in geometry, thereby allowing it to transition between a "closed" and
an "open" configuration.
         [0256]     In another embodiment, the binding link 2700 may be a collar or other
linking structure made of a shape-memory metallic alloy, including but not limited to
nitinol, or a shape-memory polymer (SMP). In this embodiment, the binding link 2700 is
engaged to the neck 116 of the expandable body 100 or 150. The resistance heating
element 2702 is then wrapped around the collar to heat and reshape the collar, which
returns to an originally open configuration, thereby releasing the expandable body 100
or 150 from the catheter.
         Detachment by Chemical Operation
         [0257]     In another embodiment, a mechanical attachment is made between an
expandable body 100 or 150 and a delivery catheter wherein a portion of the
expandable body is attached to the distal portion of the delivery catheter using one or
more bonds that are sensitive to chemical dissolution. The bonding medium may be
composed such that the bonding medium dissolves when contacted by a solution with a
high salt concentration, an acid, a base, or a specific chemical. By way of example and
not limitation, a cover or other shielding device may be removed from the region where
the expandable body 100 or 150 is joined to the delivery catheter to expose the bonding
medium. Also by way of example and not limitation, injection or infusion of a solution
with a high salt concentration, an acid, a base, or a specific chemical to the region of the
bonding, after expansion of the expandable body 100 or 150 at the desire location can
                                                76

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
result in dissolution of the bonding medium and separation of the expanded expandable
body and the delivery catheter.
        Detachment by Sonic Operation
        [0258]      In another embodiment, a mechanical attachment is made between an
expandable body 100 or 150 and a delivery catheter wherein a portion of the
expandable body is attached to the distal portion of the delivery catheter using one or
more adhesives, glues, bonds, welds, or solder that are sensitive to sonic waves. In
this embodiment, the bond between the expandable body 100 or 150 and the delivery
catheter is broken using sound waves, such as focusing pulsed ultrasound waves,
resulting in separation of the delivery catheter and the expanded expandable body.
        Sealing the Detached Expandable Body
        [0259]      In one embodiment, the wall opening 112 of the expanded expandable
body 100 or 150 is left open at the end of the procedure. In other embodiments, the
wall opening of the expanded expandable body 100 or 150 is closed prior to the end of
the procedure. By way of example and not limitation, the opening 112 may be sealed
by applying an external force with the inflation of the balloon portion 1102 of a balloon
catheter 1100 adjacent to the expanded expandable body 100 or 150, as shown in FIG.
11. Alternatively, an opening may be sealed by snugging a loop of flexible material
around the external surface of the neck of the expandable body 100 or 150 prior to
separation of the expanded expandable body and the delivery catheter. In this method,
the loop of material may comprise a wire, polymer strand, filament, string, thread, or
snare.
        Radiopaque Marking of the Expandable Body
        [0260]     According to any of the methods where the expandable body 100 or
150 is separated from delivery catheter, one or more radiopaque markers may be
incorporated into the appropriate portions of the expandable body or delivery catheter to
assist in the positioning of the expandable body, expansion of the expandable body,
separation of the expanded expandable body from the delivery catheter, and removal of
the delivery catheter after separation. For example, a radiopaque marker band or spot
                                             77

     WO 2013/109309                                                      PCT/US2012/047072
may be incorporated into the medical device to identify the location where separation is
intended or designed to occur. In addition, radiopaque material may be incorporated
into the ballstent 100 or the ballstent 150. In addition, a radiopaque spot or marker
band may be incorporated into distal end of the delivery catheter so that the tip of the
delivery catheter can be visualized under fluoroscopy while pulling the delivery catheter
away from the expanded expandable body 100 or 150. A radiopaque spot or marker
band may also be placed onto the detachment components, as need be. The
radiopaque marker may be comprised of various radiodense materials, including but not
limited to a metal band, a metal spot or line, or spot or a line of barium.
        [0261]     In various embodiments, a saccular aneurysm or a blood vessel may
be visualized by using a radiopaque dye. The radiopaque dye may be injected prior to
introducing the ballstent 100 or the ballstent 150 and can be used to confirm the
appropriate size and position for the compressed or expanded ballstent 100 or
expanded ballstent 150.
Expandable Body Medical Kit
        [0262]     In various embodiments, a medical kit may be provided for treating a
patient with the medical device. The medical kit may include the medical device 500, a
guide wire 302, one or more guide catheters 800, one or more expandable body support
structures, and methods for separating the expanded expandable body 100 or 150 from
the delivery catheter 300 or 400 including separate medical devices for separation,
(such as a power source and controller for performing electrolysis or heating a
thermally-sensitive binding structure that joins the expandable member 100 or 150 and
the delivery device). The medical kit may further include instructions for use. The
instructions for use may be provided on the packaging of the medical kit in the form of a
label. The instructions for use may be provided in any tangible medium (e.g., paper,
CD, DVD, etc.) either separate from the medical kit or contained within the packaging of
the medical kit. The instructions for use may be provided via an electronic data feed or
via instructions posted on the Internet.
                                             78

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
        [0263]    The medical device 3400A can be used as part of various systems,
methods, and medical kits. These systems, methods, and medical kits can be used to
treat saccular arterial aneurysms, such as a saccular cerebral aneurysm. Alternatively,
these systems, methods, and medical kits can be used to treat a variety of medical
conditions. In one embodiment, the systems, methods, and medical kits can be used to
occlude biological conduits in patients in need thereof, the biological conduits including
arteries, veins, vascular structures, ducts, airways, bile ducts, pancreatic ducts,
enterocutaneous fistulas, ureters, fallopian tubes, and urethras, among others. The
medical kit includes the medical device and instructions for use. The medical kit may
also contain additional components for carrying out a variety of treatments using the
medical device 500.
Example Methods for Manufacturing a Medical Kit
        [0264]     FIGS. 45-47 are flowcharts of methods to manufacture the expandable
body 100 or 150, a delivery catheter 1000, and a medical kit. In one embodiment, a
method 4000 for making the expandable body 100 or 150 includes forming the
expandable body on a mandrel at step 4002 and coating the expandable body at step
4004. At step 4006, the detachment site and the sites where the conductive wires are
bonded to the expandable body 100 or 150 are exposed. The expandable body 100 or
150 is then annealed, folded, wrapped, and annealed again at steps 4008-4012.
        [0265]    A method 4100 to manufacture or otherwise prepare an existing
delivery catheter is provided. At step 4102, a coil-reinforced catheter 3402 is obtained
and the outer coating is removed from the catheter to expose a portion of the electrical
conductors of the coil at step 4104. At step 4106 a portion of the exposed electrical
conductors are unwrapped, a cathode ring 1028 is bonded to the catheter 1000 at step
4108, and the exposed electrical conductors are then covered with an insulating
material at step 4110. The bonding sites on the catheter 3402 are masked, and the
catheter is coated with a hydrophilic or lubricious coating at steps 4112 and 4114. One
end of the catheter 3402 is configured for engagement to a fluid source and optionally a
source of electrical current. By way example and not limitation, the catheter 1000 may
be bonded to a hub that may further include a Luer fitting.
                                             79

     WO 2013/109309                                                     PCT/US2012/047072
         [0266]    The anode and cathode electrical conductors 1014 and 1016 are
bonded to extension electrical conductors, which are then covered in insulating jackets
at steps 4118 and 4120. At steps 4122 and 4124, the extension electrical conductors
are soldered to an electrical plug, such as the electric terminal 3422, and the soldered
joint is covered with an insulating heat-shrink jacket.
         [0267]     As shown in FIG. 47, the method 4200 to assemble the medical
device 3400A and a medical kit includes bonding the expandable body 100 or 150 to
the catheter 3402 at step 4202. At step 4204, the anode electrical conductor 1014 is
bonded to the expandable body 100 or 150 and the exposed conductive surfaces are
further insulated at step 4206. Once assembled, the device 3400A is tested at step
4208 and packaged in a medical kit at step 4210.
 Example Methods of Using the Expandable Body
         [0268]    A typical method for using the medical device 3400A to treat a saccular
aneurysm includes accessing the vascular system of a human with a needle, passing a
guidance member, or guide wire, 302 into the vessel, optionally placing a vascular
sheath, advancing the medical device comprising a compressed ballstent 100 and a
delivery catheter 300 or 400 and advancing it until the compressed ballstent is located
in the lumen 701 of an aneurysm sac 700. Then the ballstent 100 is expanded by
passing a fluid, liquid, gas, or solid material, or combinations thereof, through the
delivery catheter and into the central void or space 108 of the ballstent. The delivery
catheter and the expanded ballstent 100 are then separated and the delivery catheter is
removed from the body, while the expanded ballstent remains in place within the lumen
701 of the aneurysm sac 700. The position of the ballstent 100 during and after the
procedure may be monitored by any suitable methods, including fluoroscopy, computed
tomography, MRI, and ultrasound, including intravascular ultrasound
         [0269]    Two or more ballstents 1OOA-B may be used in combination to fill the
lumen or void 701 of the aneurysm sac 700, as illustrated in FIG. 27A, while two or
 more blockstents 150 may be used in combination to fill the lumen or void 721 of the
blood vessel segment 720, as illustrated in FIG 27B. Additionally, a second, third, or
additional expandable bodies 100 or 150 may be required to fill the remaining portion of
                                               80

      WO 2013/109309                                                  PCT/US2012/047072
the aneurysm sac or blood vessel segment not filled by the first ballstent 1OOA or the
first blockstent 150A, respectively.
         [0270]     In various embodiments of the ballstent 100, the shape of a ballstent
that has been expanded in the lumen of a saccular aneurysm is determined, in part, by
the formed shape of the ballstent. For example, in some embodiments, the ballstent
100 is manufactured into a round, oblong, irregular, or non-spherical orientation to
match the contours of the cavity for a particular saccular aneurysm 700. The expanded
shape is also determined by the size and shape of the lumen of the saccular aneurysm.
The expanded shape can also be determined by the application of an external force,
such as by inflating the balloon portion of a balloon catheter adjacent to the expanded
ballstent 100. In certain embodiments of the methods, the balloon portion 1102 of a
balloon catheter 1100 is inflated in the lumen of the parent blood vessel 1202 adjacent
to the expanded ballstent 100 in the lumen of the aneurysm sac, thereby pushing the
wall 1104 of the ballstent 100 toward the aneurysm, as shown in FIG. 11A. In other
embodiments, the ballstent 100 is manufactured into a non-spherical orientation to
match the contours of the cavity for a particular saccular aneurysm 700.
         [0271]     In all embodiments, the expanded shape of the ballstent 100 is
determined by the following factors: 1) the manufactured shape of the ballstent 100; 2)
the degree of ballstent expansion; 3) the size and shape of the aneurysm 700; and 4)
the effect of any applied external force on the ballstent after expansion. By way of
example and not limitation, the manufactured size and shape of the ballstent 100 may
be determined by making measurements of the aneurysm 700. The measurements can
be made by using medical images, including two-dimensional and three-dimensional
reconstructions, and standard distance reference markers. Other methods of
measuring the aneurysm may also be used.
         [0272]     In another embodiment, the position, size, and shape of the expanded
ballstent 100 can be manipulated while positioned within the aneurysm 700. In this
embodiment, it is not necessary to determine the precise contours of the aneurysm 700
prior to inserting the ballstent 100. The ballstent 100 is shaped by the degree of
expansion of the ballstent and the application of external forces. For example, an
                                             81

      WO 2013/109309                                                  PCT/US2012/047072
external force may be applied by inflating the balloon portion of a balloon catheter
adjacent to the expanded ballstent 100, or by tools inserted through or around the
delivery catheter 400 or guide catheter 800. In other embodiments, the ballstent 100
may be shaped in a step prior to or after the step of separating the expanded ballstent
from the delivery catheter 400.
        [0273]      In various embodiments, the ballstent 100 is designed so that the
exterior surface 110 or 124 of the expanded ballstent 100 makes contact with a
substantial portion of the inner surface 704 of the aneurysm 700, as shown in FIGS. 4A
E and 8A-E. In some embodiment, the exterior surface 110 or 124 of the ballstent 100
makes contact with at least 50%, 75%, 90% or more of the inner surface 704 of the
aneurysm 700, including up to 100%. In embodiments, the expanded ballstent 100 is
designed to fill the lumen of the aneurysm sac 701. In one embodiment, the expanded
ballstent 100 fills at least 50%, 75%, 90% or more of the volume of the lumen 701 of the
aneurysm 700, including up to 100%.
        [0274]      In various embodiments of the blockstent 150, the shape of the
blockstent that has been expanded in the lumen of a blood vessel segment is
determined, in part, by the formed shape of the blockstent. For example, in some
embodiments, the blockstent 150 is manufactured into a cylindrical, oblong, irregular, or
non-spherical orientation to match the contours of the lumen, void, or cavity for a
particular blood vessel segment 720 or biological conduit segment. The expanded
shape is also determined by the size and shape of the lumen, void, or cavity of the
blood vessel segment, or biological conduit segment. The expanded shape can also be
determined by the application of an external force, such as by inflating the balloon
portion of a balloon catheter adjacent to the expanded ballstent 150. In certain
embodiments of the methods, the balloon portion 1102 of a balloon catheter 1100 is
inflated in the lumen of the parent blood vessel 1202 adjacent to the expanded
blockstent 150 in the lumen of the blood vessel or biological conduit, thereby pushing
the wall 1104 of the blockstent 150 away from the balloon portion of the balloon
catheter, as shown in FIG. 11 B. In other embodiments, the blockstent 150 is
manufactured into a non-spherical orientation to match the contours of the lumen, void,
or cavity for a particular blood vessel segment 720, or biological conduit segment.
                                             82

     WO 2013/109309                                                    PCT/US2012/047072
        [0275]      In all embodiments, the expanded shape of the blockstent 150 is
determined by the following factors: 1) the manufactured shape of the blockstent; 2) the
degree of blockstent expansion; 3) the size and shape of the lumen, void, or cavity of
the blood vessel segment, or biological conduit segment; and 4) the effect of any
applied external force on the blockstent after expansion. By way of example and not
limitation, the manufactured size and shape of the blockstent 150 may be determined by
making measurements of lumen, void, or cavity to be filled. The measurements can be
made by using medical images, including two dimensional and three dimensional
reconstructions, and standard distance reference markers. Other methods of
measuring the lumen, void, or cavity may also be used.
        [0276]      In another embodiment, the position, size, and shape of the expanded
blockstent 150 can be manipulated and configured or changed in vivo or even in situ
while positioned within the blood vessel segment 720 or biological conduit. In this
embodiment, it is not necessary to determine the precise contours of the lumen, void, or
cavity to be filled prior to inserting the blockstent 150. The blockstent 150 is shaped by
the degree of expansion of the blockstent and the application of internal and/or external
forces. For example, an external force may be applied by inflating the balloon portion of
a balloon catheter adjacent to the expanded blockstent, or by tools inserted through or
around the delivery catheter 400 or guide catheter 800. In other embodiments, the
blockstent 150 may be shaped in a step prior to or after the step of separating the
expanded blockstent from the delivery catheter 400.
        [0277]      In various embodiments, the ballstent 150 is designed so that the
exterior surface 110 of the expanded blockstent makes contact with a substantial
portion of the inner surface 724 of the blood vessel segment 720 as shown in FIGS. 4F
J and 8F-J. In some embodiment, the exterior surface 110 of the blockstent 150 makes
contact with at least 50%, 75%, 90% or more of the inner surface 724 of the blood
vessel segment 720 including up to 100%. In embodiments, the expanded ballstent 150
is designed to fill the lumen 721 of the blood vessel segment 720. In one embodiment,
the expanded blockstent 150 fills at least 50%, 75%, 90% or more of the volume of the
lumen 721 of the blood vessel segment 720 including up to 100%.
                                                83

     WO 2013/109309                                                      PCT/US2012/047072
        [0278]     In all embodiments, the ballstents 100 and blockstents 150 are
configured to maintain their expanded shapes. As such, the expanded bodies are not
designed for or intended for compression or flattening into disc-like structures before or
after separation from the delivery catheter.
An Example Method of Treatment using the Expandable Body
        [0279]     By way of example and not limitation, as can be understood from
FIGS. 2, 3A-B, and 4A-E, a first method of using the device 500 or 3400A to treat a
patient may include the steps of examining a patient and collecting diagnostic medical
images to identify a saccular aneurysm. The vascular system may be accessed using
any suitable method including accessing an artery using the Seldinger technique. A
guide wire 302 is then inserted into the vascular system. Then a guide catheter 800 is
inserted into the vascular system and advanced into or near the lumen of the saccular
aneurysm. The position and luminal dimensions of the saccular aneurysm are then
visualized by an intra-arterial injection of radiographic contrast solution under
fluoroscopy. The guide wire 302 is removed and the medical device 500 or 3400A is
then inserted through the guide catheter 800 until the compressed ballstent 100 is
advanced into the lumen 701 of the aneurysm 700. The ballstent 100 is then expanded
in the lumen 701 of the aneurysm 700. A radiographic contrast solution may be injected
into the parent vessel 1202 of the aneurysm 700 to confirm that the size of the
expanded ballstent 100 is appropriate and that it is properly positioned in the aneurysm.
Once proper placement and sizing of the expanded ballstent 100 has been confirmed,
the expanded ballstent is separated from the delivery catheter 400 by any of the
methods disclosed herein, and the delivery catheter is removed. The expanded
ballstent 100 is left in the patient, where subsequent examination may be conducted to
determine if additional treatment is necessary. The expanded ballstent 100 left in the
patient functions to prevent bleeding or expansion of the aneurysm, and as such it
alleviates future medical problems the patient might experience had the aneurysm 700
not been treated.
        [0280]     By way of example and not limitation, as can be understood from
FIGS. 6, 7A-B, and 8A-E, a second method of using the device 500 or 3400A to treat a
                                               84

      WO 2013/109309                                                  PCT/US2012/047072
patient may include the steps of examining a patient and collecting diagnostic medical
images to identify a saccular aneurysm. The vascular system may be accessed using
any suitable method including accessing an artery using the Seldinger technique. A
guide wire 302 is then inserted into the vascular system. Then a guide catheter 800 is
inserted into the vascular system and advanced with the guide wire 302 until the guide
wire 302 is positioned in or near the lumen of the saccular aneurysm. The position and
luminal dimensions of the saccular aneurysm are then visualized by an intra-arterial
injection of radiographic contrast solution under fluoroscopy. The guide catheter 800 is
removed and the medical device 500 or 3400A is then inserted over the guide wire 302
until the compressed ballstent 100 is advanced into the lumen 701 of the aneurysm 700.
The guide wire 302 is removed. The ballstent 100 is expanded in the lumen 701 of the
aneurysm 700. A radiographic contrast solution may be injected into the parent vessel
1202 of the aneurysm 700 to confirm that the size of the ballstent 100 is appropriate and
that it is properly positioned in aneurysm. Once proper placement and sizing of the
expanded ballstent 100 has been confirmed, the expanded ballstent is separated from
the delivery catheter 300 by any of the methods disclosed herein and the delivery
catheter is removed. The expanded ballstent 100 is left in the patient, where
subsequent examination may be conducted to determine if additional treatment is
necessary. The expanded ballstent 100 left in the patient functions to prevent bleeding
or expansion of the aneurysm, and as such it alleviates future medical problems the
patient might experience had the aneurysm 700 not been treated.
         [0281]     In another embodiment, the ballstent 100 may be rapidly deployed
during an emergency. In particular, the ballstent 100 may be deployed rapidly to treat a
ruptured cerebral aneurysm, thereby eliminating the need to open the patient's skull
prior to treating such an aneurysm.
An Exemplary Method of Treating a Patient Havinq a Cerebral Aneurysm
         [0282]     A hypothetical method for using the medical device 500 or 3400A to
treat a patient having a saccular cerebral aneurysm may begin with one or more pre
surgical consultations, where a number of tests may be performed. The tests may
include blood tests, urine tests, an electrocardiogram, and imaging tests including a
                                             85

     WO 2013/109309                                                     PCT/US2012/047072
head CT, a head MRI, and a cerebral angiogram, among others. From the diagnostic
imaging tests, images and measurements of the aneurysm may be obtained
demonstrating the position, size, and shape of the aneurysm. The consultations may
occur several days before, or on the same day, that the procedure is performed.
        [0283]     On the day of the procedure, the patient is prepared for the procedure
and typically given local anesthesia. The patient's groin is then prepped and draped in
an aseptic manner. Then a physician accesses a femoral artery in the patient with a
micropuncture set. A 0.035" soft tip guide wire 302 is inserted in a retrograde fashion
into the femoral artery. A 6Fr vascular sheath is placed. A 5Fr diagnostic catheter is
advanced over the guide wire until the tip of the 5Fr diagnostic catheter is in the lumen
of the saccular cerebral aneurysm, where it can act as a guide catheter 800. While the
physician is positioning the guide catheter 800, a surgical assistant prepares the
ballstent portion 100 of the medical device by wetting the porous exterior layer 104 of
the ballstent with a solution containing thrombin. The medical device 500 or 3400A is
advanced through the guide catheter 800 and positioned in the lumen 701 of the
aneurysm sac 700. The tip of the guide catheter 800 is pulled back, exposing the
compressed ballstent 100. After the compressed ballstent 100 is in the desired position,
the compressed ballstent is expanded by injecting a saline solution through the lumen
312 of the delivery catheter 300 or 400 and into the central void 108 of the ballstent until
the ballstent expands to fill at least a portion of the aneurysm. The physician obtains an
angiogram of the aneurysm 700 and the parent artery 1202 by injection of radiographic
contrast material in order to confirm that the expanded ballstent 100 is positioned
properly within the lumen 701 of the saccular aneurysm 700 and fills the aneurysm
adequately. The physician then connects the proximal end of an electrolysis wire 320
or the insulated conductor wire to a DC power source and applies a current to the
electrolysis wire or insulated conductor wire which is electrically coupled to the neck 116
of the ballstent 100 in an amount, and for a time sufficient, to result in the dissolution of
a portion of the neck or proximal body 208 of the ballstent that is uncoated and without
insulation, resulting in separation of the expanded ballstent and the delivery catheter.
The physician obtains another angiogram of the aneurysm 700 and the parent artery
1202 in order to confirm that the expanded, released ballstent 100 is positioned properly
                                               86

      WO 2013/109309                                                       PCT/US2012/047072
within the lumen of the saccular aneurysm and fills the aneurysm adequately. The
physician removes the delivery catheter 400, and the guide catheter 800. The physician
advances a balloon catheter 1100 over the guide wire 302 until the balloon 1102 is
adjacent to the expanded ballstent 100. The balloon portion 1102 of the balloon
catheter 1100 is then inflated with a saline solution until it fills the lumen of the parent
artery 1202 and flattens and pushes the wall 1104 of the expanded ballstent 100 toward
the aneurysm 700. The physician obtains another angiogram of the aneurysm 700 and
the parent artery 1202 in order to confirm that the expanded, released ballstent 100 is
positioned properly within the lumen of saccular aneurysm, fills the aneurysm
adequately, and that the lumen of the parent artery 1202 is free of obstruction. The
physician withdraws the balloon catheter 1100, the guide wire 302, and the sheath and
achieves hemostasis of the femoral artery puncture with compression. The patient is
then transported to a recovery room. During and after recovery, the physician
periodically monitors the patient as well as the position of the ballstent 100 and the
completeness of the sealing of the aneurysm 700.
        [0284]     It will be appreciated that the devices and methods of the present
invention are capable of being incorporated in the form of a variety of embodiments,
only a few of which have been illustrated and described above. The disclosures herein
may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential
characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only
as illustrative and not restrictive and the scope of the present invention is, therefore
indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes
that come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be
embraced within their scope.
                                               87

   WO 2013/109309                                                          PCT/US2012/047072
CLAIMS:
     1.     A system for filling a biological space of a patient, the system comprising:
                a) a single lobed metallic expandable body comprising: a distal region ; a
                proximal region generally opposite the distal region; an intermediate region
                transitioning from the distal region to the proximal region; a center axis
                extending proximal-distal between the proximal region and distal region; and
                a wall extending generally continuously through the intermediate region from
                the distal region to the proximal region to define an exterior surface of the
                expandable body and an interior surface of the expandable body, the interior
                surface defining an interior volume of the expandable body, wherein the
                expandable body is configured to expand from a deliverable configuration to
                an expanded configuration; and
                b) a delivery device comprising: a longitudinally extending body comprising
                a proximal end and a distal end generally opposite the proximal end, the
                distal end of the delivery device being operably coupled to the proximal
                region of the expandable body,
                c) wherein, when the expandable body is in the deliverable configuration,
                the wall assumes a pleated configuration comprising a plurality of pleats
                folded over in a clockwise direction relative to the center axis or a counter
                clockwise direction relative to the center axis to form a folded-over region of
                the expandable body,
                d) wherein, when the expandable body is in the expanded configuration, the
                plurality of pleats is not folded over.
     2.     The system of claim 1, wherein, when the expandable body is in the expanded
            configuration comprises an overall shape that is a sphere or an oblong shape.
                                                88

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
 3.      The system of claim 1, wherein, when the expandable body is in the expanded
         configuration, the expandable body assumes a shape wherein the intermediate
         region is generally cylindrical and the proximal region and the distal region are
         both generally hemispherical.
 4.      The system of claim 1, wherein, when the expandable body is in the expanded
         configuration, the expandable body assumes a shape wherein the intermediate
         region, the proximal region and the distal region combine to form a generally
         spherical shape.
 5.      The system of claim 1, wherein the expandable body in being expandable is
         configured to be inflatable.
 6.      The system of claim 1, wherein the expandable body is configured to assume the
         expanded configuration by substantially eliminating the pleated configuration or a
         plurality of pleats of the expandable body that is present in the deliverable
         configuration.
 7.      The system of claim 1, wherein the expandable body is configured to be
         expanded from the deliverable configuration to the expanded configuration by
         applying a pressure of less than 3 atmospheres to the interior volume.
 8.      The system of claim 1, wherein the expandable body is configured to be
         expanded from the deliverable configuration to the expanded configuration by
         applying a pressure of less than 2 atmospheres to the interior volume.
 9.      The system of claim 1, wherein the expandable body is configured to be
         expanded from the deliverable configuration to the expanded configuration by
         applying a pressure of less than 1 atmosphere to the interior volume.
  10.    The system of claim 1, wherein the folded-over region defines a channel that can
         accept a guide wire.
                                           89

WO 2013/109309                                                          PCT/US2012/047072
  11.    The system of claim 1, wherein, when the expandable body is in the deliverable
         configuration, no portion of the delivery device is found within the folded-over
         region of the expandable body.
  12.    The system of claim 1, wherein each pleat of the plurality of pleats comprises a
         ridge line extending proximal-distal and radially away from the center axis .
  13.    The system of claim 12, wherein, in being folded over, each pleat of the plurality
         of pleats is folded over an immediately adjacent pleat in a clockwise direction
         relative to the center axis, or a counter-clockwise direction relative to the center
         axis.
  14.    The system of claim 1, wherein each pleat comprises a ridge line extending
         proximal-distal and each pleat is separated from any immediately adjacent pleat
         by an interposed trough extending proximal-distal.
  15.    The system of claim 1, wherein the pleated configuration comprises an
         alternating ridge-trough arrangement.
  16.    The system of claim 1, wherein the expandable body in being expandable is
         configured to inflate via delivery of a fluid medium into the interior volume of the
         expandable body.
  17.    The system of claim 16, wherein the fluid medium comprises a liquid or gas.
  18.    The system of claim 1, wherein the expandable body is expanded and possesses
         sufficient strength to maintain itself in the expanded configuration within the
         biological space after separation from the delivery device.
  19.    The system of claim 18, wherein no solid or semi-solid material or member, not
         derived from the patient, is required in the interior volume of the expandable body
         to at least assist in causing the expandable body to assume or maintain the
         expanded configuration after separation of the expanded expandable body and
         the delivery device.
                                            90

WO 2013/109309                                                          PCT/US2012/047072
 20.     The system of claim 18, wherein the metallic expandable body and the delivery
         device are configured to allow the interior volume of the expandable body to be
         at least partially filled with a solid or semi-solid.
 21.     The system of claim 20, wherein the solid or semi-solid comprises a support
         structure.
 22.     The system of claim 21, wherein the support structure is selected from a group
         consisting of metallic or polymeric coils or wires, metallic or polymeric expansile
         structures, beads, balls, microspheres, a bioresorbable material, or combinations
         thereof.
 23.     The system of claim 1, wherein the wall comprises at least one layer, with the at
         least one layer being a metal layer.
 24.     The system of claim 23, wherein the metal layer comprises gold or platinum.
 25.     The system of claim 23, wherein the metal layer has a thickness ranging
         between approximately 5 micrometers and 50 micrometers.
 26.     The system of claim 23, wherein the wall further comprises an inner layer and an
         outer layer , the inner layer comprising a non-metallic coating extending over an
         inner surface of the metal layer and the outer layer comprising a non-metallic
         coating extending over an outer surface of the metal layer.
 27.     The system of claim 26, wherein the thickness of the non-metallic inner layer or
         outer layer is between 0.1 micrometers and 10 micrometers.
 28.     The system of claim 26, wherein the non-metallic coating comprises an electrical
         insulation material.
 29.     The system of claim 26, wherein the non-metallic coating comprises Parylene.
                                              91

WO 2013/109309                                                        PCT/US2012/047072
 30.     The system of claim 26, wherein the metal layer comprises gold or platinum and
         the inner layer and outer layer both comprise Parylene.
 31.     The system of clam 23, wherein the metal layer is a product of electroforming.
 32.     The system of claim 23, wherein a surface of the metal layer comprises a
         rounded, pebbled, or granular surface structure.
 33.     The system of claim 32, wherein the rounded, pebbled, or granular surface
         structure has a surface height of approximately 0.1 micrometers to approximately
         10 micrometers.
 34.     The system of claim 23, wherein an outer surface of the metal layer comprises
         protrusions.
 35.     The system of claim 34, wherein some of the protrusions are branched.
 36.     The system of claim 34, wherein some of the protrusions are joined on both ends
         to the metal layer, forming a loop.
 37.     The system of claim 23, wherein at least a portion of the metal layer is a product
         of being formed on a sacrificial mandrel.
 38.     The system of claim 23, wherein at least a portion of the metal layer is a product
         of being formed on a sacrificial mandrel having a lapped finish having no more
         than approximately 0.1 micron between peak and valley of rough surface
         features.
 39.     The system of claim 37 wherein the sacrificial mandrel has a pleated outer
         surface that generally replicates a pleated configuration of the expandable body
         that is intermediate between the deliverable configuration and the expanded
         configuration.
                                          92

WO 2013/109309                                                           PCT/US2012/047072
 40.     The system of claim 23, wherein the expandable body wall is a product of a
         process wherein the metal layer is annealed while comprising a non-metallic
         coating.
 41.     The system of claim 23, wherein the expandable body wall is a product of a
         process wherein the metal layer is annealed after the expandable body is formed
         into the deliverable configuration.
 42.     The system of claim 23, wherein the expandable body wall is a product of a
         process wherein the metal layer is annealed before and after the expandable
         body is formed into the deliverable configuration.
 43.     The system of claim 1, wherein the wall comprises pores extending completely
         through the thickness of the wall from the interior to the exterior surface.
 44.     The system of claim 43, wherein the pores range from 1 micron to 500 microns in
         diameter.
 45.     The system of claims 43 or 44, further comprising a fluid supply device in fluid
         communication with the interior volume via the delivery device and configured to
         provide a supply fluid flow rate into the interior volume that exceeds an escape
         fluid flow rate from the interior volume via the plurality of pores at a fluid delivery
         pressure.
 46.     The system of claim 1, wherein the delivery device comprises a catheter, wire,
         needle, sheath, or stylet.
 47.     The system of claim 1, wherein, when the expandable body is in the deliverable
         configuration, a distal end of the distal region projects distally away from the
         interior volume and a proximal end of the proximal region projects proximally
         away from the interior volume.
                                            93

WO 2013/109309                                                             PCT/US2012/047072
 48.     The system of claim 1, wherein the proximal region of the expandable body
         comprises a neck extending proximally from the proximal region to operably
         couple to the distal end of the delivery device.
 49.     The system of claim 1, further comprising an electrolysis system comprising an
         electrical circuit wherein a portion of the electrical circuit is supported on the
         delivery device and configured to cause a decoupling of the proximal region of
         the expandable body from the distal end of the delivery device.
 50.     The system of claim 49, comprising one or more conductors embedded in the
         wall of the delivery device which act as both electrical conductors for the
         electrical system and structural reinforcement for the wall of the delivery device.
 51.     The system of claim 50, wherein the conductors are routed through the wall of
         the delivery device in at least one of the following configurations: spiral, braided
         or straight.
 52.     The system of claim 51, wherein the conductors are wires.
 53.     The system of claim 1, wherein the wall of the expandable body, comprises a
         central metal layer, and an inner and outer layer, the inner and outer layer
         comprising a non-metallic coating comprising an electrical insulation material
         extending over the metal layers so as to define the interior and exterior surface of
         the expandable body, including a non-metallic coating on at least a portion of the
         exterior surface of the expandable body neck.
 54.     The system of claim 53, wherein the outer layer is absent in a ring-shaped region
         of the neck to form ring-shaped exposed metal surface or structure.
 55.     The system of claim 53, wherein an inner layer is absent in a ring-shaped region
         of the neck to form a ring-shaped exposed metal surface or structure in a similar
         portion of the neck comprising an absent outer layer.
                                            94

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
 56.     The system of claims 54 or 55, wherein the ring-shaped exposed metal surface is
         free of any electrical insulation material.
 57.     The system of claims 54 or 55, wherein the ring-shaped exposed metal surface
         or structure comprises gold.
 58.     The system of claims 54 or 55, wherein a stress concentration line or strip is
         formed in the ring-shaped region of exposed metal.
 59.     The system of claim 53, wherein at least a portion of an inner surface of the
         metal layer of the neck of the metallic expandable body is electrically insulated by
         having an outer surface of a distal portion of the delivery device extending along
         the inner surface of the metal layer of the neck of the metallic expandable body.
 60.     The system of any one of claims 53 - 55, wherein a distal boundary of the ring
         shaped exposed metal surface comprises a proximal boundary of the outer layer
         and a proximal boundary of the ring-shaped exposed metal surface comprises a
         distal boundary of the outer layer.
 61.     The system of claim 50, wherein one of the conductors is in electrical
         communication with the ring-shaped region of the neck with the exposed metal
         surface.
 62.     The system of claim 61, wherein one of the conductors is in electrical
         communication with a cathode, the cathode may be selected from a group
         consisting of a needle, a patch on the patient's skin, and an electrode supported
         on the delivery device.
 63.     The system of claim 61, wherein one of the conductors is in electrical
         communication with a reference electrode, the reference electrode may be
         selected from a group consisting of a needle, a patch on the patient's skin, and
         an electrode supported on the delivery device.
 64.     The system of claims 62 or 63, wherein the cathode or electrode comprises
         platinum or a platinum alloy.
                                           95

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
 65.     The system of claim 53, wherein the electrolysis system is configured to deliver
         constant current to the ring-shaped exposed metal surface in a manner that
         renders it an anode.
 66.     The system of claim 53, wherein the electrolysis system is configured to deliver
         constant voltage to the ring-shaped exposed metal surface.
 67.     The system of claim 53, wherein the electrolysis system is configured to deliver
         varying voltage to the ring-shaped exposed metal surface, including square wave
         voltage.
 68.     The system of claim 53, wherein the ring-shaped exposed metal surface
         comprises uncoated gold.
 69.     The system of claim 53, wherein the ring-shaped exposed metal surface is a
         product of material being removed with a laser.
 70.     The system of claim 48, wherein by the distal end of the longitudinally extending
         body of the delivery device being operably coupled to the proximal region of the
         expandable body, the longitudinally extending body comprises a distal segment
         that is received within the neck of the proximal region.
 71.     The system of claim 70, wherein an outer surface of the distal segment of
         longitudinally extending body is in surface contact with an inner surface of the
         region comprising the neck.
 72.     The system of claim 71, wherein the distal end of the longitudinally extending
         body distally terminates near a proximal edge of a ring-shaped exposed metal
         surface of the neck or proximal region.
 73.     The system of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the delivery device is coated
         with a hydrophilic or lubricious coating.
 74.     The system of claim 1, comprising a metal layer, an inner electrical insulation
         layer and an outer electrical insulation layer, the metal layer located between the
         inner and outer layers; a neck extending proximally from the expandable body
                                           96

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
         wherein at least a portion of the neck comprising an exposed metal surface layer
         or structure; a delivery device comprising a distal end operably coupled with the
         neck; and an electrolysis system in electrical connection with the exposed metal
         surface layer or structure and configured to apply an electrical current in a
         manner that creates an anode in the region of the exposed metal surface layer or
         structure to cause the metal wall with the exposed metal surface layer or
         structure to separate such that the distal end of the delivery device decouples
         from the neck of the metallic expandable body.
 75.     The system of claim 74, wherein the anode is a ring-shaped exposed metal
         surface or structure.
 76.     The system of claim 1, wherein the filling of a biological space comprises filling at
         least a portion of a lumen of an aneurysm or a lumen of a blood vessel segment.
 77.     The system of claim 76, wherein the aneurysm has ruptured.
 78.     The system of claim 76, wherein the blood vessel segment is an artery or a vein.
 79.     The system of claim 76, wherein the expandable body is configured to expand
         such that at least 50% of an expandable body exterior surface contacts the inner
         surface of the aneurysm.
 80.     The system of claim 76, wherein the expandable body is configured to expand
         such that at least 75% of an expandable body exterior surface contacts the inner
         surface of the aneurysm.
 81.     The system of claim 76, wherein the expandable body is configured to expand
         such that at least 90% of an expandable body exterior surface contacts the inner
         surface of the aneurysm.
 82.     The system of claim 76, wherein the expandable body is configured to expand
         such that it fills at least 50% of the lumen of the aneurysm.
                                             97

WO 2013/109309                                                          PCT/US2012/047072
 83.     The system of claim 76, wherein the expandable body is configured to expand
         such that it fills at least 75% of the lumen of the aneurysm.
 84.     The system of claim 76, wherein the expandable body is configured to expand
         such that it fills at least 90% of the lumen of the aneurysm.
 85.     A system for filling a biological space of a patient, the system comprising:
         a)       a single lobed metallic expandable body comprising: a distal region ; a
         proximal region generally opposite the distal region; an intermediate region
         transitioning from the distal region to the proximal region; a center axis
         extending proximal-distal between the proximal region and distal region; a neck
         extending proximally from the proximal region to operably couple to the distal end
         of a delivery device; and a wall extending generally continuously through the
         intermediate region from the distal region to the proximal region to define an
         exterior surface of the expandable body and an interior surface of the
         expandable body, the interior surface defining an interior volume of the
         expandable body, wherein the expandable body is configured to expand from a
         deliverable configuration to an expanded configuration, and wherein at least a
         portion of the neck comprises stainless steel while the remainder of the
         expandable body comprises another metal; and
         b)       a delivery device comprising: a longitudinally extending body comprising
         a proximal end and a distal end generally opposite the proximal end, the distal
         end of the delivery device being operably coupled to the proximal region of the
         expandable body,
         c)       wherein, when the expandable body is in the deliverable configuration,
         the wall assumes a pleated configuration comprising a plurality of pleats folded
         over in a clockwise direction relative to the center axis , or a counter-clockwise
         direction relative to the center axis to form a folded-over region of the
         expandable body,
         d)       wherein, when the expandable body is in the expanded configuration, the
         plurality of pleats is not folded over.
                                             98

WO 2013/109309                                                        PCT/US2012/047072
 86.     The system of claim 85, wherein, when the expandable body is in the expanded
         configuration comprises an overall shape that is a sphere or an oblong shape.
 87.     The system of claim 85, wherein when the expandable body is in the expanded
         configuration, the expandable body assumes a shape wherein the intermediate
         region is generally cylindrical and the proximal region and the distal region are
         both generally hemispherical.
 88.     The system of claim 85, wherein when the expandable body is in the expanded
         configuration, the expandable body assumes a shape wherein the intermediate
         region, the proximal region and the distal region combine to form a generally
         spherical shape.
 89.     The system of claim 85, wherein the expandable body in being expandable is
         configured to be inflatable.
 90.     The system of claim 85, wherein the expandable body is configured to assume
         the expanded configuration by substantially eliminating the pleated configuration
         or a plurality of pleats of the expandable body that is present in the deliverable
         configuration.
 91.     The system of claim 85, wherein the expandable body is configured to be
         expanded from the deliverable configuration to the expanded configuration by
         applying a pressure of less than 3 atmospheres to the interior volume.
 92.     The system of claim 85, wherein the expandable body is configured to be
         expanded from the deliverable configuration to the expanded configuration by
         applying a pressure of less than 2 atmospheres to the interior volume.
 93.     The system of claim 85, wherein the expandable body is configured to be
         expanded from the deliverable configuration to the expanded configuration by
         applying a pressure of less than 1 atmosphere to the interior volume.
                                            99

WO 2013/109309                                                          PCT/US2012/047072
 94.     The system of claim 85, wherein the folded-over region defines a channel that
         can accept a guide wire.
 95.     The system of claim 85, wherein, when the expandable body is in the deliverable
         configuration, no portion of the delivery device is found within the folded-over
         region of the expandable body.
 96.     The system of claim 85, wherein each pleat of the plurality of pleats comprises a
         ridge line extending proximal-distal and radially away from the center axis .
 97.     The system of claim 96, wherein, in being folded over, each pleat of the plurality
         of pleats is folded over an immediately adjacent pleat in a clockwise direction
         relative to the center axis, or a counter-clockwise direction relative to the center
         axis.
 98.     The system of claim 85, wherein each pleat comprises a ridge line extending
         proximal-distal and each pleat is separated from any immediately adjacent pleat
         by an interposed trough extending proximal-distal.
 99.     The system of claim 85, wherein the pleated configuration comprises an
         alternating ridge-trough arrangement.
  100.   The system of claim 85, wherein the expandable body in being expandable is
         configured to inflate via delivery of a fluid medium into the interior volume of the
         expandable body.
  101.   The system of claim 85, wherein the fluid medium comprises a liquid or gas.
  102.   The system of claim 85, wherein the expandable body is expanded and
         possesses sufficient strength to maintain itself in the expanded configuration
         within the biological space after separation from the delivery device.
  103.   The system of claim 102, wherein no solid or semi-solid material or member, not
         derived from the patient, is required in the interior volume of the expandable body
                                            100

WO 2013/109309                                                          PCT/US2012/047072
         to at least assist in causing the expandable body to assume or maintain the
         expanded configuration after separation of the expanded expandable body and
         the delivery device.
  104.   The system of claim 102, wherein the metallic expandable body and the delivery
         device are configured to allow the interior volume of the expandable body to be
         at least partially filled with a solid or semi-solid.
  105.   The system of claim 104, wherein the solid or semi-solid comprises a support
         structure.
  106.   The system of claim 105, wherein the support structure is selected from a group
         consisting of metallic or polymeric coils or wires, metallic or polymeric expansile
         structures, beads, balls, microspheres, a bioresorbable material, or combinations
         thereof.
  107.   The system of claim 85, wherein the wall comprises at least one layer, with the at
         least one layer being a metal layer.
  108.   The system of claim 107, wherein the metal layer of at least a portion of the
         distal, intermediate, and proximal region, comprises gold or platinum.
  109.   The system of claim 107, wherein the metal layer has a thickness ranging
         between approximately 5 micrometers and 50 micrometers.
  110.   The system of claim 107, wherein the wall further comprises an inner layer and
         an outer layer , the inner layer comprising a non-metallic coating extending over
         an inner surface of the metal layer and the outer layer comprising a non-metallic
         coating extending over an outer surface of the metal layer.
  111.   The system of claim 110, wherein the thickness of the non-metallic inner layer or
         outer layer is between 0.1 micrometers and 10 micrometers.
  112.   The system of claim 110, wherein the non-metallic coating comprises an
         electrical insulation material.
                                              101

WO 2013/109309                                                       PCT/US2012/047072
  113.   The system of claim 110, wherein the non-metallic coating comprises Parylene.
  114.   The system of claim 110, wherein at least a portion of the metal layer comprises
         gold or platinum and the inner layer and outer layer both comprise Parylene.
  115.   The system of clam 107, wherein at least a portion of the metal layer is a product
         of electroforming.
  116.   The system of claim 107, wherein at least a portion of the surface of the metal
         layer comprises a rounded, pebbled, or granular surface structure.
  117.   The system of claim 116, wherein the rounded, pebbled, or granular surface
         structure has a surface height of approximately 0.1 micrometers to approximately
         10 micrometers.
  118.   The system of claim 107, wherein an outer surface of the metal layer comprises
         protrusions.
  119.   The system of claim 118, wherein some of the protrusions are branched.
  120.   The system of claim 118, wherein some of the protrusions are joined on both
         ends to the metal layer, forming a loop.
  121.   The system of claim 107, wherein at least a portion of the metal layer is a product
         of being formed on a mandrel that is sacrificial.
  122.   The system of claim 107, wherein at least a portion of the metal layer is a product
         of being formed on a sacrificial mandrel having a lapped finish having no more
         than approximately 0.1 micron between peak and valley of rough surface
         features.
                                          102

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
  123.   The system of claim 107, wherein the sacrificial mandrel has a pleated outer
         surface that generally replicates a pleated configuration of the expandable body
         that is intermediate between the deliverable configuration and the expanded
         configuration.
  124.   The system of claim 107, wherein a portion of the metal layer of the neck is a
         product of being formed on a mandrel component that is non-sacrificial.
  125.   The system of claim 124, wherein the non-sacrificial mandrel component
         comprises stainless steel.
  126.   The system of claim 125, wherein the at least one gold or platinum layer extends
         over at least a portion of one of an inner surface or an outer surface of the
         stainless steel non-sacrificial mandrel component.
  127.   The system of claim 125, wherein the non-sacrificial stainless steel mandrel
         component further comprises a surface layer of gold or platinum.
  128.   The system of claim 107, wherein the expandable body is a product of a process
         wherein the metal layer is annealed while comprising a non-metallic coating.
  129.   The system of claim 107, wherein the expandable body is a product of a process
         wherein the metal layer is annealed after the expandable body is formed into the
         deliverable configuration.
  130.   The system of claim 107, wherein the expandable body wall is a product of a
         process wherein the metal layer is annealed before and after the expandable
         body is formed into the deliverable configuration.
  131.   The system of claim 85, wherein the wall comprises pores extending completely
         through the thickness of the wall from the interior to the exterior surface.
                                          103

WO 2013/109309                                                             PCT/US2012/047072
  132.   The system of claim 131, wherein the pores range from 1 micron to 500 microns
         in diameter.
  133.   The system of claims 131 or 132, further comprising a fluid supply device in fluid
         communication with the interior volume via the delivery device and configured to
         provide a supply fluid flow rate into the interior volume that exceeds an escape
         fluid flow rate from the interior volume via the plurality of pores at a fluid delivery
         pressure.
  134.   The system of claim 85, wherein the delivery device comprises a catheter, wire,
         needle, sheath, or stylet.
  135.   The system of claim 85, wherein, when the expandable body is in the deliverable
         configuration, a distal end of the distal region projects distally away from the
         interior volume and a proximal end of the proximal region projects proximally
         away from the interior volume.
  136.   The system of claim 85, wherein the proximal region of the expandable body
         comprises a neck extending proximally from the proximal region to operably
         couple to the distal end of the delivery device.
  137.   The system of claim 85, further comprising an electrolysis system comprising an
         electrical circuit wherein a portion of the electrical circuit is supported on the
         delivery device and configured to cause a decoupling of the proximal region of
         the expandable body from the distal end of the delivery device, wherein the
         separation occurs in a region of the neck comprising stainless steel.
  138.   The system of claim 137, comprising one or more conductors embedded in the
         wall of the delivery device and which act as both electrical conductors for the
         electrical system and structural reinforcement for the wall of the delivery device.
  139.   The system of claim 138, wherein the conductors are routed through the wall of
         the delivery device in at least one of the following configurations: spiral, braided
         or straight.
                                            104

WO 2013/109309                                                          PCT/US2012/047072
  140.   The system of claim 139, wherein the conductors are wires.
  141.   The system of claim 85, wherein the wall of the expandable body, comprises a
         central metal layer, and an inner and outer layer, the inner and outer layer
         comprising a non-metallic coating comprising an electrical insulation material
         extending over the metal layers so as to define the interior and exterior surface of
         the expandable body, including a non-metallic coating on at least a portion of the
         exterior surface of the expandable body neck.
  142.   The system of claim 141, wherein the outer layer is absent in a ring-shaped
         region of the neck to form a ring-shaped exposed metal surface or structure.
  143.   The system of claim 141, wherein an inner layer is absent in a ring-shaped
         region of the neck to form a ring-shaped exposed metal surface or structure in a
         similar portion of the neck comprising an absent outer layer.
  144.   The system of claims 142 or 143, wherein the ring-shaped exposed metal
         surface or structure is free of any electrical insulation material.
  145.   The system of claims 142 or 143, wherein the ring-shaped exposed metal
         surface or structure comprises stainless steel.
  146.   The system of claims 142 or 143, wherein a stress concentration line or strip is
         formed in the ring-shaped region of exposed metal.
  147.   The system of claims 142 or 143, wherein the ring-shaped exposed metal
         surface comprises gold or stainless steel.
  148.   The system of any one of claims 141 - 143, wherein at least a portion of an inner
         surface of the metal layer of the neck of the metallic expandable body is
         electrically insulated by having an outer surface of a distal portion of the delivery
         device extending along the inner surface of the metal layer of the neck of the
         metallic expandable body.
                                           105

WO 2013/109309                                                        PCT/US2012/047072
  149.   The system of any one of claims 141 - 143, wherein a distal boundary of the ring
         shaped exposed metal structure comprises a proximal boundary of the outer
         layer and a proximal boundary of the ring-shaped exposed metal structure
         comprises a distal boundary of the outer layer.
  150.   The system of claim 138, wherein one of the conductors is in electrical
         communication with the ring-shaped region of the neck with the exposed metal
         surface.
  151.   The system of claim 150, wherein one of the conductors is in electrical
         communication with a cathode, the cathode may be selected from a group
         consisting of a needle, a patch on the patient's skin, and an electrode supported
         on the delivery device.
  152.   The system of claim 150, wherein one of the conductors is in electrical
         communication with a reference electrode, the reference electrode may be
         selected from a group consisting of a needle, a patch on the patient's skin, and
         an electrode supported on the delivery device.
  153.   The system of claims 151 or 152, wherein the cathode or electrode comprises
         platinum or a platinum alloy.
  154.   The system of claim 137, wherein the electrolysis system is configured to deliver
         constant current to the ring-shaped exposed metal surface in a manner that
         renders it an anode.
  155.   The system of claim 137, wherein the electrolysis system is configured to deliver
         constant voltage to the ring-shaped exposed metal surface.
  156.   The system of claim 137, wherein the electrolysis system is configured to deliver
         varying voltage to the ring-shaped exposed metal surface, including square wave
         voltage.
  157.   The system of claim 142, wherein the ring-shaped exposed metal surface is a
         product of material being removed with a laser.
                                         106

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
  158.   The system of claim 136, wherein by the distal end of the longitudinally extending
         body of the delivery device being operably coupled to the proximal region of the
         expandable body, the longitudinally extending body comprises a distal segment
         that is received within the neck of the proximal region.
  159.   The system of claim 158, wherein an outer surface of the distal segment of
         longitudinally extending body is in surface contact with an inner surface of the
         region comprising the neck.
  160.   The system of claim 159, wherein the distal end of the longitudinally extending
         body distally terminates near a proximal edge of a ring-shaped exposed metal
         surface of the neck.
  161.   The system of claim 85, wherein at least a portion the delivery device is coated
         with a hydrophilic or lubricious coating.
  162.   The system of claim 85, comprising a metal layer, an inner electrical insulation
         layer and an outer electrical insulation layer, the metal layer located between the
         inner and outer layers; a neck extending proximally from the expandable body
         wherein at least a portion of the neck comprising an exposed metal surface layer
         or structure; a delivery device comprising a distal end operably coupled with the
         neck; and an electrolysis system in electrical connection with the exposed metal
         surface layer or structure and configured to apply an electrical current in a
         manner that creates an anode in the region of the exposed metal surface layer or
         structure to cause the metal wall with the exposed metal surface layer or
         structure to separate such that the distal end of the delivery device decouples
         from the neck of the metallic expandable body.
  163.   The system of claim 162, wherein the anode comprises stainless steel.
  164.   The system of claim 85, wherein the filling of a biological space comprises filling
         at least a portion of a lumen of an aneurysm or a lumen of a blood vessel
         segment.
                                           107

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
  165.   The system of claim 164, wherein the aneurysm has ruptured.
  166.   The system of claim 164, wherein the blood vessel segment is an artery or a
         vein.
  167.   The system of claim 164, wherein the expandable body is configured to expand
         such that at least 50% of an expandable body exterior surface contacts the inner
         surface of the aneurysm.
  168.   The system of claim 164, wherein the expandable body is configured to expand
         such that at least 75% of an expandable body exterior surface contacts the inner
         surface of the aneurysm.
  169.   The system of claim 164, wherein the expandable body is configured to expand
         such that at least 90% of an expandable body exterior surface contacts the inner
         surface of the aneurysm.
  170.   The system of claim 164, wherein the expandable body is configured to expand
         such that it fills at least 50% of the lumen of the aneurysm.
  171.   The system of claim 164, wherein the expandable body is configured to expand
         such that it fills at least 75% of the lumen of the aneurysm.
  172.   The system of claim 164, wherein the expandable body is configured to expand
         such that it fills at least 90% of the lumen of the aneurysm.
  173.   A system for filling a biological space of a patient, the system comprising:
         a)       a single lobed metallic expandable body comprising: a distal region ; a
         proximal region generally opposite the distal region; an intermediate region
         transitioning from the distal region to the proximal region; a center axis
         extending proximal-distal between the proximal region and distal region; a neck
         extending proximally from the proximal region to operably couple to the distal end
         of a delivery device; and a wall extending generally continuously through the
         intermediate region from the distal region to the proximal region to define an
                                             108

WO 2013/109309                                                          PCT/US2012/047072
         exterior surface of the expandable body and an interior surface of the
         expandable body, the interior surface defining an interior volume of the
         expandable body, wherein the expandable body is configured to expand from a
         deliverable configuration to an expanded configuration; and
         b)       a delivery device comprising: a longitudinally extending body comprising
         a proximal end and a distal end generally opposite the proximal end, the distal
         end of the delivery device being operably coupled to the neck portion of the
         proximal region of the expandable body by an elastic sleeve or wrap and a
         friction fit; and
         c)       wherein, when the expandable body is in the deliverable configuration,
         the wall assumes a pleated configuration comprising a plurality of pleats folded
         over in a clockwise direction relative to the center axis , or a counter-clockwise
         direction relative to the center axis to form a folded-over region of the
         expandable body,
         d)       wherein, when the expandable body is in the expanded configuration, the
         plurality of pleats is not folded over.
  174.   The system of claim 173, wherein, when the expandable body is in the expanded
         configuration comprises an overall shape that is a sphere or an oblong shape.
  175.   The system of claim 173, wherein when the expandable body is in the expanded
         configuration, the expandable body assumes a shape wherein the intermediate
         region is generally cylindrical and the proximal region and the distal region are
         both generally hemispherical.
  176.   The system of claim 173, wherein when the expandable body is in the expanded
         configuration, the expandable body assumes a shape wherein the intermediate
         region, the proximal region and the distal region combine to form a generally
         spherical shape.
  177.   The system of claim 173, wherein the expandable body in being expandable is
         configured to be inflatable.
                                            109

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
  178.   The system of claim 173, wherein the expandable body is configured to assume
         the expanded configuration by substantially eliminating the pleated configuration
         or a plurality of pleats of the expandable body that is present in the deliverable
         configuration.
  179.   The system of claim 173, wherein the expandable body is configured to be
         expanded from the deliverable configuration to the expanded configuration by
         applying a pressure of less than 3 atmospheres to the interior volume.
  180.   The system of claim 173, wherein the expandable body is configured to be
         expanded from the deliverable configuration to the expanded configuration by
         applying a pressure of less than 2 atmospheres to the interior volume.
  181.   The system of claim 173, wherein the expandable body is configured to be
         expanded from the deliverable configuration to the expanded configuration by
         applying a pressure of less than 1 atmosphere to the interior volume.
  182.   The system of claim 173, wherein the folded-over region defines a channel that
         can accept a guide wire.
  183.   The system of claim 173, wherein, when the expandable body is in the
         deliverable configuration, no portion of the delivery device is found within the
         folded-over region of the expandable body.
  184.   The system of claim 173, wherein each pleat of the plurality of pleats comprises
         a ridge line extending proximal-distal and radially away from the center axis .
  185.   The system of claim 184, wherein, in being folded over, each pleat of the
         plurality of pleats is folded over an immediately adjacent pleat in a clockwise
         direction relative to the center axis, or a counter-clockwise direction relative to
         the center axis.
                                           110

WO 2013/109309                                                          PCT/US2012/047072
  186.   The system of claim 173, wherein each pleat comprises a ridge line extending
         proximal-distal and each pleat is separated from any immediately adjacent pleat
         by an interposed trough extending proximal-distal.
  187.   The system of claim 173, wherein the pleated configuration comprises an
         alternating ridge-trough arrangement.
  188.   The system of claim 173, wherein the expandable body in being expandable is
         configured to inflate via delivery of a fluid medium into the interior volume of the
         expandable body.
  189.   The system of claim 188, wherein the fluid medium comprises a liquid or gas.
  190.   The system of claim 173, wherein the expanded expandable body alone
         possesses sufficient strength to maintain itself in the expanded configuration
         within the biological space after separation from the delivery device.
  191.   The system of claim 190, wherein no solid or semi-solid material or member, not
         derived from the patient, is required in the interior volume of the expandable body
         to at least assist in causing the expandable body to assume or maintain the
         expanded configuration after separation of the expanded expandable body and
         the delivery device.
  192.   The system of claim 190, wherein the metallic expandable body and the delivery
         device are configured to allow the interior volume of the expandable body to be
         at least partially filled with a solid or semi-solid.
  193.   The system of claim 192, wherein the solid or semi-solid comprises a support
         structure.
  194.   The system of claim 193, wherein the support structure is selected from a group
         consisting of metallic or polymeric coils or wires, metallic or polymeric expansile
         structures, beads, balls, microspheres, a bioresorbable material, or combinations
         thereof.
                                              111

WO 2013/109309                                                        PCT/US2012/047072
  195.   The system of claim 173, wherein the wall comprises at least one layer, with the
         at least one layer being a metal layer .
  196.   The system of claim 195, wherein the thickness of the metal layer is between
         approximately 5 micrometers and 50 micrometers.
  197.   The system of claim 195, wherein the metal layer comprises gold or platinum.
  198.   The system of claims 195 or 196, wherein the wall further comprises an inner
         layer or an outer layer , the layer comprising a non-metallic coating extending
         over at least a portion of the inner surface of the metal layer or at least a portion
         of the outer surface of the metal layer, or both.
  199.   The system of claim 198, wherein the thickness of the non-metallic inner layer or
         outer layer is between 0.1 micrometers and 10 micrometers.
 200.    The system of claim 198, wherein the non-metallic coating comprises Parylene.
 201.    The system of claim 198, wherein the metal layer comprises gold or platinum and
         the inner layer and outer layer both comprise Parylene.
 202.    The system of claim 195, wherein the metal layer is a product of electroforming.
 203.    The system of claim 195, wherein a surface of the metal layer comprises a
         rounded, pebbled, or granular surface structure.
 204.    The system of claim 203, wherein the rounded, pebbled, or granular surface
         structure has a surface height of approximately 0.1 micrometers to approximately
         10 micrometers.
 205.    The system of claim 195, wherein the outer surface of the metal layer comprises
         protrusions.
 206.    The system of claim 205, wherein some of the protrusions are branched.
                                           112

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
 207.    The system of claim 205, wherein some of the protrusions are joined on both
         ends to the metal layer, forming a loop.
 208.    The system of claim 195 wherein at least a portion of the metal layer is a product
         of being formed on a sacrificial mandrel.
 209.    The system of claim 195, wherein at least a portion of the metal layer is a product
         of being formed on a mandrel having a lapped finish having no more than
         approximately 0.1 micron between peak and valley of rough surface features.
 210.    The system of claim 208, wherein the sacrificial mandrel has a pleated outer
         surface that generally replicates a pleated configuration of the expandable body
         that is intermediate between the deliverable configuration and the expanded
         configuration.
 211.    The system of claim 195, wherein the expandable body is a product of a process
         wherein the metal layer is annealed while comprising a non-metallic coating.
 212.    The system of claim 195, wherein the expandable body is a product of a process
         wherein the metal layer is annealed after the expandable body is formed into the
         deliverable configuration.
 213.    The system of claim 195, wherein the expandable body is a product of a process
         wherein the metal layer is annealed before and after the expandable body is
         formed into the deliverable configuration.
 214.    The system of claim 195, wherein the wall comprises pores extending completely
         through the thickness of the wall from the interior to the exterior surface.
 215.    The system of claim 214, wherein the pores range from 1 micron to 500 microns
         in diameter.
                                          113

WO 2013/109309                                                           PCT/US2012/047072
 216.    The system of claims 214 or 215, further comprising a fluid supply device in fluid
         communication with the interior volume via the delivery device and configured to
         provide a supply fluid flow rate into the interior volume that exceeds an escape
         fluid flow rate from the interior volume via the plurality of pores at a fluid delivery
         pressure.
 217.    The system of claim 173, wherein the delivery device comprises a catheter, wire,
         needle, sheath, or stylet.
 218.    The system of claim 173, wherein, when the expandable body is in the
         deliverable configuration, a distal end of the distal region projects distally away
         from the interior volume and a proximal end of the proximal region projects
         proximally away from the interior volume.
 219.    The system of claim 173, wherein the proximal region of the expandable body
         comprises a neck extending proximally from the proximal region to operably
         couple to the distal end of the delivery device.
 220.    The system of claim 219, wherein the delivery device comprises structural
         reinforcement for the wall comprising wires routed through the wall in at least one
         of the following configurations: spiral, braided or straight.
 221.    The system of claim 220, wherein the wires comprise nitinol or stainless steel.
 222.    The system of claim 173, wherein by the distal end of the longitudinally extending
         body of the delivery device being operably coupled to the proximal region of the
         expandable body, the longitudinally extending body comprises a distal segment
         that is received within the neck of the proximal region.
 223.    The system of claim 222, wherein an outer surface of the distal segment of
         longitudinally extending body is in surface contact with an inner surface of the
         region comprising the neck.
                                            114

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
 224.    The system of claim 173, wherein the proximal region of the expandable body
         comprises a neck extending proximally from the proximal region to operably
         couple to the distal end of the delivery device.
 225.    The system of claim 224, wherein the neck of the expandable body is held to the
         distal portion of the delivery device by an elastic sleeve or wrap, and a friction fit.
 226.    The system of claim 224, wherein the expandable body is held to the distal
         portion of the delivery device by an elastic sleeve or wrap, and a friction fit, and a
         vacuum is present in the delivery device.
 227.    The system of claims 225 or 226, wherein the elastic sleeve comprises PEBAX,
         ChronoPrene, or silicone.
 228.    The system of claims 225 or 226, wherein the elastic sleeve comprises PEBAX
         with a durometer in the range of 25-80 Shore D.
 229.    The system of any one of claims 224 or 228, wherein the expanded expandable
         body and the delivery device can be separated by pulling apart the delivery
         device and the expanded expandable body.
 230.    The system of claim 173, wherein at least a portion of the delivery device is
         coated with a hydrophilic or lubricious coating.
 231.    The system of claim 173, wherein the filling of a biological space comprises filling
         at least a portion of a lumen of an aneurysm or a lumen of a blood vessel
         segment.
 232.    The system of claim 231, wherein the aneurysm has ruptured.
 233.    The system of claim 231, wherein the blood vessel segment is an artery or a
         vein.
 234.    The system of claim 231, wherein the expandable body is configured to expand
         such that at least 50% of an expandable body exterior surface contacts the inner
         surface of the aneurysm.
                                           115

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
 235.    The system of claim 231, wherein the expandable body is configured to expand
         such that at least 75% of an expandable body exterior surface contacts the inner
         surface of the aneurysm.
 236.    The system of claim 231, wherein the expandable body is configured to expand
         such that at least 90% of an expandable body exterior surface contacts the inner
         surface of the aneurysm.
 237.    The system of claim 231, wherein the expandable body is configured to expand
         such that it fills at least 50% of the lumen of the aneurysm.
 238.    The system of claim 231, wherein the expandable body is configured to expand
         such that it fills at least 75% of the lumen of the aneurysm.
 239.    The system of claim 231, wherein the expandable body is configured to expand
         such that it fills at least 90% of the lumen of the aneurysm.
 240.    A system for filling a biological space of a patient, the system comprising:
         a)       a single lobed metallic expandable body comprising: a distal region ; a
         proximal region generally opposite the distal region; an intermediate region
         transitioning from the distal region to the proximal region; a center axis
         extending proximal-distal between the proximal region and distal region; and a
         wall extending generally continuously through the intermediate region from the
         distal region to the proximal region to define an exterior surface of the
         expandable body and an interior surface of the expandable body, the interior
         surface defining an interior volume of the expandable body, wherein the
         expandable body is configured to expand from a deliverable configuration to an
         expanded configuration; and
         b)       a link coupled to the proximal region;
         c)       a delivery device comprising: a longitudinally extending body comprising
         a proximal end and a distal end generally opposite the proximal end, the distal
                                             116

WO 2013/109309                                                           PCT/US2012/047072
         end being operably coupled to the proximal region of the expandable body at
         least in part via the link; and
         d)      an electrical system comprising an electrical circuit wherein a portion of
         the electrical circuit is supported on the longitudinally extending body of the
         delivery device and configured to cause a decoupling of the proximal region of
         the expandable body from the distal end of the delivery device via supplying
         electrical energy to the link to heat the link to cause the link to release.
 241.    The system of claim 240, wherein the link comprises a polymer material.
 242.    The system of claim 240, wherein the expandable body when in the expanded
         configuration comprises an overall shape that is a sphere or an oblong shape.
 243.    The system of claim 240, wherein, when the expandable body is in the expanded
         configuration, the expandable body assumes a shape wherein the intermediate
         region is generally cylindrical and the proximal region and the distal region are
         both generally hemispherical.
 244.    The system of claim 240, wherein when the expandable body is in the expanded
         configuration, the expandable body assumes a shape wherein the intermediate
         region, the proximal region and the distal region combine to form a generally
         spherical shape.
 245.    The system of claim 240, wherein the expandable body in being expandable is
         configured to be inflatable.
 246.    The system of claim 240, wherein the expandable body is configured to assume
         the expanded configuration by substantially eliminating the pleated configuration
         or a plurality of pleats of the expandable body that is present in the deliverable
         configuration.
 247.    The system of claim 240, wherein the expandable body is configured to be
         expanded from the deliverable configuration to the expanded configuration by
         applying a pressure of less than 3 atmospheres to the interior volume.
                                            117

WO 2013/109309                                                          PCT/US2012/047072
 248.    The system of claim 240, wherein the expandable body is configured to be
         expanded from the deliverable configuration to the expanded configuration by
         applying a pressure of less than 2 atmospheres to the interior volume.
 249.    The system of claim 240, wherein the expandable body is configured to be
         expanded from the deliverable configuration to the expanded configuration by
         applying a pressure of less than 1 atmosphere to the interior volume.
 250.    The system of claim 240, wherein the folded-over region defines a channel that
         can accept a guide wire.
 251.    The system of claim 240, wherein, when the expandable body is in the
         deliverable configuration, no portion of the delivery device is found within the
         folded-over region of the expandable body.
 252.    The system of claim 240, wherein each pleat of the plurality of pleats comprises
         a ridge line extending proximal-distal and radially away from the center axis .
 253.    The system of claim 252, wherein, in being folded over, each pleat of the
         plurality of pleats is folded over an immediately adjacent pleat in a clockwise
         direction relative to the center axis, or a counter-clockwise direction relative to
         the center axis.
 254.    The system of claim 240, wherein each pleat comprises a ridge line extending
         proximal-distal and each pleat is separated from any immediately adjacent pleat
         by an interposed trough extending proximal-distal.
 255.    The system of claim 240, wherein the pleated configuration comprises an
         alternating ridge-trough arrangement.
 256.    The system of claim 240, wherein the expandable body in being expandable is
         configured to inflate via delivery of a fluid medium into the interior volume of the
         expandable body.
                                           118

WO 2013/109309                                                          PCT/US2012/047072
 257.    The system of claim 256, wherein the fluid medium comprises a liquid or gas.
 258.    The system of claim 240, wherein the expanded expandable body alone
         possesses sufficient strength to maintain itself in the expanded configuration
         within the biological space after separation from the delivery device.
 259.    The system of claim 258, wherein no solid or semi-solid material or member, not
         derived from the patient, is required in the interior volume of the expandable body
         to at least assist in causing the expandable body to assume or maintain the
         expanded configuration after separation of the expanded expandable body and
         the delivery device.
 260.    The system of claim 258, wherein the metallic expandable body and the delivery
         device are configured to allow the interior volume of the expandable body to be
         at least partially filled with a solid or semi-solid.
 261.    The system of claim 260, wherein the solid or semi-solid comprises a support
         structure.
 262.    The system of claim 261, wherein the support structure is selected from a group
         consisting of metallic or polymeric coils or wires, metallic or polymeric expansile
         structures, beads, balls, microspheres, a bioresorbable material, or combinations
         thereof.
 263.    The system of claim 240, wherein the wall comprises at least one layer, with the
         at least one layer being a metal layer .
 264.    The system of claim 263, wherein the thickness of the metal layer is between
         approximately 5 micrometers and 50 micrometers.
 265.    The system of claim 263, wherein the metal layer comprises gold or platinum.
 266.    The system of claims 263 or 264, wherein the wall further comprises an inner
         layer or an outer layer , the layer comprising a non-metallic coating extending
                                              119

WO 2013/109309                                                        PCT/US2012/047072
         over at least a portion of the inner surface of the metal layer or at least a portion
         of the outer surface of the metal layer, or both.
 267.    The system of claim 266, wherein the thickness of the non-metallic inner layer or
         outer layer is between 0.1 micrometers and 10 micrometers.
 268.    The system of claim 266, wherein the non-metallic coating comprises Parylene.
 269.    The system of claim 266, wherein the metal layer comprises gold or platinum and
         the inner layer and outer layer both comprise Parylene.
 270.    The system of clam 263, wherein the metal layer is a product of electroforming.
 271.    The system of claim 263, wherein a surface of the metal layer comprises a
         rounded, pebbled, or granular surface structure.
 272.    The system of claim 271, wherein the rounded, pebbled, or granular surface
         structure has a surface height of approximately 0.1 micrometers to approximately
         10 micrometers.
 273.    The system of claim 263, wherein the outer surface of the metal layer comprises
         protrusions.
 274.    The system of claim 273, wherein some of the protrusions are branched.
 275.    The system of claim 273, wherein some of the protrusions are joined on both
         ends to the metal layer, forming a loop.
 276.    The system of claim 263 wherein at least a portion of the metal layer is a product
         of being formed on a sacrificial mandrel.
 277.    The system of claim 263, wherein at least a portion of the metal layer is a product
         of being formed on a sacrificial mandrel having a lapped finish having no more
                                           120

WO 2013/109309                                                           PCT/US2012/047072
         than approximately 0.1 micron between peak and valley of rough surface
         features.
 278.    The system of claim 277, wherein the sacrificial mandrel has a pleated outer
         surface that generally replicates a pleated configuration of the expandable body
         that is intermediate between the deliverable configuration and the expanded
         configuration.
 279.    The system of claim 263, wherein the expandable body is a product of a process
         wherein the metal layer is annealed while comprising a non-metallic coating.
 280.    The system of claim 263, wherein the expandable body is a product of a process
         wherein the metal layer is annealed after the expandable body is formed into the
         deliverable configuration.
 281.    The system of claim 263, wherein the expandable body is a product of a process
         wherein the metal layer is annealed before and after the expandable body is
         formed into the deliverable configuration.
 282.    The system of claim 263, wherein the wall comprises pores extending completely
         through the thickness of the wall from the interior to the exterior surface.
 283.    The system of claim 282, wherein the pores range from 1 micron to 500 microns
         in diameter.
 284.    The system of claims 282 or 283, further comprising a fluid supply device in fluid
         communication with the interior volume via the delivery device and configured to
         provide a supply fluid flow rate into the interior volume that exceeds an escape
         fluid flow rate from the interior volume via the plurality of pores at a fluid delivery
         pressure.
 285.    The system of claim 240, wherein the delivery device comprises a catheter, wire,
         needle, sheath, or stylet.
                                            121

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
 286.    The system of claim 240, wherein, when the expandable body is in the
         deliverable configuration, a distal end of the distal region projects distally away
         from the interior volume and a proximal end of the proximal region projects
         proximally away from the interior volume.
 287.    The system of claim 240, further comprising a system configured to cause a
         decoupling of the proximal region of the expandable body from the distal end of
         the delivery device by warming at least a portion of the polymer coupling.
 288.    The system of claim 240, comprising a system configured to heat the polymer by
         passing an electric current through a resistance heating element adjacent to the
         polymer.
 289.    The system of claim 240, comprising one or more conductors embedded in the
         wall of the delivery device which act as both electrical conductors for the
         electrical system and structural reinforcement for the wall of the delivery device.
 290.    The system of claim 289, wherein the conductors are routed through the wall of
         the delivery device in at least one of the following configurations: spiral, braided
         or straight.
 291.    The system of claim 290, wherein the conductors are wires.
 292.    The system of claim 240, wherein the wall of the expandable body, comprises a
         central metal layer, and an inner and outer layer, the inner and outer layer
         comprising a non-metallic coating comprising an electrical insulation material
         extending over the metal layers so as to define the interior and exterior surface of
         the expandable body.
 293.    The system of claim 292, wherein the electrical system is configured to deliver
         constant current to a resistive heating element.
 294.    The system of claim 292, wherein the electrical system is configured to deliver
         constant voltage to the resistive heating element.
                                          122

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
 295.    The system of claims 293 or 294, wherein the resistive heating element is formed
         as a wire.
 296.    The system of claim 240, wherein at least a portion of the delivery device is
         coated with a hydrophilic or lubricious coating.
 297.    The system of claim 240, wherein the filling of a biological space comprises filling
         at least a portion of a lumen of an aneurysm or a lumen of a blood vessel
         segment.
 298.    The system of claim 297, wherein the aneurysm has ruptured.
 299.    The system of claim 297, wherein the blood vessel segment is an artery or a
         vein.
 300.    A method for filling a biological space of a patient, the method comprising:
         a)      providing a single-lobed metallic expandable body , wherein the
         expandable body is configured to expand from a deliverable configuration to an
         expanded configuration;
         b)      delivering the expandable body into the biological space of the patient in
         a deliverable configuration via a delivery device having a distal end operably
         coupled to a proximal region of the expandable body;
         c)      delivering a fluid medium into the interior volume of the expandable body
         via the delivery device to cause the expandable body to assume the expanded
         configuration;
         d)      providing an electrolysis system electrically coupled to an anode located
         on the proximal region of the expandable body; and
         e)      causing the expandable body to decouple from the delivery device, the
         decoupling being achieved by electrolysis occurring at the anode.
                                          123

WO 2013/109309                                                        PCT/US2012/047072
 301.    The method of claim 300, wherein the expandable body is configured to assume
         the expanded configuration by substantially eliminating the pleated configuration
         or a plurality of pleats of the expandable body that are present in the deliverable
         configuration.
 302.    The method of claim 300, wherein the expandable body when in the expanded
         configuration comprises an overall shape that is a sphere or an oblong shape.
 303.    The method of claim 300, wherein when the expandable body is in the expanded
         configuration, the expandable body assumes a shape wherein the intermediate
         region is generally cylindrical and the proximal region and the distal region are
         both generally hemispherical.
 304.    The method of claim 300, wherein when the expandable body is in the expanded
         configuration, the expandable body assumes a shape wherein the intermediate
         region, the proximal region and the distal region combine to form a generally
         spherical shape.
 305.    The method of claim 300, wherein the pressure in the interior volume of the
         expandable body during expansion is less than 3 atmospheres.
 306.    The method of claim 300, wherein the pressure in the interior volume of the
         expandable body during expansion is less than 2 atmospheres.
 307.    The method of claim 300, wherein the pressure in the interior volume of the
         expandable body during expansion is less than 1 atmosphere.
 308.    The method of claim 300, wherein the wall of the expandable body comprises
         pores ranging from 1 - 500 microns, and the delivered fluid is supplied to the
         interior volume of the expandable body at a supply rate greater than an exit flow
         rate of the delivered fluid through the pores.
 309.    The method of claim 300, wherein the electrolysis occurs after applying a
         constant current to the anode.
                                           124

WO 2013/109309                                                       PCT/US2012/047072
 310.    The method of claim 300, wherein the electrolysis occurs after applying a
         constant voltage to the anode.
 311.    The method of claim 300, wherein the electrolysis occurs after applying a
         variable voltage to the anode.
 312.    The method of claim 311, wherein the variable voltage is a square wave potential
         voltage.
 313.    The method of claim 300, wherein the anode comprises a ring-shaped exposed
         metal surface on the proximal region of the expandable body.
 314.    The method of claim 313, wherein the anode is located in the proximal region of
         the expandable body that comprises a neck extending proximally from the
         proximal region to operably couple to the distal end of the delivery device.
 315.    The method of claim 313, wherein the exposed metal surface comprises gold.
 316.    The method of claim 313, wherein the exposed metal surface comprises
         stainless steel.
 317.    The method of any one of claims 314 - 316, wherein a stress concentration line
         or strip is formed in the ring-shaped region of exposed metal.
 318.    The method of claim 300, wherein, the electrolysis system comprises a cathode,
         the cathode may be selected from a group consisting of a needle, a patch on the
         patient's skin, and an electrode supported on the delivery device.
 319.    The method of claim 300, wherein, the electrolysis system comprises a reference
         electrode, the reference electrode may be selected from a group consisting of a
         needle, a patch on the patient's skin, and an electrode supported on the delivery
         device.
 320.    The method of claim 300, wherein an electrical current travels from a location
         outside the body of the patient to the anode by a conductor embedded in the wall
                                           125

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
         of the delivery device which acts as both an electrical conductor for the electrical
         system and a structural reinforcement for the wall of the delivery device.
 321.    The method of claim 300, wherein an electrical current travels from a cathode to
         a location outside the body of the patient by a conductor embedded in the wall of
         the delivery device which acts as both an electrical conductor for the electrical
         system and a structural reinforcement for the wall of the delivery device, the
         cathode may be selected from a group consisting of a needle, a patch on the
         patient's skin, and an electrode supported on the delivery device.
 322.    The method of any one of claims 318 - 320, wherein the voltage of the anode is
         modulated based on a comparison between the voltage of the anode and the
         voltage of a reference electrode, the reference electrode may be selected from a
         group consisting of a needle, a patch on the patient's skin, and an electrode
         supported on the delivery device.
 323.    The method of claims 319 or 321, wherein the cathode or reference electrode
         comprises platinum.
 324.    The method of claims 320 or 321, wherein the electricity travels through
         conductors that are routed through the wall of the delivery device in at least one
         of the following configurations: spiral, braided or straight.
 325.    The method of claim 324, wherein the conductors are wires.
 326.    The method of claim 300, wherein the filling of a biological space comprises
         filling at least a portion of a lumen of an aneurysm or a lumen of a blood vessel
         segment.
 327.    The method of claim 326, wherein the blood vessel segment is an artery or a
         vein.
                                            126

WO 2013/109309                                                        PCT/US2012/047072
 328.    The method of claim 326, wherein the expandable body is expanded such that at
         least 50% of an expandable body exterior surface contacts the inner surface of
         the aneurysm.
 329.    The method of claim 326, wherein the expandable body is expanded such that at
         least 75% of an expandable body exterior surface contacts the inner surface of
         the aneurysm.
 330.    The method of claim 326, wherein the expandable body is expanded such that at
         least 90% of an expandable body exterior surface contacts the inner surface of
         the aneurysm.
 331.    The method of claim 326, wherein the expandable body is inflated and expanded
         in an aneurysm such that it fills at least 50% of the lumen of the aneurysm.
 332.    The method of claim 326, wherein the expandable body is inflated and expanded
         in an aneurysm such that it fills at least 75% of the lumen of the aneurysm.
 333.    The method of claim 326, wherein the expandable body is inflated and expanded
         in an aneurysm such that it fills at least 90% of the lumen of the aneurysm.
 334.    The method of any one of claims 326 - 333, further comprising the step of
         altering the shape of the expanded expandable body by applying an external
         force.
 335.    The method of any one of claims 326 - 333, wherein the expanded expandable
         body alone is maintained in the expanded configuration within the biological
         space after separation from the delivery device.
 336.    The method of claim 326, wherein no solid or semi-solid material or member is
         delivered into the interior volume of the expandable body to at least assist in
         causing the expandable body to assume or maintain the expanded configuration.
                                           127

WO 2013/109309                                                          PCT/US2012/047072
 337.    The method of claim 326, wherein the expandable body is at least partially filled
         with a solid.
 338.    The method of claim 337, wherein the solid comprises a support structure.
 339.    The method of claim 338, wherein the support structure is selected from a group
         consisting of metallic or polymeric coils or wires, metallic or polymeric expansile
         structures, beads, balls, microspheres, a bioresorbable material, or combinations
         thereof.
 340.    A method for filling a biological space of a patient, the method comprising:
         a)      providing a single-lobed metallic expandable body , wherein the
         expandable body is configured to expand from a deliverable configuration to an
         expanded configuration;
         b)      delivering the expandable body into the biological space of the patient via
         a delivery device having a distal end operably coupled to a proximal region of
         the expandable body via a link;
         c)      delivering a fluid medium into the interior volume of the expandable body
         via the delivery device to cause the expandable body to assume the expanded
         configuration;
         d)      providing an electrical system electrically coupled to the link; and
         e)      causing the expandable body to decouple from the delivery device, the
         decoupling being achieved by causing the link to melt and separate.
 341.    The system of claim 340, wherein the expandable body is configured to assume
         the expanded configuration by substantially eliminating the pleated configuration
         or a plurality of pleats of the expandable body that is present in the deliverable
         configuration.
 342.    The method of claim 340, wherein the expandable body when in the expanded
         configuration comprises an overall shape that is a sphere or an oblong shape.
                                           128

WO 2013/109309                                                           PCT/US2012/047072
 343.    The method of claim 340, wherein when the expandable body is in the expanded
         configuration, the expandable body assumes a shape wherein the intermediate
         region is generally cylindrical and the proximal region and the distal region are
         both generally hemispherical.
 344.    The method of claim 340, wherein when the expandable body is in the expanded
         configuration, the expandable body assumes a shape wherein the intermediate
         region, the proximal region and the distal region combine to form a generally
         spherical shape.
 345.    The method of claim 340, wherein the pressure in the interior volume of the
         expandable body during expansion is less than 3 atmospheres.
 346.    The method of claim 340, wherein the pressure in the interior volume of the
         expandable body during expansion is less than 2 atmospheres.
 347.    The method of claim 340, wherein the pressure in the interior volume of the
         expandable body during expansion is less than 1 atmosphere.
 348.    The method of claim 340, wherein the wall of the expandable body comprises
         pores ranging from 1 - 500 microns, and the delivered fluid is supplied to the
         interior volume of the expandable body at a supply rate greater than an exit flow
         rate of the delivered fluid through the pores.
 349.    The method of claim 340, wherein the electrical system comprises an electrical
         circuit wherein a portion of the electrical circuit is supported on a longitudinally
         extending body of the delivery device and configured to cause a decoupling of
         the proximal region of the expandable body from the distal end of the delivery
         device via supplying electrical energy to the link to heat the link and cause the
         link to release.
 350.    The method of claim 340, wherein the link comprises a polymer material.
                                           129

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
 351.    The method of claim 340, wherein the link comprises a resistive heating element.
 352.    The method of claim 351, wherein the resistive heating element is a wire.
 353.    The method of claim 351, wherein an electrical current travels from a location
         outside the body of the patient to the resistive heating element by a conductor
         embedded in the wall of the delivery device which acts as both an electrical
         conductor for the electrical system and a structural reinforcement for the wall of
         the delivery device.
 354.    The method of claim 353, wherein the electricity travels through conductors that
         are routed through the wall of the delivery device in at least one of the following
         configurations: spiral, braided or straight.
 355.    The method of claim 354, wherein the conductors are wires.
 356.    The method of claim 340, wherein the filling of a biological space comprises
         filling at least a portion of a lumen of an aneurysm or a lumen of a blood vessel
         segment.
 357.    The method of claim 356, wherein the blood vessel segment is an artery or a
         vein.
 358.    The method of claims 356, wherein the expandable body is expanded such that
         at least 50% of an expandable body exterior surface contacts the inner surface of
         the aneurysm.
 359.    The method of claims 356, wherein the expandable body is expanded such that
         at least 75% of an expandable body exterior surface contacts the inner surface of
         the aneurysm.
 360.    The method of claims 356, wherein the expandable body is expanded such that
         at least 90% of an expandable body exterior surface contacts the inner surface of
         the aneurysm.
                                            130

WO 2013/109309                                                          PCT/US2012/047072
 361.    The method of claims 356, wherein the expandable body is inflated and
         expanded in an aneurysm such that it fills at least 50% of the lumen of the
         aneurysm.
 362.    The method of claims 356, wherein the expandable body is inflated and
         expanded in an aneurysm such that it fills at least 75% of the lumen of the
         aneurysm.
 363.    The method of claims 356, wherein the expandable body is inflated and
         expanded in an aneurysm such that it fills at least 90% of the lumen of the
         aneurysm.
 364.    The method of any one of claims 356 - 363, further comprising the step of
         altering the shape of the expanded expandable body by applying an external
         force.
 365.    The method of any one of claims 356 - 363, wherein the expanded expandable
         body alone is maintained in the expanded configuration within the biological
         space after separation from the delivery device.
 366.    The method of claim 356, wherein no solid or semi-solid material or member is
         delivered into the interior volume of the expandable body to at least assist in
         causing the expandable body to assume or maintain the expanded configuration.
 367.    The method of claim 356, wherein the expandable body is at least partially filled
         with a solid.
 368.    The method of claim 367, wherein the solid comprises a support structure.
 369.    The method of claim 368, wherein the support structure is selected from a group
         consisting of metallic or polymeric coils or wires, metallic or polymeric expansile
         structures, beads, balls, microspheres, a bioresorbable material, or combinations
         thereof.
                                          131

WO 2013/109309                                                          PCT/US2012/047072
 370.    A method for filling a biological space of a patient, the method comprising:
         a)       providing a single-lobed metallic expandable body , with a neck
         extending proximally from the proximal region to operably couple to the distal end
         of a delivery device, wherein the expandable body is configured to expand from a
         deliverable configuration to an expanded configuration;
         b)       delivering the expandable body into the biological space of the patient via
         a delivery device having a distal end operably coupled to the neck portion of the
         proximal region of the expandable body by an elastic sleeve or wrap and a
         friction fit;
         c)       delivering a fluid medium into the interior volume of the expandable body
         via the delivery device to cause the expandable body to assume the expanded
         configuration; and
         d)       causing the expanded expandable body to decouple from the delivery
         device, the decoupling being achieved by pulling apart the delivery device and
         the expanded expandable body.
 371.    The system of claim 370, wherein the expandable body is configured to assume
         the expanded configuration by substantially eliminating the pleated configuration
         or a plurality of pleats of the expandable body that is present in the deliverable
         configuration.
 372.    The method of claim 370, wherein the expandable body when in the expanded
         configuration comprises an overall shape that is a sphere or an oblong shape.
 373.    The method of claim 370, wherein when the expandable body is in the expanded
         configuration, the expandable body assumes a shape wherein the intermediate
         region is generally cylindrical and the proximal region and the distal region are
         both generally hemispherical.
 374.    The method of claim 370, wherein when the expandable body is in the expanded
         configuration, the expandable body assumes a shape wherein the intermediate
                                           132

WO 2013/109309                                                        PCT/US2012/047072
         region, the proximal region and the distal region combine to form a generally
         spherical shape.
 375.    The method of claim 370, wherein the pressure in the interior volume of the
         expandable body during expansion is less than 3 atmospheres.
 376.    The method of claim 370, wherein the pressure in the interior volume of the
         expandable body during expansion is less than 2 atmospheres.
 377.    The method of claim 370, wherein the pressure in the interior volume of the
         expandable body during expansion is less than 1 atmosphere.
 378.    The method of claim 370, wherein the wall of the expandable body comprises
         pores ranging from 1 - 500 microns, and the delivered fluid is supplied to the
         interior volume of the expandable body at a supply rate greater than an exit flow
         rate of the delivered fluid through the pores.
 379.    The method of claim 370, wherein the elastic sleeve or wrap comprises PEBAX,
         ChronoPrene, or silicone.
 380.    The method of claim 370, wherein the elastic sleeve comprises PEBAX with a
         durometer in the range of 25-80 Shore D.
 381.    The method of claim 370, wherein the filling of a biological space comprises
         filling at least a portion of a lumen of an aneurysm or a lumen of a blood vessel
         segment.
 382.    The method of claim 381, wherein the blood vessel segment is an artery or a
         vein.
 383.    The method of claim 381, wherein the expandable body is expanded such that at
         least 50% of an expandable body exterior surface contacts the inner surface of
         the aneurysm.
                                            133

WO 2013/109309                                                          PCT/US2012/047072
 384.    The method of claim 381, wherein the expandable body is expanded such that at
         least 75% of an expandable body exterior surface contacts the inner surface of
         the aneurysm.
 385.    The method of claim 381, wherein the expandable body is expanded such that at
         least 90% of an expandable body exterior surface contacts the inner surface of
         the aneurysm.
 386.    The method of claim 381 wherein the expandable body is inflated and expanded
         in an aneurysm such that it fills at least 50% of the lumen of the aneurysm.
 387.    The method of claim 381, wherein the expandable body is inflated and expanded
         in an aneurysm such that it fills at least 75% of the lumen of the aneurysm.
 388.    The method of claim 381, wherein the expandable body is inflated and expanded
         in an aneurysm such that it fills at least 90% of the lumen of the aneurysm.
 389.    The method of claim 381, further comprising the step of altering the shape of the
         expanded expandable body by applying an external force.
 390.    The method of claim 381, wherein the expanded expandable body alone is
         maintained in the expanded configuration within the biological space after
         separation from the delivery device.
 391.    The method of claim 390, wherein no solid or semi-solid material or member is
         delivered into the interior volume of the expandable body to at least assist in
         causing the expandable body to assume or maintain the expanded configuration.
 392.    The method of claim 390, wherein the expandable body is at least partially filled
         with a solid.
 393.    The method of claim 392, wherein the solid comprises a support structure.
 394.    The method of claim 393, wherein the support structure is selected from a group
         consisting of metallic or polymeric coils or wires, metallic or polymeric expansile
                                           134

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
         structures, beads, balls, microspheres, a bioresorbable material, or combinations
         thereof.
 395.    A method of manufacturing a system for filling a biological space of a patient, the
         method comprising:
         a)       manufacturing a single lobed metallic expandable body comprising: a
         distal region ; a proximal region generally opposite the distal region; an
         intermediate region transitioning from the distal region to the proximal region; a
         center axis extending proximal-distal between the proximal region and distal
         region; and a wall extending generally continuously from the proximal region,
         through the intermediate region, to the distal region to define an exterior surface
         of the expandable body and an interior surface of the expandable body, the
         interior surface defining an interior volume of the expandable body;
         b)       manufacturing a delivery device comprising: a longitudinally extending
         body comprising a proximal end and a distal end generally opposite the
         proximal end;
         c)       operably coupling the distal end of the delivery device to the proximal
         region of the expandable body; and
         d)       forming the wall of the expandable body into a pleated configuration
         comprising a plurality of pleats folded over in a clockwise direction relative to the
         center axis , or a counter-clockwise direction relative to the center axis to form a
         folded-over region of the expandable body.
 396.    The method of claim 395, wherein the expandable body is manufactured so
         when the expandable body is in an expanded configuration, the expandable body
         comprises an overall shape that is a sphere or an oblong shape.
 397.    The method of claim 395, wherein when the expandable body is in the expanded
         configuration, the expandable body assumes a shape wherein the intermediate
         region is generally cylindrical and the proximal region and the distal region are
         both generally hemispherical.
                                           135

WO 2013/109309                                                        PCT/US2012/047072
 398.    The method of claim 395, wherein when the expandable body is in the expanded
         configuration, the expandable body assumes a shape wherein the intermediate
         region, the proximal region and the distal region combine to form a generally
         spherical shape.
 399.    The method of claim 395, wherein the expandable body is manufactured so in
         being expandable, the expandable body is configured to be inflatable.
 400.    The method of claim 395, wherein the expandable body is manufactured such
         that the expandable body can be expanded from the deliverable configuration to
         the expanded configuration by applying a pressure to the interior volume of the
         expandable body during expansion of less than 3 atmospheres.
 401.    The method of claim 395, wherein the expandable body is manufactured such
         that the expandable body can be expanded from the deliverable configuration to
         the expanded configuration by applying a pressure to the interior volume of the
         expandable body during expansion of less than 2 atmospheres.
 402.    The method of claim 395, wherein the expandable body is manufactured such
         that the expandable body can be expanded from the deliverable configuration to
         the expanded configuration by applying a pressure to the interior volume of the
         expandable body during expansion of less than 1 atmospheres.
 403.    The method of claim 395, wherein forming the folded-over region defines a
         channel that can accept a guide wire.
 404.    The method of claim 395, wherein operably coupling the distal end to the
         proximal region of the expandable body comprises allowing no portion of the
         delivery device to be located within the folded-over region of the expandable
         body.
 405.    The method of claim 395, wherein forming the wall into a pleated configuration
         further comprises causing each pleat of the plurality of pleats to comprise a ridge
         line extending proximal-distal and radially away from the center axis .
                                          136

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
 406.    The method of claim 405, wherein, in being folded over, each pleat of the
         plurality of pleats is folded over an immediately adjacent pleat in a clockwise
         direction relative to the center axis, or a counter-clockwise direction relative to
         the center axis.
 407.    The method of claim 395, wherein manufacturing the expandable body
         comprises forming the wall to comprise at least one metal layer.
 408.    The method of claim 407, wherein the metal layer comprises gold or platinum.
 409.    The method of claim 407, wherein the metal layer is formed by electroforming.
 410.    The method of claim 407, wherein forming of the metal layer generates a
         thickness between approximately 5 micrometers and 50 micrometers.
 411.    The method of claim 407, wherein forming of the metal layer generates a
         rounded, pebbled, or granular surface structure on a surface of the metal layer.
 412.    The method of claim 411, wherein the rounded, pebbled, or granular surface
         structure has a surface height of approximately 0.1 micrometers to approximately
         10 micrometers.
 413.    The method of claim 407, wherein forming of the metal layer generates
         protrusions on a surface of the metal layer.
 414.    The method of claim 413, wherein some of the protrusions are branched.
 415.    The method of claim 413, wherein some of the protrusions are joined on both
         ends to the metal layer, forming a loop.
 416.    The method of claim 407, wherein manufacturing the expandable body further
         comprises forming the wall to further comprise a non-metallic layer extending
                                           137

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
         over the metal layer so as to define the interior surface or the exterior surface of
         the expandable body as a coating.
 417.    The method of claim 416, wherein forming of the non-metallic layer generates a
         thickness of the non-metallic layer between approximately 0.1 micrometers and
         10 micrometers.
 418.    The method of claim 416, wherein the non-metallic coating comprises an
         electrical insulation material.
 419.    The method of claim 416, wherein the non-metallic coating layer comprises
         Parylene.
 420.    The method of claim 395, wherein manufacturing of the expandable body and
         forming the wall into a pleated and folded configuration combine to further
         comprise manufacturing the expandable body so as to be capable of expanding
         from a deliverable configuration to an expanded configuration, the deliverable
         configuration being when the pleated regions or a plurality of the pleats are
         substantially eliminated from the wall.
 421.    The method of claim 395, wherein manufacturing of the expandable body and
         forming the wall further includes providing a mandrel.
 422.    The method of claim 421, wherein the mandrel is a sacrificial mandrel.
 423.    The method of claim 422, wherein the sacrificial mandrel comprises aluminum.
 424.    The method of any one of claims 421 - 423, wherein manufacturing the
         expandable body further comprises depositing the metal layer on the mandrel.
 425.    The method of any one of claims 421 - 424, further comprising providing a
         mandrel, having no more than approximately 0.1 micron between peak and
         valley of rough surface features.
                                          138

WO 2013/109309                                                        PCT/US2012/047072
 426.    The method of claim 395, wherein the manufacturing of the expandable body and
         the forming of the wall into a pleated configuration combine to further include:
         providing a sacrificial mandrel having a pleated outer surface that generally
         replicates a pleated configuration of the expandable body existing between the
         deliverable configuration and the expanded configuration; and manufacturing the
         expandable body using the mandrel.
 427.    The method of claim 426, wherein a portion of the metal layer of the neck is a
         product of being formed on a mandrel, wherein at least a portion of the mandrel
         is a non-sacrificial component.
 428.    The method of claim 427, wherein the non-sacrificial mandrel component
         comprises stainless steel.
 429.    The method of claim 427, wherein the at least one gold layer extends over at
         least a portion of one of an inner surface or an outer surface of the stainless steel
         surface layer of the non-sacrificial mandrel component.
 430.    The method of claim 427, wherein the non-sacrificial mandrel component further
         comprises a surface layer of gold or platinum.
 431.    The method of claim 427, wherein the at least one gold layer extends over at
         least a portion of one of an inner surface or an outer surface of the gold or
         platinum surface layer of the non-sacrificial mandrel component.
 432.    The method of claim 395, further comprising annealing the expandable body.
 433.    The method of claim 432, further comprising annealing the metal layer of an
         expandable body comprising a non-metallic layer.
 434.    The method of claim 432, further comprising annealing the metal layer of the
         expandable body after pleating and folding only, or before and after pleating and
         folding.
                                          139

WO 2013/109309                                                          PCT/US2012/047072
 435.    The method of claim 395, further comprising generating in the wall pores
         extending completely through the wall from the interior surface to the exterior
         surface.
 436.    The method of claim 435, wherein the pores range from 1 micron to 500 microns
         in diameter.
 437.    The method of claim 435, wherein the pores are formed via a laser.
 438.    The method of claim 435, wherein the delivery device comprises a catheter, wire,
         sheath, needle, or stylet.
 439.    The method of claim 395, wherein:
         the manufacturing of the expandable body further comprises forming a neck at
         the proximal region of the expandable body, the neck extending proximally from
         the proximal region; and
         operably coupling the distal end of the delivery device to the neck.
 440.    The method of claim 439, wherein forming of the metal layer of the neck further
         comprises providing a layer of gold or platinum.
 441.    The method of claim 439, wherein forming of the neck further comprises
         providing a stainless steel layer and either a gold or a platinum layer.
 442.    The method of claim 441, wherein at least one gold layer is caused to extend
         over at least one of an inner surface or an outer surface of the stainless steel
         layer.
 443.    The method of claim 439, wherein forming of the neck further comprises creating
         a ring-shaped region of the outer surface of the expandable body wherein metal
         is exposed and not covered by a non-metallic layer or an insulating layer.
 444.    The method of claim 443, wherein the ring-shaped region of exposed metal is
         gold or stainless steel.
                                          140

WO 2013/109309                                                          PCT/US2012/047072
 445.    The method of claim 444, wherein a stress concentration line or strip is formed in
         the ring-shaped region of exposed metal.
 446.    The method of claims 445, wherein the stress concentration line or strip is
         created using a laser to remove material from the surface of the neck of the
         expandable body.
 447.    The method of claim 395, further comprising coating at least the delivery device
         with a hydrophilic or lubricious coating.
 448.    The method of claim 395, wherein the forming of the expandable body produces
         an expanded body such that, upon expansion in the body of a patient, the
         expanded expandable body alone possesses sufficient strength to maintain itself
         in the expanded configuration within the biological space after separation from
         the delivery device.
 449.    The method of claim 395, wherein the forming of the expandable body produces
         an expanded body such that, no solid or semi-solid material or member, not
         derived from the patient, is required in the interior volume of the expandable body
         to at least assist in causing the expandable body to assume or maintain the
         expanded configuration after separation of the expandable body and the delivery
         device.
 450.    The method of claim 395, wherein the expandable body is configured to accept a
         solid into the interior volume during or after expansion, and before separation of
         the delivery device and the expanded expandable body.
 451.    The method of claim 450, wherein the solid comprises a support structure.
 452.    The method of claim 450, wherein the support structure is selected from a group
         consisting of metallic or polymeric coils or wires, metallic or polymeric expansile
         structures, beads, balls, microspheres, a bioresorbable material, or combinations
         thereof.
                                           141

WO 2013/109309                                                           PCT/US2012/047072
 453.    A method of manufacturing a system for filling a biological space of a patient, the
         method comprising:
         a)       coupling a stainless steel ring to a proximal end of a sacrificial mandrel;
         b)       depositing a metal layer over the sacrificial mandrel and at least over a
         portion of the stainless steel ring;
         c)       eliminating the sacrificial mandrel, leaving behind the metal layer in the
         form of a hollow body having the shape of the sacrificial mandrel, the stainless
         steel ring joined to and distally extending from a proximal region of the hollow
         body;
         d)       applying an electrical insulation material to an exterior surface and an
         interior surface of the hollow body and an exterior surface of the stainless steel
         ring; and
         e)       rendering a portion of the exterior surface of the region of the neck
         comprising the stainless steel ring free of the electrical insulation material to
         create a potential anode;
         f)       coupling the stainless steel ring to a distal end of a delivery device; and
         g)       electrically coupling an electrolysis system to the potential anode through
         a conduction path that travels through the delivery device.
 454.    The method of claim 453, wherein the metal layer comprises gold or platinum.
 455.    The method of claim 453, wherein the electrical insulation material includes
         Parylene.
 456.    The method of claim 453, wherein the sacrificial mandrel comprises aluminum.
                                            142

WO 2013/109309                                                           PCT/US2012/047072
 457.    The method of claim 453, wherein creating the potential anode comprises
         removing electrical insulation material from a portion of the exterior surface of the
         expandable body in a region comprising stainless steel.
 458.    The method of claim 453, wherein creating the potential anode comprises
         removing electrical insulation material and a gold layer from a portion of the
         exterior surface of the expandable body in a region comprising stainless steel.
 459.    The method of claim 453, wherein creating the potential anode comprises
         removing electrical insulation material, a gold layer, and a portion of the stainless
         steel layer from a portion of the exterior surface of the expandable body in a
         region comprising stainless steel.
 460.    The method of any one of claims 456 - 459, wherein laser ablation is used to
         remove material.
 461.    The method of claim 453, further comprising pleating and folding the hollow body
         after step d).
 462.    The method of claim 453, further comprising annealing the hollow body either
         after step d), or before and after step d).
 463.    The method of claim 453, wherein the distal end of the delivery device is coupled
         to the stainless steel ring so as to electrically insulate an inner surface of the
         stainless steel ring.
 464.    The method of claim 453, further comprising coating or plating at least one
         surface of the stainless steel ring with gold or platinum prior to electroforming the
         body of the expandable body.
                                           143

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
 465.    A method of manufacturing a system for filling a biological space of a patient, the
         method comprising:
         a)      providing a sacrificial mandrel comprising a pleated outer surface;
         b)      depositing a metal layer over the sacrificial mandrel;
         c)      removing the sacrificial mandrel, leaving behind the metal layer in the
         form of a hollow pleated body;
         d)      coating with a non-metallic material an interior surface and an exterior
         surface of metal layer of the hollow pleated body; and
         e)      folding the hollow pleated body to further increase the extent to which the
         hollow pleated body is pleated, the folding comprising folding over a plurality of
         pleats in a clockwise direction relative to a center axis of the hollow pleated
         body, or a counter-clockwise direction relative to the center axis.
 466.    The method of claim 465, wherein the metal layer comprises gold or platinum,
         the sacrificial mandrel comprises aluminum, and the non-metallic material
         comprises Parylene.
 467.    The method of claim 465, wherein the metal layer comprises gold or platinum,
         the sacrificial mandrel comprises aluminum, and the non-metallic material
         comprises an electrical insulating material.
 468.    The method of claim 465, wherein at least a portion of the metal layer is a
         product of being formed on a sacrificial mandrel having a lapped finish having no
         more than approximately 0.1 micron between peak and valley of rough surface
         features
 469.    The method of claim 465, further comprising annealing the metal layer after step
         e).
 470.    The method of claim 465, further comprising annealing the metal layer before
         step e) and re-annealing the metal layer after step e).
                                          144

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
 471.    The method of claim 465, wherein at least a portion of the metal layer is
         deposited via electroforming.
 472.    The method of claim 465, further comprising forming pores through the metal
         layer.
 473.    The method of claim 472, wherein the pores range from 1 micron to 500 microns
         in diameter.
 474.    The method of claim 472, wherein the pores are formed via a laser.
 475.    A method of manufacturing a system for filling a biological space of a patient, the
         method comprising:
         a)       manufacturing a single lobed metallic expandable body comprising: a
         distal region ; a proximal region generally opposite the distal region; an
         intermediate region transitioning from the distal region to the proximal region; a
         center axis extending proximal-distal between the proximal region and distal
         region; and a wall extending generally continuously from the proximal region,
         through the intermediate region, to the distal region to define an exterior surface
         of the expandable body and an interior surface of the expandable body, the
         interior surface defining an interior volume of the expandable body;
         b)       manufacturing a delivery device comprising: a longitudinally extending
         body comprising a proximal end and a distal end generally opposite the
         proximal end;
         c)       operably coupling the distal end of the delivery device to the proximal
         region of the expandable body by an elastic sleeve and a friction fit; and
         d)       forming the wall of the expandable body into a pleated configuration
         comprising a plurality of pleats folded over in a clockwise direction relative to the
         center axis , or a counter-clockwise direction relative to the center axis to form a
         folded-over region of the expandable body.
 476.    The method of claim 475, wherein the expandable body is manufactured so
         when the expandable body is in an expanded configuration, the expandable body
         comprises an overall shape that is a sphere or an oblong shape.
                                           145

WO 2013/109309                                                        PCT/US2012/047072
 477.    The method of claim 475, wherein when the expandable body is in the expanded
         configuration, the expandable body assumes a shape wherein the intermediate
         region is generally cylindrical and the proximal region and the distal region are
         both generally hemispherical.
 478.    The method of claim 475, wherein when the expandable body is in the expanded
         configuration, the expandable body assumes a shape wherein the intermediate
         region, the proximal region and the distal region combine to form a generally
         spherical shape.
 479.    The method of claim 475, wherein the expandable body is manufactured so in
         being expandable, the expandable body is configured to be inflatable.
 480.    The method of claim 475, wherein the expandable body is manufactured such
         that the expandable body can be expanded from the deliverable configuration to
         the expanded configuration by applying a pressure to the interior volume of the
         expandable body during expansion of less than 3 atmospheres.
 481.    The method of claim 475, wherein the expandable body is manufactured such
         that the expandable body can be expanded from the deliverable configuration to
         the expanded configuration by applying a pressure to the interior volume of the
         expandable body during expansion of less than 2 atmospheres.
 482.    The method of claim 475, wherein the expandable body is manufactured such
         that the expandable body can be expanded from the deliverable configuration to
         the expanded configuration by applying a pressure to the interior volume of the
         expandable body during expansion of less than 1 atmosphere.
 483.    The method of claim 475, wherein forming the folded-over region defines a
         channel that can accept a guide wire.
 484.    The method of claim 475, wherein operably coupling the distal end to the
         proximal region of the expandable body comprises allowing no portion of the
                                           146

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
         delivery device to be located within the folded-over region of the expandable
         body.
 485.    The method of claim 475, wherein forming the wall into a pleated configuration
         further comprises causing each pleat of the plurality of pleats to comprise a ridge
         line extending proximal-distal and radially away from the center axis .
 486.    The method of claim 485, wherein, in being folded over, each pleat of the
         plurality of pleats is folded over an immediately adjacent pleat in a clockwise
         direction relative to the center axis, or a counter-clockwise direction relative to
         the center axis.
 487.    The method of claim 475, wherein manufacturing the expandable body
         comprises forming the wall to comprise at least one metal layer.
 488.    The method of claim 487, wherein the metal layer comprises gold or platinum.
 489.    The method of claim 487, wherein the metal layer is formed by electroforming.
 490.    The method of claim 487, wherein forming of the metal layer generates a
         thickness between approximately 5 micrometers and 50 micrometers.
 491.    The method of claim 487, wherein forming of the metal layer generates a
         rounded, pebbled, or granular surface structure on a surface of the metal layer.
 492.    The method of claim 491, wherein the rounded, pebbled, or granular surface
         structure has a surface height of approximately 0.1 micrometers to approximately
         10 micrometers.
 493.    The method of claim 487, wherein forming of the metal layer generates
         protrusions on a surface of the metal layer.
 494.    The method of claim 493, wherein some of the protrusions are branched.
                                           147

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
 495.    The method of claim 493, wherein some of the protrusions are joined on both
         ends to the metal layer, forming a loop.
 496.    The method of claim 475, wherein manufacturing the expandable body further
         comprises forming the wall to further comprise a non-metallic layer extending
         over the metal layer so as to define the interior surface or the exterior surface of
         the expandable body as a coating.
 497.    The method of claim 496, wherein forming of the non-metallic layer generates a
         thickness of the non-metallic layer between approximately 0.1 micrometers and
         10 micrometers.
 498.    The method of claim 496, wherein the non-metallic coating layer comprises
         Parylene.
 499.    The method of claim 475, wherein manufacturing of the expandable body and
         forming the wall into a pleated and folded configuration combine to further
         comprise manufacturing the expandable body so as to be capable of expanding
         from a deliverable configuration to an expanded configuration, the expanded
         configuration being when the pleated regions or a plurality of the pleats are
         substantially eliminated from the wall.
 500.    The method of claim 475, wherein manufacturing of the expandable body and
         forming the wall further includes providing a mandrel.
 501.    The method of claim 500, wherein the mandrel is a sacrificial mandrel.
 502.    The method of claim 501, wherein the sacrificial mandrel comprises aluminum.
 503.    The method of any one of claims 475 - 502, wherein manufacturing the
         expandable body further comprises depositing the metal layer on the mandrel.
                                          148

WO 2013/109309                                                       PCT/US2012/047072
 504.    The method of any one of claims 475 - 503, further comprising providing a
         mandrel, having no more than approximately 0.1 micron between peak and
         valley of rough surface features.
 505.    The method of claim 475, wherein the manufacturing of the expandable body and
         the forming of the wall into a pleated configuration combine to further include:
         providing a sacrificial mandrel having a pleated outer surface that generally
         replicates a pleated configuration of the expandable body existing between the
         deliverable configuration and the expanded configuration; and manufacturing the
         expandable body using the mandrel.
 506.    The method of claim 475, further comprising annealing the expandable body.
 507.    The method of claim 506, further comprising annealing the metal layer of an
         expandable body comprising a non-metallic layer.
 508.    The method of claim 506, further comprising annealing the metal layer of the
         expandable body after pleating and folding only, or before and after pleating and
         folding.
 509.    The method of claim 475, further comprising generating in the wall pores
         extending completely through the wall from the interior surface to the exterior
         surface.
 510.    The method of claim 509, wherein the pores range from 1 micron to 500 microns
         in diameter.
 511.    The method of claim 509, wherein the pores are formed via a laser.
 512.    The method of claim 475, wherein the delivery device comprises a catheter, wire,
         sheath, needle or stylet.
 513.    The method of claim 475, wherein: the manufacturing the expandable body
         further comprises forming a neck at the proximal region of the expandable body,
                                          149

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
         the neck extending proximally from the proximal region, and operably coupling
         the distal end of the delivery device to the neck with an elastic sleeve or wrap
         and a friction fit.
 514.    The method of claim 513, wherein the elastic sleeve comprises PEBAX,
         ChronoPrene, or silicone.
 515.    The method of claims 513 or 514, wherein the elastic sleeve comprises PEBAX
         with a durometer in the range of 25-80 Shore D.
 516.    The method of claims 513 - 514, wherein the expanded expandable body and the
         delivery device can be separated by pulling apart the delivery device and the
         expanded expandable body.
 517.    The method of claim 475, further comprising coating at least the delivery device
         with a hydrophilic or lubricious coating.
 518.    The method of claim 475, wherein the forming of the expandable body produces
         an expanded body such that, upon expansion in the body of a patient, the
         expanded expandable body alone possesses sufficient strength to maintain itself
         in the expanded configuration within the biological space after separation from
         the delivery device.
 519.    The method of claim 475, wherein the forming of the expandable body produces
         an expanded body such that, no solid or semi-solid material or member, not
         derived from the patient, is required in the interior volume of the expandable body
         to at least assist in causing the expandable body to assume or maintain the
         expanded configuration after separation of the expandable body and the delivery
         device.
 520.    The method of claim 475, wherein the expandable body is configured to accept a
         solid into the interior volume during or after expansion, and before separation of
         the delivery device and the expanded expandable body.
 521.    The method of claim 520, wherein the solid comprises a support structure.
                                           150

WO 2013/109309                                                          PCT/US2012/047072
 522.    The method of claim 521, wherein the support structure is selected from a group
         consisting of metallic or polymeric coils or wires, metallic or polymeric expansile
         structures, beads, balls, microspheres, a bioresorbable material, or combinations
         thereof.
 523.    A method of manufacturing a system for filling a biological space of a patient, the
         method comprising:
         a)       manufacturing a single lobed metallic expandable body comprising: a
         distal region ; a proximal region generally opposite the distal region; an
         intermediate region transitioning from the distal region to the proximal region; a
         center axis extending proximal-distal between the proximal region and distal
         region; and a wall extending generally continuously from the proximal region,
         through the intermediate region, to the distal region to define an exterior surface
         of the expandable body and an interior surface of the expandable body, the
         interior surface defining an interior volume of the expandable body;
         b)       manufacturing a delivery device comprising: a longitudinally extending
         body comprising a proximal end and a distal end generally opposite the
         proximal end;
         c)       operably coupling the distal end of the delivery device to the proximal
         region of the expandable body by a non-metallic link that melts when warmed;
         and
         d)       forming the wall of the expandable body into a pleated configuration
         comprising a plurality of pleats folded over in a clockwise direction relative to the
         center axis , or a counter-clockwise direction relative to the center axis to form a
         folded-over region of the expandable body.
 524.    The system of claim 523, wherein the non-metallic link comprises a polymer
         material.
 525.    The method of claim 523, wherein the expandable body is manufactured so
         when the expandable body is in an expanded configuration, the expandable body
         comprises an overall shape that is a sphere or an oblong shape.
                                           151

WO 2013/109309                                                        PCT/US2012/047072
 526.    The method of claim 523, wherein when the expandable body is in the expanded
         configuration, the expandable body assumes a shape wherein the intermediate
         region is generally cylindrical and the proximal region and the distal region are
         both generally hemispherical.
 527.    The method of claim 523, wherein when the expandable body is in the expanded
         configuration, the expandable body assumes a shape wherein the intermediate
         region, the proximal region and the distal region combine to form a generally
         spherical shape.
 528.    The method of claim 523, wherein the expandable body is manufactured so in
         being expandable, the expandable body is configured to be inflatable.
 529.    The method of claim 523, wherein the expandable body is manufactured such
         that the expandable body can be expanded from the deliverable configuration to
         the expanded configuration by applying a pressure to the interior volume of the
         expandable body during expansion of less than 3 atmospheres.
 530.    The method of claim 523, wherein the expandable body is manufactured such
         that the expandable body can be expanded from the deliverable configuration to
         the expanded configuration by applying a pressure to the interior volume of the
         expandable body during expansion of less than 2 atmospheres.
 531.    The method of claim 523, wherein the expandable body is manufactured such
         that the expandable body can be expanded from the deliverable configuration to
         the expanded configuration by applying a pressure to the interior volume of the
         expandable body during expansion of less than 1 atmosphere.
 532.    The method of claim 523, wherein forming the folded-over region defines a
         channel that can accept a guide wire.
 533.    The method of claim 523, wherein operably coupling the distal end to the
         proximal region of the expandable body comprises allowing no portion of the
                                           152

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
         delivery device to be located within the folded-over region of the expandable
         body.
 534.    The method of claim 523, wherein forming the wall into a pleated configuration
         further comprises causing each pleat of the plurality of pleats to comprise a ridge
         line extending proximal-distal and radially away from the center axis .
 535.    The method of claim 534, wherein, in being folded over, each pleat of the
         plurality of pleats is folded over an immediately adjacent pleat in a clockwise
         direction relative to the center axis, or a counter-clockwise direction relative to
         the center axis.
 536.    The method of claim 523, wherein manufacturing the expandable body
         comprises forming the wall to comprise at least one metal layer.
 537.    The method of claim 536, wherein the metal layer comprises gold or platinum.
 538.    The method of claim 536, wherein the metal layer is formed by electroforming.
 539.    The method of claim 536, wherein forming of the metal layer generates a
         thickness between approximately 5 micrometers and 50 micrometers.
 540.    The method of claim 536, wherein forming of the metal layer generates a
         rounded, pebbled, or granular surface structure on a surface of the metal layer.
 541.    The method of claim 540, wherein the rounded, pebbled, or granular surface
         structure has a surface height of approximately 0.1 micrometers to approximately
         10 micrometers.
 542.    The method of claim 536, wherein forming of the metal layer generates
         protrusions on a surface of the metal layer.
 543.    The method of claim 542, wherein some of the protrusions are branched.
                                           153

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
 544.    The method of claim 542, wherein some of the protrusions are joined on both
         ends to the metal layer, forming a loop.
 545.    The method of claim 536, wherein manufacturing the expandable body further
         comprises forming the wall to further comprise a non-metallic layer extending
         over the metal layer so as to define the interior surface or the exterior surface of
         the expandable body as a coating.
 546.    The method of claim 545, wherein forming of the non-metallic layer generates a
         thickness of the non-metallic layer between approximately 0.1 micrometers and
         10 micrometers.
 547.    The method of claim 545, wherein the non-metallic coating layer comprises
         Parylene.
 548.    The method of claim 523, wherein manufacturing of the expandable body and
         forming the wall into a pleated and folded configuration combine to further
         comprise manufacturing the expandable body so as to be capable of expanding
         from a deliverable configuration to an expanded configuration, the deliverable
         configuration being when the pleated regions or a plurality of the pleats are
         substantially eliminated from the wall.
 549.    The method of claim 548, wherein manufacturing of the expandable body and
         forming the wall further includes providing a mandrel.
 550.    The method of claim 549, wherein the mandrel is a sacrificial mandrel.
 551.    The method of claim 550, wherein the sacrificial mandrel comprises aluminum.
 552.    The method of any one of claims 548 - 551, wherein manufacturing the
         expandable body further comprises depositing the metal layer on the mandrel.
                                          154

WO 2013/109309                                                       PCT/US2012/047072
 553.    The method of any one of claims 548 - 552, further comprising providing a
         mandrel, having no more than approximately 0.1 micron between peak and
         valley of rough surface features.
 554.    The method of claim 548, wherein the manufacturing of the expandable body and
         the forming of the wall into a pleated configuration combine to further include:
         providing a sacrificial mandrel having a pleated outer surface that generally
         replicates a pleated configuration of the expandable body existing between the
         deliverable configuration and the expanded configuration; and manufacturing the
         expandable body using the mandrel.
 555.    The method of claim 523, further comprising annealing the expandable body.
 556.    The method of claim 555, further comprising annealing the metal layer of an
         expandable body comprising a non-metallic layer.
 557.    The method of claim 555, further comprising annealing the metal layer of the
         expandable body after pleating and folding only, or before and after pleating and
         folding.
 558.    The method of claim 523, further comprising generating in the wall pores
         extending completely through the wall from the interior surface to the exterior
         surface.
 559.    The method of claim 558, wherein the pores range from 1 micron to 500 microns
         in diameter.
 560.    The method of claim 558, wherein the pores are formed via a laser.
 561.    The method of claim 523, wherein the delivery device comprises a catheter, wire,
         sheath, needle or stylet.
                                          155

WO 2013/109309                                                         PCT/US2012/047072
 562.    The method of claim 561, further comprising a system configured to cause a
         decoupling of the proximal region of the expandable body from the distal end of
         the delivery device by warming at least a portion of the polymer link.
 563.    The method of claim 561, comprising a system configured to heat the polymer
         link by passing an electric current through a resistance heating element adjacent
         to the polymer link.
 564.    The method of claim 563, wherein the resistive heating element is formed as a
         wire.
 565.    The method of any one of claims 561 - 564, comprising one or more conductors
         embedded in the wall of the delivery device which act as both electrical
         conductors and structural reinforcement for the wall of the delivery device.
 566.    The method of claim 565, wherein the conductors are routed through the wall of
         the delivery device in at least one of the following configurations: spiral, braided
         or straight.
 567.    The method of claim 565, wherein the conductors are wires.
 568.    The method of claim 523, wherein the wall of the expandable body, comprises a
         central metal layer, and an inner and outer layer, the inner and outer layer
         comprising a non-metallic coating comprising an electrical insulation material
         extending over the metal layers so as to define the interior and exterior surface of
         the expandable body.
 569.    The method of claim 523, wherein the electrical system is configured to deliver
         constant current to the resistive heating element.
 570.    The method of claim 523, wherein the electrical system is configured to deliver
         constant voltage to the resistive heating element.
                                          156

WO 2013/109309                                                          PCT/US2012/047072
 571.    The method of claim 523, further comprising coating at least the delivery device
         with a hydrophilic or lubricious coating.
 572.    The method of claim 523, wherein the forming of the expandable body produces
         an expanded body such that, upon expansion in the body of a patient, the
         expanded expandable body alone possesses sufficient strength to maintain itself
         in the expanded configuration within the biological space after separation from
         the delivery device.
 573.    The method of claim 523, wherein the forming of the expandable body produces
         an expanded body such that, no solid or semi-solid material or member, not
         derived from the patient, is required in the interior volume of the expandable body
         to at least assist in causing the expandable body to assume or maintain the
         expanded configuration after separation of the expandable body and the delivery
         device.
 574.    The method of claim 523, wherein the expandable body is configured to accept a
         solid into the interior volume during or after expansion, and before separation of
         the delivery device and the expanded expandable body.
 575.    The method of claim 574, wherein the solid comprises a support structure.
 576.    The method of claim 574, wherein the support structure is selected from a group
         consisting of metallic or polymeric coils or wires, metallic or polymeric expansile
         structures, beads, balls, microspheres, a bioresorbable material, or combinations
         thereof.
                                           157

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
