                                     ABSTRACT
   PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITION               OF SILDENAFIL CITRATE IN THE
   FORM OF A SUSPENSION FOR ORAL USE
 5
   The present invention refers to a pharmaceutical composition of sildenafil citrate
   in the form of a suspension for administration orally that comprises water as a
   vehicle and xanthan gum and hypromellose as suspension agents, that is highly
   stable and allows the efficient masking of the active ingredient's bitter taste. It
10 also refers to a procedure for the preparation of said suspension and to a
   container that contains it and that is provided with a dosing device for its
   administration. This composition of sildenafil citrate in the form of a suspension
   is suitable for administration orally for the treatment of masculine sexual
   dysfunction.

                                               1
     PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITION OF SILDENAFIL CITRATE IN THE
     FORM OF A SUSPENSION FOR ORAL USE
     Technical field
  5          The present invention refers to a pharmaceutical composition of sildenafil
     citrate in the form of a suspension for administration orally that is stable and that
     has good organoleptic properties.
     Prior state of the art
10           Sildenafil is a drug belonging to the group of selective inhibitors of
     phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5), an enzyme that is responsible of the degradation
     of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (GMPc), such that the sildenafil promotes
     an increase in GMPc levels, which in turn promotes the relaxation of smooth
     muscle tissue.
15           The PDE5 enzyme is present, for example, in the pulmonary vasculature,
    such that sildenafil induces an increase in GMPc in the cells of the lungs'
    smooth muscle vasculature, which has a therapeutic application in patients
    affected by pulmonary hypertension due to its vasodilatory effect on the
    pulmonary vascular bed and on systemic circulation.
20          This enzyme is also present in the corpora cavernosa in the penis,
    sildenafil is, therefore, used in the treatment of erectile dysfunction, as an
    increase in GMPc levels causes the relaxation of the smooth muscles in the
    erectile tissue of these corpora cavernosa, allowing blood to flow into its interior,
    thereby promoting an erection.
25          Sildenafil administered orally has been shown to be an effective
    treatment and, in general, well tolerated in the treatment of male sexual
    dysfunction, as described in the article by Fink et al., Sildenafil for male erectile
    dysfunction: a systematic review and meta-analysis, Arch. Intern. Med., 2002,
    162 1349-1360.
30          The use of sildenafil, specifically of sildenafil citrate, for this indication
    has been generally supported since 1998 by the main international regulatory

                                               2
   agencies, such as the FDA (U.S. Food and Drug Administration) or the EMA
   (European Medicines Agency) and it is mostly sold as tablets.
           Maximum plasma levels of sildenafil are reached approximately one hour
   after ingestion, it is therefore recommended that the drug be taken one hour
 5 before sexual activity.
           Sildenafil citrate is relatively insoluble in water and it is characterised by
   its pronounced bitter taste, the commercially available pills are, therefore, sold
   in a coated form.
           The ingestion of solid forms, such as tablets, can be inconvenient for
10 some patients, in particular for those with difficulties in swallowing. Generally it
   can also be difficult for patients to have water available to take the medicine in
   time, as it must be taken within a specific time interval, as previously stated.
           In order to avoid the inconveniences associated with the demands of
    having to swallow the sildenafil citrate tablets, the state of the art also describes
15 other alternative ways of administration, easier for the patient, mainly chewable
   solid formulations or orodispersible, or even liquids, although the bitter taste of
   the active ingredient is always a serious obstacle in the preparation of this type
   of composition, as it is generally not possible to effectively mask it with the
    simple addition of sweeteners to the formulation.
20         The liquid compositions of sildenafil citrate described in the state of the
    art are usually alcoholic or hydroalcoholic solutions, given the low solubility of
    sildenafil in water. Therefore, for example, the application for patent WO-A
    2007/002125 describes a sildenafil citrate composition dissolved in a mixture of
   water and ethanol, for administration as a powder by the lingual and/or
25  sublingual route, although the document makes no reference to the problem of
    bad taste.
           The application for patent WO-A-2011/156405 describes a liquid
    composition of sildenafil citrate, which is dissolved in a mixture of propylene
    glycol and ethanol. It indicates that the composition can include flavour-masking
30  agents and/or flavourings to reduce the bad taste.
           It would be desirable to have liquid compositions of sildenafil citrate

                                               3
    available that were completely aqueous, free of other organic co-solvents, for
   example in the form of an aqueous suspension, given the low solubility of
   sildenafil citrate in water.
           In the state of the art up until now there has been no description of
 5  pharmaceutical forms of sildenafil citrate in an aqueous suspension, that are
   stable over the long term, that is, that do not form a sediment, or where this is
    minimal, such that the suspension can be completely homogenised again with
   only light agitation. This is essential for ensuring an adequate dose of the active
    ingredient. It is also necessary that the bitter taste of the sildenafil citrate be
10 effectively masked.
           There is, therefore, a continuing need for liquid formulations of sildenafil
   citrate in the form of an aqueous suspension suitable for oral administration,
   that is stable and that effectively masks the bitter taste of the sildenafil citrate.
15 Purpose of the invention
           The purpose of the present invention is a composition of sildenafil citrate
   in the form of an aqueous suspension for oral administration.
           A procedure of the preparation of this composition also forms part of the
   purpose of the invention.
20         The use of this composition for the preparation of a medicine for the
   treatment of erectile dysfunction also forms part of the purpose of the invention.
           The container provided with a dosing device that contains said
   composition also forms part of the purpose of the invention.
25 Detailed description of the invention
       The purpose of the present invention is a pharmaceutical composition in the
   form of an aqueous suspension for oral administration that comprises:
       a) sildenafil citrate as the active ingredient,
       b) xanthan gum, and
30     c) hypromellose.
       The authors of the present invention have developed a pharmaceutical

                                              4
   composition of sildenafil citrate in the form of an aqueous suspension for oral
   administration that comprises the combination of xanthan gum and hypomellose
   as    suspension    agents    that,   surprisingly,  have   excellent  organoleptic
   characteristics, with an effective masking of the sildenafil citrate's bitter taste,
 5 and that is also highly stable, both chemically and physically, as it remains
   largely homogenous over time, presenting little sedimentation and it is easily
   redispersed.
        Throughout the     present description      the  proportion   of the different
   components in the invention's composition is expressed as a percentage (%)
10 that always refers, unless specifically stated otherwise, to the percentage
   weight/volume (w/v), that is, it refers to the grams of said component or
   components per each 100 ml of the composition.
   Composition with sildenafil citrate
15         The composition of the present invention is an aqueous suspension
   designed for oral administration.
           As is well known to an expert in the field, suspensions are dispersed
   systems characterised by being a finely divided solid (dispersed phase)
   dispersed, or suspended, in a liquid dispersion medium (continuous phase).
20         In aqueous suspensions such as the present invention, the liquid
    dispersion medium is water.
           In an especially preferred embodiment of the invention, the composition
    exclusively contains water as a dispersion medium, without any other organic
    solvent.
25         The composition in the form of a suspension in the present invention is
    highly stable, both chemically and physically, as it substantially maintains its
    homogeneity over time, presenting a low level of sedimentation and great easy
    of redispersion with only slight agitation.
30  Sildenafil citrate
           The pharmaceutical composition of the invention comprises sildenafil as

                                              5
   its active ingredient, in the form of its salt by reaction with citric acid, know as
   sildenafil citrate.
           Sildenafil is the International Non-proprietary Name (INN) for the product
   5-[2-ethoxy-5-(4-methylpiperazin-1 -yl-sulfonyl)phenyl]-1 -methyl-3-n-propyl-1,6
 5 dihydro-7H-pyrazolo[4,3-d]pyrimidin-7-one.
           The sildenafil can be prepared, for example, as described in European
   patent application EP-A-0463756. While, its salt by reaction with citric acid can
   be prepared, as is well known by an expert in the field, through treatment of the
   sildenafil base with citric acid, as described, for example, in international patent
10 application WO-A-2005/067936.
           The composition of the invention comprises sildenafil citrate in the form
   of an aqueous suspension, at a concentration generally comprising between
   1.5% and 5.0%, preferably comprising between 2.0% and 3.0%, more
   preferably comprising between 2.3% and 2.7% and more preferably still with a
15 concentration of 2.5%, where said concentration is expressed as the equivalent
   concentration of sildenafil in the form of its free base.
           The sildenafil citrate used to prepare the compositions in the form of a
   suspension in the present invention has a mean particle size generally
   comprising between 0.1 - 80 microns.
20
   Xanthan gum
           Xanthan gum or xanthan is a high molecular weight polysaccharide
   formed by the repetition of a pentasaccharide of D-glucose, D-mannose and D
   glucuronic acid and it is produced by bacteria from the genus Xanthomonas.
25 Xanthan gum is a pharmaceutical excipient well known for its properties as a
   suspension, gelling and viscosifying agent among others.
           Its properties, uses and specifications are well described in the well
   known manual of pharmaceutical excipients Rowe et al., Handbook of
   Pharmaceutical Excipients, 6 th edition, Pharmaceutical Press, London, 2009
30 [ISBN: 978-0-85369-792-3].
           Xanthan gum can be obtained commercially from a large number of

                                              6
    companies, for example, under the name Keltrol* (CP Kelco) or Rhodopol*
    (Solvay).
            The aqueous suspension of the present invention contains xanthan gum
    with a proportion generally comprising between 0.1% and 2.0%, preferably
 5  comprising between 0.15% and 1.0%, more preferably comprising between
    0.2% and 0.5% and more preferably still comprising between 0.3% and 0.4%.
    Hypromellose
            Hypromellose, also called hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (HPMC), is a
10  common excipient in pharmaceutical compositions, both in the solid and liquid
   form. In liquid compositions it has an application as a suspension, thickening
    and/or stabilising agent.
            Hypromellose is a cellulose derivative whose hydroxyl groups are
    partially substituted, forming esters with 2-hydroxypropyl and methyl groups.
15          Hypromellose is available in different grades according to its higher or
    lower molecular weight and the degree of substitution and the greater or lesser
   degree to which it affects the viscosity of prepared liquid compositions. The
   different grades of hypromellose can be distinguished, for example, by
   assigning an indicative number for the apparent viscosity in mPa.s (or
20 centipoises, cP) to an aqueous hypromellose solution of 2% weight/weight
   (w/w) at a temperature of 20 OC.
            The properties, grades and specifications of hypromellose are described
   in the previously cited, well known manual on pharmaceutical excipients by
   Rowe et al.
25          Hypromellose can be commercially obtained from a variety of companies,
   for example, from the company Dow Chemical, under the commercial name
   Methocel* in the range E, F, J and K.
           Any grade of hypromellose can be used within the framework of the
   present invention. Preferably a hypromellose with a degree of viscosity
30 comprising between 1 - 500 mPa.S, more preferably comprising between 1
   100 mPa.S, more preferably still comprising between 2 - 50 mPa.S and more

                                           7
   preferably still comprising between 2 - 20 mPa.S, where the viscosity, as
   described above, refers to standard conditions consisting of an aqueous
   hypromellose solution of 2% w/w at a temperature of 20 *C.
          In a particularly preferred embodiment of the present invention, the grade
 5 of hypromellose used is 15 mPa.S (15 cP).
          The aqueous suspension for oral administration of the present invention
   contains hypromellose in a proportion generally comprising between 0.05% and
   3.0%, preferably comprising between 0.2% and 2.0%, more preferably still
   comprising between 0.3% andl.0% and more preferably still comprising
10 between 0.4% and 0.6%.
   Other optional components
   pH regulating agents
          The invention's composition can contain substances to adjust the
15 suspension's pH to the desired values, specifically acidifying or alkalizing
   substances or buffer agents.
          The agents suitable for regulating the pH of the invention's compositions
   include, for example, potassium acetate, sodium acetate, acetic acid, adipic
   acid, boric acid, citric acid, hydrochloric acid, fumaric acid, malic acid, nitric
20 acid, propionic acid, succinic acid, sulfuric acid, tartaric acid, potassium
   bicarbonate, sodium bicarbonate, ammonium carbonate, sodium carbonate,
   potassium citrate, sodium citrate, diethanolamine, ammonium phosphate,
   potassium     phosphate, sodium      phosphate, sodium    glycolate, ammonium
    hydroxide, sodium hydroxide, sodium lactate or sodium propionate, among
25 others, or their mixtures.
          The pH regulating agent is added in sufficient quantity to achieve the
   desired pH values.
           in a preferred embodiment of the invention, the composition has an acid
   pH, preferably comprising between 1.5 and 5.0, more preferably comprising
30 between 2.0 and 4.0, more preferably still comprising between 2.5 and 3.5.
           In order to achieve these acid pH conditions the composition preferably

                                             8
   comprises a pharmaceutically acceptable acidifying agent such as, for example,
   acetic acid, adipic acid, boric acid, citric acid, hydrochloric acid, fumaric acid,
   malic acid, nitric acid, propionic acid, succinic acid, sulfuric acid, tartaric acid,
   among others, or their mixtures.
 5        The acidifying agent is added in a quantity that is sufficient to achieve a
   pH preferably comprising between 1.5 and 5.0, more preferably comprising
   between 2.0 and 4.0, more preferably still comprising between 2.5 and 3.5.
           In a preferred embodiment of the invention the acidifying agent is
   anhydrous citric acid that is added in a proportion preferably comprising
10 between 0.25% and 1.5%, more preferably comprising between 0.4% and
   0.75%.
   Preservatives
           The present invention's composition preferably contains a preservative
15 agent to avoid the growth of microorganisms.
           The preservatives suitable for pharmaceutical compositions for oral use
   are well known by an expert in the field and can be chosen from between, for
   example, benzoic acid, sodium benzoate or potassium benzoate, parabens
    such as methylparaben, ethylparaben, propylparaben and butylparaben, sorbic
20  acid or potassium sorbate, among others, or their mixtures.
            Preferably the preservative is chosen from between sodium benzoate,
    methylparaben, ethylparaben, propylparaben, or their mixtures.
           The proportion of the preservative agent in the composition can vary
    depending on the specific preservative agent used, commonly the proportion is
25  between 0.01% and 3.0%, such that an expert in the field will know how to
    adjust the optimal quantity for each specific preservative.
            In a preferred embodiment, the present invention's composition
    comprises sodium benzoate as the preservative agent. Preferably, the sodium
    benzoate is added to the composition in a proportion comprising between
30  0.01% and 0.5%, more preferably comprising between 0.05% and 0.2%.

                                           9
   Sweeteners
           The composition of the present invention preferably comprises a
   sweetening agent to aid in masking the bitter taste of the sildenafil citrate.
           The sweeteners suitable to be used in the present invention include, for
 5 example, sodium or calcium saccharin, sucralose, aspartame, acesulfame
   potassium, sodium or potassium cyclamate, neohesperidin dihydrochalcone,
   thaumatin and their mixtures, among others.
           The proportion of sweetener in the present invention's composition
   preferably comprises between 0.01% and 6.0%, more preferably comprising
10 between 0.05% and 4.0%. The proportion is adjusted depending on the specific
   sweetener or sweeteners used and on their intensity of sweetening.
           In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the composition comprises a
   mixture of sucralose and aspartame. In this embodiment, the sucralose is in a
   proportion preferably comprising between 0.1% and 4.0%, more preferably
15 comprising between 0.5% and 3.0% and the aspartame is in a proportion
   preferably comprising between 0.05% and 1.0%, more preferably comprising
   between 0.1% and 0.5%.
           In another preferred embodiment of the invention, the composition
   comprises a mixture of sucralose and acesulfame potassium. In this
20 embodiment, the sucralose is in a proportion preferably comprising between
   0.1% and 4.0%, more preferably comprising between 0.5% and 3.0% and the
   acesulfame potassium is in a proportion preferably comprising between 0.05%
   and 1.0%, more preferably comprising between 0.1% and 0.5%.
25 Flavourings
           The composition of the invention can also contain flavouring agents to
    improve its taste and also contribute to the masking of the active ingredient's
   bitter taste, the sildenafil citrate.
           Any pharmaceutically acceptable flavouring substance can be used,
30 including those well known to an expert in the field, both natural and synthetic,
   for example, natural essential oils, such as mentha piperita, mentha arvensis,

                                            10
    mentha crispa, eucalyptus, lime, lemon, clove, aniseed, sage or bay leaf, or fruit
   flavourings, whether natural or artificial including flavourings of strawberry,
    raspberry, apple, pineapple or apricot; among many others or in any of their
    mixtures.
 5         If the composition comprises flavouring, this is commonly found in a
   proportion comprising between 0.01% and 2.0%.
    Other suspension / gelling / viscosifying agents
           The present invention's suspension can optionally contain, in addition to
10 the xanthan gum and hypromellose, other excipients with a suspension effect,
   which can also simultaneously have an gelling and/or viscosifying effect on the
   composition.
           For example, other suspension agents suitable to be included in the
   present invention's composition are alginic acid, sodium alginate, potassium
15 alginate, carrageenan, guar gum, gellan gum, acacia gum, gum tragacanth,
   dextrin, pectin, gelatine, hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose,
   methylcellulose, microcrystalline cellulose, povidone, maltodextrin, pectin,
   pregelatinised starch, polycarbophil, carbomers, colloidal anhydrous silica,
   aluminium and magnesium silicate among others, or in their mixtures.
20        When the invention's composition contains other suspension agents,
   these are preferably in a proportion not exceeding 1.0%, more preferably not
   exceeding 0.5%, more preferably still not exceeding 0.3%, more preferably still
   not exceeding 0.2% and more preferably still not exceeding 0.1%
           In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the composition in the form
25 of a suspension does not comprise any other suspension agent in addition to
   the xanthan gum and the hypromellose.
   Surfactants
          Optionally, the present invention's composition in the form of a
30 suspension can contain surfactant products that contribute to the improvement
   in its stability thanks to their capacity to modify surface tension, which also

                                               11
    allows them to reduce interfacial tension between the continuous phases and
    the dispersion of the suspension.
           The surfactants that can be employed in the present invention's
    compositions in the form of a suspension are preferably non-ionic surfactants.
 5         For example, a non-ionic surfactant can be used that is typically chosen
    from between the sorbitan esters or ethoxylated sorbitan and fatty acids,
    ethoxylated fatty alcohols, ethoxylated alkyl phenols, ethoxylated fatty acids
    among others and their mixtures.
           When a surfactant is added to the invention's composition it is present in
10  a proportion preferably comprising between 0.1% and 4.0%, more preferably
    comprising between 0.5% and 2.0%.
           The invention's compositions can additionally contain other excipients,
   for example, colouring or sequestering agents, etc.
    In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the aqueous suspension of
15 sildenafil citrate comprises:
   -       sildenafil citrate with a concentration comprising between 1.5% and
           5.0%, preferably comprising between 2.0% and 3.0%, more preferably
           comprising between 2.3% and 2.7% and more preferably still with a
           concentration of 2.5%, expressed as the equivalent concentration of
20         sildenafil in the form of its free base;
   -       xanthan gum in a proportion comprising between 0.1% and 2.0%,
           preferably comprising between 0.15% and 1.0%, more preferably
           comprising between 0.2% and 0.5% and more preferably still comprising
           between 0.3% and 0.4%;
25 -       hypromellose in a proportion comprising between 0.05% and 3.0%,
           preferably comprising between 0.2% and 2.0%, more preferably
           comprising between 0.3% and 1.0% and more preferably still comprising
           between 0.4% and 0.6%;
   -       a preservative agent chosen from sodium benzoate, methylparaben,
30         ethylparaben, propylparaben, or their mixtures, in a proportion
           comprising between 0.01% and 3.0%;

                                                12
   -       an acidifying agent chosen from acetic acid, adipic acid, boric acid, citric
           acid, hydrochloric acid, fumaric acid, malic acid, nitric acid, propionic
           acid, succinic acid, sulfuric acid, tartaric acid and their mixtures;
   -       a sweetening agent chosen from sodium saccharin, calcium saccharin,
 5         sucralose, aspartame, acesulfame potassium, sodium or potassium
           cyclamate, neohesperidin dihydrochalcone, thaumatin and their mixtures,
            in a proportion      comprising between 0.01%         and 6.0%, preferably
           comprising between 0.05% and 4.0%;
   -       optionally, a flavouring agent, preferably in a proportion comprising
10          between 0.01% and 2.0%;
   -        in which the composition's pH comprises between 1.5 and 5.0, preferably
            comprising between 2.0 and 4.0 and more preferably comprising
            between 2.5 and 3.5;
           where the hypromellose used preferably has a degree of viscosity
15 comprising between 1 - 500 mPa.S, more preferably comprising between 1
    100 mPa.S, more preferably still comprising between 2 - 50 mPa.S and more
    preferably still comprising between 2 - 20 mPa.S, more preferably still it has a
   degree of viscosity of 15 mPa.S, where this viscosity refers to that of an
   aqueous hypromellose solution of 2% w/w at a temperature of 20 *C; and
20          in which the percentages refer to percentage weight/volume (w/v).
            Preferably the suspension only contains water as the dispersion medium,
   without any other organic solvent.
            Preferably the suspension only contains hypromellose and xanthan gum
    as suspension agents.
25   In a particular preferred embodiment of the invention, the aqueous suspension
    of sildenafil citrate comprises:
    -       sildenafil citrate with a concentration comprising between 1.5% and
            5.0%, preferably comprising between 2.0% and 3.0%, more preferably
            comprising between 2.3% and 2.7% and more preferably still with a
30          concentration of 2.5%, expressed as the equivalent concentration of
            sildenafil in the form of its free base;

                                            13
   -       xanthan gum in a proportion comprising between 0.1% and 2.0%,
           preferably comprising between 0.15% and 1.0%, more preferably
           comprising between 0.2% and 0.5% and more preferably still comprising
           between 0.3% and 0.4%;
 5 -       hypromellose in a proportion comprising between 0.05% and 3.0%,
           preferably comprising between 0.2% and 2.0%, more preferably
           comprising between 0.3% and 1.0% and more preferably still comprising
           between 0.4% and 0.6%;
   -       sodium benzoate in a proportion comprising between 0.01% and 0.5%,
10         preferably comprising between 0.05% and 0.2%;
   -       citric acid in a proportion comprising between 0.25% and 1.5%,
           preferably comprising between 0.4% and 0.75%;
   -       sucralose in a proportion comprising between 0.1% and 4,0%, preferably
           comprising between 0.5% and 3.0%;
15 -       aspartame in a proportion comprising between 0.05% and 1.0%,
           preferably comprising between 0.1% and 0.5%;
   -       optionally, a flavouring agent, preferably in a proportion comprising
           between 0.01% and 2.0%;
          in which the hypromellose used preferably has a degree of viscosity
20 comprising between 1 - 500 mPa.S, more preferably comprising between 1
   100 mPa.S, more preferably still comprising between 2 - 50 mPa.S and more
   preferably still comprising between 2 - 20 mPa.S, more preferably still it has a
   degree of viscosity of 15 mPa.S, where this viscosity refers to that of an
   aqueous hypromellose solution of 2% w/w at a temperature of 20 "C; and
25        in which the percentages refer to percentage weight/volume (w/v).
          Preferably the suspension only contains water as the dispersion medium,
   without any other organic solvent.
          Preferably the suspension only contains hypromellose and xanthan gum
   as suspension agents.
30     In another particular preferred embodiment of the invention, the aqueous
   suspension of sildenafil citrate comprises:

                                               14
    -      sildenafil citrate with a concentration comprising between 1.5% and
           5.0%, preferably comprising between 2.0% and 3.0%, more preferably
           comprising between 2.3% and 2.7% and more preferably still with a
           concentration of 2.5%, expressed as the equivalent concentration of
 5         sildenafil in the form of its free base;
   -       xanthan gum in a proportion comprising between 0.1% and 2.0%,
           preferably comprising between          0.15% and 1.0%, more preferably
           comprising between 0.2% and 0.5% and more preferably still comprising
           between 0.3% and 0.4%;
10 -       hypromellose in a proportion comprising between 0.05% and 3.0%,
           preferably comprising between 0.2% and 2.0%, more preferably
           comprising between 0.3% and 1.0% and more preferably still comprising
           between 0.4% and 0.6%;
   -       sodium benzoate in a proportion comprising between 0.01% and 0.5%,
15         preferably comprising between 0.05% and 0.2%;
   -       citric acid in a proportion comprising between 0.25% and 1.5%,
           preferably comprising between 0.4% and 0.75%;
   -       sucralose in a proportion comprising between 0.1% and 4.0%, preferably
           comprising between 0.5% and 3.0%;
20 -       acesulfame potassium in a proportion comprising between 0.05% and
           1.0%, preferably comprising between 0.1% and 0.5%;
   optionally, a flavouring agent, preferably in a proportion comprising between
           0.01% and 2.0%;
          in which the hypromellose used preferably has a degree of viscosity
25 comprising between 1 - 500 mPa.S, more preferably comprising between 1
   100 mPa.S, more preferably still comprising between 2 - 50 mPa.S and more
   preferably still comprising between 2 - 20 mPa.S, more preferably still it has a
   degree of viscosity of 15 mPa.S, where this viscosity refers to that of an
   aqueous hypromellose solution of 2% w/w at a temperature of 20 0C; and
30        in which the percentages refer to percentage weight/volume (w/v).
          Preferably the suspension only contains water as the dispersion medium,

                                             15
   without any other organic solvent.
           Preferably the suspension only contains hypromellose and xanthan gum
   as suspension agents.
 5 Preparation procedure
           The present invention's composition in the form of a suspension for oral
   administration can be prepared by following the common procedures for the
   preparation of pharmaceutical suspensions, which are well known to experts in
   the field and which are described in the main pharmaceutical technology
10 manuals.
           For example, the composition can be prepared by following a procedure
   such as the one described below.
   Part of the purpose of the invention is formed by a procedure to prepare the
   invention's composition of sildenafil citrate comprising the following stages:
15      a) add the hypromellose and xanthan gum in one part water and agitate to
           form a homogenous dispersion of the suspension agents;
        b) separately, disperse the sildenafil citrate in another part of the
           composition's water; and
        c) add the dispersion obtained in stage b) to the dispersion obtained in
20         stage a) and then add the rest of the water.
        The water used for the suspension is typically purified water for
    pharmaceutical use, available commercially, commonly obtained by distillation,
    ion exchange or any other suitable method from potable water.
25      Stage a) of the process preferably uses between 15% and 40% of the total
   water, more preferably between 20% and 35% of the total water.
        Preferably the water is previously heated, before adding the hypromellose
    and xanthan gum, to a temperature preferably comprising between 50 0C and
    75 *C.
30      After adding the hypromellose and xanthan gum the ingredients become
    homogenised by agitation, preferably for between 5 minutes and 45 minutes, to

                                              16
    avoid     the    formation     of    agglomerations.      Optionally,  the     other
    suspension/gelling/viscosifying agents can be added in this stage, where they
    are included, along with the hypromellose and xanthan gum.
        Additionally, where a preservative agent is being used it can be added at
 5  this stage, for example, by previously dissolving it in the water.
        A homogenous dispersion is therefore obtained in this way. This dispersion
    is left to cool, preferably while being continuously agitated, until reaching a
    temperature preferably comprising between 20          0C  and 40   0C before being
    mixed with the dispersion obtained in stage b).
10      Stage b) of the process preferably uses between 45% and 75% of the total
    water, more preferably between 55% and 65% of the total water.
        In stage b), before making the sildenafil citrate dispersion, any other of the
    optional ingredients being used can be dissolved in the water, such as, for
    example, pH regulators, sweetener(s), flavouring(s), surfactant(s), colorant(s)
15  and or sequestering agent(s).
        The sildenafil citrate is then added with continuous agitation until a
    homogenous dispersion is obtained.
        In stage c) of the process, after mixing the dispersions prepared in stages a)
    and b), the mixture is homogenised by agitation, preferably for between 5
20  minutes and 45 minutes, until a homogenous suspension is obtained.
        Finally the rest of the water is added, with continued agitation until the
   suspension is completely homogenised.
        The suspension obtained is then dispensed into suitable containers.
        For example, the suspension can be packaged in high-density polyethylene
25 bottles, provided with a suitable dosing system such as, for example, a dose
   pump adapted to dispense a fixed volume of the suspension with each press.
   Use of the composition
            The composition of sildenafil citrate in the present invention is indicated
30 for the treatment of masculine erectile dysfunction. Its presentation in the form
   of an aqueous suspension facilitates easy oral administration while also

                                              17
   allowing the dose to be adjusted to the particular requirements of each patient.
          Additionally, the composition is stable over time and is particularly
   palatable, as stated in Examples 3 and 4.
          This is why one of the present invention's purposes is the use of the
 5 invention's composition for the preparation of a medicine for the treatment of
   masculine erectile dysfunction.
           Erectile dysfunction, also know as masculine sexual dysfunction, is
   understood to mean the persistent inability of a male to achieve or maintain an
   erection of the penis sufficient to have satisfactory sexual activity.
10         The invention's composition in the form of an aqueous suspension is
   suitable for oral administration, that is, for its gastric absorption.
           Additionally, the composition can also be specifically administered to the
   buccal and/or sublingual mucous membranes, with the aim of achieving the
   absorption of the active ingredient across said mucous membranes.
15         The composition can even be administered in the oral cavity such that
   the aforementioned absorption routes are combined to a greater or lesser
   extent, that is, the product is partly ingested and partly absorbed across these
   mucous membranes.
           The invention's composition is administered in the oral cavity, suitable
20 adjusting the required dose of the active ingredient through measurement of the
   required volume of the suspension.
           This can involve the use of any system that allows the volume of the oral
   suspension to be measured for the administration of a determined dose of
   sildenafil citrate, for example, an auxiliary receptacle could be used that is
25 calibrated to measure the desired volume, or a dropper could even be used to
   count drops to give a determined volume, or a dose pump could even be used
   that is adapted to dispense a fixed volume of the suspension with each press.
           In a preferred embodiment, the composition will be available in a
   container provided with a dosing device, typically a dosing pump, that is
30 adapted for the administration of a fixed dose of the composition with each
   press.

                                              18
           Alternatively, this container could be an aerosol, such that the product is
   under pressure in the container through the use of a suitable propellant,
   typically an inert gas, as is well know to an expert in the field. This aerosol is
   preferably provided with a dose meter, such that each press dispenses a fixed
 5 amount of the composition.
           Therefore, part of the present invention is formed by a container provided
   with a dosing device that contains the invention's composition.
           Preferably, the dosing device is a dosing pump adapted to dispense a
   fixed volume of the suspension with each press.
10          Preferably, the quantity of active ingredient administered in each press
   comprises between 10 mg and 40 mg of sildenafil.
            Surprisingly, the invention's composition presents excellent organoleptic
    characteristics thanks to the combination of xanthan gum and hypromellose,
   which contribute to effectively masking the bitter taste of the active ingredient. In
15  addition, the suspension remains largely homogenous over time.
            The following provides some illustrative examples of the present
    invention.
    Examples
20  Example 1.- Sildenafil citrate composition in the form of a suspension
    An aqueous suspension of sildenafil citrate was prepared using the components
    detailed in Table I.
    TABLE I
         Component                  Function              Quantity (% w/v)
         Sildenafil         citrate Active ingredient     3.51
         (sildenafil equivalent)                          (2.5)
         Sodium benzoate            Preservative          0.1
         Anhydrous citric acid      Acidifier             0.50
         Xanthan gum                Suspension agent      0.35
         Hypromellose 15 cP         Suspension agent      0.50

                                              19
         Sucralose (E-955)          Sweetener            3.0
         Acesulfame                 Sweetener            0.20
         potassium
         Mentha piperita            Flavouring           0.5
         Purified water             Vehicle              s.q.
         TOTAL                                           100
            Twenty five per cent of the water was heated to 70          0C and sodium
   benzoate was dissolved in it. The xanthan gum and hypromellose were added
   to this solution under continuous agitation, with the agitation maintained for 20
 5 additional minutes after incorporation was finished in order to achieve a
   homogenous dispersion of both suspension agents. The liquid was left to cool
   to approximately 35     0C, with continued agitation.
            The anhydrous citric acid, sucralose, acesulfame potassium and mint
   flavouring were dissolved in another vessel in 60% of the water, and sildenafil
10  citrate was added to this solution, with continuous agitation, until a homogenous
    dispersion was achieved. This dispersion was added to the previously prepared
    dispersion containing the xanthan gum and hypromellose with continuous
    agitation, until total homogenisation, when the remaining 15% of the water was
   finally added, also with continuous agitation until a substantially homogenous
15  suspension was obtained.
            This gave an aqueous suspension with pH 3.2 with a whitish appearance
    and a characteristic mint smell, which contained 25 mg of sildenafil for each ml
    of suspension.
            The suspension was packaged in high-density polyethylene bottles with
20  30 ml of suspension in each bottle. The bottles were provided with a dosing
    pump adapted to dispense 500 pl with each press, which equates to 12.5 mg of
    sildenafil per press.
    Example 2.- Sildenafil citrate composition in the form of a suspension
25          An aqueous suspension of sildenafil citrate was prepared using the

                                             20
   components detailed in Table II.
                                         TABLE I
       Component                   Function               Quantity (% w/v)
       Sildenafil          citrate Active ingredient      3.51
       (sildenafil equivalent)                            (2.5)
       Sodium benzoate             Preservative           0.1
       Anhydrous citric acid       Acidifier              0.50
       Xanthan gum                 Suspension agent       0.25
       Hypromellose 15 cP          Suspension agent       0.60
       Sucralose (E-955)           Sweetener              3.0
       Aspartame                   Sweetener              0.20
       Strawberry flavouring       Flavouring             0.5
       Purified water              Vehicle                s.q.
       TOTAL                                              100
           A procedure very similar to that used in Example 1 was followed to
 5 prepare the composition, substituting aspartame for the acesulfame potassium
   and strawberry flavouring for the mentha piperita.
           This gave an aqueous suspension with pH 3.2 with a whitish appearance
   and a characteristic strawberry smell, which contained 25 mg of sildenafil for
   each ml of suspension.
10         The suspension was packaged in high-density polyethylene bottles with
   30 ml of suspension in each bottle. The bottles were provided with a dosing
   pump adapted to dispense 500 pl with each press, which equates to 12.5 mg of
   sildenafil per press.
15 Example 3.- Study into the stability of the invention's composition
   The stability of the product prepared in Example 1 was studied over a period of
   6 months under the following conditions of temperature and humidity:
   -       temperature of 25 0C 7 2 OC and relative humidity of 65% 7 5%;

                                              21
   -         temperature of 30 IC 7 2 0C and relative humidity of 65% 7 5%;
   -         temperature of 30 *C 7 2 0C and relative humidity of 75% 7 5%;
   -         temperature of 40 0C 7 2 *C and relative humidity of 75% 7 5%;
             Under all the tested conditions it was observed that both the sildenafil
 5 citrate and the preservative agent remained stable, with impurity levels in all the
   cases of less than 0.1%, that is, less than the reporting threshold.
              It was also noted that the suspension remained physically stable, with
   only a slight sedimentation observable, with the product becoming completely
   homogenised again following gentle agitation.
10            It can therefore be concluded that the invention's composition has good
   stability, both chemical and physical.
    Example 4. - Comparative organoleptic study
             A comparative study was carried out with 10 volunteers in order to
15 evaluate the organoleptic properties of the sildenafil citrate composition in the
   form of an oral suspension according to the present invention.
   This involved the administration of the following products to the volunteers, with
   the products prepared following a 22 factoral design:
        i.    The invention's composition prepared in Example I;
20     ii.   A variation of the composition prepared in Example I, retaining the
              hypromellose but without the xanthan gum (Comparative Example A);
      iii.    A variation of the composition prepared in Example I, retaining the
              xanthan gum but without the hypromellose (Comparative Example B);
      iv.     A variation of the composition prepared in Example I, without the xanthan
25            gum or the hypromellose (Comparative Example C).
           The volunteers were asked to give an evaluation of the composition from an
    organoleptic point of view. The matrix of tests and results in presented in Table
    Ill:

                                             22
                                          TABLE Ill
       Example          Xanthan gum        Hypromellose   Evaluation
       Example 1        Yes                Yes            No    bitter taste was
                                                          noticed, the taste was
                                                          described            as
                                                          agreeable
       Comparative      No                 Yes            A    bitter  taste  was
       Example A                                          noticed, the taste was
                                                          described as tolerable
       Comparative      Yes                No             A    bitter  taste  was
       Example B                                          noticed, the taste was
                                                          described as tolerable
      Comparative       No                 Yes            A very bitter taste was
       Example C                                          noticed, the taste was
                                                          described            as
                                                          unacceptable
           It was found that only the invention's composition achieved a totally
  acceptable organoleptic evaluation by the volunteers, with a total masking of the
5 bitter taste of the sildenafil citrate.
          Surprisingly, it was found that when the formulated did not include one of
  the suspension agents, either the xanthan gum or the hypromellose, the
  masking of the bitter taste was clearly deficient, with the volunteers' evaluation
  not being positive.

                                              23
                                          CLAIMS
   1.     Pharmaceutical composition in the form of an aqueous suspension for
   oral administration comprising:
 5     a) sildenafil citrate as the active ingredient,
       b) xanthan gum, and
       c) hypromellose.
   2.     Composition according to claim 1, characterised in that it comprises
10 sildenafil citrate at a concentration comprising between 1.5% and 5.0%,
   expressed as equivalent concentration of sildenafil citrate in the form of its free
   base, where the percentages are expressed in w/v.
   3.     Composition according to any of claims 1 to 2, characterised in that the
15 xanthan gum is in a proportion comprising between 0.1% and 2.0%, where the
   percentages are expressed in w/v.
   4.     Composition according to claim 3, characterised in that the proportion of
   xanthan gum comprises between 0.2% and 0.5%, where the percentages are
20 expressed in w/v.
   5.     Composition according to any of claims 1 to 4, characterised in that the
   hypromellose is in a proportion comprising between 0.05% and 3.0%, where the
   percentages are expressed in w/v.
25
   6.     Composition according to claim 5, characterised in that the proportion of
   hypromellose comprises between 0.3% and 1.0%, where the percentages are
   expressed in w/v.
30 7.     Composition according to any of claims I to 6, characterised in that the
   pH comprises between 1.5 and 5.0.

                                              24
   8.      Composition according to claim 7, characterised in that it comprises an
   acidifying agent chosen from the group formed by acetic acid, adipic acid, boric
   acid, citric acid, hydrochloric acid, fumaric acid, malic acid, nitric acid, propionic
 5 acid, succinic acid, sulfuric acid, tartaric acid and their mixtures.
   9.      Composition according to claim 8, characterised in that the acidifying
   agent is citric acid.
10 10.     Composition according to any of claims 1 to 9, characterised in that it
   comprises a preservative agent.
   11.     Composition according to any of claims 1 to 10, characterised in that it
   comprises a sweetener chosen from the group formed by sodium saccharin,
15 calcium saccharin, sucralose, aspartame, acesulfame potassium, sodium or
   potassium cyclamate, neohesperidin dihydrochalcone, thaumatin and their
   mixtures.
    12.    Composition according to claim 11, characterised in that it comprises a
20 sweetener chosen from the group formed by sucralose, aspartame, acesulfame
   potassium, and their mixtures.
    13.    Composition according to claim 1, characterised in that it comprises:
   -       sildenafil citrate with a concentration comprising between           2.0% and
25         3.0%, expressed as the equivalent concentration of sildenafil in the form
           of its free base;
    -      xanthan gum in a proportion comprising between 0.2% and 0.5%;
    -      hypromellose in a proportion comprising between 0.3% and 1.0%;
    -      sodium benzoate in a proportion comprising between 0.01% and 0.5%;
30  -      citric acid in a proportion comprising between 0.25% and 1.5%;
    -      sucralose in a proportion comprising between 0.1% and 4.0%; and

                                              25
             acesulfame potassium in a proportion comprising between 0.05% and
             1.0%;
            where the percentages are expressed in w/v.
  5  14.    Composition according to claim 1, characterised in that it comprises:
    -        sildenafil citrate with a concentration comprising between 2.0% and
             3.0%, expressed as the equivalent concentration of sildenafil in the form
             of its free base;
    -       xanthan gum in a proportion comprising between 0.2% and 0.5%;
 10 -        hypromellose in a proportion comprising between 0.3% and 1.0%;
    -       sodium benzoate in a proportion comprising between 0.01% and 0.5%;
    -       citric acid in a proportion comprising between 0.25% and 1.5%;
    -       sucralose in a proportion comprising between 0.1% and 4.0%; and
    -       aspartame in a proportion comprising between 0.05% and 1.0%;
15          where the percentages are expressed in w/v.
    15.     Procedure for the preparation of a composition according to any of claims
    1 to 14, characterised in that it comprises the following stages:
         a) add the hypromellose and xanthan gum to one part water and agitate to
20          form a homogenous dispersion of the suspension agents;
         b) separately, disperse the sildenafil citrate in another part of the
            composition's water; and
         c) add the dispersion obtained in stage b) to the dispersion obtained in
            stage a) and then add the rest of the water.
25
    16.     Use of a composition according to any of claims 1 to 14 for the
    preparation of a medicine for the treatment of masculine erectile dysfunction.
    17.     Container provided with a dosing device that comprises a composition
30  according to any of claims 1 to 14.

