                                         Abstract
Foreign food import processes create a significant challenge to our farming regions
in bringing Australian produce efficiently to international trading partner markets. The
proposed solution is to create secure zones that are in close proximity to the primary
growing districts, in which foreign governments and international trading partners
would establish operational teams to undertake quarantine, clearance and customs
processes, streamlining and expediting standard food import measures. These
zones will be integrated with world leading technology platform that, for the first time
in this industry provides real time reporting to the governments and buyers the
biometric information on the food quality, degradation, any counterfeiting. All this
information has a surety of integrity due to the nature in which our technology works.
This data will be reproduced in a reporting-based format that far exceeds what is
available to the governments and stakeholders currently.
        Keywords: customs clearance, quarantine, export, livestock, dairy

Producers
          Processor
                             Fig2. - SCQC Export Process
                    Exporter
                                   Consumerr6

          Editorial Note
            <removed-apn>
There are five pages of description only

                                      DESCRIPTION
       The new innovative process' objective is to open, expand and improve and/or
maintain access to international trading partner markets for Australian agricultural
products by building stronger relationships with trading partners, importing countries
and international organizations. Existing export processes for perishable products
involves lengthy time-consuming tasks that put pressure on the quality and food
safety of the products in transit. This has been a long-term issue to a lot of exporters,
especially those exporters of perishable goods such as meat and milk. They run the
risk of spoilage because the product is delayed in transit and through the customs
quarantine processes of the international trading partners.
       As demand from Asia for Australian fresh produce escalates, our farmers are
determined to capitalize on this demand.       However, dramatic shifts in the market
mean we are faced with a unique proposition of how best to address the new
challenges. Whilst our farmers certainly have the capacity to produce considerably
more food to meet demand, our existing agricultural export processes are not
technologically or logistically equipped to cater for the new generation of internet
savvy, Asian shoppers demanding instant gratification. The challenge is to create a
new means of tapping into this market, and the ability to scale the export capability
and processes that will be required to satisfy the growing demands for Australian
food from these markets.

        It is envisaged that this innovative process will open the market within Asia to
Australian farmers, providing a vehicle through which to build their export sales into
the targeted Asian markets. The critical aim of this initiative is to accelerate the
direct transfer of food from Australian paddock to Asian plate.
        However, a significant impediment to agricultural export success lies in foreign
import control and customs.         International import processes create a significant
challenge in bringing fresh Australian produce efficiently to the targeted International
trading partner market.
        The solution is to create secure international clearance zones that are in close
proximity to the primary growing districts, in which the International trading partner
countries would establish operational teams to undertake quarantine, clearance and
customs      processes, both streamlining and        expediting standard food     import
measures.        Effectively, the zone would become an International trading partner
border for quarantine and clearance purposes. These sites will house world class
technology that will relay information pertaining to location and quality of goods as
they enter and leave the SCQC up till when they reach the destination.
        The outcome of this would be that once cleared and finalized, cargo secured
on the transport out of the country(Australia) to the International trading partner can
be treated as domestic cargo, provided appropriate security measures are met and
maintained using the traceability and provenance technology that will be deployed by
the SCQC.       The final impediment to enabling our farming industry to grasp the
opportunities that the increased Asian demand will bring, will be to match this 21st
century technological innovation with an equally innovative export system.
        We have secured the support of the Australian Federal Government and the
ACT Government to allow the creation of a proof of concept for the creation of a

secure quarantine and clearance zone at the targeted               regional airports in
Queensland, and the ACT to be followed by other key growth areas in Australia.
       Although the targeted international trading partners FTA have opened
opportunities for Australian farmers to export food to the respective target markets,
and a number of growers have been granted International export accreditation, the
complexities and risks as a result of the current International quarantine and customs
processes have made this prohibitive, including clearance delays, poor quality
outcomes and quality control.
       Having produce cleared through quarantine and customs processes at the
Australian end of the chain has the potential to solve one of the primary risk factors
in food export, that is the significant risk of extensive and prolonged clearance
processes that faced by exporters. Whilst fresh produce sits in quarantine clearance
centers in the International trading partner country it has been known to deteriorate
and become unsuitable for sale -          a costly outcome for food exporters, that
considerably adds to the rate of food wastage in the export supply chain. It is not
uncommon for wastage rates to reach up to 40% of the exported product therefore
adding considerable cost to the produce.
       A dedicated International trading partner food export clearance center in
Australia also has the potential to expedite timeframes for the delivery of fresh
produce to the doorstep of the consumer, thus generating strong buyer satisfaction
and creating a solid reputation for Australian-direct produce.
       Food integrity in international transport is of serious concern to exporters, and
many have introduced detailed product trail reporting to systematically track and
evaluate environmental influences and quality control. In dealing with customs and
quarantine processes locally, food will be delivered directly to the consumer once it

reaches the destination, eliminating the additional environmental influences created
by quarantine and customs clearance delays being done at the end of the supply
chain, so the necessary reporting functions will become more efficient and
manageable.
       This project has the potential to create an improved system for Australian food
export and result in the development of protocols within Australia with the
International trading partner that will facilitate greater market access to Australian
farmers.
       These zones will enable an operational model that disrupts the current supply
chain to create a more efficient and profitable business paradigm for our primary
producers through direct sales.
        Localized, Australian-based      clearance will    offer an advantage to the
International destination government, who will benefit from increased trade volumes,
leading to net gains in tariffs, plus an increase in high quality food supply to the
destination country to assist in food security needed by the considerably large and
growing population of the country. In addition, the clearance center will offer
international job opportunities for International trading partner nationals.
        State politicians are keen to promote their regions as leading centers both for
agriculture and trade, and an innovative project of this nature could generate positive
results across both portfolios.
       The United States has similar concept of pre-clearance customs for human
travelers from Canada and UAE. The United States federal government operates
border preclearance facilities at a number of ports and airports in foreign territory.
They are staffed and operated by U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers.
Travelers     pass     through    U.S. Immigration      and    Customs, Public  Health,

and Agriculture inspections before boarding their aircraft. This process is intended to
streamline border procedures, reduce congestion at ports of entry, and facilitate
travel between the preclearance location and U.S. airports unequipped to handle
international travelers. While such a methodology has not been applied to
international export goods, it can be seen as an immense value proposition to have
this established in Australia for the purpose of food export only. The benefits
generated for the local export community is massive as it helps reduce risk of
spoilage in terms of perishable products.
       This process should be patented as we see it providing a significant monetary
gain through the advantages that it delivers to exporters.

      Editorial Note
         <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

The claims defining this innovation are as follows;
1. The special customs and quarantine clearance zone will be a foreign
   border established inside secure sites in the vicinity of transportation
   facilities such as airports and seaports
2. These SCQC Zones will house foreign government officials who have the
   authority to clear goods with respect to quarantine and customs
3. The goods enter the zone as export ready and will leave the zone to be
   loaded in to an airplane/ship as a certified domestic product of the
   importing country.
4. These products will be able to be transported directly to the importer
   international trading partner and skip the que at the foreign customs zone.
5. The zone will utilize world class technology based on decentralized
   network technology to relay real time information to the destination
   government on quality of goods as they enter and leave the SCQC.

<removed-date>
                        Editorial Note
                         <removed-apn>
              There are three pages of drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
