STRAINS AND METHODS FOR IMPROVING RUMINANT HEALTH
AND/OR PERFORMANCE
ABSTRACT
Described are strains including Enterococcusfaecium strain 8G-1 (NRRL B-50173),
Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-73 (NRRL B-50172), Bacillus pumilus strain 8G-134 (NRRL B
50174) and strains having all of the identifying characteristics of each of these strains. One or
more of the strains can be used to treat or prevent acidosis. They can also be used to improve
other measures of ruminant health and/or performance. Methods of using the strains, alone and
in combination, are described. Methods of making the strains are also provided.

                    STRAINS AND METHODS FOR IMPROVING
                  RUMINANT HEALTH AND/OR PERFORMANCE
                 CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
         This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) to U.S. Provisional
Patent Application No. 61/119,256, filed December 2, 2008, the entirety of which is
incorporated by reference herein.
                                     BIBLIOGRAPHY
         Complete bibliographic citations of the references referred to herein by the
first author's last name and year of publication can be found in the Bibliography
section, immediately preceding the claims.
                              FIELD OF THE INVENTION
         The invention relates to strains and methods for controlling acidosis. More
particularly, the invention relates to bacterial strains useful for improving ruminant
health and/or performance and methods of making and using the strains.
                        DESCRIPTION OF THE RELATED ART
         The feeding of high concentrations of fermentable carbohydrate to ruminants
has become a common practice in the beef and dairy cattle industry over the last 50
years. The need for improving the production efficiency and quality of meat has led
to this trend. Improvements in production have not occurred without certain
difficulties. Increasing the ruminant consumption of fermentable carbohydrate by
feeding higher levels of cereal grains has resulted in increased incidence of metabolic
disorders such as acidosis. The relationship between high concentrate consumption
and ruminal acidosis has been well documented in reviews (Dunlop, 1972; Slyter,
1976). Many researchers have shown a decline in ruminal pH following the feeding
of high levels of readily fermentable carbohydrate (RFC) to cattle and the subsequent
disruption of ruminal microbiota and physiological changes occurring in the animal
(Allison, et.al., 1975, Hungate et.al., 1952; Elam, 1976). Most have attributed this
decline to an over production of organic acids by ruminal bacteria such as
Streptococcus bovis. However, the effect of excessive carbohydrate on the ruminal
microbiota that initiates this response has not been well documented.
                                              1

         In the past, intensive management of feeding has been the only method to
combat acidosis. More specifically, grains are diluted with roughage and the increase
in dietary concentrate percentage is carefully controlled in a step-wise method to
ensure smooth transition to high levels of concentrate over a 14-21 day period. Most
commercial feedlots formulate and deliver several "adaptation" diets that contain
different ratios of grain to forage.
         Although intensive feeding management is usually quite effective in
controlling acidosis, it is very costly to the producer due to the high cost of producing,
transporting, chopping forage, disposing of increased animal waste, and lower
production efficiencies. Producers and feedlot managers need to implement strategies
that will allow for efficient production of livestock fed high concentrate rations.
         Other strategies have been to combine the use of adaptation diets with feeding
antimicrobial components such as ionophores. lonophores inhibit intake and reduce
the production of lactic acid in the rumen by reducing the ruminal populations of
gram-positive, lactic acid-producing organisms such as Streptococcus bovis and
Lactobacillus spp. (Muir et al. 1981).
         Although the usage of ionophores have reduced the incidence of acute acidosis
in feedlots, consumer concern about the use of antibiotics in meat production and the
need for feedlot managers to continually find ways to reduce costs while improving
animal performance and carcass composition has lead to the examination of
alternative methods to reduce acidosis and improve feedlot cattle performance.
         The use of direct-fed microbials as a method to modulate ruminal function and
improve cattle performance has been gaining increased acceptance over the past 10
years. There are two basic direct-fed microbial technologies that are currently
available to the beef industry for the control of ruminal acidosis: (1) using lactic acid
producing DFM technology and (2) adding specific bacterial species capable of
utilizing ruminal lactic acid. While the reported mode of action of each of these
technologies is different, they both attempt to address the accumulation of ruminal
lactic acid.
         The first approach, i.e., using lactic acid producing DFM technology, attempts
to increase the rate of ruminal lactic acid utilization by stimulating the native ruminal
microbiota. As reported, the addition of relatively slow growing lactic acid producing
bacteria, such as species of Enterococcus,produces a slightly elevated concentration
of ruminal lactic acid. The gradual increase forces the adaptation of the ruminal
                                               2

microflora to a higher portion of acid tolerant lactic acid utilizers. However, these
Enterococcusstrains failed to adequately control and prevent acidosis.
        The second approach, i.e., adding specific bacterial species capable of utilizing
ruminal lactic acid, is based on the finding that species of Propionibacterium
significantly minimize the accumulation of ruminal lactic acid during an acidosis
challenge with a large amount of Readily Fermentable Carbohydrate (RFC).
Propionibacteriumare natural inhabitants of the rumen in both dairy and beef cattle
and function in the rumen by using lactic acid to produce important volatile fatty acids
like acetate and propionate.
        Current DFM technologies developed to date have been developed based upon
an antiquated microbiological understanding of the incidence of acidosis in the rumen.
Until recently, methods of studying the microbial ecology of the rumen have relied on
cultivation techniques. These techniques have been limited due to unknown growth
requirements and unsuitable anaerobic conditions for many of the rumen
microorganisms. Thus, ecological studies relying on these cultivation techniques
have been based on a limited understanding of the rumen microbiota.
        Current DFMs when used alone or with yeast to minimize the risk of ruminal
acidosis and to improve utilization of a feedlot cattle diet containing high concentrate
provide mixed results. However, a study of DFM strains PropionibacteriumP15, and
EnterococcusfaeciumEF212, and E. faecium EF212, fed alone or fed combined with
a yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, indicated that addition of DFM combined with or
without yeast had no effect on preventing ruminal acidosis (Yang, W., 2004).
        In view of the foregoing, it would be desirable to provide one or more strains
to prevent and/or treat acidosis. It would be advantageous if the one or more strains
also improved other measures of ruminant health and/or performance. It would also
be desirable to provide methods of making and using the strains.
                           SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
        The invention, which is defined by the claims set out at the end of this
disclosure, is intended to solve at least some of the problems noted above. Isolated
strains are provided, including Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-l (NRRL B-50173), a
strain having all of the identifying characteristics of Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-1
(NRRL B-50173), Enterococcusfaecium strain 8G-73 (NRRL B-50172), a strain
having all of the identifying characteristics of Enterococcusfaecium strain 8G-73
                                             3

(NRRL B-50172), Bacilluspumilus strain 8G-134 (NRRL B-50174), a strain having
all of the identifying characteristics of Bacilluspumilus strain 8G-134 (NRRL B
50174), and combinations thereof.
         Additionally provided is a combination including one or more of the strains
listed above and monensin.
         Also provided is a method of administering an effective amount of one or
more of the strains listed above to an animal and a method of administering a
combination including an effective amount of one or more of the strains listed above
and monensin to an animal.
         In at least some embodiments, the administration of the one or more strain to
the animal provides at least one of the following benefits in or to the animal when
compared to an animal not administered the strain: (a) reduces acidosis, (b) stabilizes
ruminal metabolism as indicated by delayed lactic acid accumulation and prolonged
production of volatile fatty acids, (c) recovers more quickly from acidosis challenge
as measured by pH recovery and lactic acid decline, (d) reduces exhibition of clinical
signs associated with acidosis (e) increased milk production in lactating dairy cows,
(f) increased milk fat content in lactating dairy cows, (g) decreased somatic cell count
(SCC) in lactating dairy cows, (h) improved immunological response and health as
evidenced by decreased SCC and (i) increased efficiency of milk production in
lactating dairy cows.
         Also provided is a method of making a direct-fed microbial. In the method,
a strain selected from the group consisting of Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-1
(NRRL B-50173), Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-73 (NRRL B-50172), and Bacillus
pumilus strain 8G-134 (NRRL B-50174) is grown in a liquid nutrient broth. The
strain is separated from the liquid nutrient broth to make the direct-fed microbial. In
at least some embodiments of the method, the strain is freeze dried.
         Additionally provided is a method of making a direct-fed microbial. In the
method, a strain selected from the group consisting of Enterococcusfaeciumstrain
8G-1 (NRRL B-50173), Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-73 (NRRL B-50172), and
Bacilluspumilus strain 8G-134 (NRRL B-50174) is grown in a liquid nutrient broth.
The strain is separated from the liquid nutrient broth to make the direct-fed microbial.
Monensin is added to the direct-fed microbial.
                                             4

                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        Preferred exemplary embodiments described herein are illustrated in the
accompanying drawings, in which like reference numerals represent like parts
throughout and in which:
        Figure 1 is a graph showing pH differences between tester (non-acidotic;
Cluster 2) and driver (acidotic; Cluster 1) populations.
        Figure 2 is a graph showing lactic acid accumulation differences between
tester (non-acidotic; Cluster 2) and driver (acidotic; Cluster 1) populations.
        Figure 3 is a graph showing in vitro glucose by treatment over time.
        Figure 4 is a graph showing in vitro lactic acid accumulation by treatment over
time.
        Figure 5 is a graph showing total VFA (acetate+propionate+butyrate)
accumulation over time.
        Figure 6 is a graph showing mean ruminal pH over time in control and
candidate DFM cattle.
        Figure 7 is a graph showing mean ruminal lactate over time in control and
candidate DFM cattle.
        Figure 8 is a graph showing ruminal VFA concentrations over time treatment.
(Total VFA = acetate + propionate + butyrate).
        Before explaining embodiments described herein in detail, it is to be
understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of
construction and the arrangement of the components set forth in the following
description or illustrated in the drawings. The invention is capable of other
embodiments or being practiced or carried out in various ways. Also, it is to be
understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein is for the purpose
of description and should not be regarded as limiting.
                               DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        Provided herein are strains. Methods of making and using the strains are also
provided.
        In at least some embodiments, a direct-fed microbial (DFM) made with one or
more of the strains provided herein allows beef and dairy producers to continue
managing feeding regimens to optimize growth and performance without sacrificing
health due to digestive upset associated with ruminal acidosis. At least some
                                             5

embodiments of the DFMs were selected on the basis of managing ruminal lactate
concentrations via lactate utilization or priming the rumen to maintain lactate utilizing
microflora. At least some embodiments of the DFMs were developed to manage
ruminal energy concentrations. Unlike the current DFMs marketed to cattle producers
to alleviate acidosis, at least some of the embodiments of the invention were not
developed to manage a problem after it occurs, but rather to alleviate the problem
before it happens.
Strains:
         The strains provided herein include Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-1,
Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-73, and Bacilluspumilus strain 8G-134, which are
also referred to herein as 8G-1, 8G-73, and 8G-134, respectively.
         Strains Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-1, Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-73,
and Bacillus pumilus strain 8G-134 were deposited on August 29, 2008 at the
Agricultural Research Service Culture Collection (NRRL), 1815 North University
Street, Peoria, Illinois, 61604 and given accession numbers B-50173, B-50172 , and
B-50174, respectively. The deposits were made under the provisions of the Budapest
Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure. One or more strain provided herein can be used as a
direct-fed microbial (DFM).
         For purposes of this disclosure, a "biologically pure strain" means a strain
containing no other bacterial strains in quantities sufficient to interfere with
replication of the strain or to be detectable by normal bacteriological techniques.
"Isolated" when used in connection with the organisms and cultures described herein
includes not only a biologically pure strain, but also any culture of organisms which is
grown or maintained other than as it is found in nature. In some embodiments, the
strains are mutants, variants, or derivatives of strains 8G-1, 8G-73, or 8G-134 that
also provide benefits comparable to that provided by 8G-1, 8G-73, and 8G-134. In
some embodiments, the strains are strains having all of the identifying characteristics
of strains 8G-1, 8G-73, or 8G-134. Further, each individual strain (8G-1, 8G-73, or
8G-134) or any combination of these strains can also provide one or more of the
benefits described herein. It will also be clear that addition of other microbial strains,
carriers, additives, enzymes, yeast, or the like will also provide control of acidosis and
will not constitute a substantially different DFM.
                                              6

        Bacillus strains have many qualities that make them useful as DFMs. For
example, several Bacillus species also have GRAS status, i.e., they are generally
recognized as safe by the US Food and Drug Administration and are also approved for
use in animal feed by the Association of American Feed Control Officials (AAFCO).
The Bacillus strains described herein are aerobic and facultative sporeformers and
thus, are stable. Bacillus species are the only sporeformers that are considered GRAS.
A Bacillus strain found to prevent or treat acidosis is Bacilluspumilus strain 8G-1 34.
        Enterococcusstrains also have many qualities that make them useful as
DFMs.
Enterococcusstrains are known to inhabit the gastrointestinal tract of monogastrics
and ruminants and would be suited to survive in this environment. Enterococcushave
been shown to be facultatively anaerobic organisms, making them stable and active
under both aerobic and anoxic conditions. Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-1 and
Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-73 were identified by the inventors as being useful
for these purposes.
Preparation of the Strains:
        In at least one embodiment, each one of the strains described herein is cultured
individually using conventional liquid or solid fermentation techniques. In at least one
embodiment, the Bacillus strain and Enterococcusstrains are grown in a liquid
nutrient broth, in the case of the Bacillus, to a level at which the highest number of
spores are formed. The Bacillus strain is produced by fermenting the bacterial strain,
which can be started by scaling-up a seed culture. This involves repeatedly and
aseptically transferring the culture to a larger and larger volume to serve as the
inoculum for the fermentation, which can be carried out in large stainless steel
fermentors in medium containing proteins, carbohydrates, and minerals necessary for
optimal growth. Non-limiting exemplary media are MRS or TSB. However, other
media can also be used. After the inoculum is added to the fermentation vessel, the
temperature and agitation are controlled to allow maximum growth. In one
embodiment, the strains are grown at 320 to 370 under agitation. Once the culture
reaches a maximum population density, the culture is harvested by separating the cells
from the fermentation medium. This is commonly done by centrifugation.
        In one embodiment, to prepare the Bacillus strain, the Bacillus strain is
fermented to a 5 x 108 CFU/ml to about 4 x 109 CFU/ml level. In at least one
                                              7

embodiment, a level of 2 x 109 CFU/ml is used. The bacteria are harvested by
centrifugation, and the supernatant is removed. The pelleted bacteria can then be used
to produce a DFM. In at least come embodiments, the pelleted bacteria are
freeze-dried and then used to form a DFM. However, it is not necessary to freeze-dry
the Bacillus before using them. The strains can also be used with or without
preservatives, and in concentrated, unconcentrated, or diluted form.
        The count of the culture can then be determined. CFU or colony forming unit
is the viable cell count of a sample resulting from standard microbiological plating
methods. The term is derived from the fact that a single cell when plated on
appropriate medium will grow and become a viable colony in the agar medium. Since
multiple cells may give rise to one visible colony, the term colony forming unit is a
more useful unit measurement than cell number.
Using the Strains:
        In at least some embodiments, one or more strain is used to form a DFM. One
or more carriers, including, but not limited to, sucrose, maltodextrin, limestone, and
rice hulls, can be added to the strain.
        To mix the strain(s) and carriers (where used), they can be added to a ribbon
or paddle mixer and mixed preferably for about 15 minutes, although the timing can
be increased or decreased. The components are blended such that a uniform mixture
of the cultures and carriers result. The final product is preferably a dry, flowable
powder, and may be formulated based upon the desired final DFM concentration in
the end product.
        In at least one embodiment of a method of making a DFM, a strain described
herein is grown in a medium, such as a liquid nutrient broth. The strain is separated
from the liquid nutrient broth to make the direct-fed microbial. The strain can be
freeze dried after it is separated from the broth.
        One or more of Enterococcusfaecium strain 8G-1, Enterococcusfaecium
strain 8G-73, and Bacillus pumilus strain 8G-134 can be fed to animals to reduce or
even eliminate the occurrence of acidosis. For this, an effective amount of one or
more of these strains is administered to the animals. Upon administration to the
animals, the strain(s) provides at least one of the following benefits in or to the
animals: (a) reduces acidosis in the animals, (b) stabilizes ruminal metabolism as
indicated by delayed lactic acid accumulation and prolonged production of volatile
                                             8

 fatty acids, (c) recovers more quickly from acidosis challenge as measured by pH
 recovery and lactic acid decline, and (d) does not exhibit clinical signs associated with
 acidosis.
         The animals can be cattle, including both beef cattle and dairy cattle, that is,
 one or more bull, steer, heifer, calf, or cow; goats; sheep; llamas; alpacas; other four
 compartment stomached, and ruminant animals that may encounter ruminal imbalance
 when fed readily fermentable carbohydrate (RFC).
         In at least one embodiment, when Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-1 or
 Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-73 is fed, the strain is administered to the animals at
 a level such that the animals are dosed daily with about 5   x  108 CFU/animal/day to
 about 5 x 10 10 CFU/animal/day. In at least one embodiment, when Bacilluspumilus
 strain 8G- 134 is fed, the strain is administered to the animals at a level such that the
 animals are dosed daily with about 5 x 108 CFU/animal/day to about 5 x 1010
 CFU/animal/day. In at least one embodiment, two or more strains of Enterococcus
faecium strain    8G-1, Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-73 and Bacilluspumilus strain
 8G-134 are fed, and the strains are administered to the animals at a level such that the
 animals are dosed daily with about 5 x 108 CFU/animal/day to about 5 x 1010
 CFU/animal/day as the total dose of the combined strains. Other levels of one or
 more strains can be fed to the animals.         The strain can be administered to the
 animals from about 30 days of age through the remainder of the adult ruminant
 productive life or for other time periods.
         In at least one embodiment, the strain is fed as a direct-fed microbial (DFM),
 and the DFM is used as a top dressing on a daily ration. In addition, the strain can be
 fed in a total mixed ration, pelleted feedstuff, mixed in with liquid feed, mixed in a
 protein premix, delivered via a vitamin and mineral premix.
         In at least one embodiment, the strain is fed as a DFM, and the DFM is fed in
 combination with Type A Medicated Article monensin (Rumensin@), with a daily
 dose about 50mg to 660 mg per head. Monensin is fed to increase feed efficiency.
 Monensin, as an ionophore, creates permeability in bacterial cell membrane creating
 an ion imbalance between the intracellular and extracellular spaces. This response
 affects ruminal microbiota populations and influence feedstuff fermentation to
 improve livestock feed efficiency.
         In at least one embodiment, the strain is fed as a DFM, and the DFM is fed in
 combination with Type A Medicated Article tylosin phosphate (Tylan@), with a daily
                                               9

dose of about 60 to 90 mg/head. Tylosin phosphate is fed to beef cattle to reduce liver
abscesses caused by Fusobacteriumnecrophorum and Actinomyces pyogenes.
                                       EXAMPLES
        The following Examples are provided for illustrative purposes only. The
Examples are included herein solely to aid in a more complete understanding of the
presently described invention. The Examples do not limit the scope described herein
described or claimed herein in any fashion.
                                        Example 1
Acidosis Model Experimental Design:
        Ten crossbred steers were blocked by weight and assigned to two pens. The
daily feed ration for all treatment groups prior to challenge consisted of 45%
roughage and 55% concentrate on a dry matter basis. Cattle were fed 15 lbs/head/day
of the ration once in the morning and had remaining feed pushed closer to the feeding
stanchion late in the afternoon. Both pens were fasted for 24 hours before challenge
with the concentrate diet treatments. Concentrate diet treatments consisted of highly
fermentable carbohydrate sources of steam flaked com on a 90% as fed basis. After
fasting for 24 hours, the concentrate diet was fed ad libitum at 100 lbs/pen to all pens
(Oh). Challenge diet consumption was visually monitored and additional feed added
on an as needed basis.
        Rumen fluid samples were obtained from individual animals via oral
intubation using a collection tube attached to a vacuum flask. Different flasks and
collection tubes were used for each pen to minimize cross contamination of
microbiota between treatments. Ruminal fluid collected in the vacuum flasks was
decanted into sterile 50 ml Falcon tubes labeled with sample time and animal
identification number (ear tag number). Ruminal samples were collected from all
pens at -36h, -24h, and -12h. Time      -36h and -24h samples represented the
physiological baseline for each animal. Time -12h samples represented rumen fluid
in the fasted state for each animal. Time Oh was designated as the beginning of the
feeding challenge. Ruminal samples were collected from all animals every 4 hours
from +6 to +22 hours. All pens were sampled at +28, +36, and +48 hours. The pH
from individual ruminal samples were analyzed immediately after acquisition. All
                                            10

samples were frozen and prepared for shipment to Agtech Products, Inc. (Waukesha,
WI) for further analysis.
         Volatile fatty acids and carbohydrate concentrations were measured in
individual ruminal samples. Samples were prepared for HPLC analysis by aseptically
removing duplicate 1.0 ml samples from the rumen fluid collected from each animal
at each time period. Samples were placed in a 1.5 ml microcentrifuge tube and the
debris was pelleted by centrifugation (10 minutes, at 12,500 rpm). The supernatant
fluid (750 pl) was transferred to a clean tube and acidified with an equal volume of 5
mM H2S04. The acidified fluid was thoroughly mixed and filtered through 0.2 im
filter directly into a 2 ml HPLC autosampler vial and capped. Samples were analyzed
using a Waters 2690 HPLC system (Waters Inc., Milford, MA). The sample were
injected into 5 mM H2 S0 4 mobile phase heated to 65"C and separated using a BioRad
HPX-87H Column (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc., Hercules, CA). The HPLC was
standardized using a set of concentrations for each compound of interest. Compounds
used as standards were include dextrose (glucose), lactate, methylglyoxal, butyrate,
propionate, and acetate.
Discovery of Bacterial Genes in Non-Acidotic Cattle Ruminal Microflora:
         Suppressive Subtractive Hybridization:
         The Genome Subtraction Kit (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA) was utilized to
determine microbial population differences between two sets of pooled ruminal
samples. Hierarchal clustering analysis was performed to determine similarities and
differences between animals based on pH and lactic acid profiles over time. Cluster
analysis positioned cattle 2069, 2071, 2078, 2113, and 2127 in Cluster 1 and cattle
2107, 2115, 2088, 2133, and 2124 in Cluster 2. Repeated measures analysis was
performed to compare pH and lactic acid from Cluster 1 to Cluster 2. All variables
were analyzed separately. Cluster 1 had a significantly higher mean lactic acid profile
than Cluster 2 (P=0.0004) accompanied with lower mean pH (P=0.0075) throughout
the course of the challenge diet period (Figures 1 and 2). The rumen fluid from
individual animal was pooled within cluster for suppressive subtractive hybridization
(SSH) procedures.
         Suppressive subtraction hybridization (SSH) strategies were developed to
compare pooled ruminal DNA samples from cattle in Cluster 1 to those in Cluster 2 at
sample times +6h, +10h, +14h, and +18h. Suppressive subtraction hybridization was
                                            11

performed utilizing Cluster 2 as the tester (non-acidotic cattle) and Cluster 1 as the
driver (acidotic cattle). The SSH was hypothesized to result in unique DNA
fragments from organisms that resulted in lower levels of lactic acid and a higher pH
(ruminal energy modulating organism). By performing subtractions using samples
from time +1 Oh, the DNA fragments (genes) found, were from organisms that were
able to modulate the utilization of excess energy in the ruminal environment in the
form of RFC and alleviate potential effects of acidosis.
        Cloning and screening of unique tester sequence library:
        Strain specific DNA sequences that are recovered after subtraction were
cloned for further analysis. DNA sequences were inserted into the pCR2.1 vector
(Invitrogen) and transformed into E. coli chemically competent TOP 10 cells. The
transformation mixture was plated onto 22 x 22 cm LB agar plates containing 50
ptg/ml kanamycin and overlaid with 40 mg/ml X-gal in DMF. Plates were incubated
at 37*C for 24h. Recombinant colonies (white colonies) were picked into sterile
microtitre plates containing LB medium and kanamycin at 50 ig/ml. All wells
containing recombinant PCR products were separated into 1 ml aliquots. One aliquot
was purified using the Qiaquick PCR Purification Kit (Qiagen), with the second
aliquot pelleted via centrifugation, resuspended in LB+Kan + 10% glycerol and stored
at -80' C.
Southern Hybridization:
        Slot-blot hybridizations were conducted using standard protocols. To confirm
the specificity of the cloned DNA inserts, positively charged Zeta-Probe® Blotting
Membranes (Bio-Rad Laboratories; Hercules, CA) were hybridized with probes made
from the original tester and driver DNA digested with Alu I and labeled with the DIG
High Prime DNA labeling kit (Roche Diagnostics Corporation, Indianapolis, IN).
Recombinant inserts showing sequence homology to the tester DNA but not the driver
DNA was selected for sequence analysis. Hybridizations were conducted on cloned
inserts. At each time period, subtraction was performed, SSH 6, 10, 14, and 18.
From SSH 6, 10, 14, and 18, there were 12, 29, 105, and 29 cloned inserts,
respectively, that were tester specific.
        The DNA sequence from each tester positive insert was determined (Lark
Technologies; Houston, TX). Sequence from each insert was compared with
                                            12

sequences from the NCBI database using the blastX function. Nucleotide sequences
were translated and gene function was deduced by comparing sequences to those
found in the NCBI database using the blastX function. Gene function was placed in a
gene category using the Clusters of Orthologous Groups (COG) web site. Specific
COG genes identified were used to construct oligonucleotide probes for colony
hybridization and slot-blot hybridization experiments. Four genes of the twenty-nine
were selected from SSH 10 to be utilized for colony hybridization based upon
functional attributes based on selection from non-acidotic cattle. The genes were
selected from clones 79, 84, 94, and 110 were identified via using the NCBI blastX
function with assigned functions: beta-xylosidase, glucose/galactose transporter, 4
alpha-glucanotransferase, and 4-alpha-glucanotransferase, respectively. All genes
selected for colony hybridization had assigned properties as identified by COG as
Carbohydrate and Transport Metabolism function, which would have provided
bacteria containing these genes an advantage at metabolizing excess energy such as
that found in the rumen when challenged with RFC.
Colony Hybridization:
         Rumen fluid collected during the acidosis trial from cattle at times +1Oh,
+14h, and +18h was utilized. Cattle 2107, 2124, 2115, 2088, and 2133 were selected
from each of these time periods. These cattle are representative of animals that were
previously selected for the "tester population" or non-acidotic group. Individual
rumen samples were taken from -20' C and allowed to thaw at room temperature.
Thawed rumen samples were individually plated on three separate mediums in
duplicate. Media utilized consisted of sodium lactate agar (NLA), Lactate
Propionibacterium Selective Agar (LPSA), and modified reinforced Clostridial media
(RCS). The RCS was prepared similar to commercially available reinforced
Clostridial media sans glucose. Thus, the major carbohydrate source in RCS is starch.
Table 1 below indicates the incubation conditions and dilutions of rumen fluid plated
on each media.
 Table 1. Incubation conditions and dilutions plated on each media.
                                                 Incubation Conditions
    Media         02 Conditions       Incubation Time           Incubation Temperature Dilutions Plated
    LPSA            Anaerobic                7 Days                      32* C            10-1, 10-2
     NLA            Anaerobic                5 Days                      370 C            10-2, 10-3
     RCS            Anaerobic               48 Hours                     37* C            10-1, 10-2
                                                     13

        After incubation, individual colonies were picked off of each plate and
inoculated
into 10 ml broth tubes consisting of the respective media, except LPSA, which was
inoculated into NLB. Colonies were selected from each time period and each animal
(five cattle x three time periods). For the RCS media, five colonies were picked for
each animal-time period. The LPSA exhibited less colonies and diversity on the
plates and number of colonies selected per animal-time period was variable. Two
colonies per animal-time period were selected from the NLA media, except animal
2107 at time period 18. Six colonies were picked from this animal-time period due to
increased visible diversity. Not all inoculated tubes exhibited growth after incubation.
         Tubes showing growth were separated into two separate aliquots of 9 ml and 1
ml. The 1 ml aliquot was utilized for DNA isolation procedures utilizing the High
Pure PCR Template Preparation Kit (Roche Molecular Biochemicals; Mannheim,
Germany). The 9 ml aliquot was transferred to a sterile 15 ml Falcon Tube and
centrifuged until a solid pellet was formed. The pellet was then reconstituted in NLB
or RCS broths containing 10% glycerol. The reconstituted sample was placed in the
80'C for future use. The extracted DNA was then used for RAPD-PCR analysis of
individual isolates to determine phylogenic relationships. Analysis was performed
using Bio-Numerics (Applied Maths Inc., Austin, TX) on the RAPD DNA banding
patterns to determine the relatedness of the isolates. The similarity coefficient of
isolates was determined using the Dice coefficient and an un-weighted pair group
method (UPGMA). A similarity of 80% or greater was used to group the 109 isolates
into 65 separate clusters. Of the 65 clusters, 23 grew only on RCS, 11 grew only on
LPSA, 14 grew only on NLA, 4 clusters grew both on RCS and LPSA, 6 grew on
both RCS and NLA, 3 grew on both LPSA and NLA, and 4 clusters were found to be
present on all three media.
        Slot blot hybridizations were prepared utilizing the Bio-Dot SF Microfiltration
Apparatus (BIO-RAD; Hercules, CA). The genomic DNA of a single isolate within a
cluster was selected to represent the cluster and blotted onto membranes. Probes were
prepared for hybridization using the PCR DIG Probe Synthesis Kit (Roche Molecular
Biochemicals; Mannheim, Germany). Probes selected were derived from the cloned
insert analysis described above and consisted of four clone inserts (Clones 79, 84, 94,
and 110) from SSH10.       Labeled probes were pooled prior to hybridizations.
Hybridizations were conducted at 45'C for 5 hours. Colorimetric reactions were
                                            14

allowed to develop overnight on the membranes. Thirty of the 37 isolates (clusters) on
the RCS membrane exhibited hybridization as identified by colorimetric reaction and
25 of the 28 isolates on the LPSA/NLA membrane
        Isolates exhibiting hybridization were then prepared for 16s rRNA sequencing.
Briefly, the 16s rRNA of each of the 55 isolates was amplified via PCR using the
primers 8F (AGAGTTTGATYMTGGCTCAG) and 1406R
(ACGGGCGGTGTGTRC). The PCR product was purified using the QlAquick PCR
purification kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA). Purified product was analyzed by gel
electrophoresis. When sufficient product was available, the purified sample was sent
overnight on ice for single pass sequencing (Lark Technologies, Houston, TX). The
16s sequences from each cluster were compared with sequences from the NCBI
database using the blastn function. Organisms of interest brought forward from this
comparison consisted of Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-1, Enterococcusfaecium
strain 8G-73, and Bacilluspumilus strain 8G-134.
                                       Example 2
In vitro Strain Testing:
        Rumen fluid was collected for in vitro trials from two yearling Hereford
heifers. Heifers were identified by identification tags and were referred to as 101 and
133. Heifers were fed 6 lbs/head/day of dried distillers grain (DDGS) and had access
to free choice haylage.
        The in vitro protocol was followed as closely as possible to decrease
experimental error between each trial. Briefly, rumen fluid was collected from each
heifer and placed into marked, pre-warmed thermoses. Thermoses were transported
to Agtech Products, Inc. for processing. Rumen fluid was added in duplicate to
bottles containing McDougall's Buffer and 3.0% glucose (final concentration after
McDougall's Buffer and rumen fluid have been mixed to a volume of 180 ml), which
had been tempered to 39 *C. Candidate DFM strains, Enterococcusfaecium strain
8G-1, Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-73, and Bacilluspumilus strain 8G-134, were
added to designated bottles at 1.0 x 107 CFU/ml (final concentration). The unit of
observation was the bottle, and treatments were performed in quadruplicate.
Treatments consisted of Control (glucose added but no DFM), Enterococcusfaecium
strain 8G-1, Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-73, and Bacilluspumilus strain 8G-134.
Bottles were then purged with of CO 2 and capped. Bottles were maintained in a
                                           15

shaking water bath at 39'C and 140 rpm. Approximately 10 minutes prior to
 sampling, bottles were briefly vented to release gases produced as a byproduct of
fermentation. Rumen fluid was withdrawn from each bottle initially and every 6
hours until the 36 hour mark. Rumen pH and volatile fatty acids were measured and
recorded. Statistical analysis was performed using repeated measures analysis to
determine DFM effects over time or one-way ANOVA to determine treatment affects
at a specific points in time.
         The focus of the ruminal in vitro experiments was to determine if candidate
DFM strains, Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-1, Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-73,
and B. pumilus strain 8G-134, could positively influence ruminal fermentation in an
energy excess environment. Excess glucose was added to each ruminal in vitro, to
replicate cattle engorgement with a readily fermentable carbohydrate. As shown in
Figure 3, the addition of each of the candidate strains significantly increased the
utilization of glucose over time (P=0.0001). In comparison to the control (Figure 4),
the influence on lactic acid production over time was also significantly impacted by
the addition of the candidate DFM to the challenged in vitro model (P=0.0025). By
time point 36 hours, there was 17% less lactic acid production in the B. pumilus and
32% less lactic acid accumulation in both the Enterococcuscandidates.
         Volatile fatty acid analysis was performed via HPLC. Total VFA
(acetate+propionate+butyrate) were significantly affected by addition of the
Enterococcus candidates (P=0.0279) (Figure 5). The Enterococcus candidates, 8G- 1
and 8G-73, appeared to increase the amount of total VFA produced over time. There
was no significant affect on total VFA production when comparing the B. pumilus
candidate to that of the control.
         The in vitro results indicated that the candidate DFMs 8G-1, 8G-73, and 8G
134 positively affected ruminal fermentation by increasing glucose utilization without
a corresponding increase in lactic acid production in comparison to that of the control
treatment. Excess glucose in the rumen is typically fermented rapidly with the
production lactic acid. It is the accumulation of lactic acid which drives an acute
acidotic response. By utilizing glucose without the concomitant production of lactic
acid, the candidate DFMs have demonstrated the potential to ameliorate the affects of
acidosis. The ruminal in vitro model suggested that these strains may be able to
successfully modulate excess ruminal energy in cattle fed high amounts of readily
fermentable carbohydrates.
                                              16

                                                  Example 3
Candidate DFM Testing in Cattle Fed a Readily Fermentable Carbohydrate-an
Acute Acidosis Challenge:
          Materials and Methods:
                    Cattle and Pens Assignments:
          Twenty cross-bred beef steers were purchased at local sale barns. Cattle were
housed at the research facility for a period of two weeks prior to trial initiation for
observation of morbidity or mortality. Cattle were randomly blocked across treatment
by weight. Five head of cattle were assigned to a pen and pens designated to one of
four treatments. Treatments consisted of 3 pens each receiving a different DFM as is
detailed below with the fourth pen receiving no DFM (control). Treatment
assignments can be seen in Table 2 below.
          Table 2. Treatment assignments by pen.
                         Candidate     Minimum Dose
             Pen ID      DFM (TX)     (CFU/Head/Day)   16s rRNA Identification
                 1      None        0                  None (Control)
                2       8G-1        5 x 10             Enterococcus spp.
                3       8G-73       5 x 1010           Enterococcus spp.
                4       8G-1 34     5 x 10'            Bacillus pumilus
The daily feed ration for all treatment groups prior to challenge, consisted of 62.5%
roughage and 30% cracked corn and 7.5% protein supplement (Table 3) below. The
protein supplement contained monensin (Rumensin@) fed at 375 mg/head/day. The
protein supplement also contained tylosin phosphate (Tylan@).
  Table 3. Challenge Ration Composition
                                     Ingredient                                % of Diet (DM)
  Pre-challenge diet                 Ground Hay                                     62.5
                                     Cracked Corn                                    30
                                     Steakmaker@ K+45-25 R500 T1 80*                7.5
  Challenge Diet                     Steam Flaked Corn                              87.4
                                     Alfalfa Pellets                                5.1
                                     Steakmaker@ K+45-25 R500 T1 80*                7.5
  *Both rations contain Rumensin and Tylan.
Cattle were fed 15 lbs/head/day of the ration once in the morning and had any
remaining feed pushed closer to the feeding stanchion late in the afternoon. Fourteen
days prior to fasting, treatment groups were fed candidate DFMs at the dose
designated in Table 2 above as a top dressing on the daily ration.
                                                     17

        Bacilluspumilus strain 8G-134 was fed at a minimum of 5 x 109
CFU/Head/Day. The Enterococcus candidates 8G-1 and 8G-73 were fed at 5 x 1010
CFU/Head/Day.
Candidate DFM Preparation:
        Candidate DFM strains, previously selected for the challenge trial, were
Enterococcusspp. 8G-1 and 8G-73; and Bacilluspumilus strain 8G-134. Strains were
stored at -80*C. Each culture was inoculated into 10 ml broth tubes containing MRS
(Man, Rogosa and Sharp) or TSB (tryptic soy broth). Broth tubes were incubated for
24 hours at 320 and 37'C for the Bacillus and Enterococcuscandidates, respectively.
Cultures were struck for isolation on respective agar medium and incubated. An
isolated colony was picked into 10 ml of broth and allowed to grow to mid log phase
(18 to 24 h) and transferred into fresh broth (10% vol/vol transfer). Enterococcus
candidates were grown at 374C in MRS broth. Bacillus was grown at in a shaking
incubator at 130 rpm at 32'C in horizontal TSB tubes. For the growth of
Enterococcus,2 ml were transferred into a 250 ml bottle containing 198 ml of broth
and incubated for 18hrs.
        The 200 ml of culture was inoculated into a 2 L bottle containing 1.8 L of
broth and allowed to incubate for 18hr. For the Bacillus candidates, 5 ml were
transferred into a 250 flask containing 50 ml of TSB and then was incubated at 32'C
in a shaking incubator at 130 rpm for 24hr. The 50 ml was used to inoculate a IL
flask containing 600 ml and allowed to incubate for another 24 hours.
        The optical density (OD) of the 18hr culture of Enterococcus candidates was
taken before harvesting the cells. The OD was compared to previous growth curves
to determine the cfu/ml of culture. Samples were plated for enumeration and genetic
fingerprinting. Quality control was ensured between each fermentation batch via
RAPD-PCR analysis. With a target minimum of 5.0elO cfu/head/day for
Enterococcuscandidates, the calculated amount of culture was dispensed into 250 ml
Nalgen centrifuge bottle and spun at 4*C for 10min at 4500 rpm. Target minimum for
Bacillus candidate was 5.0e9 ofu/head/day, and a total of 100 ml of the Bacillus
culture was spun down similar to the Enterococcus. Supernatant was discarded. The
pellet was resuspended in 30 ml of growth media containing 10% glycerol. This
amount was transferred to a 50 ml conical tube. The centrifuge bottles were then
rinsed with 10 ml of broth and transferred to the same conical tube. Samples were
                                            18

labeled with strain, date the candidate was harvested, and fermentation batch number.
Plate counts were used to determine the total cfu in each tube. Tubes were combined
to deliver counts of a minimum of 5.Oe10 cfu/head/day for Enterococcuscandidates
and 5.0e9 cfu/head/day for Bacillus candidates. All conical tubes were frozen at
200 C
Challenge Diet and Rumen Fluid Collection Phase:
         Rumen fluid samples were obtained from individual animals via ruminal
intubation using a collection tube fitted with a strainer and attached to a vacuum
source through a vacuum flask. The pH was immediately measured after rumen fluid
acquisition and samples were frozen to be transported to Agtech Products, Inc. for
VFA analysis. Samples were collected from all cattle at sample times -12h, +6h,
+10h, +14h, +18h, +22h, +30h, +36h, and +48h, with time Oh representing the
initiation of the challenge. All feed was removed from the cattle at time -24h to
initiate the fast and encourage cattle to engorge the challenge ration at time 0.
         All pens were fasted for 24 hours before challenge with the concentrate diet
(Time 0). The concentrate diet consisted of 28 lb flake weight steam flaked corn
(Table 3 above). The challenge ration was fed to deliver 20 lbs/head. Challenge
ration consumption was visually monitored and additional feed added on an as needed
basis through the remainder of the trial.
         Ruminal samples were collected every 4 hours from all cattle from +6 to +22
hours. Each rumen sample pH was analyzed immediately after acquisition. Rumen
fluid was then frozen and transported to Agtech Products, Inc. for VFA analysis via
HPLC. Repeated measures analysis was performed on rumen pH, VFAs, and glucose
levels using individual animal as the unit of observation. Pairwise comparisons were
performed over time between each candidate DFM treatment pens and the control pen
to determine the candidates' effectiveness to alter ruminal fermentation patterns.
         Results and Discussion:
         Twenty head of crossbred beef cattle weighing on average 731.95 lbs were
randomly blocked by weight across treatments such that there were no significant
differences by weight between treatment groups (Table 4). There were 3 treatment
pens and one control pen with five head/pen. Treatment assignment per pen can be
seen in Table 2 above.
                                             19

  Table 4. Treatment assignments by pen.
                                                                                    Average Feed Consumption/Steer
       Pen        Treatment       N        Ave. Pen Weight inlbs (SD)                      (%of Body Weight)
        1           Control       5                731.6 (79.94)                                    4.8
        2             8G-1        5                741.2 (94.03)                                    3.9
        3            8G-73        5                731.6 (70.12)                                    3.7
        4           8G-134        5                727.6 (72.71)                                    3.6
 'Average feed consumptionlsteer was calculated as apercentage of the average steer weight for that pen
           Cattle were fed challenge ration at time 0 and rumen fluid was collected at
designated time points to measure ruminal fermentation values. Feed consumption
per pen was monitored and recorded after 24 hours. Average feed consumption/steer
was calculated as a percentage of the average steer weight for that pen (Table 4
above). The control pen (pen 1) appeared to have the highest consumption of feed in
comparison to the other treatment groups with the average steer consuming 4.8% of
its body weight. The lowest challenge ration consumption/pen was in pen 4 with the
average steer eating approximately 3.6% of its body weight. Cattle in all pens on
average would have been consuming approximately 5.625 lbs of concentrate/day as
part of the pre-challenge ration, which on average would have constituted 0.8% of the
average steers' body weight. Despite the pen variation of challenge ration
consumption, the difference was not greater than the increase in concentrate
consumption from the pre-challenge ration and would not be causative in
fermentation differences between pens.
           After 24 hours, feed was removed from the cattle and ground prairie hay was
fed ad libitum. Cattle were given free choice hay as a precaution against the
continually decreasing rumen pHs. The addition of hay would stimulate additional
cud chewing and help to buffer the rumen. Despite the addition of hay, the ruminal
pH still continued to decline.
           Immediately after rumen fluid collection, sample pH was analyzed. All
treatment groups exhibited a decline in ruminal pH as can be observed in Figure 6.
The pH for the control group achieved nadir at time 30 hours and began to gradually
climb thereafter. By the last rumen sample collection the mean pH for the control pen
was still acutely acidotic with a pH of 4.94. Acute acidosis is associated with pH that
remains below 5.2 and chronic or subacute acidosis characterized by a pH below 5.6
(Owens, et. al., 1998).            Mean numerically higher trends appeared for strains 8G-1,
8G-73, and 8G-134 in pens 2, 3, and 4 when compared to that of the control from time
+22 to +48. This suggests that cattle treated with the candidate DFMs in these pens
                                                              20

recovered more quickly from the acidotic challenge. Mean pH for the for cattle
treated with 8G-1, 8G-73, and 8G-134 at time +48 was 5.96, 6.02, and 6.14,
respectively, which is greater than 1.0 pH unit above the control pen. Repeated
measures analysis of these three strain over time (+6 to +48) did not exhibit
significant differences when compared to the control pen. However when pH
comparisons of pens treated with 8G-1, 8G-73, and 8G-134 to the control pen from
time +22h to +48h were performed, differences were or approached significance (P        =
0.1562, 0.0965, and 0.0466 for 8G-1, 8G-73, and 8G-134, respectively).
         Average lactic acid profiles for all treatment groups are shown in Figure 7.
Mean ruminal lactic acid accumulation peaks at 105 mM for the control pen 30 hours
after receiving challenge ration. Candidate DFM strains 8G-1, 8G-73, and 8G-134
again exhibited visible mean numeric differences in lactate accumulation in
comparison to that of the control pen. Mean lactic acid accumulation was similar
between the control cattle and the 8G-1 treated cattle through the first 14 hours of the
challenge. Subsequent accumulation levels for the remainder of the trial were much
less in the 8G- 1 treated cattle although not significant (P= 0.1892). Treatment pens
8G-73 demonstrated decreased levels of lactic acid accumulation at times 30 and
remained lower than the control pen for the remainder of the trial. Candidate strain
8G- 134 also showed decreased levels of lactic acid starting at +22h and remained
consistently lower than the control pen through +48h.
         Individual VFAs were measured and analyzed. Volatile fatty acid (VFA)
concentrations increased in the control pen and treatments 8G-73 and 8G-134 and
peaked at six hours (Figure 8). After six hours each of these treatment pens showed
declining levels of total VFA (acetate, propionate and butyrate). There were no
significant differences between these treatments and the control. Treatment 8G-1,
however, exhibited a delay in VFA decline which did not occur until +14h. Over the
course of the trial there were no significant differences in total VFA concentration or
the individual VFA (consisting of acetate, propionate, or butyrate) levels.
         In addition to monitoring and measuring ruminal fermentation characteristics
over the course of the acidotic trial, cattle were observed throughout the trial for
visible clinical effects associated with acidosis. Early in the acidotic challenge (+Oh
to +14h), the effects of the challenge diet were minimal. Cattle did not show signs of
depression and continued to feed on the challenge ration. By +22 hours post
receiving the challenge ration all cattle except those in receiving Treatment 8G-1)
                                              21

were showing signs of soreness, depression, and had loose, liquid fecal excretion.
Cattle in pen 2 were no longer consuming feed, but did not exhibit clinical symptoms,
despite similar having similarly declining pH levels.
         Acute ruminal acidosis by definition is the decline in ruminal pH to levels
deleterious not only to rumen function but also livestock health. Acute acidosis is
marked by the accumulation of lactic acid and the decline in VFA production. Proper
rumen function is a combination of managing the available energy and nitrogen
components available in feedstuffs. When imbalances in ruminal metabolism occur,
digestive upset typically follows and can manifest in the form acidosis. In this trial,
strains 8G-1, 8G-73, and 8G-134 enhanced the recovery of rumen function as
indicated by ruminal fermentation parameters.
         Cattle fed 8G-1, Enterococcusfaecium,on average recovered more quickly
from the acidosis challenge as measured by pH recovery and lactic acid decline. In
addition to the measured ruminal fermentation patterns, cattle fed candidate DFM 8G
 1 did not exhibit clinical signs associated with acidosis.
         Candidate strain 8G-73, Enterococcusfaecium,improved ruminal
fermentation through the course of the trial. Mean lactic acid levels were the lowest
for all candidate strains tested at +48h at 12.54 mM. A corresponding increase in pH
was also associated with the recovery with a final pH of 6.02, which was 1.08 pH
units higher than that of the control.
         Candidate strain 8G-134, Bacilluspumilus, also enhanced ruminal recovery
during the acidotic challenge. Mean lactic acid levels, in cattle fed 8G-134, peaked at
89mM at time +22h, while the control pen continued to increase and peaked at
105mM at time +30 hours. Mean lactic acid levels had dropped to 57mM by +30
hours. As with lactic acid accumulation, ruminal pH in cattle fed 8G-134 recovered
more quickly than that of the control and was found to be significantly different from
+22 to +48h (P=0.0466).
                                         Example 4
         Summary:
         Thirty prima and multiparous Holstein cows were blocked by previous
lactation and predicted producing ability (PPA) and assigned to one of three
treatments. Ten cows were assigned per treatment and treatments consisted of a
control group (Treatment 1) which received a basal total mixed ration (TMR),
                                             22

Treatment 2 and Treatment 3 which received basal total mixed ration TMR and were
fed Bacilluspumilus 8G-134 at 5 x 10' and 1 x 10' CFU/head/day, respectively, from
3 weeks prepartum to 22 week after parturition. The primary objective was to
determine the effects of B. pumilus 8G- 134 on dairy cow milk production and
performance above control cattle during this time period. The secondary objective
was to determine if there was a dose response associated with feeding B. pumilus 8G
134. The B. pumilus 8G-134 regimens significantly increased milk production, milk
fat, and decreased somatic cell count. These significant B. pumilus 8G-134
production effects did not come at the expense of cow body condition score, body
weight, increases in dry matter intake or significantly change blood metabolite
profiles, and would indicate B. pumilus 8G-134 also provided dairy cow efficiency
benefits.
        Materials and Methods:
                Livestock:
        Thirty Holstein cows were randomly assigned to one of three dietary
treatments in a continuous lactation trial from 3 weeks prior to parturition through 22
weeks postpartum. There were no significant differences for previous milk yield for
second and older cows or for predicted producing ability (PPA) for first lactation
cows for the different treatment groups. The numbers of first and second lactation
animals deviated between the groups, but did not influence overall mean production,
as lactation was adjusted in the statistical model. Animals were on study from
approximately three weeks prepartum through 22 weeks postpartum.
               Nutrition:
        Dietary ingredients and formulated composition of total mixed rations (TMRs)
are presented in Table 5 below for dry and lactating cows, respectively. The base
TMR was the same for each group and differed by top dress treatment. Each group
received a top dress of 8 ounces of finely ground corn to which was added 1 ounce of
maltodextrin (Treatment 1, control), Bacillus spp at 5 x 109 CFU/head/day (Treatment
2), and Bacillus spp at 1 x 1010 CFU/head/day (Treatment 3).
Table 5. Formulated composition of the TMR offered to dry and lactating cows.
                               Dry Period             Lactating Period
Ingredients, % DM basis
                                             23

 Corn Silage                    52.57                           39.14
 Ryelage                        18.54
 Alfalfa haylage                                                16.52
 Grass hay                      14.45                            1.77
 SBM48                           5.74                           10.77
 Blood Meal                      4.41
AminoPlus                                                        6.01
 Corn                            2.41                          21.07
 Fat                             0.65                            1.42
Limestone                                                        1.26
 Sodium bicarbonate                                              0.84
MagOx                            0.65                            0.42
 Salt                            0.32                            0.53
TMin Vit                         0.27                            0.26
 Composition, % DM
 CP                             16.50                           16.64
 SP, % CP                       32.29                          28.58
NDF                             41.06                          30.65
 Starch                         19.56                          29.82
Sugar                            3.19                            2.68
NFC                             33.47                          41.87
Fat                              3.82                            4.15
Ca                               0.31                            0.87
P                                0.29                            0.34
Mg                               0.54                            0.42
K                                1.72                            1.33
NeL, meal/kg                     1.60                            1.74
                 Sample and Data Collection:
        Daily TMR samples and refusals were collected and composited weekly,
weekly composites combined monthly, and monthly samples were analyzed for dry
matter (DM), crude protein (CP), acid detergent fiber bound protein (ADF-CP),
neutral detergent fiber bound protein (NDF-CP), soluble protein (SP), acid detergent
fiber (ADF), neutral detergent fiber (NDF), lignin, fat, starch, sugar, ash, calcium
(Ca), phosporus (P), magnesium (Mg), potassium (K), sulfur (S), sodium (Na),
chlorine (CI), iron (Fe), manganese (Mn), zinc (Zn), and copper (Cu) by Cumberland
Valley Analytical Services, Maugansville, MD.
        Cows were milked twice a day, and milk volume was recorded electronically
at each milking and am-pm amounts summed for daily total. Once a week milk
samples from am and pm milkings were composited for analysis of content of fat,
protein, somatic cells, solids not fat, and milk urea nitrogen (MUN) by Dairy One
                                            24

milk laboratory in State College, PA using a Fossamatic 4000 (FOSS; Eden Prairie,
MN).
        Animals were on study from approximately three weeks prepartum through 22
weeks postpartum. Animal weight was estimated by heart girth circumference on
weeks 1, 3, 7, 11, 15 and 18 postpartum. Body condition was assessed by two
independent observers at the same time as body weight was collected.
        Blood samples were collected from the coccygeal vein, serum harvested,
frozen and analyzed for glucose, beta-hydroxy butyrate (BHB), and non-esterified
fatty acids (NEFA) at weeks 2 and 8 postpartum. Glucose and BHB were analyzed
using an Abbott Precision XtraTM meter (Abbott Diabetes Care Inc., Alameda, CA). A
Randox assay kit (Cat. HN 1530, Randox Laboratories, Northern Ireland) was used to
measure non-esterified fatty acid (NEFA) concentration in serum adopted to an
enzyme linked immunosorbant assay (ELISA) plate reader at a wave length of 550
nm for multiple samples. The Randox kit uses Acyl CoA synthetase and oxidase to
convert NEFA to 2,3-trans-Enoyl-CoA plus peroxide; peroxide plus N-ethyl-N-(2
hydroxy-3-sulphopropyl) m-toluene leads to a purple product, which is the indicator
of NEFA concentration in serum.
               Statistical Models.
        Milk production and content, body weight, and body condition score were
analyzed using the mixed procedure in SAS statistical software. Cow was the repeated
subject with the covariance matrix set to type 1 correlation structure. Daily milk
observations were aggregated by week postpartum. The statistical model was as
follows:
               Yi = ui + TRTj + Lactk + Weeki + TRTj*Lactk + TRTj*Weeki+
TRTj*Lactk* Week, + ejklm
        Where
               Yi    least square mean of the production dependent variables;
               ui= overall mean of the various production variables;
               TRTj = jth treatment effect, 1, 2, 3;
               Lactk = kth lactation, 1, 2+;
               Week, = Ith week, l.22;
               interaction terms (TRTj *Lactk + TRTj*Weekl + TRTj *Lactk*Weekl)
                                            25

                ejlm = error
        Monthly samples of TMR and feed refusals for each treatment were tested for
difference using means procedure in SAS.
        Blood concentrations of glucose, BHB, and NEFA, were analyzed using the
general linear models in SAS statistical software. Class variables were cow, week and
treatment. Treatment was nested in cow and was the error term for testing treatment
significance. Treatment by week interaction was tested for statistical significance
using the residual error.
        Results:
        Mean TMR composition for dry and lactating TMRs is presented in Table 6
over the course of the study. Composition was not different between the treatment
groups.
                                           26

Table 6. Analyzed composition of TMR for dry cows and lactating cows
                      Treatment, % DM basis --          ---------------------
Item                   1             2             3               SEM
Dry TMR
N                       3              3             3
CP                     13.64         13.17          13.11          0.14
ADF                   29.55          28.37         27.88           0.53
NDF                   48.54          48.04         47.14           0.93
Lignin                  3.64           3.52          3.58          0.09
Starch                 18.74         18.19          17.97          0.87
Sugar                   6.71           6.15          6.57          0.23
Ash                     8.44           7.56          7.79          0.10
NFC                   39.49          36.93         38.20           0.86
Ca                      0.49           0.46          0.47          0.01
P                       0.37           0.35          0.35          0.004
Lactating TMR
N                       9              9             9
CP, %                  14.54         14.81          14.37          0.10
ADF, %                21.54         21.38          21.64           0.25
NDF, %                33.51          33.21         33.30           0.32
Lignin, %               3.27           3.27          3.26          0.06
Starch, %             25.36         26.52          25.48           0.38
Sugar, %                6.25           6.15          6.25          0.15
Fat, %                  3.69           3.65          3.62          0.04
Ash, %                  8.73           8.67          8.60          0.09
NFC, %                41.22         42.02          41.44           0.34
Ca, %                   0.95           0.97          0.96          0.005
P, %                    0.36           0.36          0.36          0.003
standard error means (SEM),
NFC, nonfiber carbohydrate
NDF, neutral detergent fiber
ADF, acid detergent fiber
Treatment 1 control; Treatment 2, Bacilluspumilus at 8G-134 5 x 109 ; Treatment 3,
Bacilluspumilus 8G-134 at 1 x 1010.
        One control (Treatment 1) cow exhibited abnormal milk production and her
data was removed from the data analysis. The analysis of milk production was
repeated on 29 cows. Milk production was significantly influenced by treatment
(Table 7 below). Cows fed the Bacilluspumilus 8G-134 at 5 x 109 CFU/head/day
(Treatment 2), and Bacilluspumilus 8G- 134 at 1 x 1010 CFU/head/day (Treatment 3)
                                          27

produced significantly more milk than the cows fed the placebo control. Cows on
Treatment 2 and 3 produced approximately 2 kg more milk than treatments 1 (Table
7). There was a significant interaction with parity. Production increases were
significant in second parity cows by 5.2 kg, but no significant differences in milk
production in first parity cows.
Table 7. Least square mean milk production in Holstein cows from calving through
22 weeks postpartum fed a microbial additive.
Effect     Treatment       Lactation   Milk, kg/d                Change relative to
                                         kg/d          sem        control, kg/d     sem
Treatment        1                     33.12a          0.65           0.00
        0.66
Treatment       2                      3 5 . 3 8b      0.60           2.30*
        0.60
Treatment       3                      3 5 .0 8 '      0.61           1.99*
        0.61
Lactation                       1      31.59a         0.47            -0.83
        0.47
Lactation                       2      3 6 .8 4 '     0.39             3.09*
        0.39
Interaction
                1               1      32.44a          1.07            0.00
         1.07
                2               1      31.70a         0.93            -0.72
        0.93
                3               1      31.36a         0.93            -1.07
        0.93
                1              2       3 3 .8 0 '     0.74             0.00
        0.74
                2              2       39.06c         0.76             5.24*
        0.76
                3              2       38.79c         0.79             5.17*
        0.79
Means within group with different superscript differ, P<0.05
Mean change with * differ significantly from 0
Treatment 1 control; Treatment 2, Bacilluspumilus at 8G-134 5 x 109 ; Treatment 3,
Bacilluspumilus 8G-134 at 1 x 1010.
                                              28

         Milk fat and yield are presented in Table 8 below. Milk fat was significantly
increased by Treatments 2 and 3 above the control. Yield responses followed milk
yield with fat yield increased in the Bacilluspumilus 8G-134 fed treatment groups.
Bacillus pumilus 8G-134 cattle for treatment 2 and 3 yielded significantly higher fat
percentage above that of the control with 0.24% and 0.31% higher levels, respectively
(Table 8). Coupled with the significant increase in milk production, daily fat yield for
both treatment 2 and 3 provided significant increases in daily fat production above
that of the control (Table 8).
Table 8. Milk fat content by treatment groups.
Effect     Treatment       Lactation    Fat, % sem       Fat Yield , kg/d    sem
Treatment        1                      3.57a 0.09            1.206a         0.042
                2                       3.81 b 0.08           1.35           0.039
                3                       3.88    0.08          1.351          0.039
Lactation                       1       3.76    0.06          1.159a         0.030
                                2       3.78    0.05          1.395          0.025
Means within column with different superscript differ by P<0.05
Treatment 1 control; Treatment 2, Bacilluspumilus at 8G-134 5 x 109 ; Treatment 3,
Bacillus pumilus 8G-134 at 1 x 10".
         Log of the linear Somatic cell count (LogSCC) scores were different by
treatment and lactation. The Bacilluspumilus 8G-1 34 treatments (Treatments 2 and 3)
had significantly lower log linear score than the control cows (Table 9 below).
Treatments 2 and 3 cows had LogSCC of 4.97 and 4.96, respectively compared to
those of the control cows at 5.92. Parity two cows had significantly higher log linear
score than first lactation cows. Somatic cell counts are associated with infection as
well as immunological status and health of the lactating dairy cow. Additionally
increased SCC is indicative of inflammatory responses to infection. Decreases in
SCC demonstrated here may indicate that cows fed the Bacilluspumilus 8G-1 34 are
better immunologically to handle infectious challenge during lactation and maintain
udder and cow health.
                                             29

Table 9. Treatment effects on Somatic Cell Count (SCC).
Effect     Treatment       Lactation   LogSCC         sem
Treatment        1                     5.92a          0.32
                2                      4.97'          0.30
                3                      4.96'          0.30
Lactation                       1      5.27a          0.23
                                2      5 .8 6 '       0.19
LogScc = log of somatic cell count
Treatment 1 control; Treatment 2, Bacilluspumilus at 8G-134 5 x 109 ; Treatment 3,
Bacilluspumilus 8G-134 at 1 x 10".
         Data for mean DMI for groups for dry and lactating periods in Table 10
below. Dry matter intake for dry cows ranged from 10.79 to 11.64 kg/d across the
groups. Lactating groups consumed 22.02, 21.31 and 21.48 kg/d for treatment groups
1, 2, and 3, respectively (Table 10). Predicted DMI based on the NRC equation for
cows by week postpartum is presented in Table 10. Intake for treatment 1 was 0.83 kg
higher than predicted; intake for treatment 2 was -1.37 kg lower than predicted; intake
for treatment 3 was -1.04 kg lower than predicted. The increase in milk production on
the Treatments 2 and 3 was accomplished with no increase in DMI. In fact the
predicted or expected DMI based on NRC predictions compared to the group mean
intake suggests these cows consumed 1.0 to 1.5 kg/d less DMI. Thus, the efficiency
of DM utilization was increased on Treatments 2 and 3.
                                              30

Table 10. Least square means for group feed intake, serum glucose, beta-hydroxy
butyrate, non-esterified fatty acids, by treatment group.
                        -------------- Treatment group-----------------
Item                           1        sem             2    sem          3     sem
Dry Matter Intake, kg/d
Dry cows                     10.79      0.27           11.64 0.25        11.12
0.25
Lactating cows              22.02       0.11          21.31 0.11         21.48
0.11
Predicted DMI, kg/d         21.19       0.58          22.68 0.57         22.52
0.58
Serum values
  Glucose, mg/dl            53.95       1.98           51.5  1.98         53.5
 1.98
  Beta-OH butyrate, mg/dl 1.05          0.15           0.88  0.15         1.15
0.15
  NEFA, ueq/ml                0.23      0.04           0.16  0.04         0.17
0.04
Serum values by week, 2, 8;
  Glucose, mg/dl,           52.90       2.80          47.00 2.80         48.90
2.80
                            55.00       2.80          56.00 2.80         58.10
2.80
  BHB, mg/dl                  0.92      0.21            0.86 0.21         1.39
0.21
                              1.17      0.21            0.89 0.21         0.91
0.21
  NEFA, ueq/ml                0.41      0.05            0.23 0.05         0.28
0.05
                              0.07      0.05            0.10 0.05         0.07
0.05
BHB = beta-hydroxy butyrate
Treatment 1 control; Treatment 2, Bacilluspumilus at 8G-134 5 x 109; Treatment 3,
Bacilluspumilus 8G-134 at 1 x 1010.
Predicted DMI = (.372*FCM + 0.0968*BWT(kg)A.75)*(1-exp(-0.192*(Week+3.67)))
        The DMI differences and production values could suggest that cows on
Treatments 2 and 3 could have mobilized more body tissue than the control cows to
produce more milk and eat less than expected. However, serum NEFA, glucose, and
                                             31

 BHB suggest these cows were in similar energy status as control cows (Table 10
 above). Additionally, body weight and BCS were similar for the Bacillus groups
relative to the control group (Table 11 below). This suggests they did not mobilize
more body tissue to produce the additional milk volume, indicating feed conversion
 efficiency in cows feed Treatments 2 and 3 regardless of dose.
Table 11. Least square mean body weight (lb) and body condition score by treatment
 groups. Body condition score is the average score of two observers.
Effect      -Treatment      Lactation    Wt,        sem               BCS    sem
                                                 (lb)
Treatment         1                      1343.10 28.49                2.92   0.03
                  2                      1324.60 27.54                3.13   0.03
                  3                      1388.02     27.73            3.06   0.03
Lactation                        1       1223.31     21.87            3.04   0.02
Lactation                        2       1476.62     17.94            3.01   0.02
Interaction Treatment x lactation
                  1              1       1170.78     27.72            3.06   0.05
                 2               1       1242.64     25.26            3.17   0.05
                  3              1       1208.50     24.00            2.94   0.05
                  1              2       1486.02     19.33            2.78   0.04
                 2               2       1406.42     19.96            3.10   0.04
                 3               2       1547.85     20.79            3.19   0.04
Wt = weight, lbs
BCS = body condition score, scale 1 to 5 by 0.25 points; 1=emaciated, 2=thin, 3=
average, 4= fat, 5=obese
Treatment 1 control; Treatment 2, Bacilluspumilusat 8G-134 5 x 109; Treatment 3,
Bacilluspumilus 8G-134 at 1 x 101.
         It is understood that the various preferred embodiments are shown and
described above to illustrate different possible features described herein and the
varying ways in which these features may be combined. Apart from combining the
different features of the above embodiments in varying ways, other modifications are
also considered to be within the scope described herein. The invention is not intended
to be limited to the preferred embodiments described above.
                                             32

                                         BIBLIOGRAPHY
        Allison, M.J., M. Robinson, R.W. Dougherty, and J.A. Bucklin. 1975. Grain
overload in cattle and sheep: Changes in microbial populations in the cecum and
rumen. Amer. J. Vet Res. 36:181.
        Dunlop, R.H.. 1972. Pathogenesis of ruminant lactic acidosis. Adv. Vet Sci.
Comp Med. 16:259.
        Elam, C.J. 1976. Acidosis in feedlot cattle: Practical observations. J. Anim.
Sci. 43:898.
        Hungate, R.E., R.W. Dougherty, M.P. Bryant, and R.M. Cello. 1952.
Microbiological and physiological changes associated with acute indigestion in sheep.
Cornell Vet. 42:423.
        Muir, L.A., E.L. Rickes, P.F. Duquette, and G.E. Smith. 1981. Prevention of
induced lactic acidosis in cattle by thiopeptin. J. Anim. Sci. 52:635.
        Owens, F.N., Secrist, D.S., Hill, W.J., Gill, D.R. 1998. Acidosis in cattle: a
review. J. Anim. Sci. 76:275-286.
        Slyter, L.L. 1976. Influence of acidosis on rumen function. J. Anim. Sci.
43:910.
        Yang, W., 2004. Effects of direct-fed microbial supplementation on ruminal
acidosis, digestibility, and bacterial protein synthesis in continuous culture. Animal
Feed Science and Technology, 114(4): 179 - 193.
                                             33

                                           CLAIMS
  1.     An isolated strain selected from the group consisting of Enterococcusfaecium
 strain 8G-1 (NRRL B-50173), a strain having all of the identifying characteristics of
 Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-1 (NRRL B-50173), Enterococcusfaecium strain 8G
 73 (NRRL B-50172), a strain having all of the identifying characteristics of
 Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-73 (NRRL B-50172), Bacilluspumilus strain 8G-134
 (NRRL B-50174), a strain having all of the identifying characteristics of Bacillus
pumilus strain 8G-134 (NRRL B-50174), and combinations thereof.
 2.      The strain of claim 1, wherein the strain is Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-1
 (NRRL B-50173).
 3.      The strain of claim 1, wherein the strain is a strain having all of the identifying
 characteristics of Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-1 (NRRL B-50173).
 4.      The strain of claim 1, wherein the strain is Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-73
 (NRRL B-50172).
 5.      The strain of claim 1, wherein the strain is a strain having all of the identifying
 characteristics of Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-73 (NRRL B-50172).
 6.      The strain of claim 1, wherein the strain is Bacilluspumilus strain 8G-134
 (NRRL B-50174).
 7.      The strain of claim 1, wherein the strain is a strain having all of the identifying
 characteristics of Bacilluspumilus strain 8G-134 (NRRL B-50174).
 8.      A combination comprising:
                 an isolated strain selected from the group consisting of Enterococcus
faecium strain 8G-1 (NRRL B-50173), a strain having all of the identifying
 characteristics of Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G- 1 (NRRL B-50173), Enterococcus
faecium strain 8G-73 (NRRL B-50172), a strain having all of the identifying
 characteristics of Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-73 (NRRL B-50172), Bacillus
                                              34

pumilus strain 8G-134 (NRRL B-50174), a strain having all of the identifying
characteristics of Bacilluspumilus strain 8G-134 (NRRL B-50174), and combinations
thereof; and
                monensin.
9.      A method comprising administering to an animal an effective amount of a
strain selected from the group consisting of a strain selected from the group consisting
of Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-1 (NRRL B-50173), a strain having all of the
identifying characteristics of Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-1 (NRRL B-50173),
Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-73 (NRRL B-50172), a strain having all of the
identifying characteristics of Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-73 (NRRL B-50172),
Bacillus pumilus strain 8G-134 (NRRL B-50174), a strain having all of the
identifying characteristics of Bacilluspumilus strain 8G-134 (NRRL B-50174), and
combinations thereof.
 10.    The method of claim 9, wherein upon administration to the animal, the strain
provides at least one of the following benefits in or to the animal when compared to
an animal not administered the strain: (a) reduces acidosis, (b) stabilizes ruminal
metabolism as indicated by delayed lactic acid accumulation and prolonged
production of volatile fatty acids, (c) recovers more quickly from acidosis challenge
as measured by pH recovery and lactic acid decline, and (d) reduces exhibition of
clinical signs associated with acidosis, (e) increases milk production, (f) increases
milk fat content, (g) decreases somatic cell count (SCC), (h) improves immunological
response and health as evidenced by decreased SCC, and (i) increases efficiency of
milk production.
11.     The method of claim 9, wherein the animal is a ruminant.
12.     The method of claim 9, wherein the animal is a bull, steer, heifer, cow or calf.
13.     The method of claim 9, wherein the strain is Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-1
(NRRL B-50173), Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-73 (NRRL B-50172), or
combinations thereof, and wherein the strain is administered to the animal at a level
                                             35

such that the animal is dosed daily with about 5 x 108 CFU/animal/day to about 5 x
1010 CFU/animal/day.
14.      The method of claim 9, wherein the strain is Bacilluspumilus strain 8G-134
(NRRL B-50174), and wherein the strain is administered to the animal at a level such
that the animal are dosed daily with about 5 x 108 CFU/animal/day to about 5 x 1010
CFU/animal/day.
 15.     The method of claim 11, wherein the strain is administered to the animal
starting from about 30 days of age.
 16.     The method of claim 9, wherein the animal is a beef animal.
 17.     The method of claim 9, wherein the animal is a dairy cow.
 18.     The method of claim 17, wherein upon administration to the dairy cow, the
strain provides at least one of the following benefits in or to the dairy cow when
compared to a dairy cow not administered the strain: (a) the strain increases daily fat
yield and milk fat percent in the dairy cow administered the strain, (b) the strain
lowers the log Somatic cell count (LogSCC) scores in the dairy cow administered the
strain, (e) improves immunological response and health as evidenced by decreased
LogSCC, (d) increases efficiency of milk production in dairy cow administered the
strain, and (a) when the dairy cows are second parity or greater cows, the strain
increases milk production of milk in the dairy cow administered the strain.
 19.     The method of claim 18, wherein the increase in milk production in the dairy
cow administered the strain is achieved with substantially no increase in dry matter
intake in the dairy cow administered the strain.
20.      The method of claim 9, wherein the strain is Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G- 1
(NRRL B-50173) or a strain having all of the identifying characteristics of
Enterococcusfaecium strain 8G-1 (NRRL B-50173).
                                            36

 21.     The method of claim 9, wherein the strain is Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G
 73 (NRRL B-50172) or a strain having all of the identifying characteristics of
 Enterococcusfaecium strain 8G-73 (NRRL B-50172).
 22.     The method of claim 9, wherein the strain is Bacilluspumilus strain 8G-134
 (NRRL B-50174) or a strain having all of the identifying characteristics of Bacillus
pumilus strain 8G-134 (NRRL B-50174).
 23.     A method comprising administering to an animal a combination comprising:
         an effective amount of a strain selected from the group consisting of
 Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-1 (NRRL B-50173), a strain having all of the
 identifying characteristics of Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-1 (NRRL B-50173),
 Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-73 (NRRL B-50172), a strain having all of the
 identifying characteristics of Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-73 (NRRL B-50172),
 Bacillus pumilus strain 8G-134 (NRRL B-50174), a strain having all of the
 identifying characteristics of Bacilluspumilus strain 8G-134 (NRRL B-50174), and
 combinations thereof; and
         monensin.
 24.     A method of making a direct-fed microbial, the method comprising:
         (a)     growing in a liquid nutrient broth a strain selected from the group
 consisting of Enterococcusfaecium strain 8G-1 (NRRL B-50173), Enterococcus
faecium strain 8G-73 (NRRL B-50172), Bacilluspumilus strain 8G-134 (NRRL B
 50174), a strain having all of the identifying characteristics of Enterococcusfaecium
 strain 8G-1 (NRRL B-50173), a strain having all of the identifying characteristics of
 Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-73 (NRRL B-50172), and a strain having all of the
 identifying characteristics of Bacilluspumilus strain 8G-134 (NRRL B-50174); and
         (b)     separating the strain from the liquid nutrient broth to make the direct
 fed microbial.
 25.     The method of claim 24, further comprising freeze drying the strain.
                                              37

 26.     The method of claim 24, wherein the strain is Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G
 1 (NRRL B-50173) or a strain having all of the identifying characteristics of
 Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-1 (NRRL B-50173).
 27.     The method of claim 24, wherein the strain is Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G
 73 (NRRL B-50172) or a strain having all of the identifying characteristics of
 Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-73 (NRRL B-50172).
 28.     The method of claim 24, wherein the strain is Bacilluspumilus strain 8G-134
 (NRRL B-50174) or a strain having all of the identifying characteristics of Bacillus
pumilus strain 8G-134 (NRRL B-50174).
 29.     A method of making a direct-fed microbial, the method comprising:
         (a)     growing in a liquid nutrient broth a strain selected from the group
 consisting of Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-1 (NRRL B-50173), Enterococcus
faecium strain 8G-73 (NRRL B-50172), Bacilluspumilus strain 8G-134 (NRRL B
 50174), a strain having all of the identifying characteristics of Enterococcusfaecium
 strain 8G-1 (NRRL B-50173), a strain having all of the identifying characteristics of
 Enterococcusfaeciumstrain 8G-73 (NRRL B-50172), and a strain having all of the
 identifying characteristics of Bacilluspumilus strain 8G-134 (NRRL B-50174);
         (b)     separating the strain from the liquid nutrient broth to make the direct
 fed microbial; and
         (c)     adding monensin to the direct-fed microbial.
                     DuPont Nutrition BioSciences ApS
       Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                           SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                             38

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                    <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D>
<removed-date>
                                         <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+261B><U+261E><U+271F> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+270D><U+261B><U+270F>
              <U+2711>   <U+2702><U+2712>   <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2714><U+271A><U+2716><U+271B> <U+271C><U+2722>
                       <U+2723><U+2714><U+271B><U+2724><U+2714><U+2715><U+2725><U+2714><U+2715><U+2718> <U+270E><U+271B><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729> <U+270F><U+2722>
              <U+2711> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2712>    <U+271E><U+270E><U+2723><U+272A><U+270D><U+261B><U+271E> <U+272A><U+261B><U+272B> <U+2713><U+271F><U+270E><U+272C><U+272D><U+272B><U+271E> <U+272E><U+272D><U+2723> <U+270D><U+2713><U+272F><U+2723><U+272D><U+2730><U+270D><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2723><U+2721><U+2713><U+270D><U+261B><U+272A><U+261B><U+270E> <U+272C><U+271F><U+272A><U+270C><U+270E><U+272C> <U+272A><U+261B><U+272B><U+2731><U+272D><U+2723>
                       <U+272F><U+271F><U+2723><U+272E><U+272D><U+2723><U+2713><U+272A><U+261B><U+261E><U+271F>
              <U+2711> <U+2732><U+2702><U+2712>    <U+272A><U+270F><U+272F><U+2733><U+2732><U+2701><U+2734><U+2735><U+2734>
              <U+2711> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2712>     <U+2704><U+2731><U+2706><U+2704><U+2734><U+2701><U+2734><U+2736>
              <U+2711> <U+2701> <U+2712>    <U+2704><U+2702><U+2702><U+2734><U+2733> <U+2704><U+2733><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2711> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2712>    <U+2706> <U+2731> <U+2734><U+2718><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706>
              <U+2711> <U+260E> <U+2712>    <U+2704><U+2702><U+2702><U+2735><U+2733> <U+2704><U+2733><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2711> <U+2706><U+2702><U+2712>    <U+2704>
              <U+2711> <U+2736><U+2702><U+2712>    <U+272F><U+2605><U+2716><U+2714><U+2737><U+2716><U+270D><U+2737> <U+2738><U+2714><U+2715><U+2729><U+271A><U+2726><U+2737> <U+2732><U+2722><U+260E>
              <U+2711><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2712>
              <U+2711><U+2704> <U+2712>     <U+2704><U+2702>
              <U+2711><U+2704> <U+2704><U+2712>    <U+272B><U+261B><U+272A>
              <U+2711><U+2704> <U+2732><U+2712>    <U+272A><U+2715><U+2716><U+271A><U+2739><U+271A><U+273A><U+271A><U+2605><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2714><U+273C><U+273D><U+2714><U+2737><U+273A><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2704><U+2704><U+2702><U+2712>
              <U+2711><U+2704><U+2704><U+2732><U+2712>    <U+271E><U+273E><U+2737><U+2716><U+271B><U+2714><U+2716><U+271A><U+273A>
              <U+2711><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2712>
              <U+2605><U+2725><U+2605><U+2725><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2725><U+2605><U+2716> <U+273E><U+2727><U+2716><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2716><U+273A><U+2605><U+2725>                                               <U+2704><U+2702>
              <U+2711><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2712>    <U+2704>
              <U+2711><U+2704> <U+2712>      <U+260E>
              <U+2711><U+2704> <U+2704><U+2712>    <U+272B><U+261B><U+272A>
              <U+2711><U+2704> <U+2732><U+2712>    <U+272A><U+2715><U+2716><U+271A><U+2739><U+271A><U+273A><U+271A><U+2605><U+273B> <U+271E><U+2714><U+273C><U+273D><U+2714><U+2737><U+273A><U+2714>
              <U+2711><U+2704><U+2704><U+2702><U+2712>
              <U+2711><U+2704><U+2704><U+2732><U+2712>    <U+271E><U+273E><U+2737><U+2716><U+271B><U+2714><U+2716><U+271A><U+273A>
              <U+2711><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2712> <U+2704>
              <U+2605><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2716><U+2725> <U+2716><U+2725><U+2716><U+2715><U+273A>                                                    <U+260E>
                                                     <U+272F><U+2605><U+2725><U+2714>

