                                            ABSTRACT
        The present invention discloses a juicer, including a juicer conveying device, a juicer
   juice-out control device, a juicer automatic cupping device, a juicer juicing device, and an
   anti-pinch door sheet. The juicer conveying device conveys a material to the juicer juicing
 5 device. The juicer juicing device juices the material, and then juice enters the juicer
   juice-out control device. The juicer juice-out control device controls the outflow volume of
   the juice. The controlled juice enters the juicer automatic cupping device. The juicer
   automatic cupping device automatically cups the juice. After cupping, a cup can be taken
   away through the anti-pinch door sheet.
10
15
20
25

  1/31
FIG. 1

                                              JUICER
                                          BACKGROUND
   Technical Field
        The present invention relates to a juicing machine, and in particular, to a juicing
 5 machine having functions of automatic conveying, juice-out control and automatic cupping.
   Related Art
        Juicing, serving as a conventional technology, has been in existence for a long time.
   Researches on modem medicine and nutrition show that rich nutritional ingredients in fruits
   are necessary to a human body. Fruit juice also has functions of enhancing immunity,
10 reducing diseases and delaying senescence. The fruit juice not only is nutrient-rich, but also
   contains relatively low calories, thereby more catering to the pursuit of modem people for a
   pretty figure. Due to the improvement of requirements for the quality of life, existing
   juicing machines cannot meet actual demands yet.
        Although bottled or canned fruit juice produced by big modem machines can be
15 preserved for a long time, it is inevitably necessary to add other raw materials, and a rot
   prevention technology is used to prolong the shelf life, and as a result, the degree of
   freshness cannot be guaranteed. Moreover, because of food safety affairs frequently
   breaking out in recent years, the confidence of consumers for this kind of products has been
   reduced to a low point.
20      Although a small-sized domestic juicer can ensure the freshness of a food material, the
   juice yield is low, it wastes time and energy to clean the juicer, and the juicer is only
   suitable for families with a small number of members.
        It is precisely because of the defects of the foregoing juicer, service of juicing fresh
   fruits emerges in the streets of many cities. However, this service is supplied by floating
25 street vendors, and an original squeezing machine is adopted to squeeze fruit juice
   manually. As a result, the efficiency is low, safety and sanitation cannot be guaranteed, and
   the environment is affected by produced fruit residues.
                                                  1

                                            SUMMARY
        The present invention discloses a juicer, including a juicer conveying device, a juicer
   juice-out control device, a juicer automatic cupping device, a juicer juicing device, and an
   anti-pinch door sheet.
 5      The juicer conveying device conveys a material to the juicer juicing device. The juicer
   juicing device juices the material, and then juice enters the juicer juice-out control device.
   The juicer juice-out control device controls the outflow volume of the juice. The controlled
   juice enters the juicer automatic cupping device. The juicer automatic cupping device
   automatically cups the juice. After cupping, a cup can be taken away through the anti-pinch
10 door sheet.
        A. The juicer conveying device includes a conveying basket and a conveying chain,
   wherein the conveying basket is connected to the conveying chain, and a motor drives a
   transmission gear, so as to drive the conveying chain to rotate.
        The conveying device further includes a lower tray, a transmission belt being arranged
15 on a bottom surface of the lower tray.
        The conveying device further includes an upper tray, the upper tray is higher than the
   lower tray, the upper tray includes a bottom surface and a fence connected to the bottom
   surface, a transmission belt is also arranged on the bottom surface of the upper tray, the
   fence is provided with an opening, and a receiving groove is provided on one side of the
20 lower tray.
        B. The juicer juice-out control device includes a funnel, a juice storage tube, a
   connecting piece, and a guide tube. The guide tube is connected to the bottom of the funnel.
   One end of the juice storage tube is closed, and the other end is provided with an opening.
   The upper part of the middle of the juice storage tube is additionally provided with an
25 opening. The bottom of the guide tube is located in the opening at the upper part of the
   middle of the juice storage tube. The bottom of the guide tube is provided with two
   protruding portions. The connecting piece tightly circles around the bottom of the juice
   storage tube. Both ends are separately provided with an opening sleeving the corresponding
                                                  2

   protruding portion at the bottom of the guide tube. The connecting piece can rotate around
   the two protruding portions. The juice-out control device further includes a single-point
   liquid probe, wherein the single-point liquid probe is fixed to a transmission rod, the
   transmission rod is connected to the upper part of the opening end of the juice storage tube,
 5 the transmission rod is connected to a motor, and the motor moves to be capable of driving
   the transmission rod to move up and down and driving the juice storage tube to rotate
   around the protruding portions at the bottom of the guide tube. The juicer further includes a
   controller.
        The single-point probe is connected to the controller. When the liquid probe probes
10 liquid, an uplift signal is sent to the controller, and the controller controls the transmission
   rod to move up, so as to drive the end, with the opening, of the juice storage tube to be
   uplifted to be higher than the closed end.
        C. The juicer automatic cupping device includes a base plate, a cup discharging device,
   a cover discharging device, and a cover pressing device. The cup discharging device, the
15 cover discharging device and the cover pressing device are higher than the base plate, the
   base plate is connected to a motor, and the motor rotates to be capable of driving the base
   plate to rotate around the center of circle.
        A cup aligning device is arranged on the base plate, the bottom diameter of the aligning
   device being greater than the cup bottom diameter of a to-be-filled cup.
20      The cup discharging device includes a housing, wherein an inner wall of the housing is
   provided with more than two cup holding protruding portions, and a vertical distance
   between the cup holding protruding portions and the base plate is greater than the height of
   the to-be-filled cup.
        The cover discharging device includes a housing, wherein an inner wall of the housing
25 is provided with more than two cover holding protruding portions, and a vertical distance
   between the cover holding protruding portions and the base plate is greater than the height
   of the to-be-filled cup.
        The cover pressing device includes a cover pressing plate, a rack, and a motor with a
                                                    3

   gear. The rack is meshed with the gear of the motor. The rack drives the cover pressing
   plate to move up and down.
        When the base plate rotates, the cup aligning device can be located right below the cup
   discharging device, the cover discharging device and the cover pressing device.
 5      D. The anti-pinch door sheet includes a door sheet body and a goods outlet, wherein an
   upper baffle is arranged above the goods outlet, and a lower baffle is arranged below the
   goods outlet. The door sheet further includes a motor, wherein the motor drives, through
   the transmission rod, the lower baffle to longitudinally move, and the upper baffle is
   connected to the door sheet body through an elastic device.
10       The top end of the goods outlet is laterally provided with two photoelectric device. The
   photoelectric devices are connected to the motor, and can make the motor stop running.
         The inner wall of the housing of the cup discharging device of the automatic cupping
   device is provided with a gear, each cup holding protruding portion is a shaft with a gear,
   the upper and lower parts of each shaft are provided with a spiral groove separately, and the
15 two spiral grooves are intersected to form a gap.
         The inner wall of the housing of the cover discharging device of the automatic cupping
   device is provided with a gear, each cover holding protruding portion is a shaft with a gear,
   the upper and lower parts of each shaft are provided with a spiral groove separately, and the
   two spiral grooves are intersected to form a gap.
20       The automatic cupping device is connected to the controller, after receiving a cup
   falling signal, the controller controls the base plate to rotate, the cup aligning device rotates
   to be under the cup discharging device, the shafts with the gears rotate, a cup edge of the
   to-be-filled cup rotationally falls to the gap along the spiral grooves, and the to-be-filled
   cup falls into the cup aligning device.
25       The automatic cupping device is connected to the controller, after receiving a cover
   falling signal, the controller controls the base plate to rotate, the cup aligning device rotates
   to be under the cover discharging device, the shafts with the gears rotates, a cover edge of a
   to-be-filled cup cover rotationally falls to the gap along the spiral grooves, and the
                                                    4

   to-be-filled cup cover falls onto the to-be-filled cup.
        The automatic cupping device is provided with a photoelectric sensor, and after
   receiving the cup falling signal, the controller controls the photoelectric sensor to send a
   detection signal to confirm whether a cup falls.
 5      The automatic cupping device is provided with a photoelectric sensor, and after
   receiving the cover falling signal, the controller controls the photoelectric sensor to send a
   detection signal to confirm whether a cup cover falls.
        The juicer conveying device includes a controller and a photoelectric sensor, after the
   controller receives a material conveying signal, the motor is started, the motor drives the
10 transmission belts of the upper tray and the lower tray, the material enters the lower tray
   from the opening of the fence of the upper tray, the photoelectric sensor sends a signal to
   the controller, and the transmission belt of the upper tray stops moving. The material enters
   the receiving groove from the lower tray, after the material enters the receiving groove, the
   photoelectric sensor sends a signal to the controller, and the transmission belt of the lower
15 tray stops moving.
        A photoelectric sensor is mounted in the upper tray, the photoelectric sensor scans the
   upper tray periodically, if the photoelectric sensor cannot scan the material, the
   photoelectric sensor sends a signal to the controller, after the controller receives the signal
   of the photoelectric sensor, the conveying basket is driven to the top end of the conveying
20 device by the chain, the top end of the juicer conveying device is provided with a blocking
   component, one side of the conveying basket is blocked, the conveying basket is rotated
   and overturned, and the material in the conveying basket enters the upper tray.
        A photoelectric sensor and a limiter are arranged on a machine frame of the conveying
   device, and when scanning the conveying basket to find out that there is no material, the
25 photoelectric sensor transmits a signal to the controller through the limiter.
        The juicer juice-out control device is connected to the controller, the controller can
   receive a lowering signal, and the controller controls the transmission rod to move down, so
   as to drive the end, with the opening, of the juice storage tube to be lowered to be lower
                                                    5

   than the closed end.
        There are two single-point liquid probes of the juicer juice-out control device, which
   are located in the same vertical height, and when the two single-point probes are immersed
   into liquid at the same time, a closed loop is formed.
 5      Compared with the prior art, the present invention resolves the problem that a
   consumer cannot confirm a food material on the spot during traditional juicing
   mechanization production, ensures sufficient raw materials, and can automatically convey
   the food material.
        Moreover, the present invention resolves the problem that the environmental sanitation
10 of a traditional street juicing machine cannot be ensured, achieves complete automation
   from juice out to covering, and eliminates a manual intervention process.
        Besides, compared with the prior art, the present invention resolves the problem that
   the traditional street juicing machine cannot achieve quantification, the capacities of all
   cups are identical, and standardization is achieved.
15                       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        FIG. 1 is an overall schematic diagram of an automatic cupping device.
        FIG. 2 is a diagram of a position relationship between a cover pressing device and a
   base plate.
        FIG. 3 is a schematic diagram of a cover pressing device.
20      FIG. 4 is a schematic diagram of a base plate and an aligning device.
        FIG. 5 is a schematic diagram of a bottom surface of a base plate.
        FIG. 6 and FIG. 8 are schematic diagrams of a cup discharging device respectively.
        FIG. 7 and FIG. 9 are schematic diagrams of a cup discharging device respectively.
        FIG. 10 is a schematic diagram of a shaft device with a gear.
25      FIG. 11 is an overall schematic diagram from one side of a cup discharging device.
        FIG. 12 is an overall schematic diagram from one side of a cover discharging device.
                                                   6

        FIG. 13 is a schematic diagram of a shaft device with a gear from the perspective of the
   bottom.
        FIG. 14 is a schematic diagram of a cup discharging device filled with a cup.
        FIG. 15 is a schematic diagram of a conveying device.
 5      FIG. 16 is an assembly mode of a conveying basket, a gear and a chain.
        FIG. 17 is a schematic diagram from the perspective of the bottom.
        FIG. 18 is a schematic diagram of a conveying basket overturned after being blocked
   by a blocking component.
        FIG. 19 is a schematic diagram of a motor driving a chain to rotate.
10      FIG. 20 is a local schematic diagram of a photoelectric element and a limiting switch
   for controlling a conveying basket.
        FIG. 21 is a local schematic diagram of an upper tray, a lower tray and a receiving
   groove.
        FIG. 22 is a local schematic diagram after housings of an upper tray and a lower tray
15 and baffles are removed.
        FIG. 23 is a schematic diagram of a juice-out control device.
        FIG. 24 is a schematic diagram of connection among a juice storage tube, a guide tube
   and a transmission rod. FIG. 25 is a running schematic diagram of a juice-out control
   device.
20      FIG. 26 is an overall machine schematic diagram.
        FIG. 27 and FIG. 28 are combination schematic diagrams of a juicer juice-out control
   device, a juicer automatic cupping device and an anti-pinch door sheet.
        FIG. 29 is a front schematic diagram of a door sheet of a vending machine.
        FIG. 30 is a back schematic diagram of a door sheet of a vending machine (a lower
25 baffle is not uplifted).
                                                 7

        FIG. 31 is a back schematic diagram of a door sheet of a vending machine (a lower
   baffle is already uplifted).
        FIG. 32 is a structure schematic diagram of a blocking component.
        FIG. 33 and FIG. 34 are two implementation manners of a connecting structure of a
 5 conveying basket.
        Description of drawing marks
        1-Base plate
        2-Cup discharging device
        3-Cover discharging device
10      4-Cover pressing device
        5-Motor
        6-Cup aligning device
        7-Cover pressing plate 8-Rack
        9-Motor with gear
15      10-Housing of cup discharging device
        11-Cup holding protruding portion
        12-Housing of cup sealing device
        13-Cover holding protruding portion
        14-Gear
20      15-Shaft 1 with gear (cup discharging device)
        16-Gear
        17-Shaft 2 with gear (cover discharging device)
        18-Photoelectric sensor
        19-Photoelectric sensor
                                                 8

   20-Transmission gear
   21-Motor
   22-Transmission gear
   23-Motor
 5 24-Limiting switch
   201-Conveying basket
   202-Conveying chain
   203-Upper tray
   204-Lower tray
10 205-Receiving groove
   206-Fence
   207-Upper tray transmission belt wheel
   208-Lower tray transmission belt wheel
   209-Blocking component
15 210-Limiting switch
   211-Photoelectric element
   301-Funnel
   302-Juice storage tube
   303-Connecting piece
20 304-Opening at one end of juice storage tube
   305-Opening at upper part of middle of juice storage tube
   306-Protruding portion
   307-Liquid probe
                                            9

        308-Transmission rod
        309-Guide tube
        310-Cup
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 5      The detailed description is made hereinbelow with orange juicing as an example in
   conjunction with the drawings.
        A juicer shown in FIG. 26 includes a juicer conveying device (200), a juicer juice-out
   control device (300), a juicer automatic cupping device (100), and a juicer juicing device
   (400). The juicer conveying device (200) conveys a material to the juicer juicing device
10 (400). The juicer juicing device (400) has many manners, such as a manner of squeezing by
   a plurality of metal claws up and down mutually to press out orange juice, after juicing, the
   juice enters the juicer juice-out control device (300), the juicer juice-out control device (300)
   controls the outflow volume of the juice, the controlled juice enters the juicer automatic
   cupping device (100), and the juicer automatic cupping device (100) automatically cups the
15 juice.
        FIG. 27 can clearly show a relative position relationship between the juicer juice-out
   control device (300) and the juicer automatic cupping device (100) from the perspective
   opposite to FIG. 26.
        The juicer in the present patent includes a controller. During specific implementation,
20 the controller may be a single-chip computer, the single-chip computer being connected to
   the juicer conveying device (200), the juicer juice-out control device (300) and the juicer
   automatic cupping device (100). More accurately, the controller is connected to a
   photoelectric sensor, a limiting switch and a motor in each of the foregoing devices
   separately.
25      The juicer conveying device (200), the juicer juice-out control device (300) and the
   juicer automatic cupping device (100) are described hereinbelow respectively.
        Juicer conveying device
                                                  10

        As shown in FIG. 15 to FIG. 22, the juicer conveying device (200) includes: a
   conveying basket (201), the conveying basket being full of oranges; and a conveying chain
   (202), the conveying basket being connected to the conveying chain. A motor (211) drives
   a transmission gear, so as to drive the chain to rotate. The conveying device further
 5 includes a lower tray (204), a transmission belt (208) being arranged on a bottom surface of
   the lower tray.
         The conveying device further includes an upper tray (203), the upper tray is higher
   than the lower tray, the upper tray includes a bottom surface and a fence (206) connected to
   the bottom surface, a transmission belt (207) is arranged on the bottom surface of the upper
10 tray, the fence is provided with an opening, and a receiving groove (205) is provided on one
   side of the lower tray.
        As shown in FIG. 21 and FIG. 22, the juicer conveying device is connected to a
   controller, wherein the controller may be a single-chip computer, and is connected to the
   motor, the photoelectric sensor, the limiting switch, and the like. A photoelectric sensor
15 (211) is mounted in the upper tray, the photoelectric sensor (211) scans the upper tray
   periodically, and if the photoelectric sensor cannot scan the material, the photoelectric
   sensor sends a signal to the controller. Thereafter, as shown in FIG. 18 and FIG. 20, after
   the controller receives the signal of the photoelectric sensor (211), the conveying basket is
   driven to the top end of the conveying device by the chain, and the top end of the juicer
20 conveying device is provided with a blocking component (209). When there is a plurality of
   conveying baskets, one side of the conveying basket closest to the top end is blocked, the
   conveying basket is rotated and overturned, and a material in the conveying basket enters
   the upper tray. Thereafter, because the conveying basket is empty, loses weight and restores
   balance, the chain drives the empty conveying basket to move to a next position, and
25 another conveying basket filled with a material is conveyed to a position closest to the top
   end.
        As shown in FIG. 22, after the controller receives a material conveying signal, a motor
   is started, and the motor drives the transmission belts of the upper tray and the lower tray.
   During specific implementation, the material conveying signal can be controlled by the
                                                 11

   controller and a limiting switch (210). For example, after the controller receives a signal
   indicative of that a user already inserts a coin, and when the limiting switch (210) cannot
   sense the weight of the material, the material conveying signal is sent to the controller, the
   controller controls the motor to run, so as to drive the transmission belts, the material enters
 5 the lower tray from the opening of the fence of the upper tray, and enters the receiving
   groove from the lower tray, and after the limiting switch (210) senses the weight of the
   material, the transmission belts stop moving.
        As shown in FIG. 16 and FIG. 17, there is a plurality of conveying baskets, which are
   distributed on a conveying route of the whole conveying chain, the conveying chain
10 forming a closed route.
        There are two conveying chains, and the two conveying chains move synchronously,
   both ends of the conveying basket being fixed with one of the chains separately.
        From the perspective of specific implementation, the conveying device may adopt two
   chains forming a closed loop, the chains are suspended on a support, and are connected to a
15 transmission motor, and the conveying baskets are distributed along the chains.
        Juicer juice-out control device
        As shown in FIG. 23 to FIG. 25, the juicer juice-out control device includes a funnel
   (301), a juice storage tube (302), a connecting piece (303), and a guide tube (309). The
   guide tube (309) is connected to the bottom of the funnel (301). One end of the juice
20 storage tube is closed, and the other end is provided with an opening (304). The upper part
   of the middle of the juice storage tube is additionally provided with an opening (305). The
   bottom of the guide tube (309) is located in the opening at the upper part of the middle of
   the juice storage tube. The bottom of the guide tube (309) is provided with two protruding
   portions (306). The connecting piece tightly circles around the bottom of the juice storage
25 tube. Both ends are separately provided with an opening sleeving the corresponding
   protruding portion at the bottom of the guide tube (309). The connecting piece can rotate
   around the two protruding portions. The juice-out control device further includes a liquid
   probe (307), wherein the liquid probe is fixed to a transmission rod (308), the transmission
                                                  12

   rod is connected to the upper part of the opening end of the juice storage tube, the
   transmission rod is connected to a motor, and the motor is capable of driving the
   transmission rod to move up and down and driving the juice storage tube to rotate around
   the protruding portions at the bottom of the guide tube (309). The liquid probe is connected
 5 to a controller.
        When the juice-out control device does not operate, one end, with the opening (304), of
   the juice storage tube (302) is higher than the other end. When the juice-out control device
   starts to operate actually, the motor moves to drive the transmission rod (308) to move
   down and to drive the juice storage tube to rotate around the protruding portions at the
10 bottom of the guide tube (309), one end, with the opening (304), of the juice storage tube
   (302) is lower than the other end, one end, with the opening (304), of the juice storage tube
   (302) is close to the liquid probe (307), and a cup (310) is located below one end, with the
   opening (304), of the juice storage tube (302) and the liquid probe (307).
        After oranges are squeezed, orange juice is guided into the funnel. Due to different
15 sizes of the oranges, orange juice yields are different, and the quantity of oranges filling up
   a cup cannot be accurately calculated. For example, if orange juice does not fill up the cup
   after two oranges are squeezed, orange juice obtained by squeezing the third orange
   continuously flows out of the juice storage tube (302) and rises up to be in contact with the
   tip of the liquid probe (307), when the orange juice is probed by the liquid probe, the probe
20 gives an uplift signal to the controller, the controller controls the transmission rod to move
   up, so as to drive the end, with the opening, of the juice storage tube to be uplifted to be
   higher than the closed end, and the orange juice will not flow out of the end, with the
   opening, of the juice storage tube any longer.
        There are two liquid probes, which are located in the same vertical height, and when
25 the two probes are immersed into liquid at the same time, a closed loop is formed.
        Juicer automatic cupping device
        As shown in FIG. 1, the juicer automatic cupping device (100) includes a base plate (1),
   a cup discharging device (2), a cover discharging device (3), and a cover pressing device
                                                  13

   (4). The cup discharging device (2), the cover discharging device (3) and the cover pressing
   device (4) are higher than the base plate, the base plate (1) is connected to a motor (5), and
   the motor (5) rotates to be capable of driving the base plate (1) to rotate around the center
   of circle.
 5      A cup aligning device (6) is arranged on the base plate (1), the bottom diameter of the
   aligning device (6) being greater than the cup bottom diameter of a to-be-filled cup.
        The cup discharging device (2) includes a housing (10), wherein an inner wall of the
   housing (10) is provided with more than two cup holding protruding portions (11), and a
   vertical distance between the cup holding protruding portions (11) and the base plate (1) is
10 greater than the height of the to-be-filled cup. The cup holding protruding portions have a
   function of holding, when cups do not fall, the cups and making the cups fall one by one
   through the cup holding protruding portions as needed.
        The cover discharging device (3) includes a housing (12), wherein an inner wall of the
   housing (12) is provided with more than two cover holding protruding portions (13), and a
15 vertical distance between the cover holding protruding portions (13) and the base plate (1)
   is greater than the height of the to-be-filled cup. The cover holding protruding portions
   have a function of holding, when cup covers do not fall, the cup covers and making the
   cups fall one by one through the cover holding protruding portions as needed.
        As shown in FIG. 4, plate reinforced members can be arranged on the base plate (1) for
20 reinforcement.
        As shown in FIG. 2 and FIG. 3, the cover pressing device includes a cover pressing
   plate (7), a rack (8), and a motor (9) with a gear. The rack (8) is meshed with the gear of the
   motor (9). The rack (8) drives the cover pressing plate (7) to move up and down.
        When the base plate rotates, the cup aligning device (6) can be located right below the
25 cup discharging device (2), the cover discharging device (3) and the cover pressing device
   (4).
        As shown in FIG. 6 and FIG. 8, the inner wall of the housing of the cup discharging
   device (2) is provided with an annular gear (14), each cup holding protruding portion (11)
                                                  14

   is a shaft (15) with a gear (as shown in FIG. (10)), the shafts (15) with the gears engage,
   through the gears, with the annular gear (14) arranged on the inner wall of the housing of
   the cup discharging device (2), the annular gear is additionally connected to a transmission
   gear (20), the transmission gear is connected to a motor (21), when the motor rotates, the
 5 transmission gear is driven, and the annular gear is driven. As shown in FIG. 10 and FIG.
    13, the upper and lower parts of each shaft (15) are provided with a spiral groove separately,
   and the two spiral grooves are intersected to form a gap.
         As shown in FIG. 14, the cup discharging device receives a cup, there may be one or
   more cups stacked together, the cup should include a cup edge of which the diameter is
10 slightly greater than that of a cup body, and when the cup does not fall, the cup edge is held
   on the shafts. As shown in FIG. 6 and FIG. 8, the automatic cupping device is connected to
   a controller which may be a single-chip computer, after receiving a cup falling signal (such
   as a cup falling signal started after a user inserts a coin), the single-chip computer controls
   the base plate to rotate, the cup aligning device rotates to be under the cup discharging
15 device, and the single-chip computer controls the motor (21) to rotate, so as to drive the
   transmission gear (20) and to drive the annular gear. Generally, there are more than two
   shafts (15), which may stably form a plane, the cup is held on the plane, when the plurality
   of shafts (15) are distributed on the annular gear, an angle difference is formed with respect
   to the center of circle, and the relative angle difference of the gap on each shaft (15) is
20 identical to the foregoing angle difference, so that after the shafts (15) are driven to rotate
   by the annular gear, and after the cup edge rotates to the gap along the spiral groove, a
   plurality of points of the cup edge reaches the gap at the same time, and a cup falls into the
   cup aligning device.
         As shown in FIG. 7 and FIG. 9, similar to the cup discharging device, the inner wall of
25 the housing of the cover discharging device (3) is provided with an annular gear (16), each
   cover holding protruding portion (13) is a shaft (17) with a gear (as shown in FIG. (10)),
   the shafts (17) with the gears engage, through the gears, with the annular gear (14) arranged
   on the inner wall of the housing of the cover discharging device (3), the annular gear is
   additionally connected to a transmission gear (22), the transmission gear is connected to a
                                                   15

   motor (23), when the motor rotates, the transmission gear is driven, and the annular gear is
   driven. As shown in FIG. 10 and FIG. 13, the upper and lower parts of each shaft (17) are
   provided with a spiral groove separately, and the two spiral grooves are intersected to form
   a gap.
 5      The cover discharging device receives a cover, there may be one cover or more covers
   stacked together, the cover should include a cover edge of which the diameter is slightly
   greater than that of the cover, and when the cover does not fall, the cover edge is held on
   the shafts. The automatic cupping device is provided with a controller which may be a
   single-chip computer, after receiving a cover falling signal, the single-chip computer
10 controls the base plate to rotate, the cup aligning device rotates to be under the cover
   discharging device, and the single-chip computer controls the motor (23) to rotate, so as to
   drive the transmission gear (22) and to drive the annular gear (16). Generally, there are
   more than two shafts (17), which may stably form a plane, the cover is held on the plane,
   when the shafts (17) are distributed on the annular gear (16), an angle difference is formed
15 with respect to the center of circle, and the relative angle difference of the gap on each shaft
   (17) is identical to the foregoing angle difference, so that after the shafts (17) are driven to
   rotate by the annular gear, the cover edge rotates to the gap along the spiral grooves, a
   plurality of points of the cover edge reaches the gap at the same time, and a cover falls onto
   the cup on the cup aligning device.
20      As shown in FIG. 11, the automatic cupping device is provided with a photoelectric
   sensor (18), and after the controller receives the cup falling signal, the controller controls
   the photoelectric sensor (18) to send a detection signal to confirm whether a cup falls, and
   information obtained after detection is returned to the controller.
        As shown in FIG. 12, the automatic cupping device is provided with a photoelectric
25 sensor (19), and after the controller receives the cover falling signal, the controller controls
   the photoelectric sensor (18) to send a detection signal to confirm whether a cup cover falls,
   and information obtained after detection is returned to the controller.
        As shown in FIG. 29 to FIG. 31, the door sheet includes a door sheet body (501) and a
   goods outlet (502), an upper baffle (503) is arranged above the goods outlet (502), a lower
                                                   16

   baffle (507) is arranged below the goods outlet (502), the door sheet further includes a
   motor (504), the motor (504) drives, through the transmission rod, the lower baffle (507) to
   longitudinally move, and the upper baffle (503) is connected to the door sheet body (501)
   through an elastic device (505).
 5      The top end of the goods outlet (502) is laterally provided with a photoelectric device
   (506), and the photoelectric device (506) is connected to the motor (504), and can make the
   motor (504) stop running.
        Thus, if a moving door touches a hand when moving up, the moving door will be
   automatically opened, thereby achieving an anti-pinch function.
10      In a specific embodiment of the present patent, the juicer conveying device (200)
   conveys oranges to the juicer juicing device (400), before the juicer juicing device (400)
   juices the oranges, the motor and the photoelectric sensor of the automatic cupping device
   (100) are both connected to the controller through a circuit, the controller controls the base
   plate to drive the cup aligning device to first operate to the cup discharging device (2), a
15 cup falls onto the cup discharging device (2), the photoelectric sensor (18) sends a detection
   signal to confirm whether the cup falls, then the controller controls the base plate to drive
   the cup aligning device to be under a juice outlet of the juicer juicing device (400), juicing
   is controlled by the juicer juice-out control device (300) to make the cup full of fruit juice,
   then the controller controls the base plate to drive the cup aligning device to the cover
20 discharging device (3), a cover falls onto the cover discharging device (3), the photoelectric
   sensor (19) sends a detection signal to confirm whether the cover falls, then the controller
   controls the base plate to drive the cup aligning device to the cover pressing device (4), the
   motor (9) with the gear drives the gear (8), so as to further drive the cover pressing plate (7)
   to move up and down, the cover pressing device (4) may be provided with a limiting switch
25 (24), so as to control the motion amplitude of the cover pressing plate (7), and when the
   cover pressing plate (7) moves to tightly cover the cup with the cup cover, the cover
   pressing plate stops. Then, the controller controls the base plate to drive the cup aligning
   device to an opening. At this moment, the cup full of the fruit juice and already tightly
   covered with the cover can be taken away. When the cup is taken away, in the presence of
                                                  17

  an anti-pinch door sheet (500), the user is safer.
      The content is only basic description under the concept of the present invention, and
  any equivalent changes made according to the technical solution of the present invention
  should fall within the scope of protection of the present invention.
5
                                                 18

                                               CLAIMS
         1. A juicer, comprising a juicer conveying device (200), a juicer juice-out control
   device (300), a juicer automatic cupping device (100), a juicer juicing device (400), and an
   anti-pinch door sheet (500), wherein
 5       the juicer conveying device (200) conveys a material to the juicer juicing device (400),
   the juicer juicing device (400) juices the material, and then juice enters the juicer juice-out
   control device (300), the juicer juice-out control device (300) controls the outflow volume
   of the juice, the controlled juice enters the juicer automatic cupping device (100), the juicer
   automatic cupping device (100) automatically cups the juice, and after cupping, a cup can
10 be taken away through the anti-pinch door sheet (500), and the juicer being characterized in
   that:
         A. the juicer conveying device (200) comprises a conveying basket (201) and a
   conveying chain (202), the conveying basket (201) is connected to the conveying chain
   (202), a motor drives a transmission gear, so as to drive the conveying chain (202) to rotate,
15       the conveying device further comprises a lower tray (204), a transmission belt is
   arranged on a bottom surface of the lower tray, and
         the conveying device further comprises an upper tray (203), the upper tray (203) is
   higher than the lower tray (204), the upper tray comprises a bottom surface and a fence
   (206) connected to the bottom surface, a transmission belt (207) is also arranged on the
20 bottom surface of the upper tray, the fence is provided with an opening, and a receiving
   groove (205) is provided on one side of the lower tray;
         B. the juicer juice-out control device (300) comprises a funnel (301), a juice storage
   tube (302), a connecting piece (303), and a guide tube (309), the guide tube (309) is
   connected to the bottom of the funnel (301), one end of the juice storage tube (302) is
25 closed, the other end is provided with an opening (304), the upper part of the middle of the
   juice storage tube is additionally provided with an opening (305), the bottom of the guide
   tube (309) is located in the opening at the upper part of the middle of the juice storage tube,
   the bottom of the guide tube (309) is provided with two protruding portions (306), the
                                                   19

   connecting piece tightly circles around the bottom of the juice storage tube, both ends are
   separately provided with an opening sleeving the corresponding protruding portion at the
   bottom of the guide tube (309), and the connecting piece can rotate around the two
   protruding portions,
 5       the juice-out control device further comprises a single-point liquid probe (307), the
   single-point liquid probe (307) is fixed to a transmission rod (308), the transmission rod is
   connected to the upper part of the opening end of the juice storage tube, the transmission
   rod is connected to a motor, the motor moves to be capable of driving the transmission rod
   to move up and down and driving the juice storage tube to rotate around the protruding
10 portions at the bottom of the guide tube (309), the juicer further comprises a controller,
         the single-point probe is connected to the controller, when the liquid probe probes
   liquid, an uplift signal is sent to the controller, and the controller controls the transmission
   rod to move up, so as to drive the end, with the opening, of the juice storage tube to be
   uplifted to be higher than the closed end;
15       C. the juicer automatic cupping device (100) comprises a base plate (1), a cup
   discharging device (2), a cover discharging device (3), and a cover pressing device (4), the
   cup discharging device (2), the cover discharging device (3) and the cover pressing device
   (4) are higher than the base plate, the base plate (1) is connected to a motor (5), the motor
   (5) rotates to be capable of driving the base plate (1) to rotate around the center of circle,
20       a cup aligning device (6) is arranged on the base plate (1), the bottom diameter of the
   aligning device (6) is greater than the cup bottom diameter of a to-be-filled cup,
         the cup discharging device (2) comprises a housing (10), an inner wall of the housing
   (10) is provided with more than two cup holding protruding portions (11), a vertical
   distance between the cup holding protruding portions (11) and the base plate (1) is greater
25 than the height of the to-be-filled cup,
         the cover discharging device (3) comprises a housing (12), an inner wall of the
   housing (12) is provided with more than two cover holding protruding portions (13), a
   vertical distance between the cover holding protruding portions (13) and the base plate (1)
                                                   20

   is greater than the height of the to-be-filled cup,
         the cover pressing device comprises a cover pressing plate (7), a rack (8), and a motor
   (9) with a gear, the rack (8) is meshed with the gear of the motor (9), the rack (8) drives the
   cover pressing plate to move up and down, and
 5       when the base plate rotates, the cup aligning device (6) can be located right below the
   cup discharging device (2), the cover discharging device (3) and the cover pressing device
   (4);
         D. the anti-pinch door sheet (500) comprises a door sheet body (501) and a goods
   outlet (502), an upper baffle (503) is arranged above the goods outlet (502), a lower baffle
10 (507) is arranged below the goods outlet (502), the door sheet further comprises a motor
   (504), the motor (504) drives, through the transmission rod, the lower baffle (507) to
   longitudinally move, the upper baffle (503) is connected to the door sheet body (501)
   through an elastic device (505),
         the top end of the goods outlet (502) is laterally provided with two photoelectric
15 device(506), and the photoelectric devices (506) are connected to the motor (504), and can
   make the motor (504) stop running.
         2. The juicer of claim 1, characterized in that the inner wall of the housing of the cup
   discharging device (2) of the automatic cupping device (100) is provided with a gear (14),
   each cup holding protruding portion (11) is a shaft (15) with a gear, the upper and lower
20 parts of each shaft (15) are provided with a spiral groove separately, and the two spiral
   grooves are intersected to form a gap.
         3. The juicer of claim 1, characterized in that the inner wall of the housing of the cover
   discharging device (3) of the automatic cupping device (100) is provided with a gear (16),
   each cover holding protruding portion (13) is a shaft (17) with a gear, the upper and lower
25 parts of each shaft (17) are provided with a spiral groove separately, and the two spiral
   grooves are intersected to form a gap.
         4. The juicer of claim 2, characterized in that the automatic cupping device (100) is
   connected to the controller, after receiving a cup falling signal, the controller controls the
                                                   21

   base plate to rotate, the cup aligning device (6) rotates to be under the cup discharging
   device (2), the shafts (15) with the gears rotate, a cup edge of the to-be-filled cup
   rotationally falls to the gap along the spiral grooves, and the to-be-filled cup falls into the
   cup aligning device (6).
 5       5. The juicer of claim 3, characterized in that the automatic cupping device (100) is
   connected to the controller, after receiving a cover falling signal, the controller controls the
   base plate to rotate, the cup aligning device (6) rotates to be under the cover discharging
   device (3), the shafts (17) with the gears rotate, a cover edge of a to-be-filled cup cover
   rotationally falls to the gap along the spiral grooves, and the to-be-filled cup cover falls
10 onto the to-be-filled cup.
         6. The juicer of claim 4 or 5, characterized in that the automatic cupping device (100)
   is provided with a photoelectric sensor (18), and after receiving the cup falling signal, the
   controller controls the photoelectric sensor (18) to send a detection signal to confirm
   whether a cup falls;
15       the automatic cupping device is provided with a photoelectric sensor (19), and after
   the cover falling signal, the controller controls the photoelectric sensor (19) to send a
   detection signal to confirm whether a cup cover falls.
         7. The juicer of any one of claims 1 to 5, characterized in that the juicer conveying
   device (200) comprises a controller and a photoelectric sensor (211), after the controller
20 receives a material conveying signal, the motor is started, the motor drives the transmission
   belts of the upper tray (203) and the lower tray (204), the material enters the lower tray
   (204) from the opening of the fence of the upper tray, the photoelectric sensor (211) sends a
   signal to the controller, and the transmission belt of the upper tray (203) stops moving; and
   the material enters the receiving groove (205) from the lower tray, after the material enters
25 the receiving groove (205), the photoelectric sensor (211) sends a signal to the controller,
   and the transmission belt of the lower tray (204) stops moving.
         8. The juicer of claim 7, characterized in that a photoelectric sensor (211) is mounted
   in the upper tray (203), the photoelectric sensor (211) scans the upper tray (203)
                                                  22

   periodically, if the photoelectric sensor cannot scan the material, the photoelectric sensor
   sends a signal to the controller, after the controller receives the signal of the photoelectric
   sensor (211), the conveying basket (201) is driven to the top end of the conveying device
   by the chain (202), the top end of the juicer conveying device is provided with a blocking
 5 component (209), one side of the conveying basket (201) is blocked, the conveying basket
   is rotated and overturned, and the material in the conveying basket enters the upper tray
   (203); and the photoelectric sensor (211) and a limiter (210) are arranged on a machine
   frame of the conveying device (200), and when scanning the conveying basket (21) to find
   out that there is no material, the photoelectric sensor (211) transmits a signal to the
10 controller through the limiter (210).
        9. The juicer of claims 1 to 5, wherein the juice-out control device (300) is connected
   to the controller, the controller can receive a lowering signal, and the controller controls the
   transmission rod to move down, so as to drive the end, with the opening, of the juice
   storage tube (302) to be lowered to be lower than the closed end.
15       10. The juicer of claim 9, wherein there are two single-point liquid probes (307) of the
   juicer juice-out control device (300), which are located in the same vertical height, and
   when the two single-point probes (307) are immersed into liquid at the same time, a closed
   loop is formed.
                                                  23

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
