                                        Abstract
The present invention relates to a receptacle for holding a medical instrument having
a sharp portion and a handle portion with a certain thickness. The receptacle includes
two corresponding recesses adapted to receive the sharp and handle portions of the
medical instrument, respectively. The guiding means is adapted to guide the medical
instrument placed in the receptacle into the recesses. Each of the recesses has a
selected depth which is at least twice as deep as the thickness of the handle portion of
the medical instrument.

   27515
                                         An Improved Receptacle
   Technical Field
   This invention broadly relates to an improved receptacle. In particular, the present invention
 5 relates to a receptacle for holding one or more sharp medical instruments.
   Cross-reference
   This application is Divisional and a Patent of Addition of Australian patent application No.
   2012203428, the entire contents of which is incorporated into this specification by reference.
   Background of the Invention
1o It is generally desirable in the medical equipment industry to provide a receptacle that
   enables the user to conveniently place one or more sharp medical instruments into a
   receptacle.
   It is also highly desirable for the abovementioned receptacle to facilitate easy and safe access
   to and retrieval of the one or top sharp medical instruments.
15 Summary of the Invention
   According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a receptacle for holding
   one or more medical instruments, the or each medical instrument having a sharp portion and
   a handle portion with a certain thickness, the receptacle including:
   two corresponding recesses adapted to receive the sharp and handle portions of the medical
20 instrument, respectively; and
   guiding means adapted to guide the medical instrument placed in the receptacle into the
   recesses.
   Preferably, the receptacle is symmetrically oblong in shape. More preferably, the receptacle
   has substantially parallel lateral sides and rounded ends.
                                                    1

   In a preferred embodiment, the receptacle has an opening defined by an upper perimeter.
   Even more preferably, the receptacle has a base defined by a lower perimeter. In a preferred
   embodiment, the upper perimeter is smaller than the lower perimeter. It is preferred that
   the upper perimeter is joined to the lower perimeter by an external wall. The external wall is
 5 preferred to taper from the lower perimeter to the upper perimeter. Most preferably, a rim
   is provided along the lower perimeter.
   In a preferred embodiment, each of the recesses has a selected depth which is at least twice
   as deep as the thickness of the handle portion of each or the medical instrument. Preferably,
   each recess is defined by a pair of side walls and a floor. The selected depth is preferred to be
1o measured from the floor to the highest point of the side walls. It is preferred that the floor is
   flush with the trough.
   Preferably, the guiding means is in the form of a web. More preferably, the web is
   downwardly curved towards the recesses.
   Preferably, the curved web includes a cavity located in or near the middle of the receptacle.
15 More preferably, the cavity includes two opposing indents and a trough. It is preferred that
   the trough is located between and in communication with the two recesses. The opposing
   indents and trough are configured and arranged so as to allow a user's thumb and index
   finger to reach the bottom of the indents thereby facilitating access to the one or lowermost
   medical instrument received in the recesses for re-use.
20 Typically, the or each medical instrument includes a scalpel or a pair of scissors.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
   The invention may be better understood from the following non-limiting description of a
   preferred embodiment, in which:
   Figure 1 is a plan view from top of an improved receptacle in accordance with the present
25 invention;
   Figure 2 is a plan view from bottom of the receptacle of Figure 1;
                                                    2

   Figure 3 is a side view of the receptacle of Figure 1;
   Figure 4 is an end view of the receptacle of Figure 1; and
   Figure 5 is a perspective view of the receptacle of Figure 1.
   Detailed Description of the Drawings
 5 It is noted that the medical instrument of the present invention may include a scalpel, a pair
   of scissors or any other type of elongate medical instruments with a sharp portion.
   Referring to Figures 1 to 5, a receptacle 10A for holding a scalpel (not shown) is shown.
   Typically, the scalpel, such as that shown in AU2012203428, has a sharp portion in the form
   of a blade and a handle portion with a certain thickness. The receptacle 10A is oblong and
1o symmetrical in shape having substantially parallel lateral sides 50 & 52 and rounded ends 54
   & 56.
   As best shown in Figures 1, 2 and 5, the receptacle 10A has an opening 58 defined by an
   upper perimeter 60 and a base 64 defined by a lower perimeter 62. The upper perimeter 60
   is smaller than the lower perimeter 62. The upper perimeter 60 is joined to the lower
15 perimeter 62 by an external wall 30A. The external wall 30A is configured to convergingly
   taper from the lower perimeter 62 to the upper perimeter 60.
   As best shown in Figures 1 and 5, the receptacle 10A has two corresponding recesses 18A &
   20A which are designed to receive the sharp and handle portions of the scalpel referred to
   above, respectively. The guiding means is in the form of a web 22A which is downwardly
20 curved towards the recesses 18A & 20A. The curved web 22A has a cavity 66 located in or
   near the middle of the receptacle 10A. The cavity 66 has two opposing indents 68 & 70 (see
   Figure 1) and a trough 42A. The trough 42A is located between and in communication with
   the two recesses 18A & 20A. The opposing indents 68 & 70 and trough 42A are configured
   and arranged so as to allow a user's thumb and index finger to reach the bottom of the
25 indents 68 & 70 thereby facilitating access to and retrieval of the lowermost medical
   instrument received in the recesses 18A & 20A.
                                                    3

   Referring to Figures 1 & 5, the trough 42A divides the two recesses 18A & 20A and functions
   to facilitate access to the medical instruments. The web 22A is configured to guide the
   medical instrument placed in the receptacle 10A into the recesses 18A & 20A. Each of the
   recesses 18A & 20A has a selected depth which is at least twice as deep as the thickness of
 5 the handle portion of each or the medical instrument. Each recess 18A, 20A is defined by a
   pair of side walls 72 and a floor 74 (see Figure 5). The selected depth is measured from the
   floor 74 to the highest point of the side walls 72. The floor 74 is flush with the trough 42A.
   The depth in this example is twice as deep as the thickness of the handle portion of the
   medical instrument. It should however be noted that the depth may be more than double
1o the thickness of the handle portion such that three of more medical instruments may be held
   within the recesses 18A & 20A.
   Now that a preferred embodiment of the present invention has been described in some
   detail, it will be apparent to a person skilled in the art that the improved receptacle of the
   present invention may offer at least the following advantages:
15 1.     it is capable of holding more than one type of sharp medical instrument;
   2.     it is capable of holding one than one medical instrument at a time;
   3.     it provides an aesthetically pleasing appearance;
   4.     it enables a user to place a sharp instrument into the receptacle within paying specific
          attention; and
20 5.     it includes indents which enable the user to have easy access to and retrieve the sharp
          instrument without having to fumble in the receptacle for the medical instrument
          running a high risk of getting injured.
   Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention described herein is susceptible to
   variations and modifications other than those specifically described. All such variations and
25 modifications are to be considered within the scope and spirit of the present invention the
   nature of which is to be determined from the foregoing description.
                                                     4

   27515
   Claims
   1.    A receptacle for holding one or more medical instruments, the or each medical
         instrument having a sharp portion and a handle portion with a certain thickness, the
         receptacle including:
 5       two corresponding recesses adapted to receive the sharp and handle portions of the
         medical instrument, respectively; and
         guiding means adapted to guide the medical instrument placed in the receptacle into
         the recesses.
   2.    The receptacle of claim 1, which is symmetrically oblong in shape.
10 3.    The receptacle of either claim 1 or 2, which has substantially parallel lateral sides and
         rounded ends.
   4.    The receptacle of any one of the preceding claims, which has an opening defined by an
         upper perimeter.
   5.    The receptacle of any one of the preceding claims, which has a base defined by a lower
15       perimeter.
   6.    The receptacle of claim 5, wherein the upper perimeter is smaller than the lower
         perimeter.
   7.    The receptacle of either claim 5 or 6, wherein the upper perimeter isjoined to the
         lower perimeter by an external wall.
20 8.    The receptacle of claim 7, wherein the external wall tapers from the lower perimeter to
         the upper perimeter.
   9.    The receptacle of any one of claims 5 to 8, wherein a rim is provided along the lower
         perimeter.
   10.   The receptacle of any one of the preceding claims, wherein each of the recesses has a
25       selected depth which is at least twice as deep as the thickness of the handle portion of
         each or the medical instrument.
                                                   5

   11. The receptacle of claim 10, wherein the selected depth is measured from the floor to
       the highest point of the side walls.
   12. The receptacle of any one of the preceding claims, wherein each recess is defined by a
       pair of side walls and a floor.
 5 13. The receptacle of claim 12, wherein the floor is flush with the trough.
   14. The receptacle of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the guiding means is in the
       form of a web.
   15. The receptacle of claim 14, wherein the web is downwardly curved towards the
       recesses.
10 16. The receptacle of claim 15, wherein the curved web includes a cavity located in or near
       the middle of the receptacle.
   17. The receptacle of claim 16, wherein the cavity includes two opposing indents and a
       trough.
   18. The receptacle of claim 17, wherein the trough is located between and in
15     communication with the two recesses.
   19. The receptacle of either claim 17 or 18, wherein the opposing indents and trough are
       configured and arranged so as to allow a user's thumb and index finger to reach the
       bottom of the indents thereby facilitating access to the one or lowermost medical
       instrument received in the recesses for re-use.
20 20. The receptacle of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the or each medical
       instrument includes a scalpel or a pair of scissors.
                                                 6

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
