                                         ABSTRACT
An optical device comprising: an optical substrate provided with selective optical filtering
means configured to selectively inhibit transmission, through the optical substrate of at
least one selected range of wavelengths of incident light in the visible light spectrum at
an inhibition rate of at least 5%, the selective optical filtering means being further
configured to transmit at least 8% of incident light of the visible spectrum outside the at
least one selected range of wavelengths; wherein the at least one selected range of
wavelengths has a bandwidth in a range of from 1Onm to 70nm, preferably 1Onm to
60nm centered on a wavelength within a range of between 430nm and 465 nm.

             1/19
                     cc
                     6
       0             U
       U)
C
o
                  C
                   C
                   N
  NV
   (NI    C
   0      CO

                                               1
                                   OPHTHALMIC FILTER
           Field of the Invention
           The present invention relates in general to an optical device comprising an
 5 optical substrate and to the use of such an optical device. The invention also relates
   to methods of determining a configuration for an optical device, methods of
   manufacturing such an optical device and use of such optical device.
           Background of the Invention
10         The electromagnetic spectrum covers a wide range of wavelengths, among
   which are wavelengths visible to the human eye often referred to as the visible
   spectrum, covering a range of from 380 nm to 780 nm. Some wavelengths of the
   electromagnetic spectrum including those of the visible spectrum provide harmful
   effects, while others are known to have beneficial effects on the eye. Some
15 wavelengths of the visible spectrum are also known to induce a range of
   neuroendocrine, physiological and behavioural responses known as non-image
   forming (NIF) responses.
           The vertebrate retina is a light-sensitive tissue lining the inner surface of the
   eye. This tissue has four main layers from the choroid to the vitreous humour: the
20 retinal pigment epithelium (hereinafter referred to as "RPE"), the photoreceptor
   layer (including rods and cones), the inner nuclear layer with bipolar and amacrine
   cells, and finally, the ganglion cell layer which contains some intrinsically
   photosensitive ganglion cells (1% of retinal ganglion cells (hereinafter referred to as
   "RGC")). This last cell type is important for circadian photoentrainment (biological
25 rhythms) and pupillary function.
           Neural signals initiate in the rods and cones, and undergo complex
   processing by other neurons of the retina. The output from the processing takes the
   form of action potentials in retinal ganglion cells, the axons of which form the optic
   nerve. Several important features of visual perception can be traced to the retinal
30 encoding and processing of light.
           Photobiology, which is the study of the biological effect of light, has
   established that a portion of the electromagnetic spectrum provides beneficial
   effects for good health, including visual perception and circadian functions.

                                                2
   However, it has also established the importance of protecting the eyes against
   harmful radiation, such as ultraviolet (UV) rays. Visible light, even of ordinary
   everyday intensity, may cause retinal damage or contribute to the development of
   early and late age-related maculopathy (ARM), such as Age Related Macular
 5 Degeneration (AMD). There are indications in some epidemiological studies that
   level of exposure to sunlight may be associated with the development of AMD:
   Tomany S C et al. Sunlight and the 10-Year Incidence of Age-Related Maculopathy.
   The Beaver Dam Eye Study. Arch Ophthalmol. 2004; 122:750-757.
            Other pathologies are related to exposure to light. For example, the
10 production of melatonin in circadian rhythms is known to be regulated by exposure
   to light. As a consequence, specific light modification in the environment might
   impact synchronisation of the body's biological clock. Migraines are associated with
   photophobia, which is an abnormal intolerance to light stimulus of the visual system
   and epilepsy can be affected by the presence of light.
15          Ophthalmic devices that filter out with low selectivity harmful UV radiations
   are widely used. For example, sunglasses are designed to provide solar protection
   by protecting the eye against the harmful effects of UVA and UVB rays. Intraocular
   lenses (IOLs) with UV filters were introduced in the 1990s; these being mainly post
   cataract surgery implants replacing the crystalline lens.
20          The present invention has been devised with the foregoing in mind.
            Summary of the Invention
            In a broad form, the present invention provides a optical device comprising:
   an optical substrate provided with selective optical filtering means configured to
25 selectively inhibit transmission, through the optical substrate of at least one
   selected range of wavelengths of incident light in the visible light spectrum at an
   inhibition rate of at least 5%, the selective optical filtering means being further
   configured to transmit at least 8% of incident light of the visible spectrum outside
   the at least one selected range of wavelengths; wherein the at least one selected
30 range of wavelengths has a bandwidth in a range of from 10 nm to 70 nm,
   preferably 10 nm to 60 nm centered on a wavelength within a range of between 430
   nm and 465 nm.
            According to a more confined first aspect of the invention there is provided
   an optical device comprising: an optical substrate provided with selective optical
35 filtering means configured to selectively inhibit transmission, through the optical

                                                 3
   substrate of at least one selected range of wavelengths of incident light in the
   visible light spectrum at an inhibition rate of at least 5%, the selective optical
   filtering means being further configured to transmit at least 8% of incident light of
   the visible spectrum outside the at least one selected range of wavelengths;
 5 wherein the at least one selected range of wavelengths has a bandwidth in a range
   of from 10 nm to 70 nm, preferably 10 nm to 60 nm centered on a wavelength
   within a range of between 430 nm and 465 nm, and wherein the selective optical
   filtering means is split between two selective filters.
            An advantageous location of the two selective filters is one in which each of
10 the two selective filters interposed between different layers of the optical substrate,
   or a respective one of the two filters disposed on different surfaces of the optical
   substrate, or one of the selective filters interposed between two layers of the optical
   substrate and the other one of the selective filters disposed on a surface of the
   optical substrate.
15           In this way selective filtering of wavelengths in the toxic part of light can be
   achieved. What is more, for example, a lens may be provided with a standard first
   selective filter and a second customised selective filter may then be added
   according to the requirements of the user.
             In some embodiments the at least one selected range of wavelengths may
20 be centered on a wavelength of substantially 435 nm, 445 nm or 460 nm.
             This enables selective filtering of wavelengths which have been shown by
   innovative studies of the inventors to be harmful on cell models for retinal diseases
   such as AMD, Stargardt disease, retinitis pigmentosa, Best's disease, glaucoma,
   diabetic retinopathy or Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy.
25           Indeed, when investigating the phototoxicity on RPE using a primary cell
   model of AMD, it was discovered by the inventors that light was toxic to RPE cells
   at wavelengths of visible light centered at around 435 nm. In experimental studies,
   toxicity to RPE cells was demonstrated for 10 nm bandwidths of light stretching
   from 415 nm to 455 nm. Surprisingly, when retinal ganglion cells, which degenerate
30 in glaucoma and diabetic retinopathy, were exposed to light, it was found that they
   degenerate with light centered at 460 nm with the greatest toxicities being observed
   between 445 nm and 475 nm. The illustrative experimental studies were carried out
   using light having a bandwidth of 10 nm. Consequently one or more embodiments
   of the invention may provide an optical device for filtering out target wavelength

                                                 4
   bands of light centered at 435 nm and/or 460 nm depending on the considered
   pathologies.
            In some embodiments, the proposed optical devices may be configured to
   specifically block target wavelengths          bands of visible light having       narrow
 5 bandwidths. They may have a preventive or therapeutic application in the case of
   the considered retinal diseases (AMD, Stargardt disease, retinitis pigmentosa,
   Best's     disease,   glaucoma,     diabetic    retinopathy,   Leber's  hereditary   optic
   neuropathy).
            Moreover, filtration of narrow bands of light enable the effects of disturbance
10 of colour vision, the impact on scotopic vision and the possible disruption of
   circadian rhythms to be minimised.
           A selective filter may be configured, for example to selectively inhibit light in
   a narrow band of wavelengths centered on a wavelength around 435 nm. This
   range of wavelengths has been shown by the innovative studies as described
15 above, performed by the inventors when investigating the phototoxicity of RPE
   using a primary cell model of AMD, to exhibit maximum toxicity to diseases such as
   AMD, Stargardt disease, retinitis pigmentosa or Best's disease.
            In another example a selective filter may be configured, for example to
   selectively inhibit light in a narrow band of wavelengths centered on a wavelength
20 around 460 nm. This range of wavelengths has been shown by innovative studies
   as   described above,        performed    by the      inventors when   investigating the
   phototoxicity of RGC using a primary cell model of glaucoma, to exhibit maximum
   toxicity for diseases such as glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy or Leber's hereditary
   optic neuropathy.
25          In another example, a selective filter may be configured, for example to
   selectively inhibit light in a broader band of wavelengths centered on a wavelength
   around 445 nm thereby filtering light which has been shown in studies on the RPE
   and RGC cellular models to be toxic to the progress of diseases such as Age
   related Macular Degeneration (AMD), Stargardt disease, retinitis pigmentosa,
30 Best's    disease, glaucoma,       diabetic retinopathy     or Leber's   hereditary optic
   neuropathy.
           As noted in connection with the first aspect, the selective optical filtering
   means comprises first and second selective optical filters. Advantageously, the first
   selective optical filter can be      configured to inhibit a first range of wavelengths
35 having a bandwidth in a range of from 10 nm to 30 nm centered on a wavelength of

                                               5
   substantially 435 nm, and the second selective optical filter can be configured to
   inhibit a second range of wavelengths having a bandwidth of in a range of from 10
   nm to 30 nm centered on a wavelength of substantially 460 nm. In this way a
   selective dual band filter is provided for selectively inhibiting light in a narrow band
 5 of wavelengths centered on a wavelength which has been shown by the cellular
   model studies to be harmful to the progress of AMD, Stargardt disease, retinitis
   pigmentosa or Best's disease; and in a narrow band of wavelengths which has
   been shown by the cellular model studies to be harmful to the progress of
   Glaucoma, Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy or diabetic retinopathy. This
10 embodiment provides increased selectivity thereby limiting the distortion of colour
   vision and the perturbation of scotopic vision.
            In some embodiments, the selective optical filtering means comprises a dye
   and/or pigment configured to inhibit transmission by absorption.
            For example, the dye and/or pigment may include one or more dyes and/or
15 pigments selected from the group consisting of: Auramine 0; Coumarin 343;
   Coumarin        314;     Nitrobenzoxadiazole;       Lucifer      yellow      CH;     9,10
   Bis(phenylethynyl)anthracene;       Proflavin;    4-(Dicyanomethylene)-2-methyl-6-(4
   dimethylaminostyryl)-4H-pyran; and 2-[4-(Dimethylamino)styryl]-1-methypyridinium
   iodide, Lutein, Zeaxanthin; Coumarin 314; and Proflavin.
20          Such examples of dye and/or pigment are interesting in that they provide
   absorption in the phototoxic spectral range.
            In embodiments, the dye and/or pigment comprises one or more porphyrins,
   porphyrin complexes or derivatives thereof.
            The dye and/or pigment according to the invention can also include other
25 heterocycles related to porphyrins, including corrins, chlorine and corphins.
            Derivatives are substances generally issued by an addition or substitution.
            Porphyrins are well-known      macrocycle compounds composed of four
   modified pyrrole subunits interconnected at their carbon atoms via methine bridges.
   The parent porphyrin is porphine and substituted porphines are called porphyrins.
30 Porphyrins are the conjugate acids of ligands that bind metals to form (coordination)
   complexes.
            Certain porphyrins or porphyrin complexes or derivatives are interesting in
   that they provide selective absorption filters having a bandwidth in some cases of
   for example 20 nm in the selected range of wavelengths. The selectivity property is
35 in part provided by the symmetry of the molecules. Such selectivity helps to limit the

                                                  6
   distortion of the visual perception of colour, to limit the detrimental effects of light
   filtering to scotopic vision and to limit the impact on circadian rhythm.
             For example the one or more porphyrins or porphyrin complexes or
   derivatives are selected from the group consisting of Chlorophyll a; Chlorophyll b;
 5 5,10,15,20-Tetrakis(4-sulfonatophenyl) porphyrin sodium salt complex; 5,10,15,20
   Tetrakis(N-alkyl-4-pyridyl) porphyrin complex; 5,10,15,20-Tetrakis(N-alkyl-3-pyridyl)
   porphyrin complex, and 5,10,15,20-Tetrakis(N-alkyl-2-pyridyl) porphyrin complex,
   the alkyl being preferably an alkyl chain, linear or branched, comprising 1 to 4
   carbon atoms per chain. For example the alkyl may be selected from the group
10 consisting of methyl, ethyl, butyl and propyl.
             The complex usually is a metal complex, the metal being selected from the
   group consisting of Cr(III), Ag(II), In(III), Mn(III), Sn(IV), Fe(III), Co(II), Mg(II) and
   Zn(II), Cr(III), Ag(II), In(III), Mn(III), Sn(IV), Fe(III), Co(II) and Zn(II) demonstrate
   absorption in water in the range of 425 nm to 448 nm with sharp absorption peaks.
15 Moreover, the complexes they provide are stable and not acid sensitive. Cr(III),
   Ag(II), In(III), Sn(IV), Fe(III), in particular, do not exhibit fluorescence at room
   temperature which is a useful property in optical lenses such as ophthalmic lenses.
             In some embodiments the one or more porphyrins or porphyrin complexes
   or derivatives are selected from the group consisting of Magnesium meso-Tetra(4
20 sulfonatophenyl)       porphine    tetrasodium    salt,  Magnesium     Octaethylporphyrin,
   Magnesium Tetramesitylporphyrin, Octaethylporphyrin, tetrakis (2,6-dichlorophenyl)
   porphyrin,       Tetrakis       (o-aminophenyl)       porphyrin,    Tetramesitylporphyrin,
   Tetraphenylporphyrin, Zinc octaethylporphyrin, Zinc Tetramesitylporphyrin Zinc
   tetraphenylporphyrin, and Dipronated-tetraphenylporphyrin.
25           In one embodiment, the selective optical filtering means comprises
   interferential filtering means configured to inhibit, transmission of the at least one
   selected range of wavelengths of incident light, incident on a first zone of a first
   surface of the optical substrate within a first selected range of angles of incidence.
   The interferential means may be an alternative to or in addition to absorptive
30 filtering means.
             Many uses of the optical device according to embodiments of the invention
   may be envisaged including use in preventing vision-related discomfort in a user by
   inhibition of harmful wavelengths of the electromagnetic spectrum.

                                                7
            In another example the optical device may be used in therapy for treatment
   of subjects suffering from an eye related disease.
            In one embodiment the optical device may be used in protecting at least part
   of an eye of a user from phototoxic light in the at least one selected range of
 5 wavelengths. For example optical devices according to the invention may be used
   in protecting, from phototoxic light in the at least one selected range of
   wavelengths, at least part of an eye of a user suffering from a deterioration of the
   eye, in particular due to a degenerative process such as Age related Macular
   Degeneration (AMD), Stargardt disease, retinitis pigmentosa, Best's disease,
10 glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy or Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy.
            In a particular embodiment, optical devices according to embodiments of the
   invention may be used, in protecting, from phototoxic light in the at least one
   selected range of wavelengths, at least part of an eye of a user suffering from
   glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy, or Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy, wherein the
15 at least one selected range of wavelengths is centered on a wavelength of
   substantially 460 nm. This wavelength has been shown by the innovative
   phototoxicity RGC cellular studies performed by the inventors to exhibit maximum
   toxicity for glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy or Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy.
            In another particular embodiment optical devices according to embodiments
20 of the invention may be used, in protecting from phototoxic light, at least part of an
   eye of a user suffering from Age related Macular Degeneration (AMD), Stargardt
   disease, retinitis pigmentosa or Best's disease wherein the at least one selected
   range of wavelengths is centered on a wavelength of substantially 435 nm. This
   wavelength has been shown by innovative phototoxicity studies performed by the
25 inventors on RPE cellular models of AMD to exhibit maximum toxicity for these
   diseases.
            In some embodiments, the optical device may be used in protecting at least
   part of an eye of a user from phototoxic light in the at least one selected range of
   wavelengths and be configured for solar protection. For example, in a further
30 embodiment the optical device is configured to inhibit transmission of visible light
   across the entire visible spectrum at an inhibition rate in a range of from 40% to
   92%, and to provide an additional selective inhibition of at least 5% within the at
   least one selected range of wavelengths in a bandwidth of from 20 nm to 70 nm,
   preferably of from 25 nm to 35 nm. The additional selective inhibition is in addition
35 to the inhibition rate across the entire visible spectrum.

                                               8
            Also disclosed herein is a method of determining configuration of selective
   optical filtering means for an optical device for a user, the method comprising:
   providing a first set of parameters characterising, for the user, at least one range of
   wavelengths to be inhibited, and a degree of inhibition of the at least one range of
 5 wavelengths; determining at least one selected range of wavelengths of incident
   light to be inhibited, and an inhibition rate, based on the first set of parameters;
   providing a second set of parameters characterising, for the user, a degree of
   transmittance of incident light of the visible spectrum outside the at least one
   selected range of wavelengths; determining a transmittance, based on the second
10 set of parameters; and configuring selective optical filtering means based on the
   determined at least one selected range of wavelengths, the inhibition rate and the
   transmittance such that the selective optical filtering means is operable to inhibit, at
   the determined inhibition rate, transmission of the at least one selected range of
   wavelengths of incident light, and to transmit, at the determined transmittance,
15 incident light of the visible spectrum outside the at least one selected range of
   wavelengths.
            In this way an optical device may be customised to one or more users and
   the envisaged utilisation.
            In one embodiment, the first set of parameters comprises physiological
20 parameters of the user such as whether the user suffers from a deterioration of the
   eye or is to be protected from a deterioration of the eye, in particular due to a
   degenerative process such as glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy, Leber's hereditary
   optic neuropathy, Age related Macular Degeneration (AMD), Stargardt disease,
   retinitis pigmentosa or Best's disease and the second set of parameters comprises
25 parameters of the intended use of the optical device, in particular, the degree of
   solar protection required, for example the class of solar protection filter 0 to 3 as
   defined by international classification standards.
            In one embodiment, the step of configuring the selective optical filtering
   means comprises a prior step of determining whether or not additional selective
30 optical filtering means is to be provided to an optical device already provided with
   selective optical filtering means.
            Also disclosed herein is a method of manufacturing an optical lens, the
   method comprising the steps of providing a semi-finished optical lens having an
   unfinished surface and an opposing surface, wherein the unfinished surface is one
35 of a convex surface and a concave surface and the opposing surface is the other of

                                                 9
   a convex surface and a concave surface; determining a configuration of a selective
   optical filtering means for the optical lens for a user; providing one of the surfaces
   with the selective optical filtering means; and surfacing the unfinished surface;
   wherein the step of determining a configuration of the selective optical filtering
 5 means comprises providing a first set of parameters characterising, for the user, at
   least one range of wavelengths to be inhibited, and a degree of inhibition of the at
   least one range of wavelengths; determining at least one selected range of
   wavelengths of incident light to be inhibited, and an inhibition rate, based on the first
   set of parameters; providing a second set of parameters characterising, for the
10 user, a degree of transmittance of incident light of the visible spectrum outside the
   at least one selected range of wavelengths; determining a transmittance, based on
   the second set of parameters; and configuring selective optical filtering means
   based on the determined at least one selected range of wavelengths, the inhibition
   rate and the transmittance such that the selective optical filtering means is operable
15 to inhibit, at the determined inhibition rate, transmission of the at least one selected
   range of wavelengths of incident light, and to transmit, at the determined
   transmittance, incident light of the visible spectrum outside the at least one selected
   range of wavelengths.
            A semi finished optical lens having an unfinished surface and an opposing
20 surface, wherein the unfinished surface is one of a convex surface and a concave
   surface and the opposing surface is the other of a convex surface and a concave
   surface, may advantageously incorporate an optical device           as described in the
   context of the first aspect of the invention and preferred embodiments thereof.
             It will be appreciated that the steps of the method may be performed in any
25 suitable order. For example the unfinished surface may be surfaced before or after
   one of the surfaces is provided with the selective optical filtering means. Preferably
   the unfinished surface is surface prior to the provision of the selective optical
   filtering means.
             Disclosed herein is also a method for treating or preventing physiological
30 deterioration of the part of a mammalian eye, said method comprising interposing
   the optical device according to any one of the embodiments of the invention
   between a source of light comprising phototoxic light in the at least one selected
   range of wavelengths and said part of the mammalian eye.
             In one embodiment of the method the deterioration occurs in the retina.

                                                  10
            In one embodiment the deterioration is due to a degenerative process such
   as glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy, Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy, Age related
   Macular Degeneration (AMD), Stargardt disease, retinitis pigmentosa or Best's
   disease.
 5          In one embodiment the optical device is such that the at least one selected
   range of wavelengths is centered on a wavelength of substantially 460 nm.
            In a further embodiment, the optical device is such that at least one selected
   range of wavelengths is centered on a wavelength of substantially 435 nm.
            In a yet further embodiment, the optical device is configured to inhibit
10 transmission of visible light across the entire visible spectrum at an inhibition rate in
   a range of from 40% to 92%, and to provide an additional selective inhibition of at
   least 5% within the at least one selected range of wavelengths in a bandwidth of
   from 25 nm to 60 nm, preferably of from 25 nm to 35 nm. The additional selective
   inhibition is in addition to the inhibition rate across the entire visible spectrum.
15          In the context of the present invention, the term optical device includes
   optical lenses comprising an optical substrate such as ophthalmic lenses, contact
   lenses, intraocular lenses (IOL), etc. The term also covers other optical devices
   having an optical substrate, such as for example, windows, automotive and aircraft
   windshields, films, ophthalmic instrumentation, computer monitors, television
20 screens, telephone screens, multimedia display screens, lighted signs, light
   projectors and light sources, and the like. In the context of the present invention, by
   "ophthalmic lenses" is meant corrective and non-corrective lenses and also masks
   and other vision devices intended to be worn in front of the eyes. The ophthalmic
   lenses can comprise specific functions, for example solar, antireflective, anti
25 smudge, anti-abrasive.
            Parts of some of the methods disclosed herein                 may be computer
   implemented. Such methods may be implemented in software on a programmable
   apparatus. They may also be implemented solely in hardware or in software, or in a
   combination thereof.
30          Since some features can be implemented in software, computer readable
   code can be used for provision to a programmable apparatus on any suitable
   carrier medium. A tangible carrier medium may comprise a storage medium such
   as a floppy disk, a CD-ROM, a hard disk drive, a magnetic tape device or a solid
   state memory device and the like. A transient carrier medium may include a signal
35 such as an electrical signal, an electronic signal, an optical signal, an acoustic

                                                11
   signal, a magnetic signal or an electromagnetic signal, e.g. a microwave or RF
   signal.
            The improved selectivity of filtering helps to eliminate undesirable effects
   suffered by broad non-selective long pass absorptive filters devices of the prior art
 5 which are generally designed to filter out the quasi-totality of blue light ranging from
   400 nm to 500 nm. Indeed, compared to these devices of the prior art, the devices
   according to embodiments of the invention help to provide reduced distortion in
   visual perception of colour, a reduction in the introduction of colour imbalances, and
   improved scotopic vision.
10          Furthermore, since particular embodiments of the invention are not based
   on the use of yellow dyes and pigments, which is the case of typical filtering devices
   of the prior art, use of the devices is not limited to low-vision and sunglasses
   applications. Moreover, the devices do not exhibit a non-aesthetic yellowish aspect
   and have a reduced disruptive effect on circadian rhythms.
15          Embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of examples
   only, and with reference to the accompanying drawings.
            Brief description of the Drawings
   FIG. 1A is a schematic diagram of an optical device comprising an optical substrate
20 with a selective interferential filter on one of its two surfaces;
   FIG. 1B schematically illustrates geometrical features of an eye in the context of
   embodiments of the invention;
25 FIGS. 1C and 1D schematically illustrate geometrical parameters related to a line of
   sight in central vision and peripheral vision, respectively;
   FIGS. 1E to 1G schematically illustrate the relationship between incident light and
   lines of sight of a user;
30
   FIG. 2 is a schematic diagram of an optical device comprising an optical substrate
   with a selective interferential filter on one of its two surfaces and an absorption filter
   on the other substrate surface;

                                                 12
   FIG. 3 is a schematic diagram of an optical device in accordance with a first
   embodiment of the invention, comprising an optical substrate with a first selective
   interferential filter provided on one of the substrate's surfaces and a second
   selective interferential filter embedded in the optical substrate body;
 5
   FIG. 4 is a schematic diagram of a further optical device comprising an optical
   substrate with a filter embedded between a front and a rear layer of the substrate;
   FIG. 5 is a schematic diagram of an optical device in accordance with a second
10 embodiment of the invention, comprising an optical substrate and respective first
   and second filters on the opposite surfaces of the substrate;
   FIGS. 6A to 6C are schematic diagrams of an optical device comprising an optical
   substrate in accordance with a sixth embodiment of the invention;
15
   FIGS. 7A to 7C are schematic diagrams illustrating examples of lines of sight
   through an optical lens;
   FIG. 8 is a schematic diagram of a progressive ophthalmic lens comprising an
20 optical substrate in accordance with a further embodiment of the invention;
   FIGS. 9A to 9C are schematic diagrams illustrating examples of lines of sight
   through an optical lens for configuring a range of angles of incidence;
25 FIGS. 10(i) to 10(viii) graphically illustrate the absorption spectrum of selected dyes
   and pigments used in selective filters according to some embodiments of the
   invention;
   FIGS. 11(i) to 1(viii) graphically illustrate the absorption spectrum of porphyrins
30 used in selective filters according to some embodiments of the invention;
   FIG. 12 graphically illustrates the transmission spectrum of a dual filter provided by
   one or more embodiments of the invention;

                                                  13
   FIG. 13 graphically illustrates irradiances applied during the in vitro cell exposures
   for different wavelength bands indicated by their respective central wavelength;
   FIG. 14 graphically illustrates in vitro RGC death after light exposure at different
 5 wavelengths; and
   FIGS. 15A and 15B graphically illustrate in vitro RPE cells death by apoptosis after
   light exposure at different wavelengths respectively in absence and presence of
   A2E.
10
   Detailed Description
             As used herein a filter "selectively inhibits" a range of wavelengths if it
   inhibits at least some transmission of wavelengths within the range, while having
   little or no effect on the transmission of visible wavelengths outside the range,
15 unless specifically configured to do so. The term rejection rate or inhibition rate or
   degree of inhibition refers to the percentage of incident light within one or more
   selected ranges of wavelengths which is prevented from being transmitted. The
   parameter range of wavelengths or bandwidth is defined as the Full Width at Half
   Maximum (FWHM).
20           So that preferred embodiments of the invention as described below will be
   better understood, reference will be first made to FIG. 1A. FIG. 1A is a schematic
   diagram of an optical lens 100 comprising a base optical substrate 110 having a
   first surface 111 and a second surface 112. In the specific embodiment of an optical
   lens, the first surface 111 is a concave back surface, disposed, in use, proximal to
25 an eye 50 of a user and the second surface 112 is a convex front surface disposed,
   in use, distal to the eye 50 of the user. The optical lens 100 further comprises a
   selective interferential filter 120 provided, in this particular embodiment, as a layer,
   on the front surface 112 of the base optical substrate 110 and shaped to conform
   with the shape of the front surface 112. In other embodiments, the selective
30 interferential filter may be provided, as a layer, or as part of a layer, within the
   optical substrate 110.
             The selective interferential filter 120 operates as a band stop filter
   selectively inhibiting transmission, through the base optical substrate 110 towards
   the eye 50 of a user, of light in a selected range of wavelengths (a target
35 wavelength band), incident on the front surface 102 of the optical lens 100. The

                                                 14
   selective interferential filter 120 is configured to inhibit the transmission of light in
   the target wavelength band, at a given rejection rate, while having little or no effect
   on the transmission of incident light of wavelengths outside the selected range of
   wavelengths. In some embodiments the selective interferential filter 120 may be
 5 configured to inhibit, to a certain degree, transmission of incident light of
   wavelengths outside the target wavelength band, usually by absorption, but at a
   particular inhibition rate, which is less than the rejection rate of the wavelengths
   within the target band.
           The eye 50 of a user is made up of a succession of dioptres di, and includes
10 a pupil P, a center of rotation CRO and a retina. The features of the eye can be
   represented by models, such as the Liou & Brennan model, as illustrated in FIG.
   1B.
           The potential lines of sight of a user are defined in more detail with
   reference to FIGS. 1C and 1D. Referring to FIG. 1C for a main line of sight 1 in
15 central vision, light 11 passes through the center of rotation of the eye (CRO). The
   main line of sight 1 from the CRO to an optical substrate 800 is defined by an angle
   a defined with respect to a vertical plane and an angle       P with respect to the XZ
   (horizontal plane). With reference to FIG. 1D for a line of sight 2 in peripheral vision,
   light 22 passes through the center of the pupil P of the eye. The line of sight 2 in
20 peripheral vision from the pupil P to the optical substrate 800 is defined by an angle
   a' defined with respect to a vertical plane and an angle p' with respect to the X'Z'
   (horizontal plane).
           FIG. 1E schematically illustrates the relationship between a line of sight 1
   and an angle of incidence i of a central incident ray 11 on an optical substrate 800.
25 The angle between the normal to the back surface (the surface proximal to a user)
   S2 of the optical substrate 800 and the line of sight 1 is referenced as r, and the
   angle between the normal to the front surface (the surface distal to a user) S1 of the
   optical substrate 800 and the incident ray 11 is referenced as i called the central
   angle of incidence. The relationship between the angles i and (a, P) depends on a
30 number of parameters of the optical substrate such as the geometry of the lens
   including the thickness t of the optical substrate 800 and the center prism, as well
   as the surface equations defining the front S1 and back surfaces S2 of the optical
   substrate 800, and the refractive index n of the optical substrate. It depends also on
   the usage of the optical substrate, for example on the distance of the objects being
35 viewed.

                                                   15
             FIG. 1F schematically illustrates the relationship between a peripheral ray 2
   and an angle of incidence i' of a peripheral incident ray 22 on an optical substrate
   800. The angle between the normal to the back surface (the surface proximal to a
   user) S2 of the optical substrate 800 and the peripheral ray 2 is referenced as r',
 5 and the angle between the normal to the front surface (the surface distal to a user)
   S1 of the optical substrate 800 and the incident ray 22 is referenced as i' called the
   peripheral angle of incidence. The relationship between the angles i' and (a', P')
   depends on a number of parameters of the optical substrate such as the geometry
   of the lens including the thickness t of the optical substrate 800 and the center
10 prism, as well as the surface equations defining the front S1 and back surfaces S2
   of the optical substrate 800, and the refractive index n of the optical substrate. It
   depends also on the usage of the optical substrate, for example on the distance of
   the viewing objects.
             It is well known that interferential filters present angular sensitivity. For a
15 band-stop filter designed to reject a specific wavelength A at normal incidence,
   increasing the incidence angles implies a spectral shift of the rejected wavelength
   towards lower wavelengths, an enlargement of the rejected band and a decrease of
   the rejection rate. In usual lighting conditions, a multitude of different incidence
   angles reaches an optical substrate (non collimated lighting conditions), for
20 example when the optical substrate is illuminated by sunlight. By considering all the
   incident angles, the transmission spectrum of the filter is significantly modified: the
   bandwidth of the rejected band is significantly broadened and the filtering is no
   longer centered on the wavelength A. For ophthalmic applications, this phenomenon
   of angular dependency can significantly increase the color distortion induced by the
25 filtering and significantly introduce user's discomfort.
             The selective interferential filter 120 is configured to better control and/or
   minimize the angular sensitivity.
             To better control the spectral response of the band-stop filter, among the
   multitude of incidence angles that can impact the optical substrate for typical non
30 collimated light sources, such as sunlight, only those that reach the area of retina to
   be protected are determined and the filter is numerically designed by considering all
   those incidence angles instead of being designed by considering only one
   incidence angle, which is a limited collimated lighting condition. Those incidence
   angles form a cone of incidence angles that depends on several parameters such

                                                  16
   as the main line of sight, the size of the retina to be protected and the distance
   between the user and the optical substrate.
            FIG. 1G schematically illustrates the determination of the cone of incidence
   angles associated with the main central line of sight 1M. The cone of incidence
 5 angles is defined by all the incidence angles between '1 and i'2 which are the
   incidence angles of the peripheral rays of light that reach the borders of the area of
   the retina to be protected. It can also be defined by all the angles between (da'1,
   dp'1) and (da'2, dp'2), where (da'n, dp'n) (n=1, 2) correspond to the angles variation
   of the peripheral rays of light to the main line of sight 1M.
10          The optical lens further comprises a protective film 130 positioned over the
   selective interferential filter 120 to provide mechanical and environmental
   protection. The protective film 130 may also be provided with an anti reflective
   coating for preventing the reflection of incident light across the visible spectrum or
   within a selected wavelength band of the visible spectrum.
15          In general, interferential filters are based on Bragg gratings in which
   particular wavelengths of light are reflected and other wavelengths are transmitted.
   This is achieved by adding a periodic variation to the refractive index of a layered
   structure, which generates a wavelength specific dielectric mirror. The selective
   interferential filter 120 of embodiments of the invention may be configured to inhibit
20 transmission of the incident light by reflection, refraction or diffraction. For example,
   the selective interferential filter 120 may be manufactured using interferential
   technologies, such as thin-film technology, holographic techniques, interference
   recordings, or photonic bandgap materials such as liquid crystal technology,
   including cholesteric crystals.
25          In one example, the selective interferential filter 120 may comprise a thin
   film device having a plurality of layers with different optical refractive indices. In
   general, thin-film technology uses multiple layers alternating two or more inorganic
   or hybrid materials with different refractive indices. Each layer may be provided as a
   coating deposited on the front surface 112 of the base optical substrate 110 by
30 techniques such as sputtering, vacuum evaporation or physical or chemical vapour
   deposition. Such technology is used for anti-reflective layers on goggles, spectacles
   or eyeglasses and transparent optical surfaces.
           An inorganic and organic hybrid stack of layers may be used to optimise the
   mechanical robustness and curvature compatibility. The layers may be deposited
35 on a polymeric film of PET (polyethylene terephthalate), TAC (cellulose triacetate),

                                                17
   COC (cyclic olefin copolymer), PU (polyurethane), or PC (polycarbonate), and then
   disposed on an outer side of the front surface 112, for example by means of a
   transfer operation onto the outer side of the front surface. A transfer operation
   includes a coating or film initially disposed on a first support being transferred from
 5 the first support cohesively onto another support; or the transfer of a self supporting
   coating or film directly to a support. In the present example the support is the optical
   substrate.
             The binding between the coating or film and the outer surface of the optical
   substrate may be obtained either by means of activation of the surface of the
10 coating or film and/or a medium capable of creating physical or chemical
   interactions, or by means of an adhesive (glue).
             In one particular embodiment of the invention, the selective interferential
   filter thin film technology may be adapted so that many layers are used, for example
   20 layers.
15           In a further embodiment, the selective interferential filter 120 may comprise
   a Rugate filter device having a variable optical refractive index, which varies
   sinusoidally with depth. A Rugate filter enables bouncing of the reflection function
   outside the selected inhibition band to be minimised.
             The Rugate filter may be applied as a coating to the front surface 112 in a
20 similar manner to thin film technology as described above.
              In another embodiment, the selective interferential filter 120 may comprise
   a holographic device comprising a holographic recording. Examples of holographic
   recording are given in the document "Holographic Imaging" by Stephen A. Benton
   and V. Michael Bove, Wiley-Interscience, 2008. The recording of holographic band
25 stop rejection filters is typically made by forming into a photo-sensitive material the
   interference of two coherent laser beams, appropriately shaped, each one
   propagating in a chosen direction. Controlling the optics of the set-up, such as the
   vergence, the shape, and the relative intensity of each beam, is used to manage
   the recording step. The exposure and of the processing of the photo-sensitive
30 material is monitored in order to obtain the performances needed to define the
   target band of wavelengths to be inhibited and to ensure the centering of the band
   over a given wavelength.
             Such holographic recordings can be made within a photosensitive material,
   typically but not exclusively a photopolymer. The photosensitive material is coated
35 on a flat or on a curved surface, or casted between two curved surfaces, one of

                                                18
   which may be removed after the recording stage; the hologram can be inscribed
   within the volume of a curved thick photosensitive material, for example, a
   photorefractive glass previously shaped as an optical lens such as an ophthalmic
   lens, which, after recording and fixing presents a very small index modulation
 5 according to the interference designed by the optical setup, such that the periodic
   index modulation generates the target band-stop filter device.
             Another embodiment involves recording a predistorted rejection filter, such
   as a predistorted hologram on a photosensitive material deposited on a flat film of
   PET, TAC, COC, PU or PC, and later disposing it, for example by a transfer
10 operation, on a curved substrate, such as a curved surface of an ophthalmic lens.
             Holograms disposed on a curved surface, by a transfer operation or any
   other suitable means, may then be covered by another curved surface, or laminated
   to it, in such a manner as to be sandwiched between two mechanically stabled
   curved substrates.
15           An example of a process for the fabrication of a holographic device by
   making a reflexion hologram is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,942,102. An example of
   tuning of a holographic grating is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,024,909. A variant for
   continuously recording a holographic element of large size is for example disclosed
   in EP 0 316 207 B1.
20           In another embodiment the selective interferential filter may comprise a
   photonic bandgap material, such as for example chlolesteric liquid crystal. Use of
   chlolestric crystals enable an electrically controllable filter to be devised. In order to
   obtain a reflection of >50% two layers may be used. The chlolesteric liquid crystals
   may be provided in the form of at least one sealed layer of liquid or gel on the first
25 surface of the optical substrate.
             Photonic Crystals are periodical arrangements of metallic or dielectric
   objects layers that can possess a range of forbidden wavelengths, the so-called
   photonic bandgap (PBG), analogous to electronic bandgaps in semiconductor
   materials. The geometry of the periodic pattern and the material properties of the
30 substrate determine the photonic band structure, i.e. the dispersion.
             Photonic Crystals can be built in one, two or three dimensions. 1D-Photonic
   Crystals, like the standard Bragg reflector, can be fabricated by successively
   depositing layers of different dielectric constant. Manufacturing of a 1D-periodic
   structure may be achieved by coating on a film of PET, TAC, COC, PU or PC,
35 alternate layers of different bulk refractive indices, such layers being made either of

                                                  19
   homogeneous material or being constituted by arrangement of identical geometrical
   structures, e.g. arrays of identical spheres monodispersed in size or by periodic
   organization of a PDLC (polymer-dispersed liquid crystal) polymer, and then
   disposing on a curved surface of an optical lens, for example by a transfer
 5 operation. Such 1D-periodic structure coated on a PET, TAC, COC, PU or PC film
   can be activated either mechanically, thermally, electrically, or even chemically to
   induce a controlled modification of the filtering band and/or of the central filtering
   wavelength, such as described in Nature Photonics Vol. 1 N08--August: P-Ink
   Technology: Photonic Crystal Full-Colour Display, by Andre C. Arsenault, Daniel P.
10 Puzzo, Ian Manners & Geoffrey A. Ozin.
            For 2D-Photonic Crystals, reactive ion etching (J. O'brien, et al., Lasers
   incorporating 2D photonic bandgap mirrors, Electronics Letter, 32, 2243 (1996); Mei
   Zhou, Xiaoshuang Chen, Yong Zeng, Jing Xu, Wei Lu, Fabrication of two
   dimensional infrared photonic crystals by deep reactive ion etching on Si wafers
15 and their optical properties, Solid State Communications 132, 503 (2004)) or
   aluminium oxide films (H. Masuda, et al., Photonic band gap in anodic porous
   alumina with extremely high aspect ratio formed in phosphoric acid solution,
   Japanese Journal of Applied Physics, 39, L1039 (2000)) are common
   manufacturing approaches. 2D PBG also can be fabricated by interference
20 recording (so-called "holographic" recording, sometimes followed by reactive ion
   etching. 3D-Photonic Crystals can be classically manufactured layer by layer (S. Y
   Lin, et al., A three dimensional photonic crystal operating at infrared wavelengths,
   Nature 394, 251 (1998)). This technique has the advantage of allowing an excellent
   control of structure optical bandgap. They can also be fabricated by alternative
25 techniques, including X-ray Lithography (LIGA), Holographic Lithography--the
   interference of four non-coplanar laser beams in a light-sensitive polymer generates
   a three-dimensional periodic structure; two-photon polymerization (TPP), using two
   photon absorption with a pulsed laser to stimulate photo polymerization; Three
   dimensional micro fabrication with two-photon-absorbed photo polymerization.
30 Another technique for producing Photonic Crystals uses the self-assembly of
   colloidal polymer microspheres into colloidal crystals. For example, colloidal
   suspensions of opal glass spheres are disclosed in (S. John, Photonic Bandgap
   Materials, C. Sokoulis, Ed. Dordrecht: Kulwer Academic Publishers (1996)). Bragg
   diffraction of light within colloidal crystals gives rise to a stop-band filter. Another
35 technique consists in inversing an opal, e.g. by removing (dissolving) the latex

                                                20
   spheres in an artificial opal and leaving the surrounding structure. Inversed opals
   were among the very first 3D PBG made (citation: Voss, in the Netherland).
            Photonic Crystal periodic structures can be either coated on a PET, TAC,
   COC, PC or PU film and combinations thereof, or made active, in particular
 5 electrically active, in the case of the organization of Holographic-Polymer Dispersed
   Liquid Crystals, Passive or active devices are then disposed on a curved surface of
   an optical lens, for example by a transfer operation.
            In one particular embodiment the selective interferential filter 120 may be
   configured as an interference grating device, arranged such that the selected range
10 of angles of incidence is centered on an angle of incidence substantially normal to
   the interference patterns of the interference grating.
            Using the different types of interferential filter technology described above,
   inhibition of the transmission of a target wavelength band can be achieved
   according to the requirements of the user.
15          In the case, for example of a selective interferential filter 120, for inhibiting
   the transmission of phototoxic light within the at least one selected range of
   wavelengths, the selective interferential filter 120, based on one or more of the
   above-described technologies, may be configured to inhibit transmission of light
   incident on the front surface of the optical device 100 of wavelengths in a bandwidth
20 of from 10 nm to 70 nm, preferably 10 nm to 60 nm centered on a wavelength
   within a range of between 430 nm and 465 nm while enabling transmission of
   incident light outside the target wavelength band. Since this target range of
   wavelengths corresponds to the range of wavelengths of toxic light (as described in
   what follows and shown in FIGS. 14 and 15), protection of the retina against such
25 light may be achieved.
            Moreover, the selective interferential filter may be configured to transmission
   specific wavelengths of light toxic to certain eye disorders or disease.
            For example, glaucoma is an eye disorder in which the optic nerve suffers
   damage, permanently impacting vision in the affected eye(s) and progressing to
30 complete blindness if untreated. Moreover, the nerve damage involves loss of
   retinal ganglion cells in a characteristic pattern. Worldwide, it is the second leading
   cause of blindness. Glaucoma is often, but not always, associated with increased
   pressure of the fluid in the anterior segment of the eye (aqueous humour).
            Various studies have previously been carried out on the possible causes of
35 glaucoma. However, even if there is increasing evidence that ocular blood flow is

                                                21
   involved in the pathogenesis of glaucoma, and a possible correlation between
   hypertension and the development of glaucoma has been shown, experiments are
   still carried out. Intraocular pressure is only one of the major risk factors for
   glaucoma, however lowering it with various pharmaceuticals and/or surgical
 5 techniques is currently the main stay of glaucoma treatment. For the time being,
   glaucoma management requires appropriate diagnostic techniques and follow-up
   examination, as well as judicious selection of treatments for the individual patient. In
   particular, intraocular pressure can be lowered with medication, usually eye drops.
   However, the treatment does not always halt the degenerative process even if the
10 intraocular pressure is reduced to normal. Both laser surgery and conventional
   surgery are performed to treat glaucoma. Surgeries are the primary therapy for
   those with congenital glaucoma.
             Retinopathy is a general term that refers to some forms of non-inflammatory
   damage to the retina of the eye. Frequently, retinopathy is an ocular manifestation
15 of systemic disease. Diabetic retinopathy is caused by complications of diabetes
   mellitus, which can eventually lead to blindness. It is an ocular manifestation of a
   systemic disease which affects up to 80% of all patients who have had diabetes for
   ten years or more. Diabetic retinopathy is associated with microvascular retinal
   changes. It has been recently found that ganglion retinal cells degenerate during
20 diabetic retinopathy
   (http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/1 0.1113/iphysiol.2008.156695/full; and Kern T. S.
   and Barber A. J. Retinal Ganglion Cells in Diabetes. The Journal of Physiology
   2008. Wiley online library).
             Retinal ganglion cell death has been observed in some other pathologies in
25 which the mitochondrial function is disrupted such as Leber's hereditary optic
   neuropathy.
             Innovative studies were performed by the inventors on the influence of light
   in retinal ganglion cells (RGC) dysfunction and their associated pathologies such as
   glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy and Leber's optic neuropathy.
30           The phototoxicity on RGC was performed using a primary cell model of
   glaucoma. Studies have shown that purified adult rat retinal ganglion cells is a
   suitable in vitro model of glaucoma (Fuchs C et al, IOVS, Retinal-cell-conditioned
   medium prevents TNF-alpha-induced apoptosis of purified ganglion cells. 2005).
   Therefore, to determine if light-induced cell death can contribute to the
35 degeneration of such cells in glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy and Leber's hereditary

                                              22
   optic neuropathy, primary cultures of adult rat retinal ganglion cells were exposed to
   light for 15 hours in black-clear bottom 96 wells culture dishes. Light expositions
   were selected from 385 to 525 nm in 10 nm increments and designated by the
   central wavelength as illustrated in FIG. 13. To prevent any light filtering effect of
 5 the medium, cells were cultured in an NBA medium without aromatic amino acids,
   Phenol red or serum and other photosensitive molecules in the visible spectrum.
   Light irradiances were normalized with respect to the natural sun light (Solar
   spectra of reference ASTM G173-03) reaching the retina after filtering by the eye
   optic, cornea, lens and vitreous humour (E. A. Boettner, Spectral transmission of
10 the eye, ClearingHouse, 1967). For these neuronal cells, cell viability was assessed
   with the highly sensitive viability assay CellTiter-Glo (Promega, Madison, Wis.,
   USA). FIG. 14 illustrates the RGC survival for all tested light exposures thereby
   indicating the corresponding cell loss with respect to the control condition. The
   experimental data indicated that the loss of retinal ganglion cells was induced with
15 all the 10 nm bandwidths from 420 to 510 nm showing the greatest effects with
   bandwidths centered at 450, 460 nm and 470 nm.
            Thus in one particular embodiment, the target band may have a bandwidth
   of 10 nm to 70 nm, preferably 15-25 nm, centered on a wavelength of around 460
   nm. Such a target band has been shown by the RGC cellular model studies
20 performed by the inventors as described above to be particularly toxic for sufferers
   of glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy or Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy.
   Consequently, preventing transmission of wavelengths in this target band to the eye
   of a user provides protection and slows down progress of these particular diseases.
            Innovative studies were also performed by the inventors on the influence of
25 light in retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and the associated pathologies such as
   Age Related Macular degeneration (AMD), Stargardt disease, retinitis pigmentosa
   or Best's disease.
            RPE of patients affected by AMD were found to contain increased
   concentrations of A2E (C A. Parish et al., Isolation and one-step preparation of A2E
30 and iso-A2E, fluorophores from human retinal pigment epithelium, IOVS, 1998).
   Therefore, to generate a model of AMD, retinal pigment epithelium cells isolated
   from swine eyes were incubated in the presence of A2E (40 pM) for 6 hours to
   trigger its cell absorption. After a medium change, these primary cell cultures of
   RPE cells were exposed to light with 10 nm bandwidth in black-clear bottom 96
35 wells culture dishes for 18 hours. Light expositions were selected from 385 to 525

                                               23
   nm in 10 nm increments and designated by the central wavelength as illustrated in
   FIG. 13 (e.g. 390 nm for the bandwidth from 385 to 395 nm). To prevent any light
   filtering and/or photosensitization of the culture medium, cells were cultured in a
   DMEM medium without aromatic amino acids, Phenol red or serum and other
 5 photosensitive molecules. Light irradiances were normalized with respect to the
   natural sun light (Solar spectrum of reference ASTM G173-03) reaching the retina
   after filtering by the eye optics (cornea, lens; E. A. Boettner, Spectral transmission
   of the eye, ClearingHouse, 1967) RPE cell apoptosis was quantified 6 h hours after
   illumination. FIG. 15A illustrates the absence of light-induced apoptosis in the
10 absence of A2E incubation as measured with the Apotox-Glo by caspase-3
   activation reported to cell viability (Promega, Madison, Wis., USA). By contrast,
   FIG. 15B shows that when A2E was preincubated with RPE cells, the RPE
   apoptosis was induced significantly with the 10 nm bandwidths centered at 420,
   430, 440 and 450 nm (from 415 to 455 nm).
15           Thus, in another example, the target band may have a bandwidth of 10 nm
   to 70 nm, preferably 15-25 nm, centered on a wavelength of around 435 nm. Such
   a target band has been shown by the innovative studies described above
   particularly toxic for sufferers of AMD, Stargardt disease, retinitis pigmentosa or
   Best's disease and so preventing transmission of wavelengths in this target band to
20 the eye of a user provides protection and slows down progress of the disease.
             In another example, the target band may have a bandwidth of 30-70 nm,
   preferably 30-60 nm centered on a wavelength of around 445 nm. Such a target
   band includes the wavelengths which have been shown by the innovative studies
   on the RGC cellular models described above to be particularly toxic for sufferers of
25 glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy or Leber's optic neuropathy, as well as the
   wavelengths which have been shown by the RPE cellular model studies to be
   particularly toxic for sufferers of AMD, Stargardt disease, retinitis pigmentosa or
   Best's disease and so prevents transmission of wavelengths in this target band to
   the eye of a user provides protection and slows down progress of any, or several, of
30 these diseases.
             In the case, for example of preventing melatonin suppression, the selective
   interferential filter 120, based on one or more of the above-described technologies,
   may be configured to inhibit the transmission of wavelengths of light in a target
   band of 465 nm to 495 nm centered on a wavelength of 480 nm for example. Light
35 having wavelengths in this wavelength band suppresses the production of

                                                  24
   Melatonin. Melatonin (N-acetyl-5-methoxytryptamine) is the principal hormone of
   the pineal gland, and controls many biological functions, particularly the timing of
   those physiological functions that are controlled by the duration of light and
   darkness. Thus optical devices having selective filtering means configured to inhibit
 5 transmission of light in this target wavelength band may be used to prevent
   melatonin suppression, particularly at night.
            In a particular embodiment, the selective interferential filter 120 may be
   configured to inhibit the transmission of wavelengths in two target wavelength
   bands. Specific configuration of the selective interferential filter to provide narrow
10 bandwidths enables dual band selective interferential filters to be used. Dual band
   interferential filtering may be provided by using two different interferential filters
   inhibiting transmission in different target wavelength bands or by a single
   interferential filter configured to inhibit transmission in two different target bands of
   wavelengths.
15          An embodiment for providing a dual band filter may involve recording,
   simultaneously or consecutively, two holograms on the same photosensitive
   material in order to produce two different target wavelength filtering bands, each
   target wavelength band may be characterised by its own bandwidth, central
   wavelength, and own rejection factor.
20          In another embodiment, two different holograms, each one coated on a film
   of PET, TAC, COC, PC or PU or on glass, and recorded either on the same kind of
   photosensitive material or on two different photosensitive materials are stacked on
   top of each other, either together with their substrate or after having been lifted off
   their substrate, in particular to be deposited or thermoformed on a curved substrate.
25          In one of the possible implementations, a mixture of two technologies may
   be used to produce a dual band filter, e.g. a hologram may be superimposed over
   an absorptive filter made of a layer containing a pigment or a dye, for example a
   pigment or dye of embodiments which will be described later in the present
   application.
30          In another embodiment, the mixture of two technologies is composed of the
   superposition of two selective filters generated with two different absorbing layers,
   each one containing its proper pigment or dye, independently of the order of the two
   layers.
            In another embodiment a hologram is stacked with a 1D or a 2D photonic
35 crystal, or with a stack of thin films, independently of the substrate over which those

                                                25
   have been prepared or lifted off, and independently of the order of the
   superposition.
             In another embodiment, a thin film stack is superposed on a photonic
   crystal, independently of the order of the superposition not being important, and the
 5 optically transparent substrate over which the two selective filters have been
   deposited.
             In this way two or more target wavelengths in which transmission of incident
   light is inhibited may be obtained. For example, a first target wavelength band may
   have a bandwidth of 15-25 nm centered on a wavelength of around 435 nm and a
10 second target wavelength band may have a bandwidth of 10-30 nm, preferably 15
   25 nm centered on a wavelength of 460 nm. As in the previous example, the target
   wavelength band includes the wavelengths which have been shown by the RGC
   cellular model studies performed by the inventors to be particularly toxic for
   sufferers of glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy, or Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy
15 as well as the wavelengths which have been shown by the RPE cellular model
   studies to be particularly toxic for sufferers of AMD, Stargardt disease, retinitis
   pigmentosa or Best's disease. However, the selective interferential filter 120 in this
   particular example is more selective and enables increased transmission of light
   between the two target bands thereby having a reduced effect of visual colour
20 distortion and improved scotopic vision.
             The rate of rejection in the one or more target wavelength bands may be
   adjusted by configuring the selective interferential filter 120 using the appropriate
   different technology described above according to the users needs. For example,
   for a general protection usage, the rejection rate within the single target wavelength
25 band or dual target wavelength bands may be configured to be 30 to 50% in order
   to limit the distortion of colour perception, perturbation of scotopic vision and
   disturbance of non-visual functions of the eye. For slowing down the progress of
   diseases such as AMD, Stargardt disease, retinitis pigmentosa, Best's disease,
   glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy or Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy, the rejection
30 rate may be increased to about 80-100% in order to provide reinforced protection
   for a diseased eye. For a usage requiring solar protection, for example,
   transmission across the entire visible spectrum is inhibited at an inhibition rate in a
   range of from 40% to 92%, and the first rate of rejection may be configured to
   provide at least 5% additional inhibition for the at least one selected range of
35 wavelengths.

                                                   26
            A further optical device will be described with reference to FIG. 2 before
   describing an embodiment in accordance with the invention. FIG. 2 is a schematic
   diagram of an optical lens 200 comprising a base optical substrate 210 having a
   first surface 211 and a second surface 212 similar to the base optical substrate of
 5 fig. 1A. The optical lens 200 further comprises a selective interferential filter 220
   provided, at the front surface 212 of the base optical substrate 210. The selective
   interferential filter 220 operates in the same way as the selective interferential filter
   120 of fig. 1A. The embodiment of fig. 2 differs from that of fig. 1A in that the back
   surface 211 of the optical substrate is provided with a layer of absorption material
10 222, configured to absorb at least part of the light in the target bandwidth of the
   selective interferential filter 220. First, it significantly reduces the parasitic light that
   reaches the user's eye, coming from light incident on the back surface 201 of the
   optical device and reflected by the selective interferential filter 220. Indeed, the
   presence of the selective interferential filter 220 introduces the reflection of parasitic
15 light back towards the eye of the user and thus the presence of the layer of
   absorption material 222 helps to decrease the undesirable reflection effects.
   Moreover, the absorption material 222 enhances the spectral filtering introduced by
   the selective interferential filter 220 since some light in the target wavelength which
   was not rejected by the selective interferential filter 220 may then be attenuated by
20 the layer of absorption material 222.
            In other embodiments the layer of absorption material 222 is configured to
   absorb light in a different target wavelength band to the target wavelength band of
   the selective interferential filter 220, which helps to provide a colour balancing
   effect. For example, some absorption in the region of the orange-red part of the
25 visible spectrum helps to attenuate the distortion of colour perception induced by
   the selective interferential filter 220. In further embodiments the use of a layer of
   absorption material 222 which operates to absorb light in a different target
   wavelength band to the target wavelength band of the selective interferential filter
   220 as well as in the same target wavelength band may be used to provide a colour
30 balancing effect as well as an enhanced filtering effect.
            In some embodiments a layer of non-selective absorption material which
   operates to absorb light in the full range of the visible spectrum may be used.
            The absorption material may be an absorptive dye or pigment such as will
   be described for later embodiments of the present invention.

                                                 27
            While in this embodiment the absorptive layer is provided on the back
   surface of the optical substrate, it will be appreciated that in other embodiments of
   the invention, the absorptive layer may be provided as a layer within the optical
   substrate, between the selective interferential filter and the back surface of the
 5 optical substrate.
            An optical device according to an embodiment of the invention will now be
   described with reference to FIG. 3. FIG. 3 is a schematic diagram of an optical lens
   300 comprising a base optical substrate 310 having a first surface 311 and a
   second surface 312 similar to the base optical substrate of fig. 1A. The optical lens
10 300 further comprises a first selective interferential filter 320 provided on the front
   surface 312 of the base optical substrate 310 and a second selective interferential
   filter 322 provided as a layer within the volume of the base optical substrate 310.
   The selective interferential filters 320 and 322 operate in the same way as the
   selective interferential filter 120 described with reference to fig. 1A. Both the first
15 selective interferential filter 320 and the second interferential filter 322 may be
   configured to inhibit transmission in the same target wavelength band. The
   advantage provided by this embodiment is that the second interferential filter 322
   may provide enhanced protection in the target wavelength band by enabling an
   overall increase in rejection factor in the target wavelength band to be obtained.
20 This enhanced protection may be adapted to the needs of the user, thereby
   providing design flexibility--e.g. depending on whether or not the user suffers from a
   disease such as for example AMD, Stargardt disease, retinitis pigmentosa, Best's
   disease, glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy or Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy, or
   to what degree the user suffers from that disease. For example a first selective
25 interferential filter 322 within the optical substrate may provide a level of protection
   for normal usage while the addition of a second selective interferential filter 320 to
   the front surface of the optical substrate may increase that level of protection to a
   therapeutic level suitable for preventing progress of disease in a subject susceptible
   to or suffering from any of the aforementioned diseases.
30          The back surface 311 of the optical substrate may be provided with a layer
   of absorption material 324, similar to the layer of absorptive material of the optical
   device shown in fig.2, configured to absorb light in the target bandwidth of the
   selective interferential filter 322 and/or the selective interferential filter 320. The
   provision of the absorption material 324 in this way significantly reduces the
35 parasitic light that reaches the user's eye, coming from light incident on the back

                                                 28
   surface 311 of the optical device and reflected by the selective interferential filter
   322 and/or the selective interferential filter 320. Moreover, the absorption material
   324 enhances the spectral filtering introduced by the selective interferential filter
   322 and/or the selective interferential filter 320.
 5          Like the layer of absorptive material of the previous embodiment, the
   absorptive layer 324 may also be configured to absorb light in a wavelength band
   different to the target bandwidth of the selective interferential filter 322 and/or the
   selective interferential filter 320 for colour balancing, or in the full range of the
   visible spectrum, or in the target bandwidth of the selective interferential filter 322
10 and/or the selective interferential filter 320 for enhanced protection and a different
   wavelength band for colour balancing.
            In further embodiments, one of the selective interferential filters may be
   added to the front surface of the optical substrate to provide protection in a different
   target wavelength band to the target wavelength band of a selective interferential
15 filter provided within the optical substrate, or on the front surface, of the optical
   substrate. By adding protection within a different wavelength band additional
   usages or protections may be envisaged. For example, in one embodiment colour
   balancing may be provided. In another embodiment, protection in a target
   wavelength band relative to light detrimental to glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy or
20 Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy may be provided by one selective interferential
   filter and additional protection in a further target band relative to light detrimental to
   AMD, Stargardt disease, retinitis pigmentosa, Best's disease may be provided by
   another selective interferential filter. Alternatively one selective interferential filter
   may be configured to protect against a range of wavelengths in the target
25 wavelength band while the other selective filter may be configured to protect
   against a range of wavelengths of another part of the visible spectrum.
            A further, different optical device is illustrated in FIG. 4. FIG. 4 is a
   schematic diagram of an optical lens 400 comprising a base optical substrate 410
   having a first surface 411 and a second surface 412. In the specific embodiment of
30 an optical lens the first surface 411 is a concave back/posterior surface, disposed
   proximal to an eye 50 of a user in use and the second surface 412 is a convex
   front/anterior surface disposed in use distal to the eye 50 of the user. The optical
   lens further comprises an absorptive filter 420 provided, in this embodiment, within
   the volume of the base optical substrate 410. The absorptive filter 420 in this
35 embodiment is provided as a film containing a dye or pigment and interposed

                                                29
   between two layers of the base optical substrate 410. In other embodiments of the
   invention the absorptive layer may be provided on either surface of the optical
   substrate.
            The absorptive filter 420 operates as a band stop filter selectively inhibiting
 5 transmission, through the base optical substrate 410 from the front surface 412
   towards the eye 50 of a user, of light in a selected range of wavelengths, referred to
   as a target wavelength band, incident on the front surface of the 412 optical lens
   100 while having little or no effect on the transmission of incident light of
   wavelengths outside the selected range of wavelengths, unless specifically
10 configured to do so. The absorptive filter 420 is configured to inhibit the
   transmission of the selected range of wavelengths at a given inhibition rate. In
   some embodiments the optical device further comprises a protective film (not
   shown) positioned over the base optical substrate 410 to provide mechanical and
   environmental protection. The protective film may also be provided with an anti
15 reflective coating for preventing the reflection of incident light in across the visible
   spectrum or within a selected band of the visible spectrum corresponding, or not, to
   the target wavelength band of the absorptive filter 420.
            The absorptive filter 420 may in one example comprise a dye or pigment
   such as Auramine 0; Coumarin 343; Coumarin 314; Proflavin; Nitrobenzoxadiazole;
20 Lucifer yellow CH; 9,10 Bis(phenylethynyl)anthracene; Chlorophyll a; Chlorophyll b;
   4-(Dicyanomethylene)-2-methyl-6-(4-dimethylaminostyryl)-4H-pyran; and 2[4
   (Dimethylamino)styryl]-1-methypyridinium iodide, Lutein, Zeaxanthin beta-carotene
   or lycopen Coumarin 314; or Proflavin; or any combination thereof. Lutein (also
   known as Xanthophyll), and Zeaxanthin, for example, are natural protectors which
25 accumulate in the retina, their concentration decreasing with age. Providing an
   absorptive filter containing such substance helps to compensate for the natural loss
   of the substances in the eye.
            The choice of pigment or dye will depend on the target wavelength band or
   bands of the absorptive filter 420.
30          For example, for protection against phototoxic light in the at least one
   selected range of wavelengths, a number dyes or pigments provide a high level of
   absorption in the wavelength band of 420 nm to 470 nm as illustrated in FIG. 10.
   FIGS. 10(i) to 10(viii) illustrate the absorption spectrums of the following substances
   respectively (i) Auramine 0 dissolved in water exhibits an absorption peak at
35 around 431 nm with a bandwidth (measured as FWHM) of 59 nm; (ii) Coumarin

                                                    30
   343; dissolved in ethanol exhibits an absorption peak at around 445 nm with a
   bandwidth (measured as FWHM) of 81 nm; (iii) Nitrobenzoxadiazole dissolved in
   ethanol; exhibits an absorption peak at around 461 nm with a bandwidth (measured
   as FWHM) of 70 nm; (iv) Lucifer yellow CH dissolved in water exhibits an
 5 absorption peak at around 426 nm with a bandwidth (measured as FWHM) of 74
   nm; (v) 9,10 Bis(phenylethynyl)anthracene dissolved in Cyclohexame exhibits an
   absorption peak at around 451 nm with a bandwidth (measured as FWHM) of 67
   nm; (vi) Chlorophyll a dissolved in diethyl ether exhibits an absorption peak at
   around 428 nm with a bandwidth (measured as FWHM) of 44 nm; (vii) Chlorophyll a
10 dissolved in methanol exhibits an absorption peak at around 418 nm with a
   bandwidth (measured as FWHM) of 42 nm; (viii) Chlorophyll b dissolved in diethyl
   ether exhibits an absorption peak at around 436 nm with a bandwidth (measured as
   FWHM) of 25 nm.
            As can be seen from the respective absorption spectrums, these
15 substances provide spectrums having absorption in a narrow bandwidth of FWHM
   of 10 to 82 nm thereby providing selective filtering means leading to a reduction in
   undesirable visual distortion.
            In other embodiments the absorptive filter 420 may contain a porphyrins or a
   derivative thereof.
20          Some examples of porphyrins include 5,10,15,20-Tetrakis(4
   sulfonatophenyl) porphyrin sodium salt complex; 5,10,15,20-Tetrakis(N-alkyl-4
   pyridyl) porphyrin complex; 5,10,15,20-Tetrakis(N-alkyl-3-pyridyl) porphyrin metal
   complex, and 5,10,15,20-Tetrakis(N-alkyl-2-pyridyl) porphyrin complex, or any
   combination thereof. The alkyl may be methyl, ethyl, butyl and/or propyl. All these
25 porphyrins show very good water solubility and are stable up to 300         0 C.
            The complex can be a metal complex wherein the metal may be as Cr(III),
   Ag(II), In(III), Mg(II), Mn(III), Sn(IV), Fe (III), or Zn(II). Such metal complexes exhibit
   an absorption in water of between 425 and 448 nm which corresponds to a range of
   wavelengths exhibiting phototoxicity. Metal complexes based on Cr(III), Ag(II),
30 In(III), Mn(III), Sn(IV), Fe (III), or Zn(II) in particular have the advantage that they
   are not acid sensitive and provide more stable complexes since they will not loose
   the metal at pH<6. Moreover these porphyrins do not exhibit fluorescence at room
   temperature. Such properties are of interest for use in optical lens such as
   ophthalmic lenses, contact lenses and IOLs, for example. The porphyrin can be
35 selected according to the target wavelength band or target wavelength bands

                                                  31
   where the transmission of the light is to be inhibited. The absorption band of
   wavelengths depends upon the solvent and pH. The bandwidth will depend on the
   solvent, pH and on the concentration since dyes tend to aggregate at higher
   concentrations leading to broader peaks. The target band can thus be obtained by
 5 the choice of porphyrin, the pH and the solvent, as well as the concentration.
           FIGS. 11(i) to 11 (viii) illustrate the absorption spectrums of the following
   porphyrins respectively (i) Diprotonated-tetraphenylporphyrin dissolved in
   chloroform and HCI having an absorption peak at approximately 445 nm with a
   bandwidth (measured as FWHM) of 18 nm; (ii) Magnesium Octaethylporphyrin
10 dissolved in toluene having an absorption peak of 410 nm with a bandwidth
   (measured as FWHM) of 14 nm; (iii) Magnesium Tetramesitylporphyrin dissolved in
   toluene having an absorption peak at 427 nm, with a bandwidth (measured as
   FWHM) of 10 nm; (iv) Tetrakis (2,6-dichlorophenyl) porphyrin dissolved in toluene
   having an absorption peak at 419 nm with a bandwidth (measured as FWHM) of 12
15 nm; (v) Tetrakis (o-aminophenyl) porphyrin dissolved in toluene having an
   absorption peak at 420 nm with a bandwidth (measured as FWHM) of 30 nm; (vi)
   Tetramesitylporphyrin dissolved in toluene having an absorption peak at 427 nm
   with a bandwidth (measured as FWHM) of 1 nm; (vii) Zinc Tetramesitylporphyrin
   dissolved in toluene having an absorption peak at 420 nm with a bandwidth
20 (measured as FWHM) of 12 nm; (viii) Zinc tetraphenylporphyrin, dissolved in
   toluene having an absorption peak at 423 nm with a bandwidth (measured as
   FWHM) of 14 nm. As can be seen from the respective absorption spectrums, these
   substances provide spectrums having absorption in a narrow bandwidth of FWHM
   of 10 to 30 nm thereby providing selective absorptive filters. The improved
25 selectively provided by the use of such substances leads to a better reduction in
   undesirable visual distortion since a more selective target range can be inhibited.
   According to the target band of wavelengths to be inhibited the appropriate
   porphyrin may be selected.
           Some porphryins have a particular example of being soluble in water such
30 as Mg(II) meso-Tetra(4-sulfonatophenyl) porphine tetrasodium salt has an
   absorption wavelength in water of approximately 428 nm.
           Porphyrins may be selected according to the intended use of the optical
   device. For example, the following porphyrins provide absorption peaks in the
   around 460 nm: manganese(III) 5,10,15,20-tetra(4-pyridyl)-21H, 23H-porphine
35 chloride tetrakis(methochloride) exhibits an absorption peak at 462 nm; 5,10,15,20-

                                              32
   Tetrakis(4-sulfonatophenyl)-21 H, 23H-porphine manganese (III) chloride exhibits an
   absorption peak at 466 nm, 2,3,7,8,12,13,17,18-Octaethyl-21H,23H-porphine
   manganese(III) chloride exhibits an absorption peak at 459 nm. Use of such
   substances may be useful thus in inhibiting transmission of light of wavelength of
 5 460 nm. Such wavelength has been shown to be detrimental to RGC on an in vitro
   model of glaucoma.
            Zinc 5,10,15,20-tetra(4-pyridyl)-21 H,23H-porphine tetrakis(methochloride)
   exhibits a peal absorption at 435 nm. Use of such substances may be useful thus in
   inhibiting transmission of light of wavelength of 435 nm. Such wavelength has been
10 shown to be detrimental to RPE on an in vitro model of AMD.
            Other applications or wavelength protection may be envisaged with other
   porphyrins: 5,10,15,20-Tetrakis(4-methoxyphenyl)-21 H,23H-porphine cobalt(II)
   exhibits a first peak absorption at 417 nm and a second peak absorption 530 nm.
   Such a porphyrin may be used as a dual band absorptive filter to filter out
15 wavelengths in the region of both of these absorption peaks or used for filtering out
   wavelengths for either of the absorption peaks. Similarly 5,10,15,20-Tetrakis(4
   methoxyphenyl)-21 H,23H-porphine exhibits a first peak absorption at 424 nm and a
   second peak absorption 653 nm.
            5,10,15,20-Tetrakis(4-methoxyphenyl)-21 H,23H-porphine iron (III) chloride
20 exhibits an absorption peak at 421 nm. Zinc 5,10,15,20-tetra(4-pyridyl)-21H,23H
   porphine tetrakis (methochloride) exhibits an absorption peak at 423 nm.
            5,10,15,20-Tetrakis(1-methyl-4-pyridinio) porphyrin tetra(p-toluenesulfonate)
   exhibits an absorption peak at 421 nm. 5,10,15,20-Tetrakis(4-hydroxyphenyl)
   21 H,23H-porphine exhibits an absorption peak at 421 nm. 4,4',4",4"'-(Porphine
25 5,10,15,20-tetrayl)tetrakis(benzoic acid) exhibits an absorption peak at 411 nm.
            In further embodiments, other dyes or pigments including porphyrins may be
   selected according to the intended use of the optical device. In the case, for
   example of preventing melatonin suppression, one or more dyes or pigments
   having an absorption peak in a target band of 465 nm to 495 nm may be selected.
30 Light having wavelengths in this band suppresses the production of Melatonin.
   Melatonin (N-acetyl-5-methoxytryptamine) is the principal hormone of the pineal
   gland, and controls many biological functions, particularly the timing of those
   physiological functions that are controlled by the duration of light and darkness.
   Thus optical devices having selective filtering means configured to inhibit

                                                 33
   transmission of light in this target band may be used to prevent melatonin
   suppression, particularly at night.
            4-(Dicyanomethylene)2-methyl-6-(4-dimethylaminostyryl)-4H-pyran exhibits
   an absorption peak at 468 nm. 2-[4-(Dimethylamino)styrl]-1-methylpyridinium iodide
 5 exhibits an absorption peak at 466 nm.
            3,3'-Diethyloxacarbocyanine iodide exhibits an absorption peak at 483 nm.
            The absorptive filter of the optical device of fig. 4 may be configured as a
   dual band filter that inhibits transmission of incident light, through the base optical
   substrate towards the eye 50 of a user, of light in two target bands of wavelengths,
10 incident on the front surface of the 112 optical lens 100 while having minimum
   effect on the transmission of incident light of wavelengths outside the two selected
   wavelength bands. As illustrated in FIG. 12 a dual band filter may be provided
   which exhibits a low level of transmission within a first band of wavelengths, for
   example centered around of 435 nm as illustrated in the example and a second low
15 level of transmission at a higher band for example centered around 460 nm while
   enabling transmission at a high level of transmittance of light at wavelengths
   between the two target bands.
            The absorption bandwidths of the substances described above are
   sufficiently narrow to enable such dual band filters to be provided. They may be
20 provided by using two different substances exhibiting different absorption peaks or
   by a single substance having two or more different absorption peaks. Moreover a
   selective interferential filter of any of the previous embodiments may be combined
   with an absorptive filter of any of the embodiments to provide a dual band filter. The
   advantages of having two narrow distinct bands rather than two bands merging
25 together are that distortion of colour vision and perturbation of scotopic vision can
   be minimised.
           An optical device according to a further embodiment of the invention will be
   described with reference to FIG. 5. FIG. 5 is a schematic diagram of an optical lens
   500 comprising a base optical substrate 510 having a first surface 511 and a
30 second surface 512 similar to the base optical substrate of device if fig. 1A. The
   optical lens 500 further comprises a selective interferential filter 522 provided on the
   front surface 512 of the base optical substrate 510 and an absorptive filter 520 on
   the back surface 511 of the base optical substrate. In alternative embodiments the
   absorptive filter 520 may be included in the volume of the base optical substrate
35 510, for example incorporated within the base optical substrate 510 itself. The

                                                  34
   selective interferential filter 521 operates in the same way as the selective
   interferential filter 120 of the device illustrated in fig. 1A and the absorptive filter 520
   operates in a similar manner to the absorptive filter of the device illustrated in and
   described with reference to fig. 2. Both the selective interferential filter 522 and the
 5 absorptive filter 520 may be configured to inhibit transmission of light in the same
   target wavelength band. The advantage provided by this embodiment of the
   invention is that the selective interferential filter 522 may be added to the optical
   substrate to provide enhanced protection in the target wavelength band by enabling
   an overall increase in rejection factor in the target wavelength to be obtained. This
10 enhanced protection may be adapted to the needs of the user, i.e. depending on
   whether or not the user suffers from a disease such as for example AMD, Stargardt
   disease, retinitis pigmentosa, Best's disease, Glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy or
   Leber's optic neuropathy, or to what degree the user suffers from that disease. For
   example a first filter may provide a level of protection for normal preventive usage
15 while the addition of a second filter may increase that level of protection to a
   therapeutic level for a subject suffering from the disease.
            In an alternative embodiment, the optical substrate may be provided with
   two absorptive filters. At least one of the absorptive filters may be added to the
   surface of the optical substrate to provide enhanced protection in the same target
20 wavelength band as an absorptive filter provided on the other surface of the optical
   substrate or as a layer within the optical substrate. In further embodiments one of
   the absorptive filters may be added to the surface of the optical substrate to provide
   protection in a different target wavelength band as an absorptive filter provided on
   the other surface of the optical substrate or as a layer within the optical substrate.
25 For example a protection in a target band relative to light detrimental to glaucoma,
   diabetic retinopathy or Leber's optic neuropathy may be provided by one absorptive
   filter and additional protection in a further target band relative to light detrimental to
   AMD, Stargardt disease, retinitis pigmentosa or Best's disease may be provided by
   another absorptive filter. Alternatively using filters with different target bands may
30 enable colour balancing effects to be achieved.
            Specific interferential filtering zones of the optical substrate (i.e. zones of the
   optical substrate provided with selective interferential filters) of an optical device
   according to embodiments of the invention can be defined in order to minimise the
   angular sensitivity of interferential filters and/or to significantly reduce colour
35 distortion and light intensity attenuation in certain regions of the optical substrate.

                                                35
   This is particularly important in the case when a selective interferential filter is
   applied to an optical lens such as an ophthalmic lens, a contact lens or an IOL. In
   the context of the present invention, by "ophthalmic lenses" is meant corrective and
   non-corrective lenses and also masks and other vision devices intended to be worn
 5 in front of the eyes. The ophthalmic lenses can provide specific functions, for
   example solar, antireflective, anti-smudge, anti-abrasive, etc.
            In some embodiments of the invention, the optical substrate may be
   provided with multiple filtering zones, for example in the case of monofocal
   ophthalmic lenses in the form of concentric circular zones from the center of the
10 optical substrate to the periphery of the optical substrate. Moreover the rejection
   rate may differ from zone to zone.
            Another optical device which can embody the invention will be described
   with reference to FIGS. 6A and 6B. FIG. 6A is a schematic diagram of an optical
   lens 600 comprising a base optical substrate 610 having a first surface 611 and a
15 second surface 612. In the specific embodiment of an optical lens the first surface
   611 is a concave back surface, disposed proximal to an eye 50 of a user in use and
   the second surface 612 is a convex front surface disposed in use distal to the eye
   50 of the user. The front surface 612 has a number n of filtering zones 612-1 ...
   612-n (where, in this embodiment n=4). Each filtering zone is provided with a
20 respective selective interferential filter 620-1 ... 620-n. Each selective interferential
   filter 620-1 . . . 620-n operates as a band stop filter selectively inhibiting
   transmission, through the base optical substrate 610 towards the eye 50 of a user,
   of light in a target wavelength band, incident on the front surface 612 of the optical
   lens within the respective zone 612-1 . . . 612-n while having little or no effect on
25 the transmission of incident light of wavelengths outside the target wavelength
   band. Each selective interferential filter 620-1 ... 620-n is configured to inhibit the
   transmission of the selected target wavelength if the incident light is incident on the
   respective filtering zone 612_1-612.sub.--n within a respective selected range of
   angles defined by a cone of angles. Moreover each selective interferential filter 620
30 1 ... 620-n is configured to inhibit the transmission of the target wavelength band
   at a respective rejection rate. The optical device may further comprise a protective
   film (not shown) positioned over the selective interferential filters 620-1 . . . 620-n to
   provide mechanical and environmental protection. The protective film 630 may also
   be provided with an anti reflective coating for preventing the reflection of incident
35 light in across the visible spectrum or within a selected band of the visible spectrum.

                                                  36
   In this embodiment, particularly adapted for monofocal ophthalmic lenses, a central
   filtering zone 612_1 is provided in the form of a circle while surrounding filtering
   zones 612_2 to 612_4 are provided as concentric annular rings surrounding the
   central zone 612_1 as illustrated in FIG. 6B.
 5           In the example of FIG. 6B each of the selective interferential filters 620-1 ...
   620-n are configured such that the respective selected range of angles of incidence
   is centered on an angle of incidence substantially normal to the interference
   patterns of the interference grating of the selective interferential filter 620-1 . . . 620
   n. The interference patterns of the respective surrounding selective interferential
10 filters 620-2 ... 620-n are inclined with respect to the interference patterns of the
   interference grating of the central selective interferential filter 620_1 based on the
   position of the respective surrounding zone 6122, 612_3, 612,4 with respect to the
   central zone 612_1. i.e. the tilt angle of the interferential patterns of the selective
   interferential filters 620_1 to 620_4 increases as illustrated in FIG. 6B from the
15 central zone towards the peripheral zone of the optical substrate. This means that
   each selective interferential filter 612_1 to 6124 may be configured to operate in
   the target wavelength band for different ranges of angles of incidence.
             The selective interferential filter 620_1 provided for the central filtering zone
   612_1 may be configured to have a higher rejection rate with respect to the
20 rejection rate of the other selective interferential filters 620_2 to 620_4. The
   rejection rate of the other selective interferential filters 620_2 to 620_4 can be
   configured such that the rejection rate decreases from the central zone to the
   peripheral zone as illustrated in FIG. 6C. A filtering gradient from the center to the
   periphery of the optical substrate can thus be provided.
25           Designing an optical substrate with multiple filtering zones as described
   above minimizes the angular sensitivity of the band stop filter as illustrated in FIG.
   6C.
             Each filtering zone of the optical substrate is preferentially associated with at
   least one line of sight and an associated cone of incidence angles. In particular, a
30 spatially central zone of the lens generally corresponds to the primary gaze
   direction (line of sight when the user is looking at infinity straight ahead) of a user in
   central vision. In such a configuration, as illustrated in FIG. 7A, the incidence angles
   of incident light reaching the central part of the retina are close to 0 . As the eye
   rotates around the CRO, the line of sight moves away from the primary gaze

                                                37
   direction and the angles of incidence increase as represented, for illustrative
   purposes, in FIG. 7B or in FIG. 7C.
             Thus, the multiple filtering zones of the optical lens may be configured
   accordingly, each filtering zone being associated with a respective cone of
 5 incidence angles of incident light on the front surface (distal surface to user) of the
   optical substrate, in turn related to one or more lines of sight of the user. For each
   filtering zone of the example illustrated in FIG. 6B, the tilt angle of the interference
   fringes is calculated in such a way that the main incidence angle constitutes a
   normal angle to the interference grating. For each filtering zone in this example, the
10 target wavelength band to be rejected remains the same. Decreasing the rejection
   rate for each filtering zone with the excentration of the respective filtering zone on
   the optical substrate also contributes to attenuation of color distortion.
             While in the specific example illustrated in FIGS. 6A and 6B the surface of
   the optical lens is provided with 4 zones, it will be appreciated that the surface may
15 be provided with any number of zones without departing from the scope of the
   invention.
             For example, embodiments can be applied to different types of lenses, for
   example, multifocal lenses. A multifocal lens has at least two optical zones with
   different refractive powers which can be located and controlled, i.e. a far vision
20 portion for viewing objects at a far distance and a near vision portion for viewing
   objects at a near distance. In a progressive multifocal lens the near portion and the
   far potion are linked by a progression corridor which corresponds to the path
   followed by the eye when it passes from one zone to the other zone enabling the
   eye to pass gently from far vision to near vision, thereby providing visual comfort for
25 the wearer. The near vision portion and the far vision portion can each be
   associated with a reference point. The far vision reference point generally defines
   the intersection of the main line of sight with the lens while the near vision reference
   point generally defines the point of the principal meridian of progression for which
   the power of the lens corresponds to that required for near viewing. Thus in a
30 particular embodiment of the invention as illustrated in FIG. 8, a first filtering zone
   722_1 i.e. a first zone of the optical substrate provided with a selective filter, may be
   associated with a far vision portion of the ophthalmic lens and a second filtering
   zone 722_2 may be associated with a near vision portion. The first filtering zone is,
   preferably circular or oval in shape, essentially covering the zone around the far
35 vision reference point FV, and the second filtering zone 722_2 preferably circular or

                                                   38
   oval in shape, covers the zone around the near vision reference point NV. In
   addition, a further zone 722_3 corresponding to the progression corridor, may be
   provided with a selective filter in accordance with any of the embodiments of the
   invention.
 5          In the case of a progressive corrective ophthalmic lens, the diameter or the
   largest dimension of the central zone covering the far vision reference point is
   preferably comprised between 5 and 35 mm, in particular between 10 and 25 mm,
   and still more preferably approximately 20 mm.
            The second filtering zone covering the near vision reference point is
10 generally smaller than that corresponding to the far vision reference point. The
   diameter or the largest dimension of the second filtering zone covering the near
   vision reference point is advantageously comprised between 5 and 15 mm,
   preferably between 7 and 13 mm, and is in particular approximately 10 mm. The
   width of the band linking these two zones is advantageously comprised between 3
15 and 7 mm, preferably between 4 and 6 mm, and is in particular approximately 5
   mm. In a particular embodiment of the invention, the band linking the first and
   second zone can optionally have a selective filter demonstrating inhibition of
   transmission in the same target band as the selective filters of either or both of the
   first or second filtering zones.
20          In a further embodiment of the invention a contact lens may be provided
   with one or more filtering zones, wherein the optical substrate composing the
   contact lens is provided with one or more interferential selective filters arranged (ie
   located) according to the embodiments of the invention described above. A central
   circular zone of the optical substrate located at a geometrical center of the lens
25 comprises a central circular area having a diameter of from 0.3 to 1 mm surrounded
   at one or two concentric rings, each zone having a width of about 0.1 mm to 1.25
   mm may be provided with respective filtering means as described above.
            A method for determining the configuration of one or more selective filters
   for an optical lens based on a particular user or utilisation in accordance with a
30 particular embodiment of the invention will now be described.
            In an initial step, a first set of parameters defining at least one line of sight of
   the user, the distance between an eye of the user (from a point of reference of the
   eye such as the cornea apex or the center of rotation (CRO)) and a defined point on
   the optical substrate of the optical lens, such as on the back surface located
35 proximal to the user. In the case of utilisation wherein the retina or part of the retina

                                               39
   is to be protected, the size of the retina area centered on the fovea of the eye of the
   user and/or the pupil size of the user are also taken into consideration. For example
   FIG. 9A illustrates some of the parameters that can be taken into account which
   include a distance q' from the CRO of the eye to a defined point on the back surface
 5 of optical lens 800, a distance p' between the pupil P and the CRO, and PS
   represents the size of the pupil.
           As previously described in relation to FIG. 1E parameters of the optical lens
   may also be taken into account such as the geometry of the lens (including lens
   thickness, center prism), the surface equations defining the front and back surfaces
10 of the lens, and the refractive index n of the optical substrate to enable the relation
   between the incidence angle of light incident on the front surface of the optical lens
   and the line of sight from the eye of the back surface of the optical lens to be
   considered.
            In the case of an ophthalmic lens, the first set of parameters may include
15 spectacle wearing parameters. Such wearing parameters include an eye-lens
   distance, pantoscopic tilt and wrap.
            In general, the eye lens distance may be defined as the distance between a
   defined point of the back surface of the optical substrate and the center of rotation
   (CRO) of the eye or the cornea apex of the eye. The pantoscopic tilt of the lens is
20 defined as the angle between the vertical and the line passing through the vertical
   edges of the lens fitted into the frame when the wearer is in a primary gaze position.
   The wrap defines the angle between the horizontal line and the line passing through
   the horizontal edges of the lens fitted into the frame. In general, the pantoscopic
   angle may be 80, the wrap angle may be 7' and the cornea-lens distance is 12 mm.
25          Based on the first set of parameters, for each filtering zone, a cone of
   incidence angles is determined, and each filtering zone is numerically designed by
   considering all those incidence angles, modelling a non collimated lighting source
   instead of being designed by considering only one incidence angle, modelling a
   limited collimated lighting source.
30          Illustrative exemplary results of cone of incidences were obtained using a
   Zemax model to model the features of an eye. For instance, in FIG. 9C, the
   ophthalmic lens is a monofocal lens with power equal to OD. and having an
   refractive index of n=1,591, the pantoscopic angle is 0', the wrap angle is 0', the
   cornea-lens distance is 12 mm (p'=13 mm, q'=25 mm), the pupil diameter is 6 mm
35 and the main line of sight corresponds to the primary gaze direction, that is to say)

                                                40
   (a, P)=(0   , 0 ). In this case, by choosing to protect a 10 mm diameter fovea
   centered retinal zone in the vertical plane XY, it was determined that the cone of
   incidences in this plane is limited by dal=-18    0  and da'2=+18   , which corresponds
   to the peripheral angles of incidences i'1=-15.9            0 and i'2=+15.9      , which
 5 corresponds to a 16 mm diameter circle centered on the reference point of the
   optical lens (Y=0 mm) by considering the peripheral rays that go through the
   extremities of the pupil, as illustrated in FIG. 9C.
           In the case where the zone of the retina to be protected is 4 mm, then the
   cone of incidences in the vertical plane is limited by da'1=-7   0 and da'2=+7   0  which
10 corresponds to the peripheral angles of incidences i'1=-6.1      0 and i'2=+6.1  0  which
   corresponds to a 10.5 mm diameter circle centered on reference point of the optical
   lens (Y=0 mm). In the case where the zone of the retina to be protected is 4 mm
   and where the main line of sight is (a, P)=(20         , 0 ), meaning that the wearer
   rotates his eye of 20  0 downstairs, the cone of incidences is still limited by da'1 =-7
15 and da'2=+7      , but which corresponds to the peripheral angles of incidences
    '1=+9.7  0 and i'2=+21.5    , which corresponds to a zone on the lens starting from
   Y=-15.5 mm to Y=-4 mm on the optical lens. As mentioned before, the cone of
   incidences depends on a number of parameters of the optical substrate such as the
   geometry of the lens, particularly on its optical power (sphere, cylinder, axis,
20 addition). Physiological parameters of the user may also be taken into account such
   as if the user suffers from a deterioration of the eye or is to be protected from a
   particular deterioration of the eye. For example a selective filter for a user suffering
   from AMD, Stargardt disease, retinitis pigmentosa, Best's disease, glaucoma,
   diabetic retinopathy or Leber's optic neuropathy will be configured to have a
25 selected range of angles of incidence taking into account the size of the zone of the
   eye to be protected.
           In another step of the method a second set of parameters characterising the
   range of wavelengths to be inhibited is provided in order to determine one or more
   target wavelength bands of light of which transmission is to be inhibited.
30         For example, if the intended use is for protecting the retina of an eye against
   phototoxic light, one or more selective filters may be configured to inhibit
   transmission of light incident on the front surface of the optical device of
   wavelengths in a bandwidth in a range of from 10 nm to 70 nm, preferably 10 nm to
   60 nm centered on a wavelength within a range of from 430 nm to 465 nm.

                                                 41
            If the user suffers from a disease such as glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy,
   Leber's optic neuropathy, one or more selective filters may be configured to inhibit
   the transmission of incident light in a target band having a bandwidth of 10-70 nm,
   preferably, 15-25 nm centered on a wavelength of around 460 nm in order to
 5 provide enhanced protection and to slow down progress of these particular
   diseases.
            If the user suffers from a disease such as AMD, Stargardt disease, retinitis
   pigmentosa or Best's disease, one or more selective filters may be configured to
   inhibit the transmission of incident light in a target band having a bandwidth of 10
10 70 nm, preferably 15-25 nm centered on a wavelength of around 435 nm in order to
   provide enhanced protection and to slow down progress of this particular disease.
            For example if the user suffers from a sleep related disorder such as
   insomnia, jet lag, DSPS, ASPS, or changes of biological rhythms due to shift work
   and the like, one or more selective filters may be configured to inhibit the
15 transmission of wavelengths of light in a target band of 465 nm to 495 nm centered
   on a wavelength of 480 nm for example to prevent melatonin suppression.
            The selective filters may be configured to be switchable so that inhibition of
   the target wavelength band may be switched on or off, or the rejection factor varied
   according to the time of day or the exposure to light.
20          Depending on the target wavelength bands the selective interferential filter
   as described above, may be configured accordingly, or the appropriate choice of
   absorptive material described above may be made.
            The rejection rate of the selective filter in the target wavelength band(s) may
   be configured according to the utilisation envisaged and/or the level of protection
25 required.
            For example, for normal preventive utilisation for a user who does not suffer
   disease of the eye, a relatively low rate of rejection in the target wavelength band(s)
   may be configured, for example in the range of 30% to 50%. In the case of a user
   suffering from a disease of the eye such as glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy or
30 Leber's optic neuropathy, the level of rejection may be increased to a level in the
   range of from 80% to 100% for example.
            The rejection rate may be adjusted by increasing the number of absorptive
   or interferential layers of the selective filters, or by adding further selective filters for
   example to one or both surfaces of the optical substrate. For example, a standard
35 rejection rate in accordance with a normal preventive usage could be provided for a

                                                      42
   set of optical substrates in the form of unfinished lens, and then during a
   configuration phase an additional selective filter, absorptive or interferential, could
   be added to a surface of the optical substrate during manufacture of the optical lens
   from the unfinished lens if an enhanced level of rejection was required.
 5            Moreover the transmittance of incident light outside the target wavelength
   band(s) can be configured according to the utilization required, for example
   according to whether or not solar protection is needed. In the case of solar
   protection the transmittance across the entire visible spectrum could be in the range
   of 8% to 100% for example, depending on the level of solar protection required
10 such as class 0 to 3 as defined by International standards such as NF EN
   1836+A1.sub.--2007E            or     ISO    DIS    12312-1E.      Table    1 summarises         filter
   characteristics for sun glare filters used in solar protection, according to different
   filter categories as stated in ISODIS 12312-1 E.
   Consumer        Technical        Requirements
   Label           Label
   Descriptive     Filter           Ultraviolet spectral range         Visible           Enhanced
   Label           Category                                             spectral range   Infrared
                                                                                         absorptiona
                                    Maximum            Maximum          Range of         Maximum
                                    value of solar     value of solar   luminous         value of solar
                                    UV-B               UV-A             transmittance    IR
                                    transmittance      transmittance                     transmittance
                                    TSUVB              TSUVA            Tv               TSIR
                                    280nm to           315nm to        from        to %
                                    315nm              380nm            over %
   Light tint      0                0.05 Tv            Tv               80.0       100   Tv
   sunglasses      1                0.05 Tv            Tv              43.0        80    Tv
   General         2                 1.0% absolute     0.5 Tv           18.0       43.0  Tv
   purpose                          or 0.05 Tv
   sunglasses                       whichever is
                                    greater
                   3                 1.0% absolute     0.5 Tv           8.0        18.0 Tv
   Very dark       4                 1.0% absolute     1.0% absolute 3.00          8.00 Tv
   special                                             or 0.25 Tv
   purpose                                             whichever is
   sunglasses                                          greater
   aOnly applicable to sunglare filters recommended by the manufacturer as a protection against infrared
   radiation
   NOTE The upper limit of UV-A at 380 nm coincides with that taken in ophthalmic optics and
   in ISO 20473: 2007, Optics and photonics-Spectral bands
15
    Table 1: Transmittance for sunglare filters for general use in solar protection

                                               43
            Examples of specific configurations are as follows for a normal prevention
   use for example against phototoxic light in the at least one selected range of
   wavelengths, the selective filter (interferential and/or absorptive) may be configured
   to inhibit light in a target band centered on 435 nm, 460 nm or 445 nm with a
 5 bandwidth of 20 nm to 60 nm with a rejection rate in the range of from 30% to 50%.
            For a therapeutic use the selective filter (interferential and/or absorptive)
   may be configured to inhibit light in a target band centered on 435 nm, 460 nm or
   445 nm with a bandwidth of 20 nm to 60 nm, with a rejection rate in the range of
   from 80% to 100%.
10          For a solar and preventive use, the optical device may be configured to
   enable transmittance of visible light across the entire visible spectrum at 8% to 60%
   i.e. at an inhibition rate of 92% to 40%. The selective filter (interferential and/or
   absorptive) may be configured to inhibit light in a target band centered on 435 nm,
   460 nm or 445 nm with a bandwidth of 25 nm to 60 nm, preferably of from 25 nm to
15 35nm at an additional inhibition rate of at least 5% in addition to the inhibition rate of
   visible light across the entire visible spectrum.
            A lens production system for producing an optical lens according to any of
   the embodiments of the invention may include a lens ordering system including a
   computer terminal at a lens ordering side such as at an opticians or linked to a lens
20 ordering internet site and a second terminal at a lens manufacturing side with the
   two terminals being linked by data communication links. Information relative to the
   optical lens order, such as prescription values and other information required for the
   design and manufacture of a lens; In particular information relating to the
   configuration of selective filtering means as described above can be sent to the lens
25 manufacturing side from the lens ordering side. For example the type of light to be
   inhibited and the degree of protection required etc.
            Manufacture of an optical lens may comprise the steps of providing an
   unfinished lens having a finished curved surface and an unfinished surface. The
   finished curved surface may be concave (back surface in the case of an ophthalmic
30 lens) or convex (front surface in the case of an ophthalmic lens). Typically the
   unfinished surface is a concave back surface. The unfinished lens may already be
   provided with one selective filter, either within the optical substrate of the unfinished
   lens or on a finished surface of the unfinished lens, and a further selective filter may
   be configured and added to the unfinished or finished surface, if required, to
35 enhance protection, or to provide another function, as described previously. In a

                                                  44
   preferred embodiment the unfinished surface is surfaced prior to the addition of a
   selective interferential filter to the optical lens. In other cases the unfinished lens
   may not yet be provided with any selective filter and the manufacturing process
   may further include configuring a selective filter and incorporating the configured
 5 selective filter, into or onto an unfinished substrate prior to surfacing, to provide a
   finished lens. The manufacturing process may also include the step of adding a
   prescription to the unfinished surface according to the corrective requirements for
   the user. Processes for the manufacture of lens are described, for example in U.S.
   Pat. No. 6,019,470 or U.S. Pat. No. 8,002,405.
10          Determination of the position of the one or more filtering zones provided with
   selective filters on the surface of the optical may be determined with reference to
   standard manufacturing markings provided as micro-engravings on the surface of
   the lens including prism reference points (BP) for facilitating control of prismatic
   power; centering crosses (+) for positioning the lens in front of the eye and for
15 correction insertion of the lens in spectacle frames; distance reference points (BF)
   and near reference points (BN).
            The finished surface, in the case where the finished surface is a convex
   front surface for an ophthalmic lens, may be a spherical, rotationally symmetrical
   spherical surface, a progressive surface, a toric surface, an atoric surface or a
20 complex surface.
            While some specific embodiments have been described above in the
   context of an ophthalmic lens it will be appreciated that the invention may be
   applied to other optical substrates used as windows, automotive and aircraft
   windshields, films, ophthalmic instrumentation, computer monitors, television
25 screens, telephone screens, multimedia display screens, lighted signs, light
   projectors and light sources, other ophthalmic devices and the like without
   departing from the scope of the invention. The ophthalmic devices may include eye
   glasses, sun glasses, goggles, contact lenses, IOL's and ophthalmic lenses.
            Any of the embodiments of the invention described may be used to prevent
30 vision-related discomfort being suffered by user. An optical substrate according to
   any of the embodiments of the invention may be used in windows, automotive and
   aircraft windshields, films, ophthalmic instrumentation, computer monitors,
   television screens, telephone screens, multimedia display screens, lighted signs,
   light projectors and light sources, other ophthalmic devices and the like for inhibiting

                                               45
   transmission of phototoxic light in the at least one selected range of wavelengths, to
   the eye of a user.
           Optical devices comprising optical substrates according embodiments of the
   invention may be used in particular in preventing vision-related discomfort in a user
 5 or in therapy for providing a protection to slow down the progression of disease.
           Particular embodiments of the invention may be used in protecting at least
   part of an eye of a user from phototoxic light in the at least one selected range of
   wavelengths. For example optical devices may be used in protecting, from
   phototoxic light, at least part of an eye of a user suffering from a deterioration of the
10 eye, in particular due to a degenerative process such as glaucoma, diabetic
   retinopathy, Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy, Age related Macular Degeneration
   (AMD), Stargardt disease or retinitis pigmentosa. For example an optical device
   according to any embodiment of the invention may be used in protecting, from
   phototoxic light in the at least one selected range of wavelengths, at least part of an
15 eye of a user suffering from glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy, or Leber's hereditary
   optic neuropathy, wherein the at least one selected range of wavelengths is
   centered on a wavelength of substantially 460 nm.
           Separately or in combination with the previous example, an optical device
   according to embodiments of the invention may be used in protecting, from
20 phototoxic light in the at least one selected range of wavelengths, at least part of an
   eye of a user suffering from Age related Macular Degeneration (AMD), Stargardt
   disease, retinitis pigmentosa or Best's disease, wherein the at least one selected
   range of wavelengths is centered on a wavelength of substantially 435 nm.
           Thus the progress of the disease can be slowed down by providing
25 enhanced protection.
           In some embodiments an optical device according to embodiments of the
   invention may be used in the avoidance of disturbance of sleep and disruption of
   circadian rhythms due to lighting or screens rich in chronobiological light.
           In other embodiments, an optical device according to embodiments of the
30 invention may be used in preventing light induced melatonin suppression when the
   at least one selected range of wavelengths is 465-495 nm. In this way, treatment
   involving reducing exposure to specific wavelengths of light, before sleep often
   referred to as dark therapy, may be provided for subjects suffering from insomnia,
   sleep deprivation, jet lag, detrimental effects on sleeping due to night shift work, or
35 other sleep related effects. Night therapy using optical devices configured in this

                                                46
   way may be used in combination with light therapy to reset circadian rhythms in the
   case of DSPS or ASPS (delayed or advances sleep phase syndrome), or other
   sleep related disorders.
           The user may be provided with ophthalmic lenses, contact lenses, IOLs,
 5 goggles (for example night goggles), protective filters for computer screens or
   windows and the like to help to slow down the progression of the disease.
           Although the present invention has been described herein above with
   reference to specific embodiments, the present invention is not limited to the
   specific embodiments, and modifications will be apparent to a skilled person in the
10 art which lie within the scope of the present invention.
           For example the invention is not restricted to the target wavelength bands
   described, further examples may be envisaged for different applications.
           Further modifications and variations will suggest themselves to those versed
   in the art upon making reference to the foregoing illustrative embodiments, which
15 are given by way of example only and which are not intended to limit the scope of
   the invention, that being determined solely by the appended claims. In particular the
   different features from different embodiments may be interchanged, where
   appropriate.
           In the claims, the word "comprising" does not exclude other elements or
20 steps, and the indefinite article "a" or "an" does not exclude a plurality. The mere
   fact that different features are recited in mutually different dependent claims does
   not indicate that a combination of these features cannot be advantageously used.
   Any reference signs in the claims should not be construed as limiting the scope of
   the invention.
25

                                           47
   CLAIMS:
   1.    A user-wearable optical device for protecting at least part of an eye of a
   user, comprising:
 5         an optical substrate; and
           selective optical filtering means       at the substrate configured to
   selectively inhibit transmission, through the optical substrate, of at least one
   selected range of wavelengths of incident light in the visible light spectrum at
   an inhibition rate of at least 5%, wherein the selective optical filtering means
10 are further configured to transmit at least 8% of incident light of the visible
   spectrum outside the at least one selected range of wavelengths, wherein
   the at least one selected range of wavelengths has a bandwidth in a range
   of from 10nm to 70nm centered on a wavelength within a range of between
   430nm and 465nm, and wherein the selective optical filtering means is split
15 between two selective filters.
   2. An optical device according to claim 1, wherein the two selective filters
   are placed such that each of the two selective filters is interposed between
   different layers of the optical substrate, or a respective one of the two
   selective filters disposed on different surfaces of the optical substrate, or one
20 of the selective filters interposed between two layers of the optical substrate
   and the other one of the selective filters disposed on a surface of the optical
   substrate.
   3.    An optical device according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the at least one
   selected range of wave lengths has a bandwidth of from 10nm to 60nm.
25 4.    An optical device according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the at least one
   selected range of wavelengths is centered on a wavelength of substantially
   435nm, 445nm or460nm.
   5.    An optical device according to claim 4, wherein the first of the selective
   optical filters is configured to inhibit a first range of wavelengths having a

                                           48
   bandwidth in a range of from 10nm to 30nm centered on a wavelength of
   substantially 435nm, and wherein the second one of the selective optical
   filters is configured to inhibit a second range of wavelengths having a
   bandwidth in a range of from 10nm to 30nm centered on a wavelength of
 5 substantially 460nm.
   6.      An optical device according to any one of the preceding claims,
   wherein the selective optical filtering means comprises a dye and/or pigment
   configured to inhibit transmission by absorption.
   7.      An optical device according to claim 6, wherein the dye and/or
10 pigment comprises one or more dyes and/or pigments selected from the
   group consisting of: Auramine 0; Coumarin 343; Nitrobenzoxadiazole;
   Lucifer yellow CH; 9,10 Bis(phenylethynyl)anthracene; 4
   (Dicyanomethylene)-2-methyl-6-(4-dimethylaminostyryl)-4H-pyran; 2-[4
   (Dimethylamino)styril]-1-methypyridinium iodide; Lutein; Zeaxanthin; and
15 Proflavin.
   8. An optical device according to claim 6 or 7, wherein the dye and/or
   pigment comprises one or more porphyrins or porphyrin complexes or
   derivatives thereof.
   9. An optical device according to claim 8, wherein the one or more
20 porphyrins or porphyrin complexes or derivatives are selected from the
   group consisting of Chlorophyll a; Chlorophyll b; 5,10, 15,20-Tetrakis (4
   sulfonatophenyl) porphyrin sodium salt complex; 5,10,15,20-Tetrakis(N-alkyl
   4-pyridyl) porphyrin complex; 5,10,15,20-Tetrakis(N-alkyl-3-pyridyl) porphyrin
   complex; and 5,10,15,20-Tetrakis (N-alkyl-2-pyridyl) porphyrin complex;
25 wherein the alkyl, where present, is an alkyl chain, linear or branched,
   comprising 1 to 4 carbon atoms per chain.

                                               49
   1O.An optical device according to claim 8 or 9, wherein the complex is a
   metal complex, the metal being selected from the group consisting of Cr(Ill),
   Ag(II), In(Ill), Mn(ll), Sn(IV), Fe (III), Co (II)and Zn(II).
   11. An optical device according to claim 8, wherein the one or more
 5 porphyrins or porphyrin complexes or derivatives are selected from the
   group consisting of: Magnesium meso-Tetra(4-sulfonatophenyl) porphine
   tetrasodium          salt;    Magnesium          Octaethylporphyrin;      Magnesium
   Tetramesitylporphyrin;        Octaethylporphyrin;     Tetrakis   (2,6-dichlorophenyl)
   porphyrin;       Tetrakis   (o-aminophenyl)       porphyrin;   Tetramesitylporphyrin;
10 Tetraphenylporphyrin; Zinc octaethylporphyrin; Zinc Tetramesitylporphyrin;
   Zinc tetraphenylporphyrin; and Dipronated-tetraphenylporphyrin.
   12.    An optical device according to any one of the preceding claims,
   wherein the selective optical filtering means comprises interferential filtering
   means configured to inhibit transmission of the at least one selected range
15 of wavelengths of incident light, incident on a first zone of a first surface of
   the optical substrate within a first selected range of angles of incidence.
   13.    A semi finished optical lens comprising a device according to any one
   of claims 1 to 12, having an unfinished surface and an opposing surface,
   wherein the unfinished surface is one of a convex surface and a concave
20 surface and the opposing surface is the other of a convex surface and a
   concave surface.
   14.    Use of an optical device according to any one of claims 1 to 12, in
   preventing vision-related discomfort in a user.
   15.    Use of an optical device according to any one of claims 1 to 12 in
25 protecting at least part of an eye of a user from phototoxic light in the at least
   one selected range of wavelengths.

                                           50
   16.   Use of an optical device according to any one of claims 1 to 12 in
   protecting, from phototoxicity, at least part of an eye of a user suffering from
   a deterioration of the eye, in particular due to a degenerative process such
   as glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy, Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy, Age
 5 related Macular Degeneration (AMD), Stargardt disease, retinitis pigmentosa
   or Best's disease.
   17.   Use of an optical device according to any one of claims 1 to 12 in
   protecting, from phototoxicity, at least part of an eye of a user suffering from
   glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy, or Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy,
10 wherein the at least one selected range of wavelengths is centered on a
   wavelength of substantially 460nm.
   18.   Use of an optical device according to any one of claims 1 to 12 in
   protecting, from phototoxicity, at least part of an eye of a user suffering from
   Age related Macular Degeneration (AMD), Stargardt disease, retinitis
15 pigmentosa or Best's disease wherein the at least one selected range of
   wavelengths is centered on a wavelength of substantially 435nm.
   19.   Use of an optical device according to any one of claims 1 to 12 in
   protecting at least part of an eye of a user from phototoxicity, wherein the
   optical device is configured to inhibit transmission of visible light across the
20 entire visible spectrum at an inhibition rate of from 40% to 92%, and to
   provide an additional selective inhibition of at least 5% within the at least one
   selected range of wavelengths in a bandwidth in a range of from 25nm to
   60nm, preferably of from 25nm to 35nm.
25
   Essilor International (Compagnie Generale d'Optique)
   Universite Paris 6 Pierre Et Marie Curie
30 WATERMARK PATENT AND TRADE MARKS ATTORNEYS
   P39192AU02

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
