                                          ABSTRACT
The present invention provides compositions and methods for prevention, amelioration and
treatment of gram positive bacteria, particularly Staphylococcal bacteria, with combinations of
lysin, particularly Streptococcal lysin, particularly the lysin PlySs2, and one or more antibiotic,
including daptomycin, vancomycin, oxacillin, linezolid, or related antibiotic(s).

      BACTERIOPHAGE LYSIN AND ANTIBIOTIC COMBINATIONS AGAINST
                                 GRAM POSITIVE BACTERIA
                                  FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]      The present invention relates generally to prevention, amelioration and treatment of
gram positive bacteria, including Staphylococcal bacteria, with combinations of lysin, particularly
Streptococcal lysin, particularly the lysin PlySs2, and one or more antibiotic.
                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]      The development of drug resistant bacteria is a major problem in medicine as more
antibiotics are used for a wide variety of illnesses and other conditions.         The use of more
antibiotics and the number of bacteria showing resistance has prompted longer treatment times.
Furthermore, broad, non-specific antibiotics, some of which have detrimental effects on the patient,
are now being used more frequently. A related problem with this increased use is that many
antibiotics do not penetrate mucus linings easily.
[0003]      Gram-positive bacteria are surrounded by a cell wall containing polypeptides and
polysaccharide.    Gram-positive bacteria include but are not limited to the genera Actinomyces,
Bacillus, Listeria, Lactococcus, Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, Enterococcus, Mycobacterium,
Corynebacterium, and Clostridium. Medically relevant species include Streptococcus pyogenes,
Streptococcus pneumoniae, Staphylococcus aureus, and Enterococcus faecalis. Bacillus species,
which are spore-forming, cause anthrax and gastroenteritis. Spore-forming Clostridium species are
responsible for botulism, tetanus, gas gangrene and pseudomembranous colitis. Corynebacterium
species cause diphtheria, and Listeria species cause meningitis.
[0004]      Novel    antimicrobial     therapy  approaches   include   enzyme-based    antibiotics
("enzybiotics") such as bacteriophage lysins. Phages use these lysins to digest the cell wall of
their bacterial hosts, releasing viral progeny through hypotonic lysis. A similar outcome results
when purified, recombinant lysins are added externally to Gram-positive bacteria. The high
lethal activity of lysins against gram-positive pathogens makes them attractive candidates for
development as therapeutics (Fischetti, V.A. (2008) Curr Opinion Microbiol 11:393-400;
Nelson, D.L. et al (2001) Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 98:4107-4112). Bacteriophage lysins were
                                                    1

initially proposed for eradicating the nasopharyngeal carriage of pathogenic streptococci
(Loeffler, J. M. et al (2001) Science 294: 2170-2172; Nelson, D. et al (2001) Proc Natl Acad
Sci USA 98:4107-4112). Lysins are part of the lytic mechanism used by double stranded DNA
(dsDNA) phage to coordinate host lysis with completion of viral assembly (Wang, I. N. et al
(2000) Annu Rev Microbiol 54:799-825). Lysins are peptidoglycan hydrolases that break bonds
in the bacterial wall, rapidly hydrolyzing covalent bonds essential for peptidoglycan integrity,
causing bacterial lysis and concomitant progeny phage release.
[0005]      Lysin family members exhibit a modular design in which a catalytic domain is fused
to a specificity or binding domain (Lopez, R. et al (1997) Microb Drug Resist 3:199-211).
Lysins can be cloned from viral prophage sequences within bacterial genomes and used for
treatment (Beres, S.B. et al (2007) PLoS ONE 2(8):1-14). When added externally, lysins are
able to access the bonds of a Gram-positive cell wall (Fischetti, V.A. (2008) Curr Opinion
Microbiol 11:393-400). Bacteriophage lytic enzymes have been established as useful in the
assessment and specific treatment of various types of infection in subjects through various
routes of administration. For example, U.S. Patent 5,604,109 (Fischetti et al.) relates to the rapid
detection of Group A streptococci in clinical specimens, through the enzymatic digestion by a
semi-purified Group C streptococcal phage associated lysin enzyme. This enzyme work became
the basis of additional research, leading to methods of treating diseases. Fischetti and Loomis
patents (U.S. Patents 5,985,271, 6,017,528 and 6,056,955) disclose the use of a lysin enzyme
produced by group C streptococcal bacteria infected with a Cl bacteriophage.            U.S. Patent
6,248,324 (Fischetti and Loomis) discloses a composition for dermatological infections by the
use of a lytic enzyme in a carrier suitable for topical application to dermal tissues. U.S. Patent
6,254,866 (Fischetti and Loomis) discloses a method for treatment of bacterial infections of the
digestive tract which comprises administering a lytic enzyme specific for the infecting bacteria.
The carrier for delivering at least one lytic enzyme to the digestive tract is selected from the
group consisting of suppository enemas, syrups, or enteric coated pills. U.S. Patent 6,264,945
(Fischetti and Loomis) discloses a method and composition for the treatment of bacterial
infections by the parenteral introduction (intramuscularly, subcutaneously, or intravenously) of
at least one lytic enzyme produced by a bacteria infected with a bacteriophage specific for that
bacteria and an appropriate carrier for delivering the lytic enzyme into a patient.
[0006]      Phage associated lytic enzymes have been identified and cloned from various
bacteriophages, each shown to be effective in killing specific bacterial strains.       U.S. Patent
                                                   2

7,402,309, 7,638,600 and published PCT Application W02008/018854 provides distinct phage
associated lytic enzymes useful as antibacterial agents for treatment or reduction of Bacillus
anthracis infections.     U.S. Patent 7,569,223 describes lytic enzymes for Streptococcus
pneumoniae.        Lysin useful for Enterococcus         (E. faecalis  and E.  faecium,   including
vancomycin resistant strains) are described in U.S. Patent 7,582291.            US 2008/0221035
describes mutant Ply GBS lysins highly effective in killing Group B streptococci. A chimeric
lysin denoted ClyS, with activity against Staphylococci bacteria, including Staphylococcus
aureus, is detailed in WO 2010/002959.
[0007]      Based on their rapid, potent, and specific cell wall-degradation and bactericidal
properties, lysins have been suggested as antimicrobial therapeutics to combat Gram-positive
pathogens by attacking the exposed peptidoglycan cell walls from outside the cell (Fenton, M et
al (2010) Bioengineered Bugs 1:9-16; Nelson, D et al (2001) Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 98:4107
4112). Efficacies of various lysins as a single agents have been demonstrated in rodent models
of pharyngitis (Nelson, D et al (2001) Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 98:4107-4112), pneumonia
(Witzenrath, M et al (2009) Crit Care Med 37:642-649), otitis media (McCullers, J.A. et al
(2007) PLOS pathogens 3:0001-0003), abscesses (Pastagia, M et al Antimicrobial agents and
chemotherapy 55:738-744) bacteremia (Loeffler, J.M. et al (2003) Infection and Immunity
71:6199-6204), endocarditis (Entenza, J.M. et al (2005) Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy
49:4789-4792), and meningitis (Grandgirard, D et al (2008) J Infect Dis 197:1519-1522).           In
addition, lysins are generally specific for their bacterial host species and do not lyse non-target
organisms, including human commensal bacteria which may be beneficial to gastrointestinal
homeostasis (Blaser, M. (2011) Nature 476:393-394; Willing, B.P. et al (2011) Nature reviews.
Microbiology 9:233-243)
[0008]      Antibiotics in clinical practice include several which commonly affect cell wall
peptidoglycan biosynthesis in gram positive bacteria. These include glycopeptides, which as a
class inhibit peptidoglycan synthesis by preventing the incorporation of N-acetylmuramic acid
(NAM) and N-acetylglucosamine (NAG) peptide subunits into the peptidoglycan matrix.
Available glycopeptides include vancomycin and teicoplanin, with vancomycin a primary drug
of choice and clinical application in bacteremia, particularly Staphylococcal infections.
Penicillins act by inhibiting the formation of peptidoglycan cross-links. Common penicillins
include oxacillin, ampicillin and cloxacillin. Linezolid (Zyvox) is a protein synthesis inhibitor
and in a class of antibacterials called oxazolidinones (Ford CW et al (1996) Antimicrob Agents
                                                    3

Chemoth 40(6):1508-1513; Swaney SM et al (1998) Antimicrob Agents Chemoth 42(12):3251
3255; US Patent 6,444,813).
 [0009]      Daptomycin (Cubicin), also denoted LY 146032, is a lipopeptide antibacterial agent
consisting of a 13-member amino acid peptide linked to a 10-carbon lipophilic tail (Miao V et al
(2005)    Microbiology     151(Pt5):1507-1523; Steenbergen       JN et al (2005) J Antimicrob
Chemother 55(3):283-288; and described in US Patent 5,912,226). This structure results in a
novel mechanism of action, the disruption of the bacterial membrane through the formation of
transmembrane channels, which cause leakage of intracellular ions leading to depolarizing the
cellular membrane and inhibition of macromolecular synthesis.           Daptomycin's spectrum of
activity is limited to Gram-positive organisms, including a number of highly resistant species
(methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA), vancomycin intermediate-sensitive S. aureus (VISA),
vancomycin-resistant S. aureus (VRSA), vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus (VRE)).                 In
studies it appears to be more rapidly bactericidal than vancomycin.           Its approved dosing
regimen is 4mg/kg IV once daily. Dose adjustment is necessary in renal dysfunction.
Daptomycin's primary toxicity is reversible dose-related myalgias and weakness. Daptomycin
has been approved for the treatment of complicated skin and soft tissue infections caused by
gram positive bacteria, Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia               and right-sided  S. aureus
endocarditis. Trials assessing daptomycin's efficacy in treating complicated urinary tract
infections and endocarditis/bacteremia are ongoing. Its approved dosing regimen is 4mg/kg IV
once daily. Dose adjustment is necessary in renal dysfunction. Daptomycin's primary toxicity
is reversible dose-related myalgias and weakness.            Resistance to daptomycin has been
encountered both in vitro and in vivo after exposure to daptomycin. The mechanism(s) of
resistance are not fully defined but likely relate to alterations of the cellular membrane.
Multiple passages of Staphylococci and Enterococci in subinhibitory drug concentrations
resulted in MIC increases in a stepwise fashion. Daptomycin binds avidly to pulmonary
surfactant and cannot be effectively used in treatment of pneumonia (Baltz RH (2009) Curr
Opin Chem Biol 13(2):144-151).
[00010]      The broad spectrum antibiotics in clinical use for treatment of gram positive
infections, particularly including critical care antibiotics such as vancomycin, are limited in use
and application by their side effects of gastrointestinal upset and diarrhea and the development
of resistance, particularly in connection with continued or long-term use.
                                                     4

 [00011]    It is evident from the deficiencies and problems associated with current traditional
antibacterial agents that there still exists a need in the art for additional specific bacterial agents,
combinations and therapeutic modalities, particularly without high risks of acquired resistance.
Accordingly, there is a commercial need for new antibacterial approaches, especially those that
operate via new modalities or provide new combinations to effectively kill pathogenic bacteria.
[00012]     The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as,
an acknowledgement of any form of suggestion that such prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[00013]     The present application relates to combinations of bacteriophage lysin(s) with
antibiotic for rapid and effective killing of gram positive bacteria.          In accordance with the
invention, the lysin PlySs2, which demonstrates broad killing activity against multiple bacteria,
particularly gram-positive bacteria, including Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacterial
strains, provides remarkable synergy in combination with antibiotic(s) and can significantly
reduce the effective MIC doses required for antibiotic(s).
 [00014]    The lysin may be combined with broad spectrum gram positive antibiotic(s),
including one or more of vancomycin, daptomycin, linezolid or oxacillin, including related or
similar antibiotics. In a particular aspect, PlySs2 lysin is combined with daptomycin to provide
synergistic killing activity against gram-positive bacteria, including Staphylococci, particularly
including MRSA. In a particular aspect, PlySs2 lysin is combined with vancomycin to provide
synergistic killing activity against Streptococci, including MRSA. In a particular aspect, PlySs2
lysin is combined with linezolid to provide synergistic killing activity against Streptococci,
including MRSA. In an aspect of the invention, combination with PlySs2 lysin significantly
reduces the dose of antibiotic required to kill a gram positive bacteria, such as S. aureus.
[00015]     In accordance with the invention, combinations of PlySs2 lysin and antibiotic,
including antibiotic of distinct type or class, particularly including daptomycin, vancomycin,
linezolid or oxacillin are effective to kill gram positive bacteria, including S. aureus, at lower
doses or with lower MIC than either alone. In an aspect of the invention, lower dose
formulations of lysin and of antibiotic, including suitable for administration in combination or
separately simultaneously or in series, are provided wherein the dose for effective killing or
                                                      5

decolonization of a gram positive infection are lower than the dose required if either are
provided alone.       In particular, low dose formulations of antibiotic are provided for
administration in combination with lysin, particularly PlySs2 lysin, administered simultaneously
or in series, wherein the dose for effective killing or decolonization of a gram positive infection
of the antibiotic are lower in combination with the lysin than the dose required if antibiotic is
provided or administered alone.
[00016]      In an aspect of the invention, lysins effective against Staphylococci are combined
with one or more of daptomycin, vancomycin, linezolid or oxacillin, or related antibiotic
compounds, to kill gram positive bacteria, including S. aureus, at lower doses or with lower
MIC than either alone. In an aspect of the invention, lysins effective against Staphylococci are
combined with daptomycin, or related antibiotic compounds, to kill gram positive bacteria,
including S. aureus, at lower doses or with lower MIC than either alone. In an aspect of the
invention, lysins effective against Staphylococci are combined with one or more of
vancomycin, or related antibiotic compounds, to kill gram positive bacteria, including S. aureus,
at lower doses or with lower MIC than either alone. In a particular aspect the antibiotic is
combined with PlySs2 lysin or a variant thereof. In an aspect of the invention, the combination
of lysin with daptomycin circumvents the effect of surfactant to reduce daptomycin activity. In
combination with lysin, such as PlySs2 lysin, daptomycin is rendered effective in killing S.
aureus and in treating or ameliorating bacteremia in an animal.          Thus, in an aspect of the
invention, a method is provided for decolonization, inhibition or treatment of a S. aureus
infection in an animal comprising administering to an animal a composition comprising or a
combination of PlySs2 lysin and daptomycin.
[00017]     In accordance with the present invention, compositions and methods comprising
PlySs2 and one or more antibiotic are provided for the prevention, disruption and treatment of
bacterial infection or colonization. In its broadest aspect, the present invention provides use and
application of a lysin having broad killing activity against multiple bacteria, particularly gram
positive bacteria, including Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, Enterococcus and Listeria bacterial
strains, in combination with antibiotic, particularly in combination with daptomycin,
vancomycin, linezolid or oxacillin, or a related antibiotic, for the prevention, amelioration or
treatment of gram positive bacteria or gram positive bacterial infections. The invention thus
contemplates treatment, decolonization, and/or decontamination of bacteria by administration of
or contact with a combination of PlySs2 lysin and one or more antibiotic wherein one or more
                                                    6

gram positive      bacteria,  particularly  one   or  more   of Staphylococcus, Streptococcus,
Enterococcus and Listeria bacteria, is suspected or present. In one such aspect, PlySs2 lysin is
combined with daptomycin. In a further aspect, PlySs2 lysin is combined with vancomycin.           In
another aspect, PlySs2 lysin is combined with linezolid. In an additional aspect, PlySs2 lysin is
combined with oxacillin.       In each instance the antibiotic includes or encompasses related
antibiotics, including those of the same class or family or with similar or related structures.
[00018]      In accordance with the present invention, bacteriophage lysin derived from
Streptococcus suis bacteria are utilized in the methods and compositions of the invention. The
lysin polypeptide(s) of use in the present invention, particularly PlySs2 lysin as provided herein
and in FIGURE 29 (SEQ ID NO: 1), are unique in demonstrating broad killing activity against
multiple bacteria, particularly gram-positive bacteria, including Staphylococcus, Streptococcus,
Enterococcus and Listeria bacterial strains.    In one such aspect, the PlySs2 lysin is capable of
killing Staphylococcus aureus strains and bacteria in combination with antibiotic, particularly in
combination with daptomycin, vancomycin, oxacillin or linezolid, as demonstrated herein.
PlySs2 is effective against antibiotic-resistant Staphylococcus aureus such as methicillin
resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), vancomycin resistant Staphylococcus aureus
(VRSA),      daptomycin-resistant    Staphylococcus aureus (DRSA)          and    linezolid-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus (LRSA).            PlySs2 is effective against vancomycin intermediate
sensitivity Staphylococcus aureus (VISA).
[00019]      In an aspect of the invention, a method is provided of killing gram-positive bacteria
comprising the step of contacting the bacteria with a combination of PlySs2 lysin and one or
more antibiotic, the combination comprising an amount of an isolated lysin polypeptide
effective to kill gram-positive bacteria, including S. aureus, the isolated lysin polypeptide
comprising the PlySs2 lysin polypeptide or variants thereof effective to kill gram-positive
bacteria, wherein the amount of PlySs2 required to be effective to kill gram-positive bacteria,
including S. aureus, in the presence of antibiotic is significantly less than in the absence of
antibiotic. The isolated PlySs2 lysin polypeptide may comprise the amino acid sequence
provided in FIGURE 29 (SEQ ID NO: 1) or variants thereof having at least 80% identity, 85%
identity, 90% identity, 95% identity or 99% identity to the polypeptide of FIGURE 29 (SEQ ID
NO: 1) and effective to kill the gram-positive bacteria.
[00020]      In an aspect of the invention, a method is provided of killing gram-positive bacteria
comprising the step of contacting the bacteria with a combination of PlySs2 lysin and one or
                                                    7

more antibiotic, the combination comprising an amount of an isolated lysin polypeptide
effective to kill gram-positive bacteria, including S. aureus, the isolated lysin polypeptide
comprising the PlySs2 lysin polypeptide or variants thereof effective to kill gram-positive
bacteria, wherein the amount of antibiotic required to be effective to kill gram-positive bacteria,
including S. aureus, in the presence of PlySs2 is significantly less than in the absence of PlySs2.
 [00021]    As demonstrated in accordance with the present invention, lysin as provided herein,
particularly including lysin with activity against Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria,
particularly including PlySs2, acts synergistically with antibiotics, particularly antibiotics of
different class and anti-bacterial mechanism. Thus, in accordance with the invention PlySs2
lysins or active variants thereof demonstrate enhanced activity in combination with antibiotics,
including each of antibiotics affecting cell wall synthesis such as glycopeptides, penicillins
which inhibit formation of peptidoglycan, protein synthesis inhibitors, and lipopeptide
antibiotic. In each instance the antibacterial activity of both lysin and antibiotic is significantly
enhanced in combination.          Combination with glycopeptides antibiotic is evidenced by
vancomycin, combination with penicillin class is evidenced by oxacillin, combination with
protein synthesis inhibitor antibiotic including the class of oxazolidinone is evidenced by
linezolid, and combination with lipopeptide antibiotic is evidenced by daptomycin. The present
invention includes and contemplates combinations and enhanced activity with the demonstrated
antibiotics as well as alternative members of their class or a related antibiotic.
[00022]      Thus, in an aspect of the invention, a method is provided of killing gram-positive
bacteria comprising the step of contacting the bacteria with a combination of lysin and
daptomycin or a related antibiotic, the combination comprising an amount of an isolated lysin
polypeptide effective to kill gram-positive bacteria, including S. aureus, wherein the amount of
daptomycin or related antibiotic required to be effective to kill gram-positive bacteria, including
S. aureus, in the presence of lysin is significantly less than in the absence of lysin.
[00023]     In a further aspect, a method is provided of killing gram-positive bacteria comprising
the step of contacting the bacteria with a combination of lysin and vancomycin or a related
antibiotic, the combination comprising an amount of an isolated lysin polypeptide effective to
kill gram-positive bacteria, including S. aureus, wherein the amount of vancomycin or related
antibiotic required to be effective to kill gram-positive bacteria, including S. aureus, in the
presence of lysin is significantly less than in the absence of lysin.
                                                     8

 [00024]     In a further aspect, a method is provided of killing gram-positive bacteria comprising
the step of contacting the bacteria with a combination of lysin and oxacillin or a related
antibiotic, the combination comprising an amount of an isolated lysin polypeptide effective to
kill gram-positive bacteria, including S. aureus, wherein the amount of oxacillin or related
antibiotic required to be effective to kill gram-positive bacteria, including S. aureus, in the
presence of lysin is significantly less than in the absence of lysin.
[00025]     In a further aspect, a method is provided of killing gram-positive bacteria comprising
the step of contacting the bacteria with a combination of lysin and linezolid or a related
antibiotic, the combination comprising an amount of an isolated lysin polypeptide effective to
kill gram-positive bacteria, including S. aureus, wherein the amount of linezolid or related
antibiotic required to be effective to kill gram-positive bacteria, including S. aureus, in the
presence of lysin is significantly less than in the absence of lysin.
[00026]     In a further aspect, a method is provided               of killing Staphylococcus and
Streptococcus bacteria comprising contacting the bacteria with a combination of a chimeric
protein comprising the catalytic domain or binding domain of PlySs2 lysin effective to kill
Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria and one or more antibiotic selected from
daptomycin or a related antibiotic and linezolid or a related antibiotic wherein the amount of the
chimeric protein comprising the catalytic domain or binding domain of PlySs2 required to be
effective to kill Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria, including S. aureus, in the presence
of antibiotic is significantly less than in the absence of antibiotic and/or the amount of antibiotic
required to be effective to kill gram-positive bacteria, including S. aureus, in the presence of the
chimeric protein comprising the catalytic domain or binding domain of PlySs2 is significantly
less than in the absence of the chimeric protein comprising the catalytic domain or binding
domain of PlySs2.
 [00027]     The    invention    also  provides    a   method    of   inhibiting  antibiotic-resistant
Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria comprising contacting the bacteria with a chimeric
protein comprising the catalytic domain or binding domain of PlySs2 lysin capable of killing
Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria and one or more antibiotic. In an aspect, the bacteria
is Staphylococcus aureus.
 [00028]     The invention also provides a method of reducing the development of antibiotic
resistance in Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria upon administration of a broad
spectrum gram-positive antibiotic by administering a combination of the broad spectrum
                                                     9

antibiotic and a chimeric protein comprising the catalytic domain or binding domain of PlySs2
lysin capable of killing Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria. In an aspect, both the
antibiotic and the lysin are administered at doses below the minimally effective dose. In an
aspect, the antibiotic is administered at doses lower than the recommended dose.
[00029]      The invention also provides a method of killing antibiotic-resistant gram positive
bacteria comprising contacting the antibiotic-resistant bacteria with a lysin capable of killing
Staphylococcal bacteria. In one such aspect, the antibiotic-resistant bacteria is contacted with
lysin, particularly PlySs2, in combination with an antibiotic to which the bacteria are sensitive
to, or in combination with antibiotic to which the bacteria are resistant. In one such aspect of
the method, the lysin is PLySs2. In one such aspect, the lysin is a polypeptide comprising the
amino acid sequence provided in FIGURE 29 (SEQ ID NO: 1) or variants thereof having at
least 80% identity, 85% identity, 90% identity, 95% identity or 99% identity to the polypeptide
of FIGURE 29 (SEQ ID NO: 1) and effective to kill gram-positive bacteria, particularly S.
aureus.
[00030]      The invention provides such a method of killing daptomycin resistant gram positive
bacteria comprising contacting the daptomycin resistant bacteria with a lysin capable of killing
Staphylococcal bacteria. Such method may include combination of the lysin with daptomycin
and/or with another antibiotic.     In one such aspect of the method, the lysin is PLySs2 as
provided herein.
[00031]      The invention further provides such a method of killing vancomycin resistant gram
positive bacteria comprising contacting the vancomycin resistant bacteria with a lysin capable
of killing Staphylococcal bacteria.     Such method may include combination of the lysin with
vancomycin and/or with another antibiotic.        In one such aspect of the method, the lysin is
PLySs2.
[00032]      In an aspect of the above methods, the methods are performed in vitro,ex vivo, or
along with implantation or placement of a device in vivo so as to sterilize or decontaminate a
solution, material or device, particularly intended for use by or in a human.
[00033]      In a further aspect, a method is provided of enhancing antibiotic effectiveness in
killing or decolonizing gram-positive bacteria comprising the step of contacting the bacteria
with a combination of lysin, particularly PlySs2, and one or more antibiotic, wherein the
amount of antibiotic required to be effective to kill or decolonize the gram-positive bacteria,
including S. aureus, in the presence of lysin is significantly less than in the absence of lysin. In
                                                    10

one such aspect, a method is providing for enhancing or facilitating the effectiveness of
daptomycin or a related antibiotic against Streptococcal pneumonia comprising administering a
lysin, particularly PlySs2, in combination with daptomycin.        In a particular such method or
aspect, daptomycin is effective against Streptococcal pneumonia when administered in
combination with or subsequent to administration of lysin, particularly PlySs2, at a daptomycin
dose which is ineffective in the absence of lysin, particularly PlySs2.
[00034]     The invention also provides a composition for use in inhibiting Staphylococcus and
Streptococcus bacteria comprising a combination of a chimeric protein comprising the catalytic
domain or binding domain of PlySs2 lysin polypeptide effective to kill Staphylococcus and
Streptococcus bacteria and daptomycin, wherein the daptomycin is effective in combination
with the chimeric protein comprising the catalytic domain or binding domain of PlySs2 at doses
that the daptomycin is ineffective in the absence of the chimeric protein comprising the catalytic
domain or binding domain of PlySs2. In an aspect, the chimeric protein comprises the catalytic
domain or binding domain of the lysin polypeptide comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ
ID NO:1 or variants thereof having at least 80% identity, 85% identity, 90% identity, 95%
identity or 99% identity to the catalytic domain or binding domain of the polypeptide of SEQ
ID NO:1      and effective to kill Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria. In certain
embodiments, said catalytic domain is operably linked to a binding domain of another lysin. In
certain embodiments, the catalytic domain is operably linked to a binding domain of a
Staphylococcus-specific lysin or wherein the catalytic domain is operably linked to a binding
domain of a Streptococcus-specific lysin. In certain embodiments, the catalytic domain
comprises SEQ ID NO:3 or variants thereof having at least 80% identity to the polypeptide of
SEQ ID NO:3 and biologically active to kill Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria. In
certain embodiments, said binding domain is operably linked to a catalytic domain of another
lysin. In certain embodiments, the binding domain is operably linked to a catalytic domain of a
Staphylococcus-specific lysin or wherein the binding domain is operably linked to a catalytic
domain of a Streptococcus-specific lysin. In certain embodiments, the binding domain
comprises SEQ ID NO:4 or variants thereof having at least 80% identity to the polypeptide of
SEQ ID NO:4 and biologically active to bind Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria.
[00035]     In certain embodiments, the daptomycin has a lower effective minimal inhibitory
concentration (MIC) dose in the combination compared to the MIC dose of daptomycin in the
absence of PlySs2 lysin, and the MIC dose of the PlySs2 lysin has a lower effective MIC dose
                                                   11

in the combination compared to the MIC dose of the PlySs2 lysin in the absence of daptomycin.
In certain embodiments, the dose of daptomycin is at least 10 fold lower than the ordinary
clinical dose. In certain embodiments, the combination is effective to reduce the development of
antibiotic-resistant gram positive bacteria
 [00036]     The invention provides a method for reducing a population of gram-positive bacteria
comprising the step of contacting the bacteria with a composition comprising an amount of an
isolated lysin polypeptide independently ineffective to kill the gram-positive bacteria and an
amount of antibiotic independently ineffective to kill the gram-positive bacteria. The antibiotic
may be a glycopeptide, penicillin, protein synthesis inhibitor, ozalidinone or lipopeptide. Such
method may include an antibiotic selected from vancomycin, daptomycin, linezolid and
oxacillin. In an aspect, the isolated lysin polypeptide comprises the amino acid sequence of
FIGURE 29 or SEQ ID NO: 1) or variants thereof having at least 80% identity to the
polypeptide of FIGURE 29 or SEQ ID NO: 1 and effective to kill the gram-positive bacteria.
 [00037]     The invention provides a method for reducing a population of gram-positive bacteria
comprising the step of contacting the bacteria with a composition comprising an amount of an
isolated lysin polypeptide independently ineffective to kill the gram-positive bacteria and an
amount of daptomycin independently ineffective to kill the gram-positive bacteria. In an aspect,
the isolated lysin polypeptide comprises the amino acid sequence of FIGURE 29 (SEQ ID NO:
 1) or variants thereof having at least 80% identity to the polypeptide of FIGURE 29 (SEQ ID
NO:1) and effective to kill the gram-positive bacteria.
[00038]      In any such above method or methods, the susceptible, killed, dispersed or treated
bacteria may be selected from Staphylococcus aureus, Listeria monocytogenes, Staphylococcus
simulans, Streptococcus suis, Staphylococcus epidermidis, Streptococcus equi, Streptococcus
equi zoo, Streptococcus agalactiae (GBS), Streptococcus pyogenes (GAS),             Streptococcus
sanguinis, Streptococcus gordonii, Streptococcus dysgalactiae, Group G Streptococcus, Group
E Streptococcus, Enterococcusfaecalisand Streptococcuspneumonia.
 [00039]     In accordance with any of the methods of the invention, the susceptible bacteria may
be an antibiotic resistant bacteria.   The bacteria may be methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus (MRSA),         vancomycin    intermediate-sensitivity  Staphylococcus aureus (VISA),
vancomycin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (VRSA), daptomycin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus (DRSA), or linezolid-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (LRSA). The susceptible bacteria
may be a clinically relevant or pathogenic bacteria, particularly for humans. In an aspect of the
                                                   12

method(s), the lysin polypeptide(s)           is effective to kill Staphylococcus, Streptococcus,
Enterococcus and Listeriabacterial strains.
[00040]      In an additional aspect or embodiment of the methods and compositions provided
herein, another distinct staphylococcal specific lysin is used herein alone or in combination with
the PlySs2 lysin as provided and described herein. In one such aspect or embodiment of the
methods and compositions provided herein, the staphylococcal specific lysin ClyS is used
herein alone or in combination with the PlySs2 lysin as provided and described herein.
[00041]      The invention provides methods for enhancing or facilitating antibiotic activity
comprising administering a combination together or in series of lysin, particularly PlySs2 lysin,
and one or more antibiotic.       In an aspect thereof, a method is provided of enhancing the
effectiveness of a gram-positive antibiotic selected from daptomycin or a related antibiotic and
linezolid or a related antibiotic comprising administering the antibiotic with a chimeric protein
comprising the catalytic domain or binding domain of PlySs2 lysin and effective to kill
Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria, whereby the antibiotic is at least 10 fold more
effective in combination with the chimeric protein comprising the catalytic domain or binding
domain of PlySs2.
[00042]      In an aspect thereof, antibiotic activity is enhanced or facilitated by at least 10 fold,
at least 16 fold, at least 20 fold, at least 24 fold, at least 30 fold, at least 40 fold, at least 50 fold,
at least 70 fold, at least 80 fold at least 100 fold, more than 10 fold, more than 20 fold, more
than 50 fold, more than 100 fold. The invention provides methods for enhancing or facilitating
lysin activity, particularly PlySs2 lysin, comprising administering a combination together or in
series of lysin, particularly PlySs2 lysin, and one or more antibiotic. In an aspect thereof, the
activity of lysin, particularly PlySs2 is enhanced at least 2 fold, at least 4 fold, at least 8 fold, at
least 10 fold, up to 10 fold, up to 16 fold, up to 20 fold.
[00043]      The invention includes a method of potentiating antibiotic                  activity against
Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria in biological fluids having surfactant-like activity
comprising administering antibiotic in combination with a chimeric protein comprising the
catalytic domain or binding domain of PlySs2 lysin and effective to kill Staphylococcus and
Streptococcus bacteria, wherein the antibiotic is daptomycin or a related antibiotic and is
effective in combination with the chimeric protein comprising the catalytic domain or binding
domain of PlySs2 at doses that the antibiotic is ineffective in the absence of the chimeric protein
comprising the catalytic domain or binding domain of PlySs2.
                                                      13

[00044]     The invention also includes a method of potentiating antibiotic activity against gram
positive bacteria in biological fluids having surfactant-like activity comprising administering
antibiotic in combination with PlySs2 lysin comprising the amino acid sequence provided in
FIGURE 29 (SEQ ID NO: 1) or variants thereof having at least 80% identity, 85% identity,
90% identity, 95% identity or 99% identity to the polypeptide of FIGURE 29 (SEQ ID NO: 1)
and effective to kill gram-positive bacteria, wherein the antibiotic is effective in combination
with PlySs2 at doses that the antibiotic is ineffective in the absence of PlySs2. In an aspect of
the methods, the antibiotic is daptomycin or a related compound. In an aspect, the bacteria is S.
pneumoniae.
[00045]     In aspects of the methods of the invention, the chimeric protein comprises the
catalytic domain or binding domain of the PlySs2 lysin polypeptide comprising the amino acid
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or variants thereof having at least 80% identity, 85% identity, 90%
identity, 95% identity or 99% identity to the catalytic domain or binding domain of the
polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 1 and effective to kill or bind Staphylococcus and Streptococcus
bacteria in the presence of the antibiotic.
[00046]     In certain embodiments, said catalytic domain is operably linked to a binding
domain of another lysin. In certain embodiments, the catalytic domain is operably linked to a
binding domain of a Staphylococcus-specific lysin or the catalytic domain is operably linked to
a binding domain of a Streptococcus-specific lysin. In certain embodiments, the catalytic
domain comprises SEQ ID NO:3 or variants thereof having at least 80% identity to the
polypeptide of SEQ ID NO:3 and biologically active to kill Staphylococcus and Streptococcus
bacteria. In certain embodiments, said binding domain is operably linked to a catalytic domain
of another lysin. In certain embodiments, the binding domain is operably linked to a catalytic
domain of a Staphylococcus-specific lysin or wherein the binding domain is operably linked to
a catalytic domain of a Streptococcus-specific lysin. In certain embodiments, the binding
domain comprises SEQ ID NO:4 or variants thereof having at least 80% identity to the
polypeptide of SEQ ID NO:4 and biologically active to bind Staphylococcus and Streptococcus
bacteria.
[00047]     Other objects and advantages will become apparent to those skilled in the art from a
review of the following description which proceeds with reference to the following illustrative
drawings.
                                                   14

                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00048]      FIGURE 1 depicts time kill curves of various MRSA strains in the presence of
added daptomycin, vancomycin or PlySs2 lysin.
[00049]      FIGURE 2 depicts time kill curves of various MSSA strains in the presence of
added daptomycin, vancomycin, oxacillin or PlySs2 lysin.
[00050]      FIGURE 3 provides a summary plot of time kill curves of various MRSA and
MSSA strains in the presence of added daptomycin, vancomycin or PlySs2 lysin.
[00051]      FIGURE 4A -4F provides composite time kill curves of PlySS2 and antibiotics on
S. aureus cells in vitro. (A, B) Composite time-kill curves of PlySS2 compared to oxacillin
(OXA), vancomycin (VAN), and daptomycin (DAP) against sets of 20 MSSA and 42 MRSA
strains, respectively. In each individual analysis, drug concentrations correspond to strain
specific IX MIC values. Mean values (± standard error of the mean) are shown for each time
point. (C, D) Titration analysis of PlySS2 against sets of 15 contemporary clinical MSSA and
MRSA isolates, respectively. In each individual analysis, PlySS2 concentrations correspond to
strain-specific MIC values. 4X, IX, and 0.25X MIC concentrations were used.                (E,F)
Transmission electron micrographs (3300x magnification) of S. aureus cells (strain MW2)
before and after 3 second treatment with 8 g/mL PlySS2. Scale bars correspond to 2 pM. Lysis
results in the loss of darkly stained cytoplasmic components.
[00052]      FIGURE 5 shows time kill curves for MRSA strains treated with PlySs2 and
vancomycin alone or in combination at the noted sub MIC doses.
[00053]      FIGURE 6 shows time kill curves for MRSA strains treated with PlySs2 and
daptomycin alone or in combination at the noted sub MIC doses.
[00054]      FIGURE 7 depicts time kill curves for MRSA strain 650 (052C Tomasz) in the
presence of added daptomycin and PlySs2 lysin alone or in combination at the noted MIC or
dose.
[00055]      FIGURE 8A-8F shows that PlySs2 synergizes with antibiotics across multiple
strains in-vitro and depicts time-kill results for MSSA strains treated with PlySs2 and oxacillin
(A,B); MRSA strains treated with Plyss2 and vancomycin (C,D), MRSA strains treated with
PlySs2 and daptomycin (E,F).         In panels A, C, and E time-kill data are shown for three
individual strains, MSSA strain JMI 7140, MRSA strain JMI 3340 and MRSA strain JMI 3345
respectively. (A) Values are shown for growth, growth control (no PlySs2 or antibiotic), PlySs2
                                                   15

0.13X MIC, oxacillin (OXA) 0.5X MIC, PlySS2+Oxa combination of indicated drug
concentrations.   (C) Values are shown for growth, growth control (no PlySs2 or antibiotic),
PlySs2 0.13X MIC, vancomycin (VAN) 0.5X MIC, PlySS2+VAN combination of indicated
drug concentrations. (E) Values are shown for growth, growth control (no PlySs2 or antibiotic),
PlySs2 0.25 X MIC, daptomycin (DAP) 0.5X MIC, PlySS2+DAP combination of indicated
drug concentrations.    In panels B, D, and F the log change in cfu/ml between the combination
treated culture and the untreated growth control over 6 hours are shown for collections of
strains.  The horizontal dotted lines indicate the 2 log cutoff required for scoring time-kill
synergy. Decreases in logo colony counts (or ALogio CFU/mL) are shown for cultures treated
for 6 hours with drug combination, compared to cultures treated with the most active single
agent. Synergy is defined by the CLSI as a > 2 -logio decrease in CFU/mL and is denoted in the
figure by the dashed line. Key: ALog10 CFU/mL      = change in logio colony-forming units.
[00056]     FIGURE 9 provides a panel of dose dilutions of pairings of daptomycin and PlySs2
at the noted concentrations on MRSA strain 553 in the presence of reducing agent (BME).
[00057]     FIGURE 10 provides a panel of dose dilutions of pairings of daptomycin and
PlySs2 at the noted concentrations on MRSA strain 553 in the absence of reducing agent
(BME).
[00058]     FIGURE 11 provides a panel of dose dilutions of pairings of daptomycin and
PlySs2 at the noted concentrations on MRSA strain 223 in the presence of BME.
[00059]      FIGURE 12 provides a panel of dose dilutions of pairings of daptomycin and
PlySs2 at the noted concentrations on MRSA strain 223 in the absence of BME.
[00060]     FIGURE 13 provides a panel of dose dilutions of pairings of daptomycin and
PlySs2 at the noted concentrations on MRSA strain 270 in the presence and absence of BME.
[00061]     FIGURE 14 provides a panel of dose dilutions of pairings of daptomycin and
PlySs2 at the noted concentrations on MRSA strain 269 in the presence and absence of BME.
[00062]     FIGURE 15 provides a panel of dose dilutions of pairings of daptomycin and
PlySs2 at the noted concentrations on MRSA strain 241 in the presence and absence of BME.
[00063]     FIGURE 16 provides a panel of dose dilutions of pairings of daptomycin and
PlySs2 at the noted concentrations on MRSA strain 263 in the presence and absence of BME.
[00064]     FIGURE 17 provides a panel of dose dilutions of pairings of daptomycin and
PlySs2 at the noted concentrations on MRSA strain 650 in the presence and absence of BME.
                                                  16

[00065]     FIGURE 18 provides a panel of dose dilutions of pairings of daptomycin and
PlySs2 at the noted concentrations on MRSA strain 828 in the presence and absence of BME.
[00066]     FIGURE 19 depicts representative isobolograms depicting FIC values of lysin
PlySs2 versus FIC values of antibiotic. PlySs2 versus antibiotics oxacillin, vancomycin and
daptomycin are depicted against MSSA strains and MRSA strains as noted. Oxacillin and
PlySs2 are evaluated versus MSSA strain JMI 33611. PlySs2 and vancomycin are evaluated
versus MSSA strain JMI 9365 and MRSA strain JMI 6456.             Daptomycin and PlySs2 are
evaluated versus MSSA strain JMI 33611 and MRSA JMI 3345.
[00067]     FIGURE 20A and 20B provides a time course of S. aureus staining by BODIPY
labeled daptomycin (A) and vancomycin (B) in the absence and presence of sub-MIC amounts
of PlySs2.
[00068]     FIGURE 21 depicts the fold change in MIC value against MRSA strain MW2 and
MSSA strain ATCC 29213 treated with PlySs2 or daptomycin in the presence of varying
amounts of surfactant (from 1.25 to 15% surfactant).
[00069]     FIGURE 22 provides a panel of dose dilutions of pairings of daptomycin and
PlySs2 at the noted concentrations on MRSA strain 269 in the presence of 15% surfactant
(Survanta).
[00070]     FIGURE 23 provides a compiled graph of % survival of mice (50 animals)
challenged with MRSA strain 269 (MW2) in several experiments having bacterial inoculum
strengths of 1.1-3.1 x106 CFU and treated with daptomycin or PlySs2 alone or in combination.
[00071]     FIGURE 24 depicts % survival of mice challenged with MRSA strain 220 at
2.65x106 CFU and treated with the indicated doses of daptomycin or PlySs2 alone or in
combination.
[00072]     FIGURE 25 depicts % survival of mice challenged with MRSA strain 833 at
1.4x 106 CFU and treated with the indicated doses of daptomycin or PlySs2 alone or in
combination.
[00073]     FIGURE 26 depicts % survival of mice challenged with MRSA strain 833 at
2.Ox106 CFU and treated with the indicated doses of daptomycin or PlySs2 alone or in
combination.
[00074]     FIGURE 27A-27F depicts survival curves of combination therapy compared to
mono-therapies in murine models of bacteremia. Mice were challenged with either 7.5 x 106
cfu/mouse i.p. (low challenge model - panel a) or 109 cfu/mouse i.p. (high challenge model
                                                 17

panels b-f) at time 0 and were treated with either antibiotic, PlySs2, combination of PlySs2 and
antibiotic, or control and the resulting survival data are shown in Kaplan-Meier format. All
doses were administered as a single bolus dose except for vancomycin (BID, panel e) and
oxacillin (QID, panel f) which were administered as multiple doses over the first 24 hr period.
Routes of administration were PlySs2 (i.p.), daptomycin and vancomycin (subcutaneous), and
oxacillin (intramuscular). P values were calculated for the combinations versus antibiotic alone.
(A) Low challenge model using MRSA strain MW2 with daptomycin at 2 mg/kg and PlySs2 at
1.25 mg/kg. Dosing at 4 hr post inoculation, n=30, P<0.0001. (B) High challenge model using
MRSA strain MW2 with daptomycin at 50 mg/kg and PlySs2 at 5.25 mg/kg. Dosing at 2 hr
post inoculation, n=45, P<0.0001. (C) same as B using MRSA strain 738, n=30, P<0.0001. (D)
same as B using MRSA strain 832, n=30, P<0.0001. (E) High challenge model using MRSA
strain MW2 with vancomycin at 110 mg/kg BID and PlySs2 at 5.25 mg/kg. Dosing initiated at
2 hr post- inoculation, n=30, P<0.0001. (F) High challenge model using MSSA strain ATCC
25923 with oxacillin at 200 mg/kg QID and PlySs2 at 5.25 mg/kg. Dosing initiated at 2 hr post
inoculation, n=30 P<0.0001.
[00075]      FIGURE 28 depicts MIC of daptomycin and PlySs2 on an MSSA and a MRSA
strain with passage number and development of daptomycin resistance.          PlySs2 MIC drops
showing PlySs2 increased sensitivity with increased daptomycin resistance.
[00076]      FIGURE 29 provides the amino acid sequence (SEQ ID NO: 1) and encoding
nucleic acid sequence (SEQ ID NO: 2) of the lysin PlySs2. The N-terminal CHAP domain and
the C-terminal SH-3 domain of the PlySs2 lysin are shaded, with the CHAP domain (SEQ ID
NO: 3) starting with LNN... and ending with ... YIT and the SH-3 domain (SEQ ID NO: 4)
starting with RSY ... and ending with ... VAT. The CHAP domain active-site residues (Cys 26 ,
Hisio2 , Glu118 , and Asn120) identified by homology to PDB 2K3A (Rossi P et al (2009) Proteins
74:515-519) are underlined.
[00077]      FIGURE 30 depicts fold change in daptomycin MIC value as a function of days of
serial passage under resistance selection conditions in the presence of daptomycin alone or
daptomycin with sub-MIC amounts of PlySs2 lysin for multiple cultures (three independent
cultures of each).
[00078]      FIGURE 31 depicts fold change in vancomycin MIC value as a function of days of
serial passage under resistance selection conditions in the presence of daptomycin alone or
                                                   18

daptomycin with sub-MIC amounts PlySs2 lysin for multiple cultures (three independent
cultures of each).
                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[00079]     In accordance with the present invention there may be employed conventional
molecular biology, microbiology, and recombinant DNA techniques within the skill of the art.
Such techniques are explained fully in the literature.       See, e.g., Sambrook et al, "Molecular
Cloning: A Laboratory Manual" (1989); "Current Protocols in Molecular Biology" Volumes I
III [Ausubel, R. M., ed. (1994)]; "Cell Biology: A Laboratory Handbook" Volumes I-III [J. E.
Celis, ed. (1994))]; "Current Protocols in Immunology" Volumes I-III [Coligan, J. E., ed.
(1994)]; "Oligonucleotide Synthesis" (M.J. Gait ed. 1984); "Nucleic Acid Hybridization" [B.D.
Hames & S.J. Higgins eds. (1985)]; "Transcription And Translation" [B.D. Hames & S.J.
Higgins, eds. (1984)]; "Animal Cell Culture" [R.I. Freshney, ed. (1986)]; "Immobilized Cells
And Enzymes" [IRL Press, (1986)]; B. Perbal, "A Practical Guide To Molecular Cloning"
(1984).
[00080]     Therefore, if appearing herein, the following terms shall have the definitions set out
below.
[00081]     The terms "PlySs lysin(s)", "PlySs2          lysin", "PlySs2" and any variants not
specifically listed, may be used herein interchangeably, and as used throughout the present
application and claims refer to proteinaceous material including single or multiple proteins, and
extends to those proteins having the amino acid sequence data described herein and presented in
FIGURE 29 and SEQ ID NO: 1, and the profile of activities set forth herein and in the Claims.
Accordingly, proteins displaying substantially equivalent or altered activity are likewise
contemplated.     These modifications may be deliberate, for example, such as modifications
obtained through site-directed mutagenesis, or may be accidental, such as those obtained
through mutations in hosts that are producers of the complex or its named subunits. Also, the
terms "PlySs lysin(s)", "PlySs2 lysin", "PlySs2" are intended to include within their scope
proteins specifically recited herein as well as all substantially homologous analogs, fragments or
truncations, and allelic variations.     PlySs2 lysin is described in US Patent Application
61/477,836 and PCT Application PCT/US2012/34456.                A more recent paper Gilmer et al
                                                    19

describes PlySs2 lysin (Gilmer DB et al (2013) Antimicrob Agents Chemother Epub 2013 April
9 [PMID 23571534]).
[00082]     The term "ClyS", "ClyS lysin" refers to a chimeric lysin ClyS, with activity against
Staphylococci bacteria, including Staphylococcus aureus, is detailed in WO 2010/002959 and
also described in Daniel et al (Daniel, A et al (2010) Antimicrobial Agents and Chemother
54(4):1603-1612). Exemplary ClyS amino acid sequence is provided in SEQ ID NO: 5.
[00083]     A "lytic enzyme" includes any bacterial cell wall lytic enzyme that kills one or more
bacteria under suitable conditions and during a relevant time period. Examples of lytic enzymes
include, without limitation, various amidase cell wall lytic enzymes. In a particular aspect, a
lytic enzyme refers to a bacteriophage lytic enzyme. A "bacteriophage lytic enzyme" refers to a
lytic enzyme extracted or isolated from a bacteriophage or a synthesized lytic enzyme with a
similar protein structure that maintains a lytic enzyme functionality.
[00084]     A lytic enzyme is capable of specifically cleaving bonds that are present in the
peptidoglycan of bacterial cells to disrupt the bacterial cell wall. It is also currently postulated
that the bacterial cell wall peptidoglycan is highly conserved among most bacteria, and cleavage
of only a few bonds to may disrupt the bacterial cell wall. Examples of lytic enzymes that
cleave these bonds are muramidases, glucosaminidases, endopeptidases, or N-acetyl-muramoyl
L-alanine amidases. Fischetti et al (1974) reported that the C1 streptococcal phage lysin enzyme
was an amidase. Garcia et al (1987, 1990) reported that the Cpl lysin from a S. pneumoniae
from a Cp-1 phage was a lysozyme. Caldentey and Bamford (1992) reported that a lytic enzyme
from the phi 6 Pseudomonas phage was an endopeptidase, splitting the peptide bridge formed
by melo-diaminopimilic acid and D-alanine. The E. coli TI and T6 phage lytic enzymes are
amidases as is the lytic enzyme from Listeria phage (ply) (Loessner et al, 1996). There are also
other lytic enzymes known in the art that are capable of cleaving a bacterial cell wall.
[00085]     A "lytic enzyme genetically coded for by a bacteriophage" includes a polypeptide
capable of killing a host bacteria, for instance by having at least some cell wall lytic activity
against the host bacteria. The polypeptide may have a sequence that encompasses native
sequence lytic enzyme and variants thereof. The polypeptide may be isolated from a variety of
sources, such as from a bacteriophage ("phage"), or prepared by recombinant or synthetic
methods.     The polypeptide may, for example, comprise a choline-binding portion at the
carboxyl terminal side and may be characterized by an enzyme activity capable of cleaving cell
wall peptidoglycan (such as amidase activity to act on amide bonds in the peptidoglycan) at the
                                                   20

amino terminal side. Lytic enzymes have been described which include multiple enzyme
activities, for example two enzymatic domains, such as PlyGBS lysin.          Further, other lytic
enzymes have been described containing only a catalytic domain and no cell wall binding
domain.
[00086]      "A native sequence phage associated lytic enzyme" includes a polypeptide having
the same amino acid sequence as an enzyme derived from a bacterial genome (i.e., a prophage).
Such native sequence enzyme can be isolated or can be produced by recombinant or synthetic
means.
[00087]      The term "native sequence enzyme" encompasses naturally occurring forms (e.g.,
alternatively spliced or altered forms) and naturally-occurring variants of the enzyme. In one
embodiment of the invention, the native sequence enzyme is a mature or full-length polypeptide
that is genetically coded for by a gene from a bacteriophage specific for Streptococcus suis. Of
course, a number of variants are possible and known, as acknowledged in publications such as
Lopez et al., Microbial Drug Resistance 3: 199-211 (1997); Garcia et al., Gene 86: 81-88
(1990); Garcia et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85: 914-918 (1988); Garcia et al., Proc. Natl.
Acad. Sci. USA 85: 914-918 (1988); Garcia et al., Streptococcal Genetics (J. J. Ferretti and
Curtis eds., 1987); Lopez et al., FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 100: 439-448 (1992); Romero et al., J.
Bacteriol. 172: 5064-5070 (1990); Ronda et al., Eur. J. Biochem. 164: 621-624 (1987) and
Sanchez et al., Gene 61: 13-19 (1987). The contents of each of these references, particularly the
sequence listings and associated text that compares the sequences, including statements about
sequence homologies, are specifically incorporated by reference in their entireties.
[00088]      "A variant sequence lytic enzyme" includes a lytic enzyme characterized by a
polypeptide sequence that is different from that of a lytic enzyme, but retains functional
activity. The lytic enzyme can, in some embodiments, be genetically coded for by a
bacteriophage specific for Streptococcus suis as in the case of PlySs2 having a particular amino
acid sequence identity with the lytic enzyme sequence(s) hereof, as provided in FIGURE 29 and
in SEQ ID NO: 1. For example, in some embodiments, a functionally active lytic enzyme can
kill Streptococcus suis bacteria, and other susceptible bacteria as provided herein, including as
shown in TABLE 1, 2 and 3, by disrupting the cellular wall of the bacteria. An active lytic
enzyme may have a 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 97, 98, 99 or 99.5% amino acid sequence
identity with the lytic enzyme sequence(s) hereof, as provided in FIGURE 29 (SEQ ID NO: 1,
SEQ ID NO: 3 or SEQ ID NO: 4). Such phage associated lytic enzyme variants include, for
                                                 21

instance, lytic enzyme polypeptides wherein one or more amino acid residues are added, or
deleted at the N or C terminus of the sequence of the lytic enzyme sequence(s) hereof, as
provided in FIGURE 29 (SEQ ID NO: 1).
[00089]     In a particular aspect, a phage associated lytic enzyme will have at least about 80%
or 85% amino acid sequence identity with native phage associated lytic enzyme sequences,
particularly at least about 90% (e.g. 90%) amino acid sequence identity. Most particularly a
phage associated lytic enzyme variant will have at least about 95% (e.g. 95%) amino acid
sequence identity with the native phage associated the lytic enzyme sequence(s) hereof, as
provided in FIGURE 29 (SEQ ID NO: 1) for PlySs2 lysin, or as previously described for ClyS
including in WO 2010/002959 and also described in Daniel et al (Daniel, A et al (2010)
Antimicrobial Agents and Chemother 54(4):1603-1612) and SEQ ID NO: 5.
[00090]     "Percent amino acid sequence identity" with respect to the phage associated lytic
enzyme sequences identified is defined herein as the percentage of amino acid residues in a
candidate sequence that are identical with the amino acid residues in the phage associated lytic
enzyme sequence, after aligning the sequences in the same reading frame and introducing gaps,
if necessary, to achieve the maximum percent sequence identity, and not considering any
conservative substitutions as part of the sequence identity.
[00091]     "Percent nucleic acid sequence identity" with respect to the phage associated lytic
enzyme sequences identified herein is defined as the percentage of nucleotides in a candidate
sequence that are identical with the nucleotides in the phage associated lytic enzyme sequence,
after aligning the sequences and introducing gaps, if necessary, to achieve the maximum percent
sequence identity.
[00092]     To determine the percent identity of two nucleotide or amino acid sequences, the
sequences are aligned for optimal comparison purposes (e.g., gaps may be introduced in the
sequence of a first nucleotide sequence). The nucleotides or amino acids at corresponding
nucleotide or amino acid positions are then compared. When a position in the first sequence is
occupied by the same nucleotide or amino acid as the corresponding position in the second
sequence, then the molecules are identical at that position. The percent identity between the two
sequences is a function of the number of identical positions shared by the sequences (i.e., %
identity=# of identical positions/total # of positionsX100).
[00093]     The determination of percent identity between two sequences may be accomplished
using a mathematical algorithm. A non-limiting example of a mathematical algorithm utilized
                                                    22

 for the comparison of two sequences is the algorithm of Karlin et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
USA, 90:5873-5877 (1993), which is incorporated into the NBLAST program which may be
used to identify sequences having the desired identity to nucleotide sequences of the invention.
 To obtain gapped alignments for comparison purposes, Gapped BLAST may be utilized as
 described in Altschul et al., Nucleic Acids Res, 25:3389-3402 (1997). When utilizing BLAST
 and Gapped BLAST programs, the default parameters of the respective programs (e.g.,
NBLAST) may be used. See the programs provided by National Center for Biotechnology
 Information, National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health.
 [00094]      "Polypeptide" includes a polymer molecule comprised of multiple amino acids
joined in a linear manner. A polypeptide can, in some embodiments, correspond to molecules
 encoded by a polynucleotide sequence which is naturally occurring. The polypeptide may
 include conservative substitutions where the naturally occurring amino acid is replaced by one
 having similar properties, where such conservative substitutions do not alter the function of the
polypeptide.
 [00095]      The term "altered lytic enzymes" includes shuffled and/or chimeric lytic enzymes.
 [00096]      Phage lytic enzymes specific for bacteria infected with a specific phage have been
 found to effectively and efficiently break down the cell wall of the bacterium in question. The
 lytic enzyme is believed to lack proteolytic enzymatic activity and is therefore non-destructive
 to mammalian proteins and tissues when present during the digestion of the bacterial cell wall.
 Furthermore, because it has been found that the action of phage lytic enzymes, unlike
 antibiotics, was rather specific for the target pathogen(s), it is likely that the normal flora will
 remain essentially intact (M. J. Loessner, G. Wendlinger, S. Scherer, Mol Microbiol 16, 1231
 41. (1995) incorporated herein by reference). In fact, the PlySs2 lysin, while demonstrating
uniquely broad bacterial species and strain killing, is comparatively and particularly inactive
 against bacteria comprising the normal flora, including E. coli, as described herein.
 [00097]     A lytic enzyme or polypeptide of use in the invention may be produced by the
bacterial organism after being infected with a particular bacteriophage or may be produced or
prepared recombinantly or synthetically as either a prophylactic treatment for preventing those
 who have been exposed to others who have the symptoms of an infection from getting sick, or
 as a therapeutic treatment for those who have already become ill from the infection. In as much
 the lysin polypeptide sequences and nucleic acids encoding the lysin polypeptides are described
 and referenced to herein, the lytic enzyme(s)/polypeptide(s) may be preferably produced via the
                                                    23

isolated gene for the lytic enzyme from the phage genome, putting the gene into a transfer
vector, and cloning said transfer vector into an expression system, using standard methods of
the art, including as exemplified herein. The lytic enzyme(s) or polypeptide(s) may be
truncated, chimeric, shuffled or "natural," and may be in combination. Relevant U.S. Pat. No.
5,604,109 is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. An "altered" lytic enzyme can be
produced in a number of ways. In a preferred embodiment, a gene for the altered lytic enzyme
from the phage genome is put into a transfer or movable vector, preferably a plasmid, and the
plasmid is cloned into an expression vector or expression system. The expression vector for
producing a lysin polypeptide or enzyme of the invention may be suitable for E. coli, Bacillus,
or a number of other suitable bacteria. The vector system may also be a cell free expression
system. All of these methods of expressing a gene or set of genes are known in the art. The lytic
enzyme may also be created by infecting Streptococcus suis with a bacteriophage specific for
Streptococcus suis, wherein said at least one lytic enzyme exclusively lyses the cell wall of said
Streptococcus suis having at most minimal effects on other, for example natural or commensal,
bacterial flora present.
[00098]     A "chimeric protein" or "fusion protein" comprises all or (preferably a biologically
active) part of a polypeptide of use in the invention operably linked to a heterologous
polypeptide. Chimeric proteins or peptides are produced, for example, by combining two or
more proteins having two or more active sites. Chimeric protein and peptides can act
independently on the same or different molecules, and hence have a potential to treat two or
more different bacterial infections at the same time. Chimeric proteins and peptides also may be
used to treat a bacterial infection by cleaving the cell wall in more than one location, thus
potentially providing more rapid or effective (or synergistic) killing from a single lysin
molecule or chimeric peptide.
[00099]     A "heterologous" region of a DNA construct or peptide construct is an identifiable
segment of DNA within a larger DNA molecule or peptide within a larger peptide molecule that
is not found in association with the larger molecule in nature. Thus, when the heterologous
region encodes a mammalian gene, the gene will usually be flanked by DNA that does not flank
the mammalian genomic DNA in the genome of the source organism. Another example of a
heterologous coding sequence is a construct where the coding sequence itself is not found in
nature (e.g., a cDNA where the genomic coding sequence contains introns, or synthetic
sequences having codons different than the native gene).         Allelic variations or naturally
                                                  24

occurring mutational events do not give rise to a heterologous region of DNA or peptide as
defined herein.
[000100]    The term "operably linked" means that the polypeptide of the disclosure and the
heterologous polypeptide are fused in-frame. The heterologous polypeptide can be fused to the
N-terminus or C-terminus of the polypeptide of the disclosure. Chimeric proteins are produced
enzymatically by chemical synthesis, or by recombinant DNA technology. A number of
chimeric lytic enzymes have been produced and studied. One example of a useful fusion protein
is a GST fusion protein in which the polypeptide of the disclosure is fused to the C-terminus of
a GST sequence. Such a chimeric protein can facilitate the purification of a recombinant
polypeptide of the disclosure.
[000101]    In another embodiment, the chimeric protein or peptide contains a heterologous
signal sequence at its N-terminus. For example, the native signal sequence of a polypeptide of
the disclosure can be removed and replaced with a signal sequence from another known protein.
[000102]    The fusion protein may combine a lysin polypeptide with a protein or polypeptide of
having a different capability, or providing an additional capability or added character to the
lysin polypeptide. The fusion protein may be an immunoglobulin fusion protein in which all or
part of a polypeptide of the disclosure is fused to sequences derived from a member of the
immunoglobulin protein family. The immunoglobulin may be an antibody, for example an
antibody directed to a surface protein or epitope of a susceptible or target bacteria.        The
immunoglobulin fusion protein can alter bioavailability of a cognate ligand of a polypeptide of
the disclosure. Inhibition of ligand/receptor interaction may be useful therapeutically, both for
treating bacterial-associated diseases and disorders for modulating (i.e. promoting or inhibiting)
cell survival. The fusion protein may include a means to direct or target the lysin, including to
particular tissues or organs or to surfaces such as devices, plastic, membranes. Chimeric and
fusion proteins and peptides of the disclosure can be produced by standard recombinant DNA
techniques.
[000103]    A modified or altered form of the protein or peptides and peptide fragments, as
disclosed herein, includes protein or peptides and peptide fragments that are chemically
synthesized or prepared by recombinant DNA techniques, or both. These techniques include, for
example, chimerization and shuffling. As used herein, shuffled proteins or peptides, gene
products, or peptides for more than one related phage protein or protein peptide fragments have
been randomly cleaved and reassembled into a more active or specific protein. Shuffled
                                                  25

oligonucleotides, peptides or peptide fragment molecules are selected or screened to identify a
molecule having a desired functional property. Shuffling can be used to create a protein that is
more active, for instance up to 10 to 100 fold more active than the template protein. The
template protein is selected among different varieties of lysin proteins. The shuffled protein or
peptides constitute, for example, one or more binding domains and one or more catalytic
domains. When the protein or peptide is produced by chemical synthesis, it is preferably
substantially free of chemical precursors or other chemicals, i.e., it is separated from chemical
precursors or other chemicals which are involved in the synthesis of the protein. Accordingly
such preparations of the protein have less than about 30%, 20%, 10%,        5%  (by dry weight) of
chemical precursors or compounds other than the polypeptide of interest.
[000104]    The present invention also pertains to other variants of the polypeptides useful in the
invention. Such variants may have an altered amino acid sequence which can function as either
agonists (mimetics) or as antagonists. Variants can be generated by mutagenesis, i.e., discrete
point mutation or truncation. An agonist can retain substantially the same, or a subset, of the
biological activities of the naturally occurring form of the protein. An antagonist of a protein
can inhibit one or more of the activities of the naturally occurring form of the protein by, for
example, competitively binding to a downstream or upstream member of a cellular signaling
cascade which includes the protein of interest. Thus, specific biological effects can be elicited
by treatment with a variant of limited function. Treatment of a subject with a variant having a
subset of the biological activities of the naturally occurring form of the protein can have fewer
side effects in a subject relative to treatment with the naturally occurring form of the protein.
Variants of a protein of use in the disclosure which function as either agonists (mimetics) or as
antagonists can be identified by screening combinatorial libraries of mutants, such as truncation
mutants, of the protein of the disclosure. In one embodiment, a variegated library of variants is
generated by combinatorial mutagenesis at the nucleic acid level and is encoded by a variegated
gene library. There are a variety of methods which can be used to produce libraries of potential
variants of the polypeptides of the disclosure from a degenerate oligonucleotide sequence.
Libraries of fragments of the coding sequence of a polypeptide of the disclosure can be used to
generate a variegated population of polypeptides for screening and subsequent selection of
variants, active fragments or truncations. Several techniques are known in the art for screening
gene products of combinatorial libraries made by point mutations or truncation, and for
screening cDNA libraries for gene products having a selected property. The most widely used
                                                   26

techniques, which are amenable to high through-put analysis, for screening large gene libraries
typically include cloning the gene library into replicable expression vectors, transforming
appropriate cells with the resulting library of vectors, and expressing the combinatorial genes
under conditions in which detection of a desired activity facilitates isolation of the vector
encoding the gene whose product was detected. In this context, the smallest portion of a protein
(or nucleic acid that encodes the protein) according to embodiments is an epitope that is
recognizable as specific for the phage that makes the lysin protein. Accordingly, the smallest
polypeptide (and associated nucleic acid that encodes the polypeptide) that can be expected to
bind a target or receptor, such as an antibody, and is useful for some embodiments may be 8, 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 75, 85, or 100 amino acids long.
Although small sequences as short as 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 or 15 amino acids long reliably comprise
enough structure to act as targets or epitopes, shorter sequences of 5, 6, or 7 amino acids long
can exhibit target or epitopic structure in some conditions and have value in an embodiment.
Thus, the smallest portion of the protein(s) or lysin polypeptides provided herein, including as
set out in FIGURE 29 (SEQ ID NO: 1) includes polypeptides as small as 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 14
or 16 amino acids long.
[000105]    Biologically active portions of a protein or peptide fragment of the embodiments, as
described herein, include polypeptides comprising amino acid sequences sufficiently identical
to or derived from the amino acid sequence of the lysin protein of the disclosure, which include
fewer amino acids than the full length protein of the lysin protein and exhibit at least one
activity of the corresponding full-length protein. Typically, biologically active portions
comprise a domain or motif with at least one activity of the corresponding protein. An
exemplary domain sequence for the N terminal CHAP domain of the lysin of the present
invention is provided in FIGURE 29 and SEQ ID NO: 3. An exemplary domain sequence for
the C terminal SH3 domain of the lysin of the present invention is provided in FIGURE 29 and
SEQ ID NO: 4. A biologically active portion of a protein or protein fragment of the disclosure
can be a polypeptide which is, for example, 10, 25, 50, 100 less or more amino acids in length.
Moreover, other biologically active portions, in which other regions of the protein are deleted,
or added can be prepared by recombinant techniques and evaluated for one or more of the
functional activities of the native form of a polypeptide of the embodiments.
[000106]    Homologous proteins and nucleic acids can be prepared that share functionality with
such small proteins and/or nucleic acids (or protein and/or nucleic acid regions of larger
                                                   27

molecules) as will be appreciated by a skilled artisan. Such small molecules and short regions of
larger molecules that may be homologous specifically are intended as embodiments. Preferably
the homology of such valuable regions is at least 50%, 65%, 75%, 80%, 85%, and preferably at
least 90%, 95%, 97%, 98%, or at least 99% compared to the lysin polypeptides provided herein,
including as set out in FIGURE 29. These percent homology values do not include alterations
due to conservative amino acid substitutions.
[000107]     Two amino acid sequences are "substantially homologous" when at least about 70%
of the amino acid residues (preferably at least about 80%, at least about 85%, and preferably at
least about 90 or 95%) are identical, or represent conservative substitutions. The sequences of
comparable lysins, such as comparable PlySs2 lysins, or comparable ClyS lysins, are
substantially homologous when one or more, or several, or up to 10%, or up to 15%, or up to
20% of the amino acids of the lysin polypeptide are substituted with a similar or conservative
amino acid substitution, and wherein the comparable lysins have the profile of activities, anti
bacterial effects, and/or bacterial specificities of a lysin, such as the PlySs2 lysin and/or ClyS
lysin, disclosed herein.
[000108]     The amino acid residues described herein are preferred to be in the "L" isomeric
form. However, residues in the "D" isomeric form can be substituted for any L-amino acid
residue, as long as the desired fuctional property of immunoglobulin-binding is retained by the
polypeptide. NH 2 refers to the free amino group present at the amino terminus of a polypeptide.
COOH refers to the free carboxy group present at the carboxy terminus of a polypeptide. In
keeping with standard polypeptide nomenclature, J Biol. Chem., 243:3552-59 (1969),
abbreviations for amino acid residues are shown in the following Table of Correspondence:
                               TABLE OF CORRESPONDENCE
SYMBOL                                    AMINO ACID
1-Letter             3-Letter
   Y                Tyr                            tyrosine
   G                Gly                            glycine
   F                Phe                            phenylalanine
   M                Met                            methionine
   A                Ala                            alanine
   S                Ser                            serine
   I                Ile                            isoleucine
   L                Leu                            leucine
   T                Thr                            threonine
                                                   28

   V                Val                            valine
   P                Pro                            proline
   K                Lys                             lysine
   H                His                             histidine
   Q                Gin                             glutamine
   E                Glu                             glutamic acid
   W                Trp                            tryptophan
   R                Arg                             arginine
   D                Asp                             aspartic acid
   N                Asn                             asparagine
   C                Cys                             cysteine
[000109]    Mutations can be made in the amino acid sequences, or in the nucleic acid sequences
encoding the polypeptides and lysins herein, including in the lysin sequences set out in FIGURE
29 (SEQ ID NO: 1), or in active fragments or truncations thereof, such that a particular codon is
changed to a codon which codes for a different amino acid, an amino acid is substituted for
another amino acid, or one or more amino acids are deleted. Such a mutation is generally made
by making the fewest amino acid or nucleotide changes possible. A substitution mutation of
this sort can be made to change an amino acid in the resulting protein in a non-conservative
manner (for example, by changing the codon from an amino acid belonging to a grouping of
amino acids having a particular size or characteristic to an amino acid belonging to another
grouping) or in a conservative manner (for example, by changing the codon from an amino acid
belonging to a grouping of amino acids having a particular size or characteristic to an amino
acid belonging to the same grouping).         Such a conservative change generally leads to less
change in the structure and function of the resulting protein. A non-conservative change is
more likely to alter the structure, activity or function of the resulting protein. The present
invention should be considered to include sequences containing conservative changes which do
not significantly alter the activity or binding characteristics of the resulting protein.
[000110]    Thus, one of skill in the art, based on a review of the sequence of the PlySs2 lysin
polypeptide provided herein and on their knowledge and the public information available for
other lysin polypeptides, can make amino acid changes or substitutions in the lysin polypeptide
sequence. Amino acid changes can be made to replace or substitute one or more, one or a few,
one or several, one to five, one to ten, or such other number of amino acids in the sequence of
the lysin(s) provided herein to generate mutants or variants thereof. Such mutants or variants
thereof may be predicted for function or tested for function or capability for killing bacteria,
including Staphylococcal, Streptococcal, Listeria, or Enterococcal bacteria, and/or for having
                                                    29

comparable activity to the lysin(s) as described and particularly provided herein. Thus, changes
can be made to the sequence of lysin, and mutants or variants having a change in sequence can
be tested using the assays and methods described and exemplified herein, including in the
examples. One of skill in the art, on the basis of the domain structure of the lysin(s) hereof can
predict one or more, one or several amino acids suitable for substitution or replacement and/or
one or more amino acids which are not suitable for substitution or replacement, including
reasonable conservative or non-conservative substitutions.
[000111]     In this regard, and with exemplary reference to PlySs2 lysin it is pointed out that,
although the PlySs2 polypeptide lysin represents a divergent class of prophage lytic enzyme, the
lysin comprises an N-terminal CHAP domain (cysteine-histidine amidohydrolase/peptidase)
(SEQ ID NO: 3) and a C-terminal SH3-type 5 domain (SEQ ID NO: 4) as depicted in FIGURE
29. The domains are depicted in the amino acid sequence in distinct shaded color regions, with
the CHAP domain corresponding to the first shaded amino acid sequence region starting with
LNN... and the SH3-type 5 domain corresponding to the second shaded region starting with
RSY...     CHAP domains are included in several previously characterized streptococcal and
staphylococcal phage lysins. Thus, one of skill in the art can reasonably make and test
substitutions or replacements to the CHAP domain and/or the SH-3 domain of PlySs2.
Sequence comparisons to the Genbank database can be made with either or both of the CHAP
and/or SH-3 domain sequences or with the PlySs2 lysin full amino acid sequence, for instance,
to identify amino acids for substitution. For example, the CHAP domain contains conserved
cysteine and histidine amino acid sequences (the first cysteine and histidine in the CHAP
domain) which are characteristic and conserved in CHAP domains of different polypeptides.
It is reasonable to predict, for example, that the conserved cysteine and histidine residues should
be maintained in a mutant or variant of PlySs2 so as to maintain activity or capability. It is
notable that a mutant or variant having an alanine replaced for valine at valine amino acid 19 in
the PlySs2 amino acid sequence of FIGURE 29 (SEQ ID NO: 1) is active and capable of killing
gram positive bacteria in a manner similar to and as effective as the FIGURE 29 (SEQ ID NO:
1) PlySs2 lysin.
[000112]     The following is one example of various groupings of amino acids:
Amino acids with nonpolar R groups
Alanine, Valine, Leucine, Isoleucine, Proline, Phenylalanine, Tryptophan, Methionine
                                                    30

Amino acids with uncharged polar R groups
Glycine, Serine, Threonine, Cysteine, Tyrosine, Asparagine, Glutamine
Amino acids with charged polar R groups (negatively charged at Ph 6.0)
Aspartic acid, Glutamic acid
Basic amino acids (positively charged at pH 6.0)
Lysine, Arginine, Histidine (at pH 6.0)
[000113]    Another grouping may be those amino acids with phenyl groups:
Phenylalanine, Tryptophan, Tyrosine
[000114]    Another grouping may be according to molecular weight (i.e., size of R groups):
Glycine             75                      Alanine                89
Serine              105                     Proline                115
Valine              117                     Threonine              119
Cysteine            121                     Leucine                131
Isoleucine          131                     Asparagine             132
Aspartic acid       133                     Glutamine              146
Lysine              146                     Glutamic acid          147
Methionine          149                     Histidine (at pH 6.0) 155
Phenylalanine       165                     Arginine               174
Tyrosine            181                     Tryptophan             204
[000115]    Particularly preferred substitutions are:
- Lys for Arg and vice versa such that a positive charge may be maintained;
- Glu for Asp and vice versa such that a negative charge may be maintained;
- Ser for Thr such that a free -OH can be maintained; and
- Gln for Asn such that a free NH 2 can be maintained.
[000116]    Exemplary and preferred conservative amino acid substitutions include any of:
glutamine (Q) for glutamic acid (E) and vice versa; leucine (L) for valine (V) and vice versa;
serine (S) for threonine (T) and vice versa; isoleucine (I) for valine (V) and vice versa; lysine
(K) for glutamine (Q) and vice versa; isoleucine (I) for methionine (M) and vice versa; serine
(S) for asparagine (N) and vice versa; leucine (L) for methionine (M) and vice versa; lysine (L)
for glutamic acid (E) and vice versa; alanine (A) for serine (S) and vice versa; tyrosine (Y) for
phenylalanine (F) and vice versa; glutamic acid (E) for aspartic acid (D) and vice versa; leucine
(L) for isoleucine (I) and vice versa; lysine (K) for arginine (R) and vice versa.
[000117]    Amino acid substitutions may also be introduced to substitute an amino acid with a
particularly preferable property. For example, a Cys may be introduced a potential site for
disulfide bridges with another Cys. A His may be introduced as a particularly "catalytic" site
                                                    31

(i.e., His can act as an acid or base and is the most common amino acid in biochemical
catalysis). Pro may be introduced because of its particularly planar structure, which induces   p
turns in the protein's structure.
[000118]    In accordance with the present invention compositions and methods are provide
based on combinations of bacteriophage lysin(s) with antibiotic are provided for rapid and
effective killing of gram positive bacteria. In accordance with the invention, the lysin PlySs2,
which demonstrates broad killing activity against multiple bacteria, particularly gram-positive
bacteria, including Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacterial strains, provides remarkable
synergy in combination with antibiotic(s) and can significantly reduce the effective MIC doses
required for antibiotic(s).
[000119]    As demonstrated and provided herein, lysin particularly PlySs2 lysin is capable of
synergizing with antibiotics, including antibiotics of different types and classes, including
vancomycin, daptomycin, linezolid, and oxacillin, in a process characterized by improved
bactericidal activity, more rapid antibiotic penetration, and suppression of resistance. In murine
bacteremia models, as demonstrated herein, pair-wise combinations of PlySs2 with antibiotics
confer a highly significant survival increase relative to single-agent treatments. Thus,
lysin/antibiotic combinations, relative to current standard treatments, will be more effective
therapies for treating bacteremia in the clinic.
[000120]    The invention further demonstrates PlySs2-dependent enhancement of antibiotics in
combination via both in-vitro assays and in a murine model of S. aureus-induced bacteremia
under conditions in which human-simulated doses of single-agent antibiotics fail. Data are
presented herein illustrating the mechanism of the PlySs2-mediated enhancement of antibiotic
activity and indicating a general synergy between lysins and antibiotics.             Synergy has
implications for an efficacious new general anti-infective strategy based on the co
administration of lysin and antibiotics. In particular each and both agents lysins and antibiotics
may be administered at significantly reduced doses and amounts, with enhanced bacteriocidal
and bacteriostatic activity and with reduced risk of antibiotic or agent resistance.
[000121]    While lysin, particularly PlySs2 lysin, is recognized as a single agent, the present
invention provides that lysin, particularly PlySs2 lysin, remarkably demonstrates a significant
degree of in vitro and in vivo synergy with various antibiotics. While in the present Examples
                                                   32

synergy is validated by time-kill curves and checkerboard assays with multiple strains and
antibiotics, the extent of in vitro synergy is particularly illustrated using a dual agent MIC assay
in which as little as 0.25X MIC PlySs2 reduced the daptomycin MIC from 1 pig/mL to 0.0075
pg/mL, a 128-fold decrease. This synergistic effect was seen across 12 MRSA strains with the
degree of potency enhancement ranging from 64 to 256-fold.                  The two antimicrobials,
antibiotics plus lysin, in a combination are therefore doing more than simply killing sequentially
(reduction of the bulk population by lysin followed by antibiotic killing of residual bacteria)
since 7.5 ng/ml daptomycin is vastly insufficient to kill as a single agent.
[000122]    In the bacteremia models provided and demonstrated herein, combination therapy
treatments consistently outperformed full strength human-simulated doses of single agent
antibiotic treatments. This is demonstrated for both vancomycin and daptomycin, the current
standard-of-care antibiotics for treating MRSA bacteremia, as well as for oxacillin, a beta
lactam, the current standard-of-care antibiotic for treating MSSA bacteremia. These results have
clear clinical implications and provide new effective combination therapy regimens employing
lysin(s) and antibiotic(s) for treating bacteremia as well as other serious infections. Provided are
methods and compositions based on combination lysin plus antibiotic therapy using lower doses
of these agents with enhanced efficacy and lower risk of resistance. Indeed the present methods
and   compositions      are   effective  on   resistant   bacteria,   including  antibiotic resistant
Staphylococcal bacteria.
[000123]     In clinical applications, the invention provides methods of treating bacteremia by
administering a lysin/antibiotic combination, particularly PlySs2/antibiotic combination. While
above its MIC, the fast-acting lysin will effectively reduce the pathogen population. Once the
lysin concentration falls below the MIC, the combination partner antibiotic's activity will be
enhanced synergistically by the presence of the lysin for approximately one or two more lysin
pharmacokinetic half-lives extending the time in which synergy-enhanced killing is active.
Thus, PlySs2/antibiotic combinations will provide more potent and effective antibacterial
therapies than the currently available single-agent options.
 [000124]    The PlySs2 lysin displays activity and capability to kill numerous distinct strains and
species of gram positive bacteria, including Staphylococcal, Streptococcal, Listeria, or
Enterococcal bacteria.       In particular and with significance, PlySs2 is active in killing
Staphylococcus strains, including Staphylococcus aureus, particularly both antibiotic-sensitive
and distinct antibiotic-resistant strains.  PlySs2 is also active in killing Streptococcus strains,
                                                     33

and shows particularly effective killing against Group A and Group B streptococcus strains.
PlySs2 lysin capability against bacteria is depicted below in TABLE 1, based on log kill
assessments using isolated strains in vitro.
                                                TABLE 1
                  PlySs2 Reduction in Growth of Different Bacteria (partial listing)
                  Bacteria                                       Relative Kill with PlySs2
            Staphylococcus aureus                                +++
             (VRSA, VISA, MRSA, MSSA)
            Streptococcus suis                                   +++
            Staphylococcus epidermidis                           ++
            Staphylococcus simulans                              +++
            Lysteria monocytogenes                               ++
            Enterococcusfaecalis                                 ++
            Streptococcus dysgalactiae - GBS                     ++
            Streptococcus agalactiae-GBS                         +++
            Streptococcus pyogenes -GAS                          +++
            Streptococcus equi                                   ++
            Streptococcus sanguinis                              ++
            Streptococcus gordonii                               ++
            Streptococcus sobrinus                               +
            Streptococcus rattus                                 +
            Streptococcus oralis                                 +
            Streptococcus pneumonine                             +
            Bacillus thuringiensis
            Bacillus cereus
            Bacillus subtilis
            Bacillus anthracis
            Escherichiacoli
            Enterococcusfaecium
            Pseudomanas aeruginosa
[000125]    The phrase "monoclonal antibody" in its various grammatical forms refers to an
antibody having only one species of antibody combining site capable of immunoreacting with a
particular antigen. A monoclonal antibody thus typically displays a single binding affinity for
any antigen with which it immunoreacts.         A monoclonal antibody may therefore contain an
antibody molecule having a plurality of antibody combining sites, each immunospecific for a
different antigen; e.g., a bispecific (chimeric) monoclonal antibody.
[000126]    The term "specific" may be used to refer to the situation in which one member of a
specific binding pair will not show significant binding to molecules other than its specific
binding partner(s). The term is also applicable where e.g. an antigen binding domain is specific
for a particular epitope which is carried by a number of antigens, in which case the specific
                                                   34

binding member carrying the antigen binding domain will be able to bind to the various
antigens carrying the epitope.
[000127]    The term "comprise" generally used in the sense of include, that is to say permitting
the presence of one or more features or components.
[000128]    The term "consisting essentially of' refers to a product, particularly a peptide
sequence, of a defined number of residues which is not covalently attached to a larger product.
In the case of the peptide of the invention hereof, those of skill in the art will appreciate that
minor modifications to the N- or C- terminal of the peptide may however be contemplated, such
as the chemical modification of the terminal to add a protecting group or the like, e.g. the
amidation of the C-terminus.
[000129]    The term "isolated" refers to the state in which the lysin polypeptide(s) of the
invention, or nucleic acid encoding such polypeptides will be, in accordance with the present
invention. Polypeptides and nucleic acid will be free or substantially free of material with
which they are naturally associated such as other polypeptides or nucleic acids with which they
are found in their natural environment, or the environment in which they are prepared (e.g. cell
culture) when such preparation is by recombinant DNA technology practiced in vitro or in vivo.
Polypeptides and nucleic acid may be formulated with diluents or adjuvants and still for
practical purposes be isolated - for example the polypeptides will normally be mixed with
polymers or mucoadhesives or other carriers, or will be mixed with pharmaceutically acceptable
carriers or diluents, when used in diagnosis or therapy.
[000130]    Nucleic acids capable of encoding the S. suis PlySs2 lysin polypeptide(s) useful and
applicable in the invention are provided herein. Representative nucleic acid sequences in this
context are polynucleotide sequences coding for the polypeptide of FIGURE 29 (SEQ ID NO:
1), and sequences that hybridize, under stringent conditions, with complementary sequences of
the DNA of the FIGURE 29 (SEQ ID NO: 2) sequence(s). Further variants of these sequences
and sequences of nucleic acids that hybridize with those shown in the figures also are
contemplated for use in production of lysing enzymes according to the disclosure, including
natural variants that may be obtained. A large variety of isolated nucleic acid sequences or
cDNA sequences that encode phage associated lysing enzymes and partial sequences that
hybridize with such gene sequences are useful for recombinant production of the lysin
enzyme(s) or polypeptide(s) of the invention.
                                                  35

[000131]    A "replicon" is any genetic element (e.g., plasmid, chromosome, virus) that
functions as an autonomous unit of DNA replication in vivo; i.e., capable of replication under its
own control.
[000132]    A "vector" is a replicon, such as plasmid, phage or cosmid, to which another DNA
segment may be attached so as to bring about the replication of the attached segment.
[000133]    A "DNA molecule" refers to the polymeric form of deoxyribonucleotides (adenine,
guanine, thymine, or cytosine) in its either single stranded form, or a double-stranded helix.
This term refers only to the primary and secondary structure of the molecule, and does not limit
it to any particular tertiary forms. Thus, this term includes double-stranded DNA found, inter
alia, in linear DNA          molecules  (e.g.,  restriction fragments),  viruses,  plasmids,   and
chromosomes.       In discussing the structure of particular double-stranded DNA molecules,
sequences may be described herein according to the normal convention of giving only the
sequence in the 5' to 3' direction along the nontranscribed strand of DNA (i.e., the strand having
a sequence homologous to the mRNA).
[000134]    An "origin of replication" refers to those DNA sequences that participate in DNA
synthesis.
[000135]    A DNA "coding sequence" is a double-stranded DNA sequence which is transcribed
and translated into a polypeptide in vivo when placed under the control of appropriate
regulatory sequences. The boundaries of the coding sequence are determined by a start codon
at the 5' (amino) terminus and a translation stop codon at the 3' (carboxyl) terminus. A coding
sequence can include, but is not limited to, prokaryotic sequences, cDNA from eukaryotic
mRNA, genomic DNA sequences from eukaryotic (e.g., mammalian) DNA, and even synthetic
DNA sequences. A polyadenylation signal and transcription termination sequence will usually
be located 3' to the coding sequence.
[000136]    Transcriptional and translational control sequences are DNA regulatory sequences,
such as promoters, enhancers, polyadenylation signals, terminators, and the like, that provide
for the expression of a coding sequence in a host cell.
[000137]    A "promoter sequence" is a DNA regulatory region capable of binding RNA
polymerase in a cell and initiating transcription of a downstream (3' direction) coding sequence.
For purposes of defining the present invention, the promoter sequence is bounded at its 3'
terminus by the transcription initiation site and extends upstream (5' direction) to include the
minimum number of bases or elements necessary to initiate transcription at levels detectable
                                                    36

above background. Within the promoter sequence will be found a transcription initiation site
(conveniently defined by mapping with nuclease Si), as well as protein binding domains
(consensus sequences) responsible for the binding of RNA polymerase. Eukaryotic promoters
will often, but not always, contain "TATA" boxes and "CAT" boxes. Prokaryotic promoters
contain Shine-Dalgamo sequences in addition to the -10 and -35 consensus sequences.
 [000138]   An "expression control sequence" is a DNA sequence that controls and regulates the
transcription and translation of another DNA sequence.          A coding sequence is "under the
control" of transcriptional and translational control sequences in a cell when RNA polymerase
transcribes the coding sequence into mRNA, which is then translated into the protein encoded
by the coding sequence.
 [000139]   A "signal sequence" can be included before the coding sequence. This sequence
encodes a signal peptide, N-terminal to the polypeptide, that communicates to the host cell to
direct the polypeptide to the cell surface or secrete the polypeptide into the media, and this
signal peptide is clipped off by the host cell before the protein leaves the cell. Signal sequences
can be found associated with a variety of proteins native to prokaryotes and eukaryotes.
 [000140]   The term "oligonucleotide," as used herein in referring to the probe of the present
invention, is defined as a molecule comprised of two or more ribonucleotides, preferably more
than three. Its exact size will depend upon many factors which, in turn, depend upon the
ultimate function and use of the oligonucleotide.
[000141]    As used herein, the terms "restriction endonucleases" and "restriction enzymes" refer
to bacterial enzymes, each of which cut double-stranded DNA at or near a specific nucleotide
sequence.
[000142]    A cell has been "transformed" by exogenous or heterologous DNA when such DNA
has been introduced inside the cell. The transforming DNA may or may not be integrated
(covalently linked) into chromosomal DNA making up the genome of the cell. In prokaryotes,
yeast, and mammalian cells for example, the transforming DNA may be maintained on an
episomal element such as a plasmid. With respect to eukaryotic cells, a stably transformed cell
is one in which the transforming DNA has become integrated into a chromosome so that it is
inherited by daughter cells through chromosome replication. This stability is demonstrated by
the ability of the eukaryotic cell to establish cell lines or clones comprised of a population of
daughter cells containing the transforming DNA. A "clone" is a population of cells derived
                                                   37

from a single cell or common ancestor by mitosis. A "cell line" is a clone of a primary cell that
is capable of stable growth in vitro for many generations.
 [000143]   Two DNA sequences are "substantially homologous" when at least about 75%
(preferably at least about 80%, and most preferably at least about 90 or 95%) of the nucleotides
match over the defined length of the DNA sequences.                 Sequences that are substantially
homologous can be identified by comparing the sequences using standard software available in
sequence data banks, or in a Southern hybridization experiment under, for example, stringent
conditions as defined for that particular system. Defining appropriate hybridization conditions
is within the skill of the art. See, e.g., Maniatis et al., supra; DNA Cloning, Vols. I & II, supra;
Nucleic Acid Hybridization, supra.
[000144]    DNA molecules and nucleotide sequences which are derivatives of those specifically
disclosed herein and which differ from those disclosed by the deletion, addition or substitution
of nucleotides while still encoding a protein which possesses the functional characteristic of the
lysin polypeptide(s) are contemplated by the disclosure. Also included are small DNA
molecules which are derived from the disclosed DNA molecules. Such small DNA molecules
include oligonucleotides suitable for use as hybridization probes or polymerase chain reaction
(PCR) primers. As such, these small DNA molecules will comprise at least a segment of a lytic
enzyme genetically coded for by a bacteriophage of Staphylococcus suis and, for the purposes
of PCR, will comprise at least a 10-15 nucleotide sequence and, more preferably, a 15-30
nucleotide sequence of the gene. DNA molecules and nucleotide sequences which are derived
from the disclosed DNA molecules as described above may also be defined as DNA sequences
which hybridize under stringent conditions to the DNA sequences disclosed, or fragments
thereof.
[000145]    In preferred embodiments of the present disclosure, stringent conditions may be
defined as those under which DNA molecules with more than 25% sequence variation (also
termed "mismatch") will not hybridize. In a more preferred embodiment, stringent conditions
are those under which DNA molecules with more than 15% mismatch will not hybridize, and
more preferably still, stringent conditions are those under which DNA sequences with more
than 10% mismatch will not hybridize. Preferably, stringent conditions are those under which
DNA sequences with more than 6% mismatch will not hybridize.
[000146]    The degeneracy of the genetic code further widens the scope of the embodiments as
it enables major variations in the nucleotide sequence of a DNA molecule while maintaining the
                                                    38

amino acid sequence of the encoded protein. Thus, the nucleotide sequence of the gene could be
changed at this position to any of these three codons without affecting the amino acid
composition of the encoded protein or the characteristics of the protein. The genetic code and
variations in nucleotide codons for particular amino acids are well known to the skilled artisan.
Based upon the degeneracy of the genetic code, variant DNA molecules may be derived from
the cDNA molecules disclosed herein using standard DNA mutagenesis techniques as described
above, or by synthesis of DNA sequences. DNA sequences which do not hybridize under
stringent conditions to the cDNA sequences disclosed by virtue of sequence variation based on
the degeneracy of the genetic code are herein comprehended by this disclosure.
[000147]     Thus, it should be appreciated that also within the scope of the present invention are
DNA sequences encoding a lysin of the present invention, including PlySs2 and PlySsI, which
sequences code for a polypeptide having the same amino acid sequence as provided in FIGURE
29 (SEQ ID NO: 1), but which are degenerate thereto or are degenerate to the exemplary
nucleic acids sequences provided in FIGURE 29 (SEQ ID NO: 2). By "degenerate to" is meant
that a different three-letter codon is used to specify a particular amino acid. It is well known in
the art the codons which can be used interchangeably to code for each specific amino acid.
[000148]     One skilled in the art will recognize that the DNA mutagenesis techniques described
here and known in the art can produce a wide variety of DNA molecules that code for a
bacteriophage lysin of Streptococcus suis yet that maintain the essential characteristics of the
lytic polypeptides described and provided herein. Newly derived proteins may also be selected
in order to obtain variations on the characteristic of the lytic polypeptide(s), as will be more
fully described below. Such derivatives include those with variations in amino acid sequence
including minor deletions, additions and substitutions.
[000149]     While the site for introducing an amino acid sequence variation may be
predetermined, the mutation per se does not need to be predetermined. Amino acid substitutions
are typically of single residues, or can be of one or more, one or a few, one, two, three, four,
five, six or seven residues; insertions usually will be on the order of about from 1 to 10 amino
acid residues; and deletions will range about from 1 to 30 residues. Deletions or insertions may
be in single form, but preferably are made in adjacent pairs, i.e., a deletion of 2 residues or
insertion of 2 residues. Substitutions, deletions, insertions or any combination thereof may be
combined to arrive at a final construct. Substitutional variants are those in which at least one
residue in the amino acid sequence has been removed and a different residue inserted in its
                                                    39

place. Such substitutions may be made so as to generate no significant effect on the protein
characteristics or when it is desired to finely modulate the characteristics of the protein. Amino
acids which may be substituted for an original amino acid in a protein and which are regarded
as conservative substitutions are described above and will be recognized by one of skill in the
art.
[000150]    As is well known in the art, DNA sequences may be expressed by operatively
linking them to an expression control sequence in an appropriate expression vector and
employing that expression vector to transform an appropriate unicellular host. Such operative
linking of a DNA sequence of this invention to an expression control sequence, of course,
includes, if not already part of the DNA sequence, the provision of an initiation codon, ATG, in
the correct reading frame upstream of the DNA sequence. A wide variety of host/expression
vector combinations may be employed in expressing the DNA sequences of this invention.
Useful expression vectors, for example, may consist of segments of chromosomal, non
chromosomal and synthetic DNA sequences.           Any of a wide variety of expression control
sequences -- sequences that control the expression of a DNA sequence operatively linked to it -
may be used in these vectors to express the DNA sequences of this invention. A wide variety of
unicellular host cells are also useful in expressing the DNA sequences of this invention. These
hosts may include well known eukaryotic and prokaryotic hosts, such as strains of E. coli,
Pseudomonas, Bacillus, Streptomyces, fungi such as yeasts, and animal cells, human cells and
plant cells in tissue culture. One skilled in the art will be able to select the proper vectors,
expression control sequences, and hosts without undue experimentation to accomplish the
desired expression without departing from the scope of this invention.
[000151]    Therapeutic      or    pharmaceutical      compositions     comprising      the   lytic
enzyme(s)/polypeptide(s) of use in the methods and applications provided in the invention are
provided herein, as well as related methods of use. Therapeutic or pharmaceutical compositions
may comprise one or more lytic polypeptide(s), and optionally include natural, truncated,
chimeric or shuffled lytic enzymes, combined with one or more antibiotics, optionally
combined with suitable excipients, carriers or vehicles.      The invention provides therapeutic
compositions or pharmaceutical compositions of the lysins, including PlySs2, in combination
with antibiotic for use in the killing, alleviation, decolonization, prophylaxis or treatment of
gram-positive bacteria, including bacterial infections or related conditions.        The invention
provides therapeutic compositions or pharmaceutical compositions of the lysins, including
                                                   40

PlySs2, in combination with vancomycin, linezolid or daptomycin for use in the killing,
alleviation, decolonization, prophylaxis or treatment of gram-positive bacteria, including
bacterial infections or related conditions.   The invention provides therapeutic compositions or
pharmaceutical compositions of the lysins, including PlySs2, in combination with daptomycin
for use in the killing, alleviation, decolonization, prophylaxis or treatment of gram-positive
bacteria, including bacterial infections or related conditions.  Compositions comprising PlySs2
lysin, including truncations or variants thereof, in combination with antibiotic, including
daptomycin, are provided herein for use in the killing, alleviation, decolonization, prophylaxis
or treatment of gram-positive bacteria, including bacterial infections or related conditions,
particularly   of   Streptococcus, Staphylococcus,       Enterococcus    or  Listeria, including
Streptococcuspyogenes and antibiotic resistant Staphylococcus aureus.
[000152]     The enzyme(s) or polypeptide(s) included in the therapeutic compositions may be
one or more or any combination of unaltered phage associated lytic enzyme(s), truncated lytic
polypeptides, variant lytic polypeptide(s),      and chimeric and/or shuffled lytic enzymes.
Additionally, different lytic polypeptide(s) genetically coded for by different phage for
treatment of the same bacteria may be used. These lytic enzymes may also be any combination
of "unaltered" lytic enzymes or polypeptides, truncated lytic polypeptide(s), variant lytic
polypeptide(s), and chimeric and shuffled lytic enzymes. The lytic enzyme(s)/polypeptide(s) in
a   therapeutic   or   pharmaceutical    composition    for   gram-positive  bacteria,  including
Streptococcus, Staphylococcus, Enterococcus and Listeria, may be used alone or in
combination with antibiotics or, if there are other invasive bacterial organisms to be treated, in
combination with other phage associated lytic enzymes specific for other bacteria being
targeted. The lytic enzyme, truncated enzyme, variant enzyme, chimeric enzyme, and/or
shuffled lytic enzyme may be used in conjunction with a holin protein. The amount of the holin
protein may also be varied. Various antibiotics may be optionally included in the therapeutic
composition with the enzyme(s) or polypeptide(s) and with or without the presence of
lysostaphin. More than one lytic enzyme or polypeptide may be included in the therapeutic
composition.
[000153]     The pharmaceutical composition can also include one or more altered lytic enzymes,
including isozymes, analogs, or variants thereof, produced by chemical synthesis or DNA
recombinant techniques. In particular, altered lytic protein can be produced by amino acid
substitution, deletion, truncation, chimerization, shuffling, or combinations thereof. The
                                                   41

pharmaceutical composition may contain a combination of one or more natural lytic protein and
one or more truncated, variant, chimeric or shuffled lytic protein. The pharmaceutical
composition may also contain a peptide or a peptide fragment of at least one lytic protein
derived from the same or different bacteria species, with an optional addition of one or more
complementary agent, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.
[000154]    The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention contain a complementary
agent - one or more conventional antibiotics - particularly as provided herein. Antibiotics can be
subgrouped broadly into those affecting cell wall peptidoglycan biosynthesis and those affecting
DNA or protein synthesis in gram positive bacteria. Cell wall synthesis inhibitors, including
penicillin and antibiotics like it, disrupt the rigid outer cell wall so that the relatively
unsupported cell swells and eventually ruptures. The complementary agent may be an
antibiotic, such as erythromycin, clarithromycin, azithromycin, roxithromycin, other members
of the macrolide family, penicilins, cephalosporins, and any combinations thereof in amounts
which are effective to synergistically enhance the therapeutic effect of the lytic enzyme.
Virtually any other antibiotic may be used with the altered and/or unaltered lytic enzyme.
Antibiotics affecting cell wall peptidoglycan biosynthesis include: Glycopeptides, which inhibit
peptidoglycan synthesis by preventing the incorporation of N-acetylmuramic acid (NAM) and
N-acetylglucosamine (NAG) peptide subunits into the peptidoglycan matrix.                  Available
glycopeptides include vancomycin and teicoplanin.; Penicillins, which act by inhibiting the
formation of peptidoglycan cross-links. The functional group of penicillins, the p-lactam
moiety, binds and inhibits DD-transpeptidase that links the peptidoglycan molecules in bacteria.
Hydrolytic enzymes continue to break down the cell wall, causing cytolysis or death due to
osmotic pressure. Common penicillins include oxacillin, ampicillin and cloxacillin; and
Polypeptides, which interfere with the dephosphorylation of the C 5 5-isoprenyl pyrophosphate, a
molecule that carries peptidoglycan building-blocks outside of the plasma membrane. A cell
wall-impacting polypeptide is bacitracin.         Other useful and relevant antibiotics include
vancomycin, linezolid, and daptomycin.
[000155]    Other lytic enzymes may be included in the carrier to treat other bacterial infections.
The pharmaceutical composition can also contain a peptide or a peptide fragment of at least one
lytic protein, one holin protein, or at least one holin and one lytic protein, which lytic and holin
proteins are each derived from the same or different bacteria species, with an optional addition
of a complementary agents, and a suitable carrier or diluent.
                                                    42

 [000156]   Also provided are compositions containing nucleic acid molecules that, either alone
or in combination with other nucleic acid molecules, are capable of expressing an effective
amount of a lytic polypeptide(s) or a peptide fragment of a lytic polypeptide(s) in vivo. Cell
cultures containing these nucleic acid molecules, polynucleotides, and vectors carrying and
expressing these molecules in vitro or in vivo, are also provided.
[000157]    Therapeutic or pharmaceutical compositions may comprise lytic polypeptide(s) and
antibiotic(s) combined with a variety of carriers to treat the illnesses caused by the susceptible
gram-positive bacteria. The carrier suitably contains minor amounts of additives such as
substances that enhance isotonicity and chemical stability. Such materials are non-toxic to
recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed, and include buffers such as phosphate,
citrate, succinate, acetic acid, and other organic acids or their salts; antioxidants such as
ascorbic acid; low molecular weight (less than about ten residues) polypeptides, e.g.,
polyarginine or tripeptides; proteins, such as serum albumin, gelatin, or immunoglobulins;
hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone; glycine; amino acids such as glutamic acid,
aspartic acid, histidine, or arginine; monosaccharides, disaccharides, and other carbohydrates
including cellulose or its derivatives, glucose, mannose, trehalose, or dextrins; chelating agents
such as EDTA; sugar alcohols such as mannitol or sorbitol; counter-ions such as sodium; non
ionic surfactants such as polysorbates, poloxamers, or polyethylene glycol (PEG); and/or
neutral   salts. Glycerin   or glycerol    (1,2,3-propanetriol)  is commercially    available  for
pharmaceutical use. DMSO is an aprotic solvent with a remarkable ability to enhance
penetration of many locally applied drugs. The carrier vehicle may also include Ringer's
solution, a buffered solution, and dextrose solution, particularly when an intravenous solution is
prepared.
[000158]    The effective dosage rates or amounts of an altered or unaltered lytic enzyme/
polypeptide(s) of and for use in the present invention will depend in part on whether the lytic
enzyme/ polypeptide(s) will be used therapeutically or prophylactically, the duration of
exposure of the recipient to the infectious bacteria, the size and weight of the individual, etc.
The duration for use of the composition containing the enzyme/ polypeptide(s) also depends on
whether the use is for prophylactic purposes, wherein the use may be hourly, daily or weekly,
for a short time period, or whether the use will be for therapeutic purposes wherein a more
intensive regimen of the use of the composition may be needed, such that usage may last for
hours, days or weeks, and/or on a daily basis, or at timed intervals during the day. Any dosage
                                                   43

form employed should provide for a minimum number of units for a minimum amount of time.
Carriers that are classified as "long" or "slow" release carriers (such as, for example, certain
nasal sprays or lozenges) could possess or provide a lower concentration of active (enzyme)
units per ml, but over a longer period of time, whereas a "short" or "fast" release carrier (such
as, for example, a gargle) could possess or provide a high concentration of active (enzyme)
units per ml, but over a shorter period of time. The amount of active units per ml and the
duration of time of exposure depend on the nature of infection, whether treatment is to be
prophylactic or therapeutic, and other variables. There are situations where it may be necessary
to have a much higher unit/ml dosage or a lower unit/ml dosage.
[000159]     The lytic enzyme/polypeptide(s) should be in an environment having a pH which
allows for activity of the lytic enzyme/polypeptide(s). A stabilizing buffer may allow for the
optimum activity of the lysin enzyme/ polypeptide(s). The buffer may contain a reducing
reagent, such as dithiothreitol or beta mercaptoethanol (BME). The stabilizing buffer may also
be or include a metal chelating reagent, such as ethylenediaminetetracetic acid disodium salt, or
it may also contain a phosphate or citrate-phosphate buffer, or any other buffer.
[000160]     It is notable that the environment and certain aspects of the treatment location can
affect the effectiveness of an antibiotic. For instance, daptomycin binds avidly to pulmonary
surfactant and therefore is not effective in treatment of bacterial pneumonia, including
staphylococcal pneumonia. The present invention demonstrates the remarkable effectiveness
and synergy of PlySs2 and daptomycin in combination against susceptible bacteria. In addition,
PlySs2 lysin and daptomycin in combination remain very effective in the presence of a
commercially available surfactant which mimics pulmonary surfactant. Thus, PlySs2 facilitates
and enhances the effectiveness of antibiotic, particularly daptomycin, and serves to enable
daptomycin effectiveness and activity even in the presence of surfactant.
[000161]     A mild surfactant can be included in a therapeutic or pharmaceutical composition in
an amount effective to potentiate the therapeutic effect of the lytic enzyme/ polypeptide(s) may
be used in a composition. Suitable mild surfactants include, inter alia, esters of polyoxyethylene
sorbitan and fatty acids (Tween series), octylphenoxy polyethoxy ethanol (Triton-X series), n
Octyl-.beta.-D-glucopyranoside,        n-Octyl-.beta.-D-thioglucopyranoside,     n-Decyl-.beta.-D
glucopyranoside, n-Dodecyl-.beta.-D-glucopyranoside, and biologically occurring surfactants,
e.g., fatty acids, glycerides, monoglycerides, deoxycholate and esters of deoxycholate.
                                                    44

[000162]    Preservatives may also be used in this invention and preferably comprise about
0.05% to 0.5% by weight of the total composition. The use of preservatives assures that if the
product is microbially contaminated, the formulation will prevent or diminish microorganism
growth. Some preservatives useful in this invention include methylparaben, propylparaben,
butylparaben, chloroxylenol, sodium benzoate, DMDM Hydantoin, 3-Iodo-2-Propylbutyl
carbamate, potassium sorbate, chlorhexidine digluconate, or a combination thereof.
[000163]    The therapeutic composition may further comprise other enzymes, such as the
enzyme lysostaphin for the treatment of any Staphylococcus aureus bacteria present along with
the susceptible gram-positive bacteria. Lysostaphin, a gene product of Staphylococcus simulans,
exerts a bacteriostatic and bactericidal effect upon S. aureus by enzymatically degrading the
polyglycine crosslinks of the cell wall (Browder et al., Res. Comm., 19: 393-400 (1965)). The
gene for lysostaphin has subsequently been cloned and sequenced (Recsei et al., Proc. Natl.
Acad. Sci. USA, 84: 1127-1131 (1987).           A therapeutic composition may also include
mutanolysin, and lysozyme.
[000164]    Means    of application   of the    therapeutic  composition   comprising    a  lytic
enzyme/polypeptide(s) and antibiotic(s) include, but are not limited to direct, indirect, carrier
and special means or any combination of means. Direct application of the lytic enzyme/
polypeptide(s) may be by any suitable means to directly bring the polypeptide in contact with
the site of infection or bacterial colonization, such as to the nasal area (for example nasal
sprays), dermal or skin applications (for example topical ointments or formulations),
suppositories, tampon applications, etc. Nasal applications include for instance nasal sprays,
nasal drops, nasal ointments, nasal washes, nasal injections, nasal packings, bronchial sprays
and inhalers, or indirectly through use of throat lozenges, mouthwashes or gargles, or through
the use of ointments applied to the nasal nares, or the face or any combination of these and
similar methods of application. The forms in which the lytic enzyme may be administered
include but are not limited to lozenges, troches, candies, injectants, chewing gums, tablets,
powders, sprays, liquids, ointments, and aerosols.
[000165]    The mode of application for the lytic enzyme and antibiotic includes a number of
different types and combinations of carriers which include, but are not limited to an aqueous
liquid, an alcohol base liquid, a water soluble gel, a lotion, an ointment, a nonaqueous liquid
base, a mineral oil base, a blend of mineral oil and petrolatum, lanolin, liposomes, protein
carriers such as serum albumin or gelatin, powdered cellulose carmel, and combinations thereof.
                                                  45

A mode of delivery of the carrier containing the therapeutic agent includes, but is not limited to
a smear, spray, a time-release patch, a liquid absorbed wipe, and combinations thereof. The lytic
enzyme may be applied to a bandage either directly or in one of the other carriers. The bandages
may be sold damp or dry, wherein the enzyme is in a lyophilized form on the bandage. This
method of application is most effective for the treatment of infected skin.         The carriers of
topical compositions may comprise semi-solid and gel-like vehicles that include a polymer
thickener, water, preservatives, active surfactants or emulsifiers, antioxidants, sun screens, and a
solvent or mixed solvent system Polymer thickeners that may be used include those known to
one skilled in the art, such as hydrophilic and hydroalcoholic gelling agents frequently used in
the cosmetic     and pharmaceutical     industries. Other preferred      gelling polymers include
hydroxyethylcellulose,     cellulose  gum,    MVE/MA       decadiene     crosspolymer,    PVM/MA
copolymer, or a combination thereof.
[000166]    A composition comprising a lytic enzyme/ polypeptide(s) and antibiotic(s) can be
administered in the form of a candy, chewing gum, lozenge, troche, tablet, a powder, an aerosol,
a liquid, a liquid spray, or toothpaste for the prevention or treatment of bacterial infections
associated with upper respiratory tract illnesses. The lozenge, tablet, or gum into which the lytic
enzyme/polypeptide(s) is added may contain sugar, corn syrup, a variety of dyes, non-sugar
sweeteners, flavorings, any binders, or combinations thereof. Similarly, any gum-based
products may contain acacia, carnauba wax, citric acid, cornstarch, food colorings, flavorings,
non-sugar sweeteners, gelatin, glucose, glycerin, gum base, shellac, sodium saccharin, sugar,
water, white wax, cellulose, other binders, and combinations thereof. Lozenges may further
contain sucrose, cornstarch, acacia, gum tragacanth, anethole, linseed, oleoresin, mineral oil,
and cellulose, other binders, and combinations thereof. Sugar substitutes can also be used in
place of dextrose, sucrose, or other sugars. Compositions comprising lytic enzymes, or their
peptide fragments can be directed to the mucosal lining, where, in residence, they kill
colonizing disease bacteria. The mucosal lining, as disclosed and described herein, includes, for
example, the upper and lower respiratory tract, eye, buccal cavity, nose, rectum, vagina,
periodontal pocket, intestines and colon. Due to natural eliminating or cleansing mechanisms of
mucosal tissues, conventional dosage forms are not retained at the application site for any
significant length of time.
[000167]    It may be advantageous to have materials which exhibit adhesion to mucosal tissues,
to be administered with one or more phage enzymes and other complementary agents over a
                                                   46

period of time. Materials having controlled release capability are particularly desirable, and the
use of sustained release mucoadhesives has received a significant degree of attention. Other
approaches    involving mucoadhesives      which    are the    combination of hydrophilic      and
hydrophobic materials, are known. Micelles and multilamillar micelles may also be used to
control the release of enzyme. Materials having capacity to target or adhere to surfaces, such as
plastic, membranes, devices utilized in clinical practice, including particularly any material or
component which is placed in the body and susceptible to bacterial adhesion or biofilm
development, such as catheters, valves, prosthetic devices, drug or compound pumps, stents,
orthopedic materials, etc, may be combined, mixed, or fused to the lysin(s) of use in the present
invention.
[000168]    Therapeutic or pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can also contain
polymeric mucoadhesives including a graft copolymer comprising a hydrophilic main chain and
hydrophobic graft chains for controlled release of biologically active agents. The compositions
of this application may optionally contain other polymeric materials, such as poly(acrylic acid),
poly,-(vinyl   pyrrolidone),  and sodium carboxymethyl         cellulose plasticizers,   and other
pharmaceutically acceptable excipients in amounts that do not cause deleterious effect upon
mucoadhesivity of the composition.
[000169]    A    lytic enzyme/polypeptide(s)    and   antibiotic(s)  of the    invention may     be
administered for use in accordance with the invention by any pharmaceutically applicable or
acceptable    means including topically,     orally or parenterally.     For example, the     lytic
enzyme/polypeptide(s)      can be administered     intramuscularly,    intrathecally,  subdermally,
subcutaneously, or intravenously to treat infections by gram-positive bacteria. In cases where
parenteral injection is the chosen mode of administration, an isotonic formulation is preferably
used. Generally, additives for isotonicity can include sodium chloride, dextrose, mannitol,
sorbitol and lactose. In some cases, isotonic solutions such as phosphate buffered saline are
preferred. Stabilizers include gelatin and albumin. A vasoconstriction agent can be added to the
formulation. The pharmaceutical preparations according to this application are provided sterile
and pyrogen free.
[000170]    For any compound, the therapeutically effective dose can be estimated initially
either in cell culture assays or in animal models, usually mice, rabbits, dogs, or pigs.       The
animal model is also used to achieve a desirable concentration range and route of
administration.    Such information can then be used to determine useful doses and routes for
                                                  47

administration in humans. The exact dosage is chosen by the individual physician in view of
the patient to be treated. Dosage and administration are adjusted to provide sufficient levels of
the active moiety or to maintain the desired effect. Additional factors which may be taken into
account include the severity of the disease state, age, weight and gender of the patient; diet,
desired duration of treatment, method of administration, time and frequency of administration,
drug combination(s), reaction sensitivities, and tolerance/response to therapy.        Long acting
pharmaceutical compositions might be administered every 3 to 4 days, every week, or once
every two weeks depending on half-life and clearance rate of the particular formulation.
[000171]     The effective dosage rates or amounts of the lytic enzyme/polypeptide(s) to be
administered, and the duration of treatment will depend in part on the seriousness of the
infection, the weight of the patient, particularly human, the duration of exposure of the recipient
to the infectious bacteria, the number of square centimeters of skin or tissue which are infected,
the depth of the infection, the seriousness of the infection, and a variety of a number of other
variables. The composition may be applied anywhere from once to several times a day or a
week, and may be applied for a short, such as days or up to several weeks, or long term period,
such as many weeks or up to months. The usage may last for days or weeks. Any dosage form
employed should provide for a minimum number of units for a minimum amount of time. The
concentration of the active units of enzymes believed to provide for an effective amount or
dosage of enzymes may be selected as appropriate.
[000172]      The lysin and antibiotics of use and application in the compositions and methods of
the invention may be administered simultaneously or subsequently. The lysin and antibiotic
agents may be administered in a single dose or multiple doses, singly or in combination. The
lysin and antibiotic may be administered by the same mode of administration or by different
modes of administration, and may be administered once, twice or multiple times, one or more in
combination or individually. Thus, lysin may be administered in an initial dose followed by a
subsequent dose or doses, particularly depending on the response and bacterial killing or
decolonization, and may be combined or alternated with antibiotic dose(s).          In a particular
aspect of the invention and in view of the reduction in the development of resistance to
antibiotics by administering a lysin, particularly PlySs2, with antibiotic, combinations of
antibiotic and lysin may be administered for longer periods and dosing can be extended without
risk of resistance. In addition, in as much as the doses required for efficacy of each of antibiotic
and lysin are significantly reduced by combining or co-administering the agents simultaneously
                                                    48

or in series, a patient can be treated more aggressively and more continually without risk, or
with reduced risk, of resistance.
[000173]    The term     'agent'  means   any molecule,     including   polypeptides,  antibodies,
polynucleotides, chemical compounds and small molecules.            In particular the term agent
includes compounds such as test compounds, added additional compound(s), or lysin enzyme
compounds.
[000174]    The term 'agonist' refers to a ligand that stimulates the receptor the ligand binds to
in the broadest sense.
[000175]    The term 'assay' means any process used to measure a specific property of a
compound.     A 'screening assay' means a process used to characterize or select compounds
based upon their activity from a collection of compounds.
[000176]    The term 'preventing' or 'prevention' refers to a reduction in risk of acquiring or
developing a disease or disorder (i.e., causing at least one of the clinical symptoms of the
disease not to develop) in a subject that may be exposed to a disease-causing agent, or
predisposed to the disease in advance of disease onset.
[000177]    The term 'prophylaxis' is related to and encompassed in the term 'prevention', and
refers to a measure or procedure the purpose of which is to prevent, rather than to treat or cure a
disease. Non-limiting examples of prophylactic measures may include the administration of
vaccines; the administration of low molecular weight heparin to hospital patients at risk for
thrombosis due, for example, to immobilization; and the administration of an anti-malarial
agent such as chloroquine, in advance of a visit to a geographical region where malaria is
endemic or the risk of contracting malaria is high.
[000178]    'Therapeutically effective amount'     means that amount of a drug, compound,
antimicrobial, antibody, polypeptide, or pharmaceutical agent that will elicit the biological or
medical response of a subject that is being sought by a medical doctor or other clinician. In
particular, with regard to gram-positive bacterial infections and growth of gram-positive
bacteria, the term "effective amount" is intended to include an effective amount of a compound
or agent that will bring about a biologically meaningful decrease in the amount of or extent of
infection of gram-positive bacteria, including having a bacteriocidal and/or bacteriostatic effect.
The phrase "therapeutically effective amount" is used herein to mean an amount sufficient to
prevent, and preferably reduce by at least about 30 percent, more preferably by at least 50
percent, most preferably by at least 90 percent, a clinically significant change in the growth or
                                                  49

amount of infectious bacteria, or other feature of pathology such as for example, elevated fever
or white cell count as may attend its presence and activity.
[000179]    The term 'treating'     or 'treatment'   of any disease or infection refers, in one
embodiment, to ameliorating the disease or infection (i.e., arresting the disease or growth of the
infectious agent or bacteria or reducing the manifestation, extent or severity of at least one of
the clinical symptoms thereof).       In another embodiment 'treating' or 'treatment' refers to
ameliorating at least one physical parameter, which may not be discernible by the subject. In
yet another embodiment, 'treating' or 'treatment' refers to modulating the disease or infection,
either physically, (e.g., stabilization of a discernible symptom), physiologically,            (e.g.,
stabilization of a physical parameter), or both.          In a further embodiment, 'treating'     or
'treatment' relates to slowing the progression of a disease or reducing an infection.
[000180]    It is noted that in the context of treatment methods which are carried out in vivo or
medical and clinical treatment methods in accordance with the present application and claims,
the term subject, patient or individual is intended to refer to a human.
[000181]    The terms "gram-positive bacteria", "Gram-positive bacteria", "gram-positive" and
any variants not specifically listed, may be used herein interchangeably, and as used throughout
the present application and claims refer to Gram-positive bacteria which are known and/or can
be identified by the presence of certain cell wall and/or cell membrane characteristics and/or by
staining with Gram stain. Gram positive bacteria are known and can readily be identified and
may be selected from but are not limited to the genera Listeria, Staphylococcus, Streptococcus,
Enterococcus, Mycobacterium, Corynebacterium, and Clostridium, and include any and all
recognized or unrecognized species or strains thereof. In an aspect of the invention, the PlyS
lysin sensitive gram-positive bacteria include bacteria selected from one or more of Listeria,
Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, and Enterococcus.
[000182]    The term "bacteriocidal" refers to capable of killing bacterial cells.
[000183]    The term "bacteriostatic" refers to capable of inhibiting bacterial growth, including
inhibiting growing bacterial cells.
[000184]    The phrase      "pharmaceutically    acceptable"   refers to  molecular   entities   and
compositions that are physiologically tolerable and do not typically produce an allergic or
similar untoward reaction, such as gastric upset, dizziness and the like, when administered to a
human.
                                                    50

 [0001851       The invention may be better understood by reference to the following non-limiting
Examples, which are provided as exemplary of the invention. The following examples are
presented in order to more fully illustrate the preferred embodiments of the invention and
should in no way be construed, however, as limiting the broad scope of the invention.
                                              EXAMPLE 1
[0001861        PlySs2 lysin demonstrates the ability to kill various strains of clinically significant
gram-positive bacteria, including antibiotic resistant strains such as methicillin and vancomycin
resistant and sensitive strains of Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA, MSSA, VRSA, VISA),
daptomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (DRSA), and linezolid-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus (LRSA). PlySs2 is a unique lysin in having broad species killing activity and can kill
multiple species of bacteria, particularly gram-positive bacteria, including Staphylococcus,
Streptococcus, Enterococcus and Listeria bacterial strains.             A tabulation of sensitivity (as
depicted using MIC values and uM concentrations) of staphylococci to PlySs2 lysin and various
antibiotics is shown in TABLE 2. Minimally inhibitory concentration (MICs) were determined
using the broth microdilution method in accordance with standards and as described in the
Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) document M07-A9 (Methods for dilutional
antimicrobial sensitivity tests for bacteria that grow aerobically. Volume 32 (Wayne [PA]:
Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute [US], 2012). This value is the MIC determined in
the presence of reducing agent (such as DTT or BMS) in the MIC assay. Reducing agent is
added for the purpose of improving reproducibility between and among assays in determining
MIC values.
                                                    TABLE 2
                             PlySs2 and antibiotic activity against S. aureus strains
  Organisms             PlySs2          Daptomycin           Vancomycin          Oxacillin        Linezolid
  (#of strains)    MIC 90      [uM]    MIC 90     [uM]     MIC 90     [uMi]  MIC 50/90    [uM] MIC50 /90  [uM]
  MRSA               4         0.15      1         0.6        1        0.7     >4*       >10.0    2         5.7
  (n=45)
  MSSA               4         0.15      1         0.6        1        0.7      n/a        n/a    2         5.7
  (n-28)
  VISA               32         1.2      8         4.9        4        2.7      n/a        n/a    2         5.7
  (n= 10)
  VRSA               2         0.08      1         0.6       >16     >10.6      n/a        n/a    2         5.7
                                                       51

  (n=14)
  LRSA             2       0.08         1     0.6        1        0.7     n/a      n/a     >64    >183
  (n=5)
  DRSA             4       0.15        16     9.9        1        0.7     n/a      n/a       2     5.7
  (n=8)
     * MICs were determined using the broth microdilution method and evaluating 80%
     growth inhibition according to CLSI methods (M07-A9).
     *Red/Bold=drug failure (MIC value is above EUCAST breakpoint for the indicated
     drug on S. aureus)
[0001871     Activity of PlySs2 against various gram-positive and gram-negative organisms is
tabulated in TABLE 3, which includes MIC values and range for the different organisms.
Activity of PlySs2 against antibiotic-resistant Staphylococcus aureus is provided in TABLE 4.
PlySs2 has potent growth inhibitory activity on all Staphylococcus aureus strains tested
including 103 MSSA and 120 MRSA isolates (MIC = 8 pg/mL) as well as Groups A and B
streptococci and Staphylococcus lugdiensis (TABLE 3). Little or no activity was observed on a
collection of other Gram positive bacteria as well as all Gram negative bacteria tested. Although
PlySs2 effectively kills antibiotic resistant and sensitive S. aureus as well as numerous other
clinically significant gram-positive bacteria, it is notably ineffective on numerous commensal
bacteria, such as Escherichiacoli, as shown above in TABLE 1 and in TABLE 5 below which
provides sensitivity of human gut bacteria and PlySs2 MIC.
                                              TABLE 3
             Activity of PlySs2 Against Gram-Positive and Gram-Negative Organisms
     Organism and susceptibility subset          MIC (pg/mL)
     (no. tested)                                 50%               90%             Range
     Staphylcoccus aureus
           Methicillin susceptible (103)         4                  8               1-16
           Methicillin resistant (120)           4                  8               1-16
     Streptococcuspyogenes, Group A (54)         2                  8               0.5-8
     Streptococcus agalactiae,Group B (51)        8                 16              1-64
     Other Gram-positive organisms
                                                    52

     Staphylococcus lugdiensis (10)        8                 8           8
     Staphylococcus epidermidis (11)       128               512         4-512
     Streptococcuspneumoniae (26)          16                64          1-64
     Streptococcus mutans (12)             64                256         2-256
     Listeria monocytogenes (12)           128               512         1-512
     Enterococcusfaecalis(17)              >512              >512        32->512
     Enterococcusfaecium (5)               >512              >512        32->512
     Bacillus cereus (10)                  >512              >512        >512
Gram-negative organisms
     Acinetobacter baumannii(8)            >512              >512        >512
     Escherichia coli (6)                  >512              >512        >512
     Pseudomonas aeruginosa(5)             >512              >512        >512
                                          TABLE 4
         Activity of PlySs2 Against Antibiotic-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus
    Susceptibility subset (no. tested)        MIC (mg/mi)
                                              50%             90%         Range
         Vancomycin-resistant (14)            2               4           1-4
         Vancomycin-intermediate (31)         8               32          1-64
         Linezolid-resistant (5)              2               2           2-4
         Daptomycin-resistant (8)             2               4           2-4
                                          TABLE 5
                        Sensitivity of Human Gut Bacteria to PlySs2
    Organism                           N           CF-301 MIC (ug/ml)
 Salmonella enteriditis                1               >512
 Pseudomonas aeruginosa                11              >512
 Escherichia coli                      10              >512
 Klebsiella spp.                       8               >512
 Proteus mirabilis                     2               >512
 Lactobacillus spp.                    6               >512
 Lactococcus spp.                          3           >512
                                             53

 [000188]    While PlySs2 is effective against many different clinically relevant bacteria, it
retains the beneficial character of many lysins in lacking broad spectrum bacterial killing,
therefore side effects such as intestinal flora disturbance seen with many antibiotics will be
minimized.      In addition, lysins have demonstrated a low probability of bacterial resistance.
PlySs2's remarkably broad clinically relevant killing capability make it uniquely applicable to
the clinical setting, including in instances where there is a fully uncharacterized or mixed
bacterial infection.
 [000189]    Staphylococcus aureus is the causative agent of several serious infectious diseases
and the emergence of antibiotic resistant S. aureus strains has resulted in significant treatment
difficulties, intensifying the need for new antimicrobial agents.      Currently, 40 to 60% of
nosocomial infections of S. aureus are resistant to oxacillin (Massey RC et al (2006) Nat Rev
Microbiol 4:953-958), and greater than 60% of the isolates are resistant to methicillin (Gill SR
et al (2005) J Bacteriol 187:2426-2438).      A number of new antimicrobial agents, such as
linezolid, quinupristin-dalfopristin, daptomycin, telavancin, new glycopeptides, ceftaroline, and
ceftobiprole, have been introduced or are under clinical development (Aksoy DY and S Unal
(2008) Clin Microbiol Infect 14:411-420). As an option, current antibiotics to which strains
such as MRSA are resistant may be resurrected as viable candidates in the treatment of MRSA
when used in combination with other agents, offering a new dimension of potential anti
infectives.   The application and use of lysin in combination with antibiotic has potential to
circumvent bacterial resistance by virtue of the very low probability of development of
resistance to the lysin component.
[000190]     In order to more fully evaluate PlySs2's applicability to clinical Staphylococcal
infections, time kill studies were undertaken against numerous Staphylococcus aureus strains,
including methicillin resistant and methicillin sensitive strains.      Time kill assays were
performed according to CLSI methodology (CLSI document M07-A9 column 32 No.2) on 42
methicillin resistant S. aureus (MRSA) strains and 20 methicillin sensitive S. aureus (MSSA)
strains. Cultures of each strain (5.5X105-1X106 starting inoculum) were treated with PlySs2
lysin and with antibiotics daptomycin, oxacillin or vancomycin for comparison for 6 hours with
aeration. MRSA and MSSA strains were treated with PlySs2, daptomycin and vancomycin.
MSSA strains were also treated with oxacillin. IX MIC concentrations of the different
antibiotics were utilized, based on published and established antibiotic MIC values. PlySs2
lysin treatment was at approximately IX MIC as previously determined (see TABLE 2 above).
                                                  54

Culture aliquots were removed hourly up to 6 hours (time points taken at 15 and 30 min, lhr,
2hr, 3hr, 4hr, 5hr, and 6hr) and added to a PBS/charcoal solution (to inactivate each drug),
which was then serially diluted and plated for bacterial viability. The resulting log CFU/mL
was plotted for each culture.       Growth controls were included for each strain and represent
bacterial growth in the absence of any antibacterial agent. Exemplary log kill curves for selected
MRSA strains are depicted in FIGURE 1. Exemplary log kill curves for selected MSSA strains
are depicted in FIGURE 2. A summary plot of the time kill studies with the MRSA and MSSA
strains is shown in FIGURE 3.
[000191]     A listing of strains used in the studies provided herein, including cross-reference for
recognized and available strain names is provided below in TABLE 6.
                                                  TABLE 6
                                                  Strain List
           Laboratory Designation    Strain Type              Common Strain Designation*
           (CFS #)
           223                       MRSA                     BAA-1720
           241                       MRSA                     NRS100
           243                       MSSA                     NRS107
           245                       MRSA                     NRS070
           250                       MSSA                     NRS149
           253                       MSSA                     NRS155
           254                       MSSA                     NRS156
           263                       MRSA                     NRS387
           269                       MRSA                     NRS123 (MW2)
           270                       MRSA                     NRS383
           553                       MRSA                     ATCC 43300
           554                       MSSA                     ATCC 25923
           581                       MSSA                     ATCC 29213
           650                       MRSA                     052C
           738                       MRSA                     NRS192
           743                       MRSA                     NRS255
           832                       MRSA                     NRS671
           926                       MRSA                     BK20781
           927                       MRSA                     W15
    *NARSA ("NRS") and ATCC ("ATCC" and "BAA") strain designations are indicated where
    appropriate. Additional names reflect strain designations available in the literature.
[000192]     PlySs2 has rapid kill kinetics in vitro
                                                      55

 [0001931 Rapid-kill kinetics are desirable in the clinical setting to treat patients with fulminant
bacterial infections. To test the rate of antimicrobial activity in vitro, we used time-kill assays
(Mueller M et al (2004) Antimicrob Agents Chemotherapy 48:369-377) in which IX MIC drug
concentrations were tested across 20 different MSSA and 42 MRSA strains. PlySs2 reached
bactericidal levels (Methods for dilution antimicrobial susceptibility tests for bacteria that
grow aerobically. Vol. 32 (Wayne (PA): Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (US),
2012) (>3-logio reduction in CFUs) within 30 minutes (FIGURE 4A and B). In contrast,
daptomycin required 6 hours to reach bactericidal levels while vancomycin and oxacillin
achieved only 2-logio kill within 6 hours. Rapid-kill kinetics were also obtained for PlySs2
against sets of 15 different contemporary MSSA (FIGURE 4C) or MRSA (FIGURE 4D)
isolates, illustrating the efficient bactericidal activity of PlySs2 on relevant clinical isolates. The
potent activity of PlySs2 was further illustrated by electron microscopy showing extensive
bacteriolysis of S. aureus cocci after only 15 seconds of treatment; the speed of PlySs2 action is
consistent with a bactericidal effect immediately upon contact (FIGURE 4E).
[0001941     All MRSA and MSSA strains tested are killed rapidly with PlySs2, with maximal
kill (ie, >3 log reduction) observed generally within the first hour of incubation with lysin and
logs reduced to 1 log CFU/ml (the effective lower limit of the test) in most instances.
Daptomycin or vancomycin reduce growth of most MRSA and MSSA strains by 2-3 logs
observed generally over a few hours or more of incubation, with daptomycin being the most
effective against most strains. Oxacillin was the least effective of the antibiotic agents against
MSSA strains. In all instances, PlySs2 kill was greater and faster than any antibiotic.
[0001951     The studies were expanded to include testing of various S. aureus strains, including
vancomycin intermediate sensitive S. aureus (VISA), vancomycin resistant S. aureus (VRSA),
linezolid resistant S. aureus (LRSA) and daptomycin resistant S. aureus (DRSA), with PlySs2
lysin, daptomycin, vancomycin and linezolid, using methods as described above. A tabulation
of studies undertaken with MSSA, MRSA, VISA, VRSA, LRSA and DRSA strains of
staphylococcus aureus is provided in TABLE 2 above with minimal inhibitory concentrations
(MICs) of PlySs2 and various antibodies provided for various strains.
                                             EXAMPLE 2
[0001961     While PlySs2 lysin alone kills more rapidly than antibiotics alone, as shown above,
no information regarding the capability or effectiveness of PlySs2 in combination with
                                                      56

antibiotics is known or available. Bacterial kill studies were undertaken to assess combinations
of PlySs2 lysin with antibiotic against Staphylococcus aureus in vitro.
[000197]    Time kill assays were performed as described above on several MRSA strains with
addition of PlySs2 or antibiotic alone or in combination at various concentrations. Cultures of
each strain (5.5xlO 5-x106 starting inoculum) were treated with PlySs2 lysin, antibiotic
(daptomycin or vancomycin), or combinations of PlySs2 and antibiotic for 6 hours with
aeration. In each instance, sub-MIC doses of PlySs2 and of antibiotic were utilized in order to
observe synergy and enhanced combination agent effectiveness. Growth controls were included
for each strain and represent bacterial growth in the absence of any antibacterial agent. Time
kill curves of two MRSA strains with addition of % MIC of PlySs2 and         14 MIC of vancomycin
are shown in FIGURE 5. At these sub-MIC doses, vancomycin or PlySs2 are ineffective or
poorly effective alone up to 6 hours.       Combinations of % MIC of PlySs2 and         14 MIC of
vancomycin result in up to 4 logs of kill of MRSA in culture within 6 hours.
[000198]    Log Kill curves of two MRSA strains with addition of         14 MIC of PlySs2 and 1/8
MIC of daptomycin are shown in FIGURE 6. Combinations of 14 MIC of PlySs2 and 1/8 MIC
of daptomycin result in approximately 4 logs of kill of MRSA in culture within 6 hours.
FIGURE 7 depicts another combination study based on IX MIC values of PlySs2 and
daptomycin on MRSA strain 650 (052C Tomasz strain - 1X10 9 starting inoculum). PlySs2
lysin is added at16 ptg/ml, daptomycin is added at 1 ptg/ml. While each single agent alone
results in 4-5 log kill at the added concentrations, the combination of PlySs2 and daptomycin
provides complete kill (log kill to the detection limit of the assay) within 2 hours.
                                           EXAMPLE 3
[000199]    Combination therapy is particularly effective when drugs act synergistically
(Cottarel G & Wierzbowski J (2007) Trends Biotechnology 25:547-555). Synergy assessment
between PlySs2 and cell envelope-active antibiotics was performed by the time-kill assay, a
preferred method for examining synergistic antimicrobial activity in vitro (Mueller M et al
(2004) Antimicrob Agents and Chemotherapy 48:369-377; Methods for dilution antimicrobial
susceptibility tests for bacteria that grow aerobically, Vol. 32 (Wayne (PA): Clinical and
Laboratory Standards Institute (US), 2012). Synergy studies were additionally evaluated with
antibiotic oxacillin, which is a member of the penicillin family and kills bacteria in a distinct
manner versus either of vancomycin or daptomycin. The results of oxacillin studies either alone
                                                    57

or in the presence of lysin PlySs2 are shown in FIGURE 8. Time-kill curves were generated
using sub-MIC concentrations of PlySs2 daptomycin, vancomycin, and oxacillin either alone or
in combinations against clinical MRSA (FIGURE 8C-8F) or MSSA (FIGURE 8A-8B) isolates.
Synergy was defined as a >2-loglO decrease in CFU/mL at the 6 hour time-point for the
combination compared to the most active single-agent.          Based on this criteria, PlySs2 acted
synergistically with all antibiotics evaluated against all representative MRSA and MSSA strains
evaluated (see FIGURES 4-8). An expanded set of isolates were similarly examined and
synergy was observed in 45 of 49 analyses for MSSA and 24 of 26 for MRSA with PlySs2
combined with distinct antibiotics, including oxacillin, vancomycin and daptomycin (TABLES
7-11 provided below).
                                               TABLE 7
                          Synergy Time-Kill Results with Oxacillin (MSSA)
    Strains'             Optimal Synergistic Concentrations 2       ALoglo CFU/mL3        Interaction4
                              [PlySs2]            [Oxacillin]
                                        5
                          pg/mL (xMIC )         pg/mL (xMIC)
    ATCC 25923               4.0 (0.13)           0.06 (0.5)               2.9              Synergy
    ATCC 29213               1.0 (0.13)           0.13 (0.5)               2.3              Synergy
    JMI 1259                 1.0 (0.13)           0.13 (0.5)               2.6              Synergy
    JMI 1787                 0.5 (0.06)           0.13 (0.5)               4.0              Synergy
    JMI 6408                 1.0 (0.13)           0.10 (0.4)               3.3              Synergy
    JMI 6686                 0.5 (0.06)           0.13 (0.5)               4.0              Synergy
    JMI 7140                 0.5 (0.13)           0.50 (0.5)               4.5              Synergy
    JMI 8928                 1.0 (0.13)           0.19 (0.4)               2.9              Synergy
    JMI 9365                 0.3 (0.06)           0.13 (0.5)               2.5              Synergy
    JMI 11146                0.3 (0.03)           0.13 (0.5)               2.9              Synergy
    JMI 13734                0.5 (0.13)           0.10 (0.4)               4.0              Synergy
    JMI 13736                0.5 (0.13)           0.10 (0.4)               0.8              Additive
    JMI 15395                1.0 (0.06)           0.13 (0.5)               3.3              Synergy
    JM1 16140                2.0(0.13)            0.10(0.4)                3.0              Synergy
    JMI 33611                0.5 (0.06)           0.25 (0.5)               3.7              Synergy
    JMI 40979                0.5 (0.13)           0.25 (0.5)               3.0              Synergy
                                                   58

Legend for TABLES 7-11:
1 ATCC quality control strains and JMI isolate numbers are shown.
2 Concentrations of PlySs2 and antibiotic used in synergy time-kill experiments. Values were
  carefully determined in range-finding studies and represent concentrations that most closely
  approach ideal levels of PlySs2 (that is, resulting in a -2-logio decrease in viability compared to
  growth control) and antibiotic (that is, resulting in < 1 log decrease in viability compared to growth
  control).
3 Decreases in logio colony counts (or ALogio CFU/mL) are shown for cultures treated for 6 hours
  with drug combination, compared to cultures treated with the most active single agent.
4 Synergy is defined by the CLSI1 as a > 2-logio decrease in CFU/mL. Additive interactions are
  defined as a < 2-logio decrease in CFU/mnL.
5 xMIC, denotes percentage of MIC represented by each concentration. For example, an xMIC value
  of 0.5 means that the optimal synergistic concentration for a particular drug is /2 the specific MIC
  value of a particular isolate or strain. The xMIC value is, therefore, the concentration of drug used
  in synergy time-kill assay divided by the MIC for that drug against the specific strain in the
  absence of reductant.
Key: ALogio CFU/mL = change in logio colony-forming units; MIC = minimum inhibitory
  concentration.
                                                TABLE 8
                      Synergy Time-Kill Results with Vancomycin (MSSA)
Strains'               Optimal Synergistic Concentrations2            ALogio CFU/mL            Interaction4
                               PlySs2              Vancomycin
                          Ig/mL (xMIC)           pg/mL (xMIC)
ATCC 29213                   1.0 (0.03)             0.5 (0.5)                 2.3                 Synergy
JM1 1259                     1.0 (0.13)             0.5 (0.5)                 3.5                 Synergy
JM1 1787                     1.0 (0.13)             0.5 (0.5)                 3.1                 Synergy
JM1 6408                     0.5 (0.06)             0.5 (0.5)                 2.8                 Synergy
JM1 6686                     1.0 (0.13)             0.5 (0.5)                 5.0                 Synergy
JM1 7140                     0.5 (0.13)             0.5 (0.5)                 3.3                 Synergy
JM1 8928                     0.5 (0.06)             0.5 (0.5)                 1.8                Additive
JM1 9365                     0.5 (0.13)             0.5 (0.5)                 2.6                 Synergy
JM1 11146                    0.5 (0.06)             0.3 (0.5)                 3.3                 Synergy
JM1 13734                    0.5 (0.13)             0.5 (0.5)                 4.3                 Synergy
JM1 13736                    0.5 (0.13)             0.3 (0.3)                 2.3                 Synergy
JM1 15395                    0.5 (0.03)             0.5 (0.5)                 3.0                 Synergy
JM1 16140                    1.0 (0.06)             0.5 (0.5)                 3.3                 Synergy
JM1 18219                    0.5 (0.13)             0.5 (0.5)                 3.4                 Synergy
JM1 33611                    0.5 (0.06)             0.5 (0.5)                 3.6                 Synergy
JM1 40979                    0.5 (0.13)             0.5 (0.5)                 3.8                 Synergy
                                                    59

                                 TABLE 9
           Synergy Time-Kill Results with Daptomycin (MSSA)
Strains'   Optimal Synergistic Concentrations2   ALogio CFU/mL3 Interaction4
                 PlySs2             Daptomycin
                           5
            pg/mL (xMIC )          tg/mL (xMIC)
ATCC 25923     0.5 (0.02)           0.25 (0.50)          3.1       Synergy
ATCC 29213     0.3 (0.03)           0.25 (0.50)         4.3        Synergy
JM1 1259        1.0 (0.13)          0.13 (0.25)          3.5       Synergy
JM1 1787       0.5 (0.06)           0.07 (0.14)          3.0       Synergy
JM1 6408       0.5 (0.06)           0.13 (0.25)         2.7        Synergy
JM1 6686        1.0 (0.13)          0.14 (0.28)          3.4       Synergy
JM1 7140       0.5(0.13)            0.13(0.25)          2.6        Synergy
JM1 8928       0.5 (0.06)           0.13 (0.25)         2.9        Synergy
JM1 9365       0.3 (0.06)           0.07 (0.28)          1.8       Additive
JM1 11146      0.5 (0.06)            0.13 (0.50)        4.2        Synergy
JM1 13734      0.3 (0.06)            0.08 (0.17)         3.2       Synergy
JM1 13736      0.5 (0.13)            0.19 (0.38)        4.5        Synergy
JM1 15395       1.0 (0.06)           0.25 (0.50)         3.2       Synergy
JM1 16140      0.5 (0.03)            0.13 (0.50)         1.9       Additive
JM1 18219      0.5 (0.13)            0.13 (0.25)         3.7       Synergy
JM1 33611      0.3 (0.03)            0.13 (0.25)         3.4       Synergy
JM1 40979      0.3 (0.06)            0.08 (0.16)        2.5        Synergy
                                 TABLE 10
           Synergy Time-Kill Results with Vancomycin (MRSA)
Strains'    Optimal Synergistic Concentrations2  ALogio CFU/mL  Interaction4
                  PlySs2           Vancomycin
                            5
             pg/mL (xMIC )        pg/mL (xMIC)
ATCC 43300      1.0 (0.13)            0.5 (0.5)         2.1       Synergy
JM1 2290        0.5 (0.06)            0.5 (0.5)         2.3       Synergy
JM1 3345        0.5 (0.13)            0.5 (0.5)         5.0       Synergy
JM1 4564        0.5 (0.03)            0.5 (0.5)         2.7       Synergy
JM1 4789        1.0 (0.13)            0.5 (0.5)         3.3       Synergy
JM1 5506        0.5 (0.13)            0.3 (0.5)         3.1       Synergy
                                      60

    Strains'            Optimal Synergistic Concentrations 2  ALogio CFU/mL 3        Interaction4
                              PlySs2           Vancomycin
                         pg/mL (xMIC5 )       pg/mL (xMIC)
    JM1 5675                0.5 (0.13)           0.5 (0.5)           3.2               Synergy
    JM1 6546                0.3 (0.03)           0.5 (0.5)           2.6               Synergy
    JM1 8941                0.5 (0.03)           0.5 (0.5)           1.8               Additive
    JM1 12568               0.5 (0.13)           0.5 (0.5)           5.0               Synergy
    JM1 18233               0.5 (0.06)           0.5 (0.5)           3.2               Synergy
    JM1 37753               0.5 (0.13)           0.5 (0.5)           1.6               Additive
    JM1 39086               0.5 (0.13)           0.3 (0.5)           2.5               Synergy
                                             TABLE 11
                        Synergy Time-Kill Results with Daptomycin (MRSA)
    Strains'            Optimal Synergistic Concentrations2   ALogio CFU/mL          Interaction4
                          PlySs2 pg/mL         Daptomycin
                             (xMIC5 )         pg/mL (xMIC)
    ATCC 43300              0.5 (0.06)          0.13 (0.25)          4.1                Synergy
    JMI 2290                1.0 (0.13)          0.25 (0.25)          4.1                Synergy
    JMI 3345                1.0 (0.25)          0.25 (0.50)          5.0                Synergy
    JMI 4564                0.5 (0.03)          0.13 (0.25)          2.8                Synergy
    JMI 4789                1.0 (0.13)          0.13 (0.25)          2.4                Synergy
    JMI 5506                0.5 (0.13)          0.13 (0.25)          2.3                Synergy
    JMI 5675                0.5 (0.13)          0.13 (0.25)          3.4                Synergy
    JMI 6546                1.0 (0.13)          0.06 (0.13)          3.3                Synergy
    JMI 8941                0.5 (0.06)          0.13 (0.25)          2.1                Synergy
    JMI 12568               0.5 (0.13)          0.13 (0.50)          3.6                Synergy
    JMI 18233               1.0 (0.13)          0.25 (0.25)          5.7                Synergy
    JMI 37753               0.5 (0.06)          0.13 (0.25)          2.3                Synergy
    JMI 39086               0.5 (0.13)          0.13 (0.25)          3.5                Synergy
                                           EXAMPLE 4
[000200]     Broth microdilution MIC testing was performed using 96 well panels according to
the methods described above for Example 1 (CLSI methodology, CLSI document M07-A9,
column 32 no 2). In the present studies, however, both PlySs2 lysin and antibiotic daptomycin
                                                 61

are present together in each well at different starting concentrations.   Studies were completed
with 12 different MRSA S. aureus strains. In each instance, the MIC of PlySs2 for the strain
was first determined. DAP MICs for each strain were based on broth microdilution MIC testing
according to published methodology and confirmed with published and available data for the
tested isolates.   5.5X10 5-1X10 6 cells were added to each well and grown in the presence of
various amounts of PlySs2 lysin and daptomycin for 24 hours at 37'C without aeration. MIC
values were determined by eye and confirmed by plating bacteria to determine viable cell
counts in each well of a 96-well plate. Cultures were assessed in the presence and absence of a
reducing agent (e.g., beta mercaptoethanol (BME), dithiothreitol (DTT)). MIC values are lower
relatively in the presence of reducing agent and repeatability is improved with reducing agent.
 [0002011   Dual agent MIC determinations. The dual agent MIC assay is derived from the
standard broth microdilution method (Methods for dilution antimicrobial susceptibility tests for
bacteria that grow aerobically (2012) Vol. 32 (Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (US),
Wayne (PA)). Whereas the MIC assay dilutes one drug across the x-axis, the MIC combo
assays dilutes two drugs together across the x axis. Two to four 96-well polypropylene
microtiter plates (Becton, Dickenson, and Company) are combined to yield desired dilution
schemes. PlySs2 is first diluted two-fold vertically downward in column 1, yielding a
concentration range of 2,048 to 1 ptg/mL. Daptomycin is next added at a constant concentration
(4 pLg/mL) to each well of column 1. All of the wells of column 1, therefore, containing a
dilution range of PlySs2 against a background of 4 tg/mL daptomycin. Column 1 is next
diluted two-fold across the entire x-axis such that all the wells of colunm 11 have a daptomycin
concentration of 0.0037 pLg/mL. After drug dilutions, cells are added (~5xl0     5 CFUs/mL) and
after 24 hours of incubation at 35'C in ambient air the MICs was recorded as the most dilute
drug concentrations inhibiting bacterial growth.
 [0002021   Exemplary results with eight MRSA strains are depicted in FIGURES 9-18.       In each
of FIGURES 9-18, a twelve-well doubling dilution range proceeds to the right for each panel
row. Each panel represents the well of a 96-well plate. The indicted bacterial strains were then
inoculated into each well and incubated for 24 hours at which time growth was examined.
Unshaded panels indicate wells in which drug combinations inhibited growth.           The yellow
(light)-shaded panels indicate the lowest drug-combination concentrations that inhibited growth
(essentially corresponding to the MIC). The red (dark)-shaded panels indicate bacterial growth
(in other words agent combinations that did not inhibit growth). Studies were conducted in the
                                                  62

presence and absence of reducing agent. In each instance, with or without the reducing agent,
significant synergy was observed, with multi-fold reduction in amount of both lysin and
antibiotic required when both were provided in combination. Reduction in antibiotic required
was particularly significant with added lysin.
[000203]     The overall experimental results with a dozen MRSA strains are summarized in
TABLE 12 below.       As shown below and depicted in FIGURES 9-18, combining PlySs2 and
antibiotic (daptomycin) together can synergistically achieve 2-4 fold reduction in the effective
MIC of PlySs2. Remarkably, combining PlySs2 and daptomycin together can synergistically
achieve 16-256 increased sensitivity (fold reduction) in the effective MIC of the antibiotic
daptomycin.
                                              TABLE 12
        MRSA                       PlySs2                             Daptomycin
        STRAIN
                    MIC alone'    MIC combo2       Fold     MIC alone MIC combo         Fold
                                                reduction 3                          reduction
        553               2            1             2          1       0.0075           128
        223               2           0.5            4          1       0.0075           128
        270               8            2             4          1        0.015           64
        269 (MW2)         8            2             4          1        0.015           64
        241               4            2             2          1       0.0037          256
        263               8            2             4          1       0.0075           128
        650               8            4             2          1        0.015           64
        827               8            4             2          1       0.0075           128
        828               8            2             4          1       0.0075           128
        829               8            4             2          1       0.0075           128
        830               4            2             2          1        0.015           64
        833               8            2             4          1       0.0075           128
      The "MIC alone" value is the single-agent MIC (in Rg/mL) for each drug.
    2
      The "MIC combo" value is the most dilute concentration of each agent (in pig/mL) that,
    when combined, inhibited growth.
    3 Fold Reduction (Increased sensitivity) corresponds to the MIC combo/MIC alone for each
    agent.
                                          EXAMPLE 5
                                                   63

[000204]    Further assessment of synergy was undertaken by performing checkerboard assays
and calculating fractional inhibitory concentration index (FICI) values (Tallarida RJ (2012) J
Pharmacol and Exper Therapeutics 342:2-8). These studies were performed using exemplary
antibiotics daptomycin, vancomycin and oxacillin. Using this assessment, synergy is defined as
inhibitory activity greater than would be predicted by adding the two drugs together (FICI of
<0.5). Representative isobolograms for the different antibiotics against MRSA and MSSA
strains are provided in FIGURE 19.           Synergy was observed for 79% (daptomycin), 86%
(vancomycin), and 100% (oxacillin) of the 29 MSSA strains and for 89% (daptomycin) and
69% (vancomycin) of the 26 MRSA strains. The results are tabulated below in TABLES 13-15.
                                               TABLE 13
      Checkerboard Analyses of PlySs2 Combined with Oxacillin, Vancomycin, or Daptomycin
                                                 (MSSA)
    Strains                  Oxacillin                     Vancomycin               Daptomycin
                      FICmin       Interaction      FICmin       Interaction FICmin        Interaction
    ATCC 25923         0.156          Synergy        0.500         Synergy    0.500          Synergy
    ATCC 29213         0.250          Synergy        0.500         Synergy    0.750         Additive
    JM1 243            0.187          Synergy        0.375         Synergy    0.312          Synergy
    JM1 332            0.187          Synergy        0.281         Synergy    0.312          Synergy
    JM1 1104           0.375          Synergy        0.375         Synergy    0.265          Synergy
    JM1 1259           0.187          Synergy        0.500         Synergy    0.500          Synergy
    JM1 1282           0.375          Synergy         1.00        Additive    0.750         Additive
    JM1 1787           0.375          Synergy        0.500         Synergy    0.562         Additive
    JM1 3521           0.250          Synergy        0.75         Additive    0.375          Synergy
    JM1 3671           0.312          Synergy        0.562        Additive    0.500          Synergy
    JM1 4811           0.375          Synergy        0.375         Synergy    0.500          Synergy
    JM1 6408           0.375          Synergy        0.375         Synergy    0.312          Synergy
    JM1 6414           0.375          Synergy        0.375         Synergy    0.375          Synergy
    JM1 6544           0.250          Synergy        0.500         Synergy    0.375          Synergy
    JM1 6686           0.281          Synergy        0.500         Synergy    0.375          Synergy
    JM1 7140           0.375          Synergy        0.375         Synergy    0.500          Synergy
    JM1 8928           0.375          Synergy        0.375         Synergy    0.500          Synergy
    JM1 9365           0.125          Synergy        0.375         Synergy    0.500          Synergy
    JM1 11146          0.250          Synergy        0.375         Synergy    0.375          Synergy
    JM1 13734          0.375          Synergy        0.500         Synergy    0.375          Synergy
                                                   64

Strains                     Oxacillin                        Vancomycin                    Daptomycin
                    FICmin         Interaction        FICmin       Interaction      FICmin         Interaction
JM1 13736            0.281           Synergy           0.500         Synergy         0.500           Synergy
JM1 15395            0.312           Synergy           0.250         Synergy         0.500           Synergy
JM1 16195            0.375           Synergy           0.375         Synergy         0.281           Synergy
JM1 16140            0.375           Synergy           0.375         Synergy         0.531          Additive
JM1 18219            0.500           Synergy           0.500         Synergy         0.562          Additive
JM1 24368            0.375           Synergy           0.375         Synergy         0.375           Synergy
JM1 29793            0.375           Synergy           0.56         Additive         0.562          Additive
JM1 33611            0.312           Synergy           0.375         Synergy         0.375           Synergy
JM1 40979            0.312           Synergy           0.375         Synergy         0.312           Synergy
Key: FICmin = minimum fractional inhibitory concentration
                                                TABLE 14
  Checkerboard Analyses of PlySs2 Combined with Vancomycin or Daptomycin (MRSA)
Strains                                 Vancomycin                                  Daptomycin
                              FICmin                Interaction              FICmin             Interaction
ATCC 43300                     0.500                  Synergy                  0.5                Synergy
JM1 1225                       0.625                 Additive                 0.375               Synergy
JM1 1280                       0.375                  Synergy                 0.375               Synergy
JM1 2290                       0.500                  Synergy                 0.500               Synergy
JM1 3345                       0.375                  Synergy                 0.375               Synergy
JM1 3346                       0.375                  Synergy                 0.375               Synergy
JM1 4564                       0.375                  Synergy                 0.500               Synergy
JM1 4789                       0.750                 Additive                 0.560              Additive
JM1 5506                       0.562                 Additive                 0.375               Synergy
JM1 5675                       0.375                  Synergy                 0.375               Synergy
JM1 6378                       0.500                  Synergy                 0.560              Additive
JM1 6182                       1.060                 Additive                 0.500               Synergy
JM1 6546                       0.375                  Synergy                 0.375               Synergy
JM1 7053                       0.375                  Synergy                 0.500               Synergy
JM1 8941                       0.375                  Synergy                 0.500               Synergy
JM1 9328                       0.562                 Additive                 0.375               Synergy
JM1 10339                      0.531                 Additive                 0.500               Synergy
JM1 11127                      0.531                 Additive                 0.625              Additive
JM1 12568                      0.250                  Synergy                 0.375               Synergy
                                                     65

    Strains                                 Vancomycin                                Daptomycin
                                  FICmin                Interaction           FICmin            Interaction
    JM1 15992                      0.187                  Synergy              0.500              Synergy
    JM1 18233                      0.375                  Synergy              0.500              Synergy
    JM1 37753                      0.375                  Synergy              0.375              Synergy
    JM1 39086                      0.500                  Synergy              0.500              Synergy
    JM1 39848                      0.500                  Synergy              0.375              Synergy
    JM1 43255                      0.375                  Synergy              0.375              Synergy
    JM1 44465                      0.625                  Additive             0.500              Synergy
    Key: FICmin = minimum fractional inhibitory concentration.
                                                    TABLE 15
     Summary of PlySs2lnteractions with Antimicrobial Agents Based on Checkerboard Assays
                                            and Calculated FIC Values
                                                   % Interactions with PIySs2)
 Species (N)                Oxacillin                        Vancomycin                   Daptomycin
                    Synergistic      Additive       Synergistic      Additive      Synergistic    Additive
  MSSA (29)            100               0               86.2          13.8           79.3          20.7
  MRSA (26)             NA               NA              69.2          30.8           88.5          11.5
    Key: FIC = fractional inhibitory concentration; NA = not applicable.
  In the checkerboard assay, drug interactions are defined as either synergistic, additive, or
  antagonistic based on the FICmin for each combination. The FIC for a drug is defined as the
  MIC of the drug in combination divided by the MIC of the drug used alone. The FICmin is
  based on the sum of FICs for each drug. If the FICmin is < 0.5, the combination is interpreted
  as being synergistic; between > 0.5 and < 2 as additive; and > 2 as antagonistic.
                                                EXAMPLE 6
                    PlySs2 Accelerates Antibiotic Binding to the Cell Envelope
[000205]     As a complement to the synergy studies, daptomycin and vancomycin cell envelope
binding was examined using BODIPY-fluorescein-labeled antibiotics in the presence and
absence of sub-MIC levels of CF-301. A time-course analysis of daptomycin binding (FIGURE
20A) shows antibiotic penetration after only 15 minutes in the presence of CF-301 (at               1/32n
                                                          66

MIC) versus 3 hours without CF-301. Similarly, cell wall-labeling with vancomycin occurs
within 5 minutes in the presence of CF-301 ( 1/ 8 th MIC) versus 30 minutes without CF-301
(FIGURE 20B). For both antibiotics, the labeling was first observed at bacterial division planes.
                                           EXAMPLE 7
[000206]    Daptomycin binds avidly to pulmonary surfactant and therefore is not effective in
treatment of staphylococcal pneumonia. In view of the effectiveness of PlySs2 and daptomycin
in combination against susceptible bacteria, a shown above, PlySs2 lysin and daptomycin were
evaluated alone and in combination in the presence of a commercially available surfactant, to
mimic pulmonary surfactant.
[000207]    MRSA strain MW2 and MSSA strain ATCC 29213 were used in these studies.
Daptomycin and PlySs2 lysin were first evaluated alone in the presence of surfactant (Survanta,
Abbott Laboratories). The MICs of daptomycin and PlySs2 for each strain were determined in
the presence of Survanta using broth microdilution methods.         Doubling-dilution series were
established in the presence and absence of surfactant at concentrations ranging from 0% up to
 15%. MICs were scored by eye at 24 hours and confirmed by CFU counts in all wells.            A
similar study is reported by Silverman et al., 2005 (JID, volume 191, 2149-52) using MSSA
strain 581. The fold change in MIC for daptomycin and CF3 01 at each surfactant concentration
(compared to MICs obtained in the absence of surfactant) were then calculated. The fold change
in MIC at surfactant concentrations for each strain is depicted in FIGURE 21. In the presence
of Survanta as surfactant, daptomycin MIC is inhibited up to 256 fold.            At a surfactant
concentration of 1.25%, daptomycin is inhibited more than 20 fold. In contrast, the MIC of
PlySs2 is inhibited 8 fold, consistently across a range from 1.25 to 15% surfactant.
[000208]    The effects of combinations of PlySs2 lysin and daptomycin were evaluated in the
presence of 15% surfactant (Survanta) in a combination MIC study. The experimental setup is
similar to that described above for the combination MIC studies without surfactant (see
Example 3).     The results of synergy evaluation in the presence of surfactant are shown in
FIGURE 22. Briefly, the PlySs2 lysin plus daptomycin concentrations shown in the left-most
wells were diluted two-fold across all twelve wells of each row. MRSA strain 269 (MW2) cells
(5.5X10 5-1X10 6) were then added to each well and incubated for 24 hours before growth was
assessed. Unshaded wells indicate growth inhibition. Yellow (lightly)-shaded wells indicate
                                                   67

the most dilute drug combinations that still inhibit growth (ie, the MIC). Red (dark)-shaded
wells indicate drug combinations that allow growth. The PlySs2 synergy dose is 2 pg/ml or 1/8
of the MIC for the strain tested. In this study, daptomycin is effective to 0.25 pLg/ml, which
corresponds to 1/1024 MIC of daptomycin.
                                           EXAMPLE 8
          Combination Versus Single-Agent Therapy in Murine Models of Bacteremia
[000209]     Animal studies were undertaken to assess the effect of PlySs2 in combination with
antibiotic against S. aureus infection in vivo in murine models of bacteremia. BALB/c mice
were injected IP with different levels inoculums of MRSA strains and the animals are then
dosed with drug - either antibiotic, PlySs2 lysin, or a combination of antibiotic and PlySs2.
[000210]     In a first set of studies using inoculums in the range of 106 of bacteria, 35ug of
daptomycin was injected subcutaneously (sc) at 5 hrs post bacterial infection, in a single dose.
This dose is equivalent to 1.75mg/kg dose of daptomycin for a 20gram mouse, while thehuman
equivalent dose of daptomycin in mice would be 50mg/kg.                Dosing of 1.75mg/kg of
daptomycin in mice is equivalent to about 3.5% of the human equivalent dose. PlySs2 was
injected IP three times a day (TID), with 15 pg of PlySs2 administered at 5 hrs, 9 hrs, and 13
hrs post bacterial infection (15 pg is approximately equal to a dose of 0.8mg/kg for a 20gram
mouse). The animals are monitored and percent survival recorded every three hours up to 24
hours post infection. Animal survival with MRSA (strain 269 or MW2) doses of 1.8 x 106, 1.1
x  10 6, 3.0 x 106 and 3.1  x 106 bacteria was assessed and a compiled graph of survival data is
provided in FIGURE 23 for this MRSA strain. Similar studies were conducted with other S.
aureus strains (strains 220 and 833) with comparable results (FIGURES 24-26).               In all
instances, animal survival was remarkably enhanced by combination dosing with PlySs2 lysin
and antibiotic daptomycin.         These studies provide in vivo evidence of the efficacy of
combination therapy of PlySs2 lysin with antibiotic daptomycin compared to PlySs2 lysin or
antibiotic daptomycin alone.
[000211]     High-Dose Inoculum Studies
[000212]     Additional animal studies in a mouse bacteremia model were conducted to assess the
ability of PlySs2 to enhance the efficacy of standard-of-care antibiotics in vivo. In the low
challenge model (up to 7x106 CFU inoculum with dosing at 4 hours), single-agent therapy
administered as a single dose of either 1.25 mg/kg PlySs2 or 2 mg/kg daptomycin resulted in
                                                   68

13% and 23% survival at 72 hours, respectively (FIGURE 27A). Upon combination of PlySs2
with daptomycin a significant enhancement was observed with a 72 hour survival rate of 73%
(P<0.0001). The combination of PlySs2with daptomycin was therefore superior to each agent
alone under low challenge conditions.
[000213]     To test how robust the PlySs2 combination therapy may be, we increased the
bacterial inoculum to a point where human-simulated doses of single-agent antibiotics were
poorly efficacious. In this high challenge model (109 CFU inoculum with dosing at 2 hours),
human-simulated doses of either daptomycin (50 mg/kg once daily) 2 6 or vancomycin (110
mg/kg twice daily) 2 7 as single agents yielded 24 hour survival rates of 47% and 20%,
respectively, and 72 hour survival rates of 31% and 3%, respectively (FIGURE 27B and 27E).
PlySs2 administered as a single agent similarly yielded survival rates of 56/60% and 18/3% at
24 and 72 hours, respectively.     In contrast, PlySs2 in combination with either daptomycin or
vancomycin achieved 24 hour survival rates of 87% and 93% at 24 hours and 82% and 67% at
72 hours, respectively, demonstrating superiority of the combination therapies over single-agent
regimens under       these  challenging  infection   conditions. Additional PlySs2/daptomycin
combination experiments were performed with two additional MRSA strains, yielding similar
results (FIGURE 27C and 27D). When PlySs2 was further tested in combination with oxacillin
using a MSSA strain as the inoculum, the combination treatment was again superior to that of
the single agents (FIGURE 27F). Taken together, the results demonstrate that PlySs2/antibiotic
combinations are more efficacious than single-agent regimens for treating bacteremia and that
statistically significant results are obtained across various standard-of-care antibiotics and
across multiple S. aureus strains (P<0.0001 in all cases).
[000214]     Lysin PlySs2 demonstrates dose-responsive, rapid-kill kinetics in-vivo
[000215]     In a murine bacteremia model, PlySs2 exhibits a clear dose-response with survival
enhancement over that observed for the mock-injected control with as little as 0.25 mg/kg and
significant protection at the 5 mg/kg dose (data not shown). To assess the speed of bactericidal
activity of PlySs2in vivo, MRSA CFUs were measured in the blood of infected mice before and
after administration of PlySs2. Upon dosing 5.25 mg/kg PlySs2 at 2-hours post-infection, a 0.5
logio decrease in CFUs occurred in 15 minutes and a 2 -logio log decrease was observed within
the 60 minutes of treatment, demonstrating the rapid bactericidal activity of PlySs2 in the
bloodstream of infected animals (data not shown).
[000216]     Murine bacteremia model.
                                                   69

 [000217]   Female BALB/c (inbred strain) mice, 5-7 weeks of age, 16.0-19.5 g body weight
were purchased from Jackson Laboratories, Bar Harbor, Maine and utilized in all mouse
experiments. Exponential phase bacterial inocula were generated by allowing bacterial cells to
grow to an optical density of ~0.5 at 600 nm, harvested, washed, and concentrated between 1.5
x 107 - 2 x 109 CFU/ml. The bacterial pellet was suspended in an appropriate volume of 5%
(w/v) mucin (Sigma Lot# SLBD5666V or SLBD5666V) to achieve the specific inoculum and
placed on wet ice. Five hundred pL (~7.5 x 106    - 1 x 109 CFU) were injected i.p. into mice. The
study drug doses were weight-adjusted with the injected volume between 160-200 pL. Post
infection survival was assessed every 3 or 6 hours for the first 24 hours, then at 48 and 72 hours.
The experiments were repeated 2-3 times with each treatment group containing between 10-20
mice. All experimental manipulations using the infectious agent were conducted in a BSL-2
hood. Dead animals were removed upon observation of mortality.
                                          EXAMPLE 9
[000218]    Serial passage experiments were conducted with MRSA strain ATCC 700699 and
MSSA strain ATCC 25923 to generate and evaluate daptomycin resistance and PlySs2 lysin.
These studies were conducted to evaluate and determine whether daptomycin resistance
correlates with lysin resistance or sensitivity, including particularly resistance or sensitivity to
PlySs2 lysin. First, daptomycin resistant clones were generated (with increasing MIC values), in
a step-wise manner, over 21 days of in vitro growth. Then, the series of daptomycin resistant
clones were assessed with respect to lysin MIC values, by evaluating PlySs2 lysin MIC. The
results are depicted in FIGURE 28. In the daptomycin resistant clones, daptomycin MIC rises
from 1 to 18 ptg/mL. PlySs2 lysin MIC decreases from 8 to between 2-4 pig/mL. These studies
show that daptomycin resistance correlates with PlySs2 lysin sensitivity. These are the first
studies to evaluate daptomycin resistance and lysin sensitivity. Remarkably, in these conditions
resistance to daptomycin confers increased response to lysin, providing enhanced rational for
combination or serial administration and therapy.
                                         EXAMPLE 10
[000219]    Serial passage resistance studies were undertaken to assess the ability of PlySs2 to
suppress the emergence of antibiotic resistance when used in combination with various
standard-of-care antibiotics used to treat Staphylococcus aureus infections. Methods used to
                                                   70

perform single-agent and combination serial passage experiments are described in Palmer et al
(Palmer et al (2011) Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy 55:3345-56) and Berti et al (Berti
et al (2012) Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy 56:5046-53), respectively. Increases in
the MIC values for the antibiotic were assessed in triplicate for a MRSA Staphylococcus aureus
strain (MW2) grown either in the presence of antibiotic alone or in the presence of antibiotic
plus sub-MIC values of PlySs2. The MIC for PlySs2 for strain MW2 is 32 ug/ml (without
DTT). Thus, sub-MIC values of 4 ug/ml (corresponding to 1/8 MIC) or 8 ug/ml (corresponding
to 1/4 MIC) were chosen as the concentration of PlySs2 for these experiments.               Both
daptomycin and vancomycin were tested as exemplary antibiotics in this study.
[000220]    For the daptomycin experiments, it was found that over the course of the 30-day
study, daptomycin resistance increased significantly for all three daptomycin-only cultures
(FIGURE 30). In these cultures the daptomycin MIC values increased from the starting value of
 1 ug/ml, to the three ending values of 128, 128 and 64 ug/ml - a 64 to 128-fold increase. For
cultures that were passaged in the presence of sub-MIC amounts of PlySs2 (4 ug/ml) plus
daptomycin, the daptomycin MIC values at the end of the 30 serial passage experiment were
significantly lower - 4, 4, and 4 ug/ml (a 4 fold increase). Therefore, sub-MIC concentrations of
PlySs2 suppressed the ability of the MRSA strain to mount daptomycin resistance by 8 to 16
fold relative to the daptomycin alone conditions. Resistance to daptomycin increased by only
about 4 fold in the presence of PlySs2 lysin.
 [000221]   For the vancomycin experiments, it was found that over the course of the 25-day
study, vancomycin resistance increased significantly for all three vancomycin-only cultures. In
these cultures the vancomycin MIC values increased from the starting value of 1 ug/ml, to the
three ending values of 16, 16 and 16 ug/ml (a 16-fold increase). For cultures that were passaged
in the presence of sub-MIC amounts of PlySs2 (8 ug/ml) plus vancomycin, the vancomycin MIC
values at the end of the 25 day serial passage experiment were significantly lower - 4, 4, and 2
ug/ml (a 2 to 4 fold increase). Therefore, sub-MIC concentrations of PlySs2 suppressed the
ability of the MRSA strain to mount vancomycin resistance by 4 to 8 fold relative to the
vancomycin alone conditions. Resistance to daptomycin increased by only about 4 fold in the
presence of PlySs2 lysin.
                                                   71

[000222]    REFERENCES
1. Klevens, R.M., et al. Invasive Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus Infections in the
United States. JAMA 298, 1763-1771 (2007).
2. Brink, A.J. Does resistance in severe infections caused by methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus give you the 'creeps'? Current opinion in criticalcare 18, 451-459
(2012).
3. Ben-David, D., Novikov, I. & Mermel, L.A. Are there differences in hospital cost between
patients with nosocomial methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus bloodstream infection and
those with methicillin-susceptible S. aureus bloodstream infection? Infection control and
hospitalepidemiology : the officialjournal of the Society of HospitalEpidemiologistsof
America 30, 453-460 (2009).
4. Fischetti, V.A. Bacteriophage lysins as effective antibacterials. Current opinion in
microbiology 11, 393-400 (2008).
5. Fenton, M., Ross, P., McAuliffe, 0., O'Mahony, J. & Coffey, A. Recombinant
bacteriophage lysins as antibacterials. BioengineeredBugs 1, 9-16 (2010).
6. Nelson, D., Loomis, L. & Fischetti, V.A. Prevention and elimination of upper respiratory
colonization of mice by group A streptococci by using a bacteriophage lytic enzyme.
Proceedingsof the NationalAcademy of Sciences of the United States of America 98, 4107
4112 (2001).
7. Witzenrath, M., et al. Systemic use of the endolysin Cpl-1 rescues mice with fatal
pneumococcal pneumonia. Criticalcare medicine 37, 642-649 (2009).
8. McCullers, J.A., Karlstrom, A., Iverson, A.R., Loeffler, J.M. & Fischetti, V.A. Novel
Strategy to Prevent Otitis Media Cauesed by Colonizing Streptococcus pneumoniae. PLOS
pathogens 3, 0001-0003 (2007).
9. Pastagia, M., et al. A novel chimeric lysin shows superiority to mupirocin for skin
decolonization of methicillin-resistant and -sensitive Staphylococcus aureus strains.
Antimicrobialagents and chemotherapy 55, 738-744 (2011).
10. Loeffler, J.M., Djurkovic, S. & Fischetti, V.A. Phage Lytic Enzyme Cpl-1 as a Novel
Antimicrobial for Pneumococcal Bacteremia. Infection and Immunity 71, 6199-6204 (2003).
11. Entenza, J.M., Loeffler, J.M., Grandgirard, D., Fischetti, V.A. & Moreillon, P. Therapeutic
effects of bacteriophage Cpl-1 lysin against Streptococcus pneumoniae endocarditis in rats.
Antimicrobialagents and chemotherapy 49, 4789-4792 (2005).
12. Grandgirard, D., Loeffler, J.M., Fischetti, V.A. & Leib, S.L. Phage lytic enzyme Cpl-1 for
antibacterial therapy in experimental pneumococcal meningitis. The Journalof infectious
diseases 197, 1519-1522 (2008).
13. Blaser, M. Stop killing beneficial bacteria. Nature 476, 393-394 (2011).
14. Willing, B.P., Russell, S.L. & Finlay, B.B. Shifting the balance: antibiotic effects on host
microbiota mutualism. Nature reviews. Microbiology 9, 233-243 (2011).
15. Gilmer, D.B., Schmitz, J.E., Euler, C. & Fischetti, V.A. Novel Bacteriophage Lysin with
Broad Lytic Activity Protects against Mixed Infection by Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus
aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes TBD (2012).
16. Schuch, R., Fischetti, V.A. & Nelson, D.C. A Genetic Screen to Identify Bacteriophage
Lysins. in Bacteriophages:Methods and Protocols, Volume 2: Molecular and Applied Aspects,
Vol. 502 307-319 (2009).
                                                  72

17. Bateman, A. & Rawlings, N.D. The CHAP domain: a large family of amidases including
GSP amidase and peptidoglycan hydrolases. Trends Biochem Sci 28, 234-237 (2003).
18. Whisstock, J.C. & Lesk, A.M. SH3 domains in prokaryotes. Trends in Biochemical Sciences
24, 132-133 (1999).
19. Rossi, P., et al. Structural elucidation of the Cys-His-Glu-Asn proteolytic relay in the
secreted CHAP domain enzyme from the human pathogen Staphylococcus saprophyticus.
Proteins74, 515-519 (2009).
20. Mueller, M., de la Pena, A. & Derendorf, H. Issues in Pharmacokinetics and
Pharmacodynamics of Anti-Infective Agents: Kill Curves versus MIC. Antimicrobial agents
and chemotherapy48, 369-377 (2004).
21. Methods for dilution antimicrobial susceptibility tests for bacteria that grow aerobically.
Vol. 32 (Wayne (PA): Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (US), 2012).
22. Friedman, L., Alder, J.D. & Silverman, J.A. Genetic changes that correlate with reduced
susceptibility to daptomycin in Staphylococcus aureus. Antimicrobialagents and chemotherapy
50, 2137-2145 (2006).
23. Donlan, R.M. & Costerton, J.W. Biofilms: Survival Mechanisms of Clinically Relevant
Microorganisms. ClinicalMicrobiology Reviews 15, 167-193 (2002).
24. Cottarel, G. & Wierzbowski, J. Combination drugs, an emerging option for antibacterial
therapy. Trends in biotechnology 25, 547-555 (2007).
25. Tallarida, R.J. Revisiting the isobole and related quantitative methods for assessing drug
synergism. The Journalofpharmacology and experimental therapeutics342, 2-8 (2012).
26. LaPlante, K.L., Leonard, S.N., Andes, D.R., Craig, W.A. & Rybak, M.J. Activities of
clindamycin, daptomycin, doxycycline, linezolid, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, and
vancomycin against community-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus with
inducible clindamycin resistance in murine thigh infection and in vitro pharmacodynamic
models. Antimicrobialagents and chemotherapy 52, 2156-2162 (2008).
27. Crandon, J.L., Kuti, J.L. & Nicolau, D.P. Comparative efficacies of human simulated
exposures of telavancin and vancomycin against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus
with a range of vancomycin MICs in a murine pneumonia model. Antimicrobial agents and
chemotherapy 54, 5115-5119 (2010).
28. Abad, C.L., Kumar, A. & Safdar, N. Antimicrobial therapy of sepsis and septic shock--when
are two drugs better than one? Criticalcare clinics 27, el-27 (2011).
29. Fischbach, M.A. Combination therapies for combating antimicrobial resistance. Current
opinion in microbiology 14, 519-523 (2011).
30. Loeffler, J.M., Nelson, D. & Fischetti, V.A. Rapid killing of Streptococcus pneumoniae
with a bacteriophage cell wall hydrolase. Science 294, 2170-2172 (2001).
31. Costerton, J.W. Bacterial Biofilms: A Common Cause of Persistent Infections. Science 284,
1318-1322 (1999).
32. Kiedrowski, M.R. & Horswill, A.R. New approaches for treating staphylococcal biofilm
infections. Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences 1241, 104-121 (2011).
33. Domenech, M., Garcia, E. & Moscoso, M. In vitro destruction of Streptococcus pneumoniae
biofilms with bacterial and phage peptidoglycan hydrolases. Antimicrobialagents and
chemotherapy 55, 4144-4148 (2011).
34. Meng, X., et al. Application of a bacteriophage lysin to disrupt biofilms formed by the
animal pathogen Streptococcus suis. Applied and environmental microbiology 77, 8272-8279
(2011).
35. Schuch, R., Nelson, D. & Fischetti, V. A bacteriolytic agent that detects and kills Bacillus
anthracis. Nature 418, 884-889 (2002).
                                                     73

36. Fischetti, V.A., Nelson, D. & Schuch, R. Reinventing phage therapy: are the parts greater
than the sum? Nature Biotechnology 24, 1508-1511 (2006).
37. Manoharadas, S., Witte, A. & Blasi, U. Antimicrobial activity of a chimeric enzybiotic
towards Staphylococcus aureus. Journalof biotechnology 139, 118-123 (2009).
38. Rashel, M., et al. Efficient elimination of multidrug-resistant Staphylococcus aureus by
cloned lysin derived from bacteriophage phi MR1 1. The Journalof infectious diseases 196,
 1237-1247 (2007).
39. Daniel, A., et al. Synergism between a novel chimeric lysin and oxacillin protects against
infection by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. Antimicrobialagents and
chemotherapy 54, 1603-1612 (2010).
40. Kokai-Kun, J.F., Chanturiya, T. & Mond, J.J. Lysostaphin as a treatment for systemic
Staphylococcus aureus infection in a mouse model. The Journalof antimicrobialchemotherapy
60, 1051-1059 (2007).
41. Dhand, A., et al. Use of antistaphylococcal beta-lactams to increase daptomycin activity in
eradicating persistent bacteremia due to methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus: role of
enhanced daptomycin binding. Clinicalinfectious diseases : an official publicationof the
Infectious Diseases Society ofAmerica 53, 158-163 (2011).
42. Matias, V.R. & Beveridge, T.J. Cryo-electron microscopy of cell division in Staphylococcus
aureus reveals a mid-zone between nascent cross walls. Molecular microbiology 64, 195-206
(2007).
43. Kashyap, D.R., et al. Peptidoglycan recognition proteins kill bacteria by activating protein
sensing two-component systems. Nature medicine 17, 676-683 (2011).
44. Moise, P.A., North, D., Steenbergen, J.N. & Sakoulas, G. Susceptibility relationship
between vancomycin and daptomycin in Staphylococcus aureus: facts and assumptions. Lancet
Infect Dis 9, 617-624 (2009).
45. Jobson, S., Moise, P.A. & Eskandarian, R. Retrospective observational study comparing
vancomycin versus daptomycin as initial therapy for Staphylococcus aureus infections. Clinical
therapeutics33, 1391-1399 (2011).
46. Schweizer, M.L., et al. Comparative effectiveness of nafcillin or cefazolin versus
vancomycin in methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia. BMC infectious
diseases 11, 279 (2011).
47. Berti, A.D., et al. Altering the proclivity towards daptomycin resistance in methicillin
resistant Staphylococcus aureus using combinations with other antibiotics. Antimicrobial agents
and chemotherapy 56, 5046-5053 (2012).
48. Sopirala, M.M., et al. Synergy testing by Etest, microdilution checkerboard, and time-kill
methods for pan-drug-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii. Antimicrobialagents and
chemotherapy 54, 4678-4683 (2010).
49. Methods for dilution antimicrobial susceptibility tests for bacteria that grow aerobically.
Vol. 32 (Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (US), Wayne (PA), 2012).
50. ClinicalMicrobiology ProceduresHandbook 3rd Ed. Washington DC, (ASM Press, 2010).
51. Pereira, P.M., Filipe, S.R., Tomasz, A. & Pinho, M.G. Fluorescence ratio imaging
microscopy shows decreased access of vancomycin to cell wall synthetic sites in vancomycin
resistant Staphylococcus aureus. Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy 51, 3627-3633 (2007).
52. Zhang, Y. I-TASSER server for protein 3D structure prediction. BMC bioinformatics 9, 40
(2008).
53. Pettersen, E.F., et al. UCSF Chimera--a visualization system for exploratory research and
analysis. Journalof computationalchemistry 25, 1605-1612 (2004).
                                                    74

[000223]    This invention may be embodied in other forms or carried out in other ways without
departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The present disclosure is therefore
to be considered as in all aspects illustrate and not restrictive, the scope of the invention being
indicated by the appended Claims, and all changes which come within the meaning and range of
equivalency are intended to be embraced therein.
[000224]   Various references are cited throughout this Specification, each of which is
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                                   75

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.   A method of killing Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria comprising contacting
the bacteria with a combination of a chimeric protein comprising the catalytic domain or
binding domain of PlySs2 lysin effective to kill Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria
and one or more antibiotic selected from daptomycin or a related antibiotic and linezolid or a
related antibiotic wherein the amount of the chimeric protein comprising the catalytic domain
or binding domain of PlySs2 required to be effective to kill Staphylococcus and
Streptococcus bacteria, including S. aureus, in the presence of antibiotic is significantly less
than in the absence of antibiotic and/or the amount of antibiotic required to be effective to kill
gram-positive bacteria, including S. aureus, in the presence of the chimeric protein
comprising the catalytic domain or binding domain of PlySs2 is significantly less than in the
absence of the chimeric protein comprising the catalytic domain or binding domain of
PlySs2.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the amount of antibiotic required to be effective to kill
Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria, including S. aureus, in the presence of the
chimeric protein comprising the catalytic domain or binding domain of PlySs2 is significantly
less than in the absence of the chimeric protein comprising the catalytic domain or binding
domain of PlySs2.
3.  The method of claim 1 wherein the amount of the chimeric protein comprising the
catalytic domain or binding domain of PlySs2 required to be effective to kill Staphylococcus
and Streptococcus bacteria, including S. aureus, in the presence of antibiotic is significantly
less than in the absence of antibiotic.
4.   The method of any one of claims 1-3 wherein the antibiotic is daptomycin or a related
antibiotic.
5.   The method of any one of claims 1-3 wherein the antibiotic is linezolid or a related
antibiotic.
                                               76

6.  The method of any one of claims 1-3 wherein the antibiotic is daptomycin or linezolid.
7.  A method of inhibiting antibiotic-resistant Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria
comprising contacting the bacteria with a chimeric protein comprising the catalytic domain or
binding domain of PlySs2 lysin capable of killing Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria
and one or more antibiotic.
8.  The method of claim 7 wherein the bacteria is Staphylococcus aureus.
9.  A method of reducing the development of antibiotic resistance in Staphylococcus and
Streptococcus bacteria upon administration of a broad spectrum gram-positive antibiotic by
administering a combination of the broad spectrum antibiotic and a chimeric protein
comprising the catalytic domain or binding domain of PlySs2 lysin capable of killing
Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria.
10.  The method of claim 9, wherein both the antibiotic and the lysin are administered at
doses below the minimally effective dose.
11.  The method of claim 9 wherein the antibiotic is administered at doses lower than the
recommended dose.
12.  A method of enhancing the effectiveness of a gram-positive antibiotic selected from
daptomycin or a related antibiotic and linezolid or a related antibiotic comprising
administering the antibiotic with a chimeric protein comprising the catalytic domain or
binding domain of PlySs2 lysin and effective to kill Staphylococcus and Streptococcus
bacteria, whereby the antibiotic is at least 10 fold more effective in combination with the
chimeric protein comprising the catalytic domain or binding domain of PlySs2.
13.  The method of claim 12 wherein the antibiotic is at least 16 fold more effective in
combination with PlySs2 lysin.
                                                 77

14.   The method of claim 12 wherein the antibiotic is at least 50 fold more effective in
combination with PlySs2 lysin.
15. The method of claim 12 wherein the PlySs2 lysin is at least two fold more effective in
combination with antibiotic.
16. The method of claim 12 wherein the PlySs2 lysin is at least four fold more effective in
combination with antibiotic.
17.   A method of potentiating antibiotic activity against Staphylococcus and Streptococcus
bacteria in biological fluids having surfactant-like activity comprising administering
antibiotic in combination with a chimeric protein comprising the catalytic domain or binding
domain of PlySs2 lysin and effective to kill Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria,
wherein the antibiotic is daptomycin or a related antibiotic and is effective in combination
with the chimeric protein comprising the catalytic domain or binding domain of PlySs2 at
doses that the antibiotic is ineffective in the absence of the chimeric protein comprising the
catalytic domain or binding domain of PlySs2.
18. The method of any one of claims 12-17 wherein the bacteria is S. pneumoniae.
19. The method of any one of claims 1-18 wherein the chimeric protein comprises the
catalytic domain or binding domain of the PlySs2 lysin polypeptide comprising the amino
acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or variants thereof having at least 80% identity, 850% identity,
90% identity, 95% identity or 99% identity to the catalytic domain or binding domain of the
polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 1 and effective to kill or bind Staphylococcus and Streptococcus
bacteria in the presence of the antibiotic.
20. The method of any one of claims 1-19 wherein the chimeric protein is a chimeric lytic
enzyme comprising the catalytic domain of SEQ ID NO: 1 or variants thereof having at least
80% identity, 85% identity, 90% identity, 95% identity or 99% identity to the catalytic
domain of the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO:1 and effective to kill Staphylococcus and
                                                    78

Streptococcus bacteria in the presence of the antibiotic, wherein said catalytic domain is
operably linked to a binding domain of another lysin.
21.   The method of claim 20 wherein the catalytic domain is operably linked to a binding
domain of a Staphylococcus-specific lysin or wherein the catalytic domain is operably linked
to a binding domain of a Streptococcus-specific lysin.
22. The method of claim 19 or 20 wherein the catalytic domain comprises SEQ ID NO:3 or
variants thereof having at least 80% identity to the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO:3 and
biologically active to kill Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria.
23. The method of any one of claims 1-19 wherein the chimeric protein is a chimeric lytic
enzyme comprising the binding domain of SEQ ID NO: 1 or variants thereof having at least
80% identity to the binding domain of the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 1 and effective to bind
Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria, wherein said binding domain is operably linked
to a catalytic domain of another lysin.
24. The method of claim 23 wherein the binding domain is operably linked to a catalytic
domain of a Staphylococcus-specific lysin or wherein the binding domain is operably linked
to a catalytic domain of a Streptococcus-specificlysin.
25. The method of claim 19 or 23 wherein the binding domain comprises SEQ ID NO:4 or
variants thereof having at least 80% identity to the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO:4 and
biologically active to bind Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria.
26. A composition for use in inhibiting Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria
comprising a combination of a chimeric protein comprising the catalytic domain or binding
domain of PlySs2 lysin polypeptide effective to kill Staphylococcus and Streptococcus
bacteria and daptomycin, wherein the daptomycin is effective in combination with the
chimeric protein comprising the catalytic domain or binding domain of PlySs2 at doses that
                                                   79

the daptomycin is ineffective in the absence of the chimeric protein comprising the catalytic
domain or binding domain of PlySs2.
27.   The composition of claim 26 wherein the chimeric protein comprises the catalytic
domain or binding domain of the lysin polypeptide comprising the amino acid sequence of
SEQ ID NO:1 or variants thereof having at least 80% identity, 85% identity, 90% identity,
95% identity or 99% identity to the catalytic domain or binding domain of the polypeptide of
SEQ ID NO:1 and effective to kill Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria.
28. The composition of claim 26 or 27 wherein the chimeric protein is a chimeric lytic
enzyme comprising the catalytic domain of SEQ ID NO: 1 or variants thereof having at least
80% identity, 85% identity, 90% identity, 95% identity or 99% identity to the catalytic
domain of the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 1 and effective to kill Staphylococcus and
Streptococcus bacteria in the presence of the antibiotic, wherein said catalytic domain is
operably linked to a binding domain of another lysin.
29. The composition of claim 28 wherein the catalytic domain is operably linked to a binding
domain of a Staphylococcus-specific lysin or wherein the catalytic domain is operably linked
to a binding domain of a Streptococcus-specific lysin.
30. The composition of claim 27, 28 or 29 wherein the catalytic domain comprises SEQ ID
NO:3 or variants thereof having at least 80% identity to the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO:3 and
biologically active to kill Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria.
31.   The composition of claim 26 or 27 wherein the chimeric protein is a chimeric lytic
enzyme comprising the binding domain of SEQ ID NO: 1 or variants thereof having at least
80% identity to the binding domain of the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 1 and effective to bind
Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria, wherein said binding domain is operably linked
to a catalytic domain of another lysin.
                                                   80

32. The composition of claim 31 wherein the binding domain is operably linked to a catalytic
domain of a Staphylococcus-specific lysin or wherein the binding domain is operably linked
to a catalytic domain of a Streptococcus-specificlysin.
33. The composition of claim 27, 31 or 32 wherein the binding domain comprises SEQ ID
NO:4 or variants thereof having at least 80% identity to the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO:4 and
biologically active to bind Staphylococcus and Streptococcus bacteria.
34.   The composition of any one of claims 26-33 wherein the daptomycin has a lower
effective minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) dose in the combination compared to the
MIC dose of daptomycin in the absence of PlySs2 lysin, and the MIC dose of the PlySs2
lysin has a lower effective MIC dose in the combination compared to the MIC dose of the
PlySs2 lysin in the absence of daptomycin.
35. The composition of any one of claims 26-33 wherein the dose of daptomycin is at least
10 fold lower than the ordinary clinical dose.
36.   The composition of any one of claims 26-33 wherein the combination is effective to
reduce the development of antibiotic-resistant gram positive bacteria.
                                                  81

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                                           SEQUENCE LISTING
              <110>   Schuch, Raymond
              <120>   BACTERIOPHAGE LYSIN AND ANTIBIOTIC COMBINATIONS AGAINST GRAM
                      POSITIVE BACTERIA
              <130>   3136-1-007PCT
              <140>   UNASSIGNED
              <141>   2013-05-09
<removed-apn>
              <150>   61/644,944
              <151>   2012-05-09
              <150>   61/737,239
              <151>   2012-12-14
              <160>   5
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   245
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Streptococcus suis
              <400>   1
              Met Thr Thr Val Asn Glu Ala Leu Asn Asn Val Arg Ala Gln Val Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Gly Val Ser Val Gly Asn Gly Glu Cys Tyr Ala Leu Ala Ser Trp
                          20                  25                  30
              Tyr Glu Arg Met Ile Ser Pro Asp Ala Thr Val Gly Leu Gly Ala Gly
                      35                  40                  45
              Val Gly Trp Val Ser Gly Ala Ile Gly Asp Thr Ile Ser Ala Lys Asn
                  50                  55                  60
              Ile Gly Ser Ser Tyr Asn Trp Gln Ala Asn Gly Trp Thr Val Ser Thr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ser Gly Pro Phe Lys Ala Gly Gln Ile Val Thr Leu Gly Ala Thr Pro
                              85                  90                  95
              Gly Asn Pro Tyr Gly His Val Val Ile Val Glu Ala Val Asp Gly Asp
                          100                 105                 110
              Arg Leu Thr Ile Leu Glu Gln Asn Tyr Gly Gly Lys Arg Tyr Pro Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Arg Asn Tyr Tyr Ser Ala Ala Ser Tyr Arg Gln Gln Val Val His Tyr
                  130                 135                 140
              Ile Thr Pro Pro Gly Thr Val Ala Gln Ser Ala Pro Asn Leu Ala Gly
              145                 150                 155                 160
                                                       Page 1

<removed-date>
              Ser Arg Ser Tyr Arg Glu Thr Gly Thr Met Thr Val Thr Val Asp Ala
                              165                 170                 175
              Leu Asn Val Arg Arg Ala Pro Asn Thr Ser Gly Glu Ile Val Ala Val
                          180                 185                 190
              Tyr Lys Arg Gly Glu Ser Phe Asp Tyr Asp Thr Val Ile Ile Asp Val
                      195                 200                 205
<removed-apn>
              Asn Gly Tyr Val Trp Val Ser Tyr Ile Gly Gly Ser Gly Lys Arg Asn
                  210                 215                 220
              Tyr Val Ala Thr Gly Ala Thr Lys Asp Gly Lys Arg Phe Gly Asn Ala
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Trp Gly Thr Phe Lys
                              245
              <210>   2
              <211>   738
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Streptococcus suis
              <400> 2
              atgacaacag taaatgaagc attaaataat gtaagagctc aggttgggtc cggtgtgtct    60
              gttggcaacg gcgaatgcta cgctttggct agttggtacg agcgcatgat tagtccggat   120
              gcaactgtcg gacttggcgc tggtgtgggc tgggtcagcg gtgcaatcgg cgatacaatc   180
              tctgccaaaa acatcggctc atcatacaac tggcaagcta acggctggac agtttccaca   240
              tctggtccat ttaaagcagg tcagattgtg acgcttgggg caacaccagg aaacccttac   300
              ggacatgtgg taatcgtcga agcagtggac ggcgatagat tgactatttt ggagcaaaac   360
              tacggcggga aacgttatcc cgtccgtaat tattacagcg ctgcaagcta tcgtcaacag   420
              gtcgtgcatt acatcacacc gcctggcacg gtcgcacagt cagcacccaa ccttgcaggc   480
              tctcgttcct atcgcgagac gggcactatg actgtcacgg tcgatgctct caatgttcgc   540
              agggcgccaa atacttcagg cgagattgta gcagtataca agcgtggtga atcatttgac   600
              tatgatactg tcatcatcga tgtcaatggc tatgtctggg tgtcttacat aggcggcagc   660
              ggcaaacgta actacgttgc gacgggcgct accaaagacg gtaagcgttt cggcaatgct   720
              tggggtacat ttaaataa                                                 738
              <210>   3
              <211>   139
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Streptococcus suis
              <400>   3
              Leu Asn Asn Val Arg Ala Gln Val Gly Ser Gly Val Ser Val Gly Asn
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                   Page 2

<removed-date>
              Gly Glu Cys Tyr Ala Leu Ala Ser Trp Tyr Glu Arg Met Ile Ser Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Asp Ala Thr Val Gly Leu Gly Ala Gly Val Gly Trp Val Ser Gly Ala
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Gly Asp Thr Ile Ser Ala Lys Asn Ile Gly Ser Ser Tyr Asn Trp
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-apn>
              Gln Ala Asn Gly Trp Thr Val Ser Thr Ser Gly Pro Phe Lys Ala Gly
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gln Ile Val Thr Leu Gly Ala Thr Pro Gly Asn Pro Tyr Gly His Val
                              85                  90                  95
              Val Ile Val Glu Ala Val Asp Gly Asp Arg Leu Thr Ile Leu Glu Gln
                          100                 105                 110
              Asn Tyr Gly Gly Lys Arg Tyr Pro Val Arg Asn Tyr Tyr Ser Ala Ala
                      115                 120                 125
              Ser Tyr Arg Gln Gln Val Val His Tyr Ile Thr
                  130                 135
              <210>   4
              <211>   67
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Streptococcus suis
              <400>   4
              Arg Ser Tyr Arg Glu Thr Gly Thr Met Thr Val Thr Val Asp Ala Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asn Val Arg Arg Ala Pro Asn Thr Ser Gly Glu Ile Val Ala Val Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Lys Arg Gly Glu Ser Phe Asp Tyr Asp Thr Val Ile Ile Asp Val Asn
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Tyr Val Trp Val Ser Tyr Ile Gly Gly Ser Gly Lys Arg Asn Tyr
                  50                  55                  60
              Val Ala Thr
              65
              <210>   5
              <211>   280
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Staphylococcus aureus
              <400>   5
              Met Glu Thr Leu Lys Gln Ala Glu Ser Tyr Ile Lys Ser Lys Val Asn
                                                   Page 3

<removed-date>
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Gly Thr Asp Phe Asp Gly Leu Tyr Gly Tyr Gln Cys Met Asp Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Ala Val Asp Tyr Ile Tyr His Val Thr Asp Gly Lys Ile Arg Met Trp
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Asn Ala Lys Asp Ala Ile Asn Asn Ser Phe Gly Gly Thr Ala Thr
<removed-apn>
                  50                  55                  60
              Val Tyr Lys Asn Tyr Pro Ala Phe Arg Pro Lys Tyr Gly Asp Val Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Val Trp Thr Thr Gly Asn Phe Ala Thr Tyr Gly His Ile Ala Ile Val
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Asn Pro Asp Pro Tyr Gly Asp Leu Gln Tyr Val Thr Val Leu Glu
                          100                 105                 110
              Gln Asn Trp Asn Gly Asn Gly Ile Tyr Lys Thr Glu Leu Ala Thr Ile
                      115                 120                 125
              Arg Thr His Asp Tyr Thr Gly Ile Thr His Phe Ile Arg Pro Asn Phe
                  130                 135                 140
              Ala Thr Glu Ser Ser Val Lys Lys Lys Asp Thr Lys Lys Lys Pro Lys
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Pro Ser Asn Arg Asp Gly Leu Asn Lys Asp Lys Ile Val Tyr Asp Arg
                              165                 170                 175
              Thr Asn Ile Asn Tyr Asn Met Val Leu Gln Gly Lys Ser Ala Ser Lys
                          180                 185                 190
              Ile Thr Val Gly Ser Lys Ala Pro Tyr Asn Leu Lys Trp Ser Lys Gly
                      195                 200                 205
              Ala Tyr Phe Asn Ala Lys Ile Asp Gly Leu Gly Ala Thr Ser Ala Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              Arg Tyr Gly Asp Asn Arg Thr Asn Tyr Arg Phe Asp Val Gly Gln Ala
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Val Tyr Ala Pro Gly Thr Leu Ile Tyr Val Phe Glu Ile Ile Asp Gly
                              245                 250                 255
              Trp Cys Arg Ile Tyr Trp Asn Asn His Asn Glu Trp Ile Trp His Glu
                          260                 265                 270
              Arg Leu Ile Val Lys Glu Val Phe
                                                   Page 4

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               275
                               280
Page 5

