  ABSTRACT
  The present invention provides a method to efficiently and comprehensively interrogate the
  broad spectrum of antibodies generated by B cell populations. The invention provides a
  method for producing a defined population of binding molecules, said method comprises at
5 least the following steps: a) providing a population of B cells expressing a limited VL
  repertoire wherein essentially all of said B cells carry at least one VL, b) obtaining nucleic
  acids (RNA or DNA) from said B cells, c) optionally, amplification of nucleic acid sequences
  encoding immunoglobulin heavy chain variable regions in said sample, d) at least partial
  sequencing of all obtained nucleic acids of step b) or the amplification products of step c), e)
0 performing a frequency analysis of sequences from step d), f) selecting desired VH
  sequences, g) providing a host cell with at least one vector comprising at least one of said
  desired VH sequences and/or at least one VL sequence of said limited VL repertoire, h)
  culturing said host cells and allowing for expression of VH and/or VL polypeptides, i)
  obtaining said binding molecules.

   Title: Generation of binding molecules
   The invention relates to the fields of biology, immunology and medicine
   CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
   This application is a divisional of Australian patent application no. <removed-apn>, which is a
 5 divisional of 2012233037, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by
   reference.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   The ability of the mammalian immune response to generate a large and diverse antibody
   repertoire in response to antigen has been exploited for a range of applications in
 0 diagnostics, therapy and basic research. In particular, monoclonal antibodies, the products
   of a single B cell clone, have been broadly applied because of their well-defined specificity
   and ease of production. Typically, monoclonal antibodies or the genetic information
   encoding monoclonal antibodies with desirable specificities are obtained from the B cells of
   animals or humans that have been immunized with antigen or infected by pathogens.
15 Alternatively, monoclonal antibodies may be obtained by one of several recombinant-DNA
   based methods to construct and screen libraries of antibodies or antibody fragments
   expressed on the surface of bacteriophages or eukaryotic cells, or from in silica approaches.
   Monoclonal antibodies have found increasing use in human therapy for the treatment of a
   variety of diseases, including for example chronic inflammatory diseases and cancer. The
20 immunogenicity of xenogeneic monoclonal antibodies limits their use in the therapy of
   human disease. Exposure of patients to xenogeneic antibodies often results in adverse
   effects or might lead to the neutralization and clearance of the applied antibody, thereby
   reducing its pharmacological efficacy (Clark, 2000). Administration of humanized or fully
   human     monoclonal    antibodies  to   patients usually  diminishes    the   aforementioned
25 complications, in particular when the amino acid sequences of the antibodies do not contain

                                                 - la
  epitopes that stimulate T cells. Antibodies encoded by non-mutated, human germline heavy
  and light chain V gene segments containing CDR3 regions devoid of T cell epitopes
  represent ultimate examples of protein drugs with low immunogenicity (Ruuls et al., 2008;
  Harding et al., 2010). So, for therapeutic applications, monoclonal antibodies are preferably
5 fully human, non-mutated and contain few or no T cell epitopes to prevent the formation of
  anti-drug antibodies.
  B cells from the blood or lymphoid organs of humans have been used as a source of
  therapeutic monoclonal antibodies. Since the discovery of the hybridoma technology for
  immortalization of murine B cells (Kohler et al., 1975) and the realization that this
0 technology could not be readily replicated using human B cells, several alternative methods
  for the generation of human monoclonal

                                                          -2
   antibodies have been developed. Such methods include transformation of B cells through Epstein-Barr
   virus infection (Tragiai et al,, 2004), short term activation and expansion of human B cells by
   stimulation with combinations of stimulator cells, antibodies and cytokines (Zubler 1987/ Banchereau
   et al., 1991/Kim et al., 2001/ Good et al., 2006/Ettinger et al., 2005) or retrovirus-mediated gene
 S transfer (Kwakkenbos et al., 2010), cloning of antibody V genes from single human B cells by PCR
   (Wrammert et al., 2010/Meijer et al., 2006), and identification and selection of antigen-specific
   antibody-secreting B cells by hemolytic plaque assays (Babcook et al., 1996). Human B cell
   immortalization or activation techniques are compatible with only some stages of B cell maturation
   and furthermore, due to their low efficiencies (merely 1-3% of B cells) they are not suitable for
10 efficient interrogation of the whole repertoire of specific antibodies generated during a human immune
   response for antibodies with desired characteristics (Reddy et al., 2011).
   Single-cell cloning, a procedure in which single human B cells are plated in microtiter well plates for
   analysis, has been used to circumvent the low efficiencies associated with procedures that require B
15 cell activation and/or immortalization to obtain human monoclonal antibodies. In this approach, RNA
   from individual B cells is used to amplify the variable regions of the heavy and light chain (VH, VL)
   of antibodies by PCR. The VH and VL genes are then inserted into suitable expression vectors for
   transfection into cell lines and subsequent production of recombinant antibody fragments or full-length
   IgG (Smith et al., 2009/Tiller et al., 2008). Alternatively, amplified VH and VL genes may be directly
20 used for in vitro transcription and translation to generate minute quantities of antibodies sufficient for
   binding analysis but nor for assessing functional activity (Jiang et. al., 2006). Using these procedures,
   the production of recombinant monoclonal antibodies is not limited to distinct B cell populations and
   does not depend on prior stimulation or immortalization. The major challenge in this approach is the
   specific amplification of antibody genes by RT-PCR from single cells and the occurrence of cross
25 contamination during handling of large numbers of PCR reactions. Another practical limitation is the
   number of individual B cells that can be handled, which is typically restricted to several thousand,
   preventing extensive sampling of the entire antibody repertoire generated during an immune response.
   Finally, the method is restricted to the analysis of readily accessible human B cells such as those
   derived from blood and bone marrow.
30
   Human monoclonal antibodies can also be isolated from recombinant antibody libraries in the
   laboratory, using one of the platforms for selection that in essence mimics the in vivo antibody
   response (Hoogenboom, 2005). For example, display technologies exploit large collections of cloned
   antibody variable regions expressed on the surface of phage particles, bacteria, eukaryotic cells or
35 ribosomes to select for antibodies that bind to antigens of interest (Ponsel et al., 201 1/Clackson et al.,

                                                         -3
   199 1/ Boder et al., 1997/ Fuchs et al., 1991/Lee et al., 2007/Chao et al., 2006). The VH and VL
   regions inserted in these display systems are randomly combined to form collections of antibody
   binding sites, i.e. fragments of intact IgG antibodies, which require correct folding and assembly in
   e.g. prokaryotic cells for retrieval by antigen-binding methods. Display methods do not allow the
 5 retrieval of antibodies from libraries through functional screening. In display approaches, original
   pairing of heavy and light chains is abrogated and, in addition, antibody-encoding DNA is lost as a
   result of the use of restriction enzymes during the cloning procedure. The success of recovering
   desired antibody specificities with in vitro antibody discovery techniques depends not only on the
   successful folding and expression of the recombinant antibody fragments in e.g. prokaryotic cells but
10 also on a range of screening parameters used during antibody selection. These include the nature of the
   display platform, antigen concentration, binding avidity during enrichment, the number of selection
   rounds, and the design and diversity of the antibody libraries (Hoogenboom 2005/Cobaugh et al.,
   2008/Persson et al., 2006). Thus, due to experimental procedures, folding requirements for expression
   of antibody fragments in prokaryotic cells and parameters affecting the success of antibody retrieval
15 during selections, display systems do not permit the comprehensive mining of antibody repertoires and
   do not allow direct functional screening of human antibodies. Indeed, antigen-specific antibody
   fragments may be lost during subsequent rounds of antigen selection of phage display libraries (Ravn
   et al., 2010).
20 Transgenic mice harboring collections of human antibody genes have been constructed to alleviate
   some of the restrictions associated with the use of human B cells as starting material for the generation
   of human monoclonal antibodies (Lonberg 2005). Such mice can be immunized with any antigen and
   their lymphoid organs are readily accessible for harvesting B cells. Once the transgenic mouse has
   been immunized, monoclonals can either be obtained through traditional hybridoma generation, by
25 display technologies or using approaches that involve the harvesting, plating and screening of B cells,
   followed by isolation of mAb genes and cloning into production cell lines.
   For the generation of hybridomas, B cells from murine lymphoid organs are harvested and fused with
   myeloma cells to form immortalized monoclonal antibody-secreting cell lines. The low efficiency of
30 cell fusion in hybridoma formation permits interrogation of only a fraction of the antibody repertoire
   and is restricted to B cell populations that are amenable to fusion. If a satisfactory hybridoma is not
   formed, it becomes difficult to obtain the antibody against challenging antigens such as membrane
   proteins. Thus, increasing the numbers of hybridomas is a crucially important step in screening the
   repertoire of antigen-specific B cells from immunized mice and obtaining monoclonal antibodies with
35 high affinity, specificity and desired functional activity (Kato et al., 2011/ Li et. al., 1994; Crowe,

                                                           -4
   2009).    In the most efficient fusion protocols involving pre-stimulation of B cells and electrofusion,
   approximately 1 in 1000 B cells fuses successfully with a myeloma cell to become an antibody
   secreting hybridoma (Kato et. al., 2011). The hybridoma technology and other B cell immortalization
   methods interrogate the antibody-producing cells in pre-plasma cell B cell populations, specifically in
 5 memory B cells, or in circulating short-lived plasma blasts (Wrammert et al., 2008).
   B cells from immunized transgenic mice with human antibody genes may be used to obtain collections
   of VH and VL regions that are randomly combined to form combinatorial display libraries of human
   antibody fragments. As argued above, due to experimental procedures, folding requirements for
10 expression of antibody fragments in prokaryotic cells and parameters affecting the success of antibody
   retrieval during selections, display systems do not permit the comprehensive mining of antibody
   repertoires and do not allow direct functional screening of human monoclonal antibodies.
   High-throughput sequencing has been utilized for sequencing of antibody repertoires derived from
15 bone marrow plasma cells of protein-immunized mice (Reddy et al., 2010). It was found that in the
   purified plasma cell population, VH and VL repertoires were highly polarized with the most abundant
   sequences representing 1-10% of the entire repertoire (Reddy et al., 2010). The most abundant VH
   and VL genes were randomly-paired, expressed as IgG molecules and screened for binding to the
   immunizing antigen.
20
   A disadvantage of random pairing is that only 4 % of the thus generated antibodies was found to bind
   to the immunizing antigen. These antibodies had low affinities and/or poor expression levels and
   aggregation was frequently observed. The low proportion of specific antibodies could be improved by
   pairing VH and VL genes based on their relative frequency in the collection of sequences. In that case,
25 following recombinant expression, approximately 75% of antibodies were found to bind to antigen
   (Reddy et al., 2010). The disadvantage of VH /VL pairing according to relative frequencies is that
   collections of V-genes obtained by high throughput sequencing may contain VH and VL sequences
   that are present in similar frequencies yet are derived from different B cell clones and thus may not
   represent a natural pair and may not form a functional antibody molecule. Pairing of VH and VL
30 regions based on frequency is therefore inaccurate and may lead to the generation and screening of
   many antibodies that have mismatched VH/VL pairs encoding low affinity antibodies or antibodies
   that do not bind to the target of interest. Indeed, it has been shown that VH/VL pairing based on
   relative frequencies yields a high proportion of modest to low affinity antibodies (Reddy et al., 2010).
   This implies that VH/VL pairing based on high frequency of VH and VL genes present in large

                                                            -5
     collections of sequences is not predictive for the generation of high affinity antibodies. Thus, such an
     approach yields only small numbers VH/VL combinations encoding antigen-specific antibodies which
    were generally found to have low affinities (Reddy et al., 2010).
  5 A further disadvantage of the method reported by Reddy et al. is that it relied on plasma cells as a
    source of antigen-specific monoclonal antibodies. Plasma cells represent only a small subpopulation
    of B-lineage cells contributing to antibody diversity generated during an immune response. As a result
    antigen specific antibodies produced by other B cell populations during an immune response are not
    retrieved. These populations include short-lived plasma cells, transitional B cells, germinal center B
10  cells and IgM and IgG memory B cells present in lymphoid organs. When comparing antibody
    repertoires in these various B cell populations, significant changes were observed (Wu, et al., 2010)
    which implies that a broader antibody repertoire is captured when more B cell populations are
    included as source for VH/VL in deep sequencing.
15  Based on the above, it can be concluded that there is a need for antibody generation and selection
    approaches that facilitate the interrogation of entire antibody repertoires for antibodies encoded by
    original VH/VL pairs with desirable binding characteristics and functional activities.
    As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term "comprise" and variations of the
20  term, such as "comprising", "comprises" and "comprised", are not intended to exclude other additives,
    components, integers or steps.
    Reference to any prior art in the specification is not, and should not be taken as, an acknowledgment,
    or any form of suggestion, that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in Australia
25  or any other jurisdiction or that this prior art could reasonably be expected to be ascertained,
    understood and regarded as relevant by a person skilled in the art.
    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
    Figure 1 depicts the 4 mouse CHI reverse primers and their position within the CHI region are
30  highlighted (1) Mouse CHIlrevO; (2) CHIrevI; (3) CHlrev2; (4) CHIrev3.

                                                        - 5a
  Figure 2 depicts the VH amplification with forward primer DO_1177 and various CHI reverse
  primers. Lane 1: DO_1171; Lane 2: DO_1172; Lane 3: DO 1173; Lane 4: DO_1174; Lane 5:
  negative control.
  Figure 3 is a graph showing the by-stander immune response against Fc portion of Fc-EGFR fusion
5 protein upon immunization.
  Figure 4 depicts the ErbB2 specific IgG serum titer in ErbB2 vaccinated mice.
  Figure 5 depicts the HA specific IgG serum titer in HA vaccinated mice.
  Figure 6 depicts the relative affinity of the anti-ErbB2 IgG polyclonal sera of ErbB2 vaccinated mice
  as determined by ELISA.

                                                          -6
   Figure 7 is a graph showing the comparison of the percentages IgG B cells per total iLN B cells per
   vaccination strategy and per antigen.
   Figure 8 shows a native SDS-PAGE analysis of a protein A purified single VL human bispecific
   antibody preparation. MW: molecular weight. Lane 1, anti-thyroglobulin x anti-fibrinogen bispecific.
 5
   Figure 9 depicts a native mass spectrometry analysis of a protein A purified single VL human
   bispecific antibody for fibrinogen and thyroglobulin produced by co-transfection of HEK293 cells.
   The main peak of 144352 Da is the heterodimeric bispecific IgG species (96% of total IgG), whereas
   the minor peaks of 144028 Da (3% of total IgG) and 142638 Da (1% of total IgG) are the
10 homodimeric parental IgG species.
   Figure 10 is a graph showing the potency of EGFR-specific mAb to rescue A43 1 cells from EGF
   induced cell death.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
15 To recapitulate, for selection and screening of the entire repertoire of antibodies produced during an
   immune response it is necessary to exploit techniques that allow efficient retrieval of antigen-driven,
   clonally expanded B cells of various phenotypes and subpopulations and/or the genetic information
   encoding the corresponding antibodies as original VH/VL pairs. The present invention provides a
   method to efficiently and comprehensively interrogate the broad spectrum of antibodies generated by
20 B cell populations. Preferably, these diverse B cell populations are obtained from transgenic animals,
   e.g. mice, which harbor human antibody genes to facilitate immunization with any desirable antigen
   and generate antibodies for therapeutic application in humans. It is most preferred that these transgenic
   mice have a limited VL repertoire, in particular a single human rearranged VL. The method is
    independent of B cell immortalization or activation procedures, facilitates screening of antibody
25 repertoires from B cells obtained from essentially all lymphoid organs and does not require analyses of
    individual B cells. Preferably, to efficiently mine the entire repertoire of antibodies generated during
   an immune response, B cells from every differentiation stage and lineage and present in relevant
    lymphoid organs such as lymph nodes, spleen blood and bone marrow are analyzed for the presence of
   monoclonal antibodies of desired specificity and characteristics such as affinity and functional
30  activity. The method may thus address the entire population of B cells in lymphoid organs or focus on
   B cells subpopulations that are distinguishable based on phenotypic characteristics such as transitional
    B cells, memory B cells, short-lived plasma cells and the like. Furthermore, the method allows direct
    screening of antibodies for binding characteristics as well as functional activity in the relevant

                                                             -7
       antibody format that is representative for eventual application in human therapy. The invention further
       provides for methods and means for production of these selected antibodies in the desired formats as
       well as these antibodies and their uses themselves. These uses include arrays as well as pharmaceutical
       products.
   5
       EMBODIMENTS
      The invention provides a method for producing a defined population of binding molecules, said
      method comprises at least the following steps: a) providing a population of B cells expressing a
      limited VL repertoire wherein essentially all of said B cells carry at least one VL, b) obtaining nucleic
 10   acids (RNA or DNA) from said B cells, c) optionally, amplification of nucleic acid sequences
      encoding immunoglobulin heavy chain variable regions in said sample, d) at least partial sequencing
      of all obtained nucleic acids of step b) or the amplification products of step c), e) performing a
      frequency analysis of sequences from step d), f) selecting desired VH sequences, g) providing a host
      cell with at least one vector comprising at least one of said desired VH sequences and/or at least one
 15   VL sequence of said limited VL repertoire, h) culturing said host cells and allowing for expression of
      VH and/or VL polypeptides, i) obtaining said binding molecules. Alternatively, step c) and d) can be
      replaced or supplemented by the alternative steps c' and d': c')constructing a cDNA library that is
     screened for VH region specific DNA sequences by probing with a nucleic acid probe specific for VH
     regions sequences and d') at least partial sequencing of clones containing VH inserts. Where VH or
20   VL is mentioned, functional derivatives and/or fragments thereof are also envisaged.
     The term 'obtaining nucleic acids' as used in step c) herein includes any methods for retrieving the
     sequence of nucleotides of nucleic acids encoding VH sequences.
     The term 'defined population of binding molecules' as used herein refers to at least two binding
     molecules that bind to at least one selected antigen or epitope of interest. Preferably, the defined
25   population of binding molecules comprises at least a significant portion, preferably at least the
     majority and most preferably essentially all specific binding molecules directed against the antigen or
     epitope of interest generated during an immune response. More preferably a population of binding
     molecules comprises between hundred and several thousand binding molecules, representing a
     significant portion of unique antigen-specific antibodies present in, e.g., a mouse immunized with said
30   antigen. The population of binding molecules of the present invention may have different specificities
     and/or affinities; i.e. may bind to different epitopes of the selected antigen or may bind to the same
     epitope with differing affinities. The term 'binding molecule' as used herein means a molecule
     comprising a polypeptide containing one or more regions, preferably domains, which bind an epitope
     on an antigen. In a preferred embodiment, such domains are derived from an antibody.

                                                         -8
   The term 'antibody' as used herein means a protein containing one or more domains that bind an
   epitope on an antigen, where such domains are derived from or share sequence homology with the
   variable region of an antibody. Antibodies are known in the art and include several isotypes, such as
   IgG 1, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgA, IgD, IgE, and IgM. An antibody according to the invention may be any
 5 of these isotypes, or a functional derivative and/or fragment of these. Examples of antibodies
   according to the invention include full length antibodies, antibody fragments, bispecific antibodies,
   immunoconjugates, and the like. Antibody fragments include Fv, scFv, Fab, Fab', F(ab') 2 fragments,
   and the like. Antibodies according to the invention can be of any origin, including murine, of more
   than one origin, i.e. chimeric, humanized, or fully human antibodies. Where the term functional
10 fragment and/or derivative is used in this specification it is intended to convey that at least one of the
   functions, preferably the characterizing functions of the original molecule are retained (in kind not
   necessarily in amount). Antibody binding is defined in terms of specificity and affinity. The
   specificity determines which antigen or epitope thereof is bound by the binding domain. The affinity is
   a measure for the strength of binding to a particular antigen or epitope. Specific binding is defined as
15 binding with affinities  (KD) of at least Ix10" M, more preferably   Ix10-  M, more preferably higher
   than Ix10- M. Typically, monoclonal antibodies for therapeutic application may have affinities of up
           1 0
   to lx       M or even higher.
   The term 'antigen' as used herein means a substance or molecule that, when introduced into the body,
   triggers the production of an antibody by the immune system. An antigen, among others, may be
20 derived from pathogenic organisms, tumor cells or other aberrant cells, from haptens, or even from
   self structures. At the molecular level, an antigen is characterized by its ability to be "bound" by the
   antigen-binding site of an antibody. In certain aspects of the present invention also mixtures of
   antigens can be regarded as 'antigen'. An antigen will comprise at least one epitope. The term
   'epitope' as used herein means the part of an antigen that is recognized by the immune system,
25 specifically by antibodies, B cells, or T cells. Although epitopes are usually thought to be derived from
   non-self proteins, sequences derived from the host that can be recognized are also classified as
   epitopes/antigens.
   A 'population of B cells' as used herein may be any collection of B cells. The B cells may be present
   as a subpopulation of other cells in a sample. It may be derived from one or more individuals from the
30 same or different species. Preferably, the term 'population of B cells' means a group of B cells
   obtained from at least one animal, preferably obtained from lymphoid organs. In a preferred
   embodiment, a population of B cells comprises essentially all splenic B cells. In a more preferred
   embodiment, the population further comprises also essentially all B cells obtained from at least one
   lymph node. In a most preferred embodiment, the population of B cells comprises B cells obtained
35 from spleen, at least one lymph node, blood and/or bone marrow. In a particularly preferred
   embodiment, a population of B cells comprises essentially all B cells obtained from one or more

                                                          -9
   lymphoid organs that harbor the B cells that have clonally expanded as a result of antigen stimulation.
   Methods to obtain such B cell populations are known in the art. Of this population of B cells,
   essentially all B cells carry at least one VL. In a preferred embodiment, essentially all B cells in the
   population of B cells express a limited VL repertoire. In a most preferred embodiment, essentially all
 5 B cells in the population of B cells carry the same VL.
   The term 'limited VL repertoire' used herein means a restricted cohort of VL regions that supports the
   generation of a robust immune response upon immunization and allows the efficient assembly of
   original VH/VL pairs with VH regions identified through the construction of heavy chain CDR3 heat
   maps. In one embodiment the limited VL repertoire comprises no more than 100 different VL regions.
10 When these 100 different VL regions will be matched with a cohort of 100 different, grouped, VH
   regions it will result in 104 combinations (100 times 100) of VH/VL pairs that can still be screened in
   functional assays. In a more preferred embodiment, the limited VL repertoire comprises no more than
    10, more preferably no more than 3 or 2 different VL regions, thereby further limiting the number of
   different VH/VL combinations and increasing the frequency of original VH/VL pairs. In the most
15 preferred embodiment, the limited VL repertoire comprises no more than a single VL region. The
   advantage of a single VL is that all antibodies that are generated upon encounter with an antigen share
   the same VL and are diversified only in the VH usage. A VL is defined by the particular combination
   of germline V and J gene segments and CDR3 region and includes somatically mutated variants of
   said VL. Thus, the population of B cells expressing a limited VL repertoire can mean that essentially
20 no more than 100 VL, or preferably less than 50 VL, or more preferably less than 10, or 3 or 2 VL or
   most preferably a single VL is expressed. In a preferred embodiment, all VLs in the limited VL
   repertoire are resistant to DNA rearrangements and/or somatic hypermutations, preferably, the VL
   have a germline sequence. The preferred germline sequence is a light chain variable region that is
   frequently used in the human repertoire and has superior ability to pair with many different VH
25 regions, and has good thermodynamic stability, yield and solubility. A most preferred germline light
   chain is 012, preferably the rearranged germline kappa light chain IgVKl-39*01/IGJK1 *01
   (nomenclature according to the IMGT database http://www.imgt.org) or fragment or a functional
   derivative thereof. Such single VL is also referred to as common VL, or common light chain.
   Obviously, those of skill in the art will recognize that "common" also refers to functional equivalents
30 of the light chain of which the amino acid sequence is not identical. Many variants of said light chain
   exist wherein mutations (deletions, substitutions, additions) are present that do not materially influence
   the formation of functional binding regions. A "common light chain" according to the invention refers
   to light chains which may be identical or have some amino acid sequence differences while retaining
   the binding specificity of the antibody. It is for instance possible within the scope of the definition of
35 common light chains as used herein, to prepare or find light chains that are not identical but still
   functionally equivalent, e.g. by introducing and testing conservative amino acid changes, changes of

                                                          - 10
   amino acids in regions that do not or only partly contribute to binding specificity when paired with the
   heavy chain, and the like. It is an aspect of the present invention to use as single VL one identical light
   chain that can combine with different heavy chains to form antibodies with functional antigen binding
   domains (W02004/009618, W02009/157771, Merchant et al., 1998, Nissim et al., 1994).
 5 The terms 'amplification of nucleic acid sequences encoding immunoglobulin heavy chain variable
   regions' and '(at least partially) sequencing of nucleic acids' have their usual meanings in the art.
   The term 'frequency analysis' has its usual meaning in the art. For a more detailed explanation of the
   term, see e.g. example 1 of the present invention.
   The term 'desired VH sequences' means those VH sequences that, based on the frequency analysis,
10 are produced in response to exposure to an antigen. These are assumed to encode VH regions that are
   specific for said antigen. Typically, an immune response to an antigen in a mouse entails the activation
   of about 100 different B cell clones (Poulsen et al., J Immunol 2011; 187;4229-4235). Therefore, it is
   most preferred to select the 100 most abundant clones. More practically, at least 20, preferably about
   50 abundant clones are selected.
15 'Host cells' according to the invention may be any host cell capable of expressing recombinant DNA
   molecules, including bacteria, yeast, plant cells, eukaryotes with a preference for mammalian cells.
   Particularly when larger antibody formats are desired bacterial cells are not suitable and mammalian
   cells are preferred. Suitable mammalian host cells for expression of antibody molecules are known in
   the art.
20 It is an aspect of the invention to provide a method according to the invention as described above,
   further comprising taking a sample of said cultured cells, the sample comprising at least one of said
   binding molecules, and subjecting the samples to at least one functional assay, and selecting at least
   one cell that expresses a binding molecule with desired characteristics.
   A 'functional assay' as used herein means a test to establish properties such as binding specificity,
25 affinity, neutralizing activity, tumor cell killing, proliferation inhibition or any other desired functional
   characteristic or activity of the binding molecule produced according to the methods of the invention.
   Such assays are used to determine early on whether binding molecules obtained are suitable for the
   desired purpose. Said desired purpose may be a diagnostic and/or therapeutic application. In one
   embodiment of the invention, the method for producing a defined population of binding molecules
30 further comprises the step of harvesting the supernatants of the cultured cells, the supernatants
   containing said binding molecules, and subjecting the supematants to at least one functional assay.
   Irrespective of a functional assay as described above, the present invention also compasses ways to
   determine the identity of the binding molecules, using methods known in the art.

                                                              - 11
        It is an aspect of the invention to provide a method according to the invention as described above,
        further comprising providing said host cell with means for expression of said at least one VH and VL
        in a desired format. The term 'desired format' as used herein refers to a form of the binding molecule
        in which it can be used for its particular purpose. The typical formats of binding molecules, in
   5    particular immunoglobulins and antibody like molecules that are suitable for particular purposes are
        well known in the art. For therapy these molecules would typically be fully human monoclonals
        (mono- or bispecific, and/or mixtures thereof, i.e. Oligoclonics@). For imaging these molecules would
        typically be antibody fragments, and so on, Desired formats include, but are not limited to, intact
        immunoglobulins, bispecific formats such as DARTSTM, BiTEsTM, single light chain bispecific
 10     antibodies (Merchant et al., 1998) including CH3-engineered bispecifics such as knob-into-hole
       variants or charge-engineered CH3 variants, DVD-Ig antibodies (Wu et al., 2007), mixtures of
       antibodies (de Kruif et al., 2009) and the like. In one preferred aspect, said desired format comprises at
       least one immunoglobulin molecule, and/or at least one bispecific antibody.
       In a further preferred embodiment, the population of B cells that is provided for the method for
 15    producing a defined population of binding molecules is enriched for B cells that express
       immunoglobulin receptors that bind to the antigen. Such enrichment may occur when a B cell
       encounters antigen (e.g. when a mouse is immunized with an antigen) and is activated to divide to
       generate a clone of B cells. It is an aspect of the present invention to provide a method for producing a
       population of defined binding molecules further providing B cell clones wherein said collection of B
 20    cell clones comprise a collection of VH regions that are enriched for VH regions encoding antibodies
      directed to the antigen or epitope of interest. Such enrichment of VH regions is preferably obtained by
       immunizing a mouse with antigen. The enrichment can, for example, be carried out by taking only
      those B cell clones obtained from antigen-exposed animals as a starting population that are selected
      through an antigen recognition process, i.e. by using selection methods comprising coated or labeled
25    antigen. Typically, the 20 most abundant clones, preferably, the 50 most abundant clones, more
      preferably the 100 most abundant clones are selected; most preferably, the 200 most abundant clones
      are selected.
      In a preferred embodiment, the antigen-specific VH regions are clonally related, In another preferred
      embodiment, the population of B cells is highly-enriched for B cells that express immunoglobulin
30    receptors that bind to the antigen. In this case, the majority of B cells that are provided will be antigen
      specific, and thus, an amplification step of all nucleic acid sequences encoding VH regions may not be
     necessary and all isolated nucleic acids from said B cells can be, at least partially, sequenced directly.
     It is thus an aspect of the present invention, to provide for a method for producing a defined
     population of binding molecules, said method comprising at least the step of providing a population of
35   B cells expressing a limited VL repertoire wherein said B cells comprise a collection of VH regions
     that is enriched for VH regions encoding antibodies directed to the antigen or epitope of interest.

                                                         - 12
   It is an aspect of the invention to provide a method according to the invention, wherein said population
   of B cells is obtained from a transgenic mouse carrying a limited, preferably human, VL repertoire.
   It is an aspect of the invention to provide a method according to the invention, wherein said mouse has
   been immunized such that selective clonal expansion of B cells that react with the antigen or epitope
 5 of interest is preferentially induced.
   Said limited VL repertoire preferably consists of no more than 100 VL, preferably less than 50 VL,
   more preferably less than 10, or 3 or 2 VL. Most preferably a single VL is expressed. In a preferred
   embodiment, all VLs in the limited VL repertoire are resistant to DNA rearrangements and/or somatic
   hypermutations, preferably, the VL have a germline sequence. The preferred germline sequence is a
10 light chain variable region that is frequently used in the human repertoire and has superior ability to
   pair with many different VH regions, and has good thermodynamic stability, yield and solubility. A
   most preferred germline light chain is 012.
   In a particularly preferred embodiment, said limited VL repertoire consists of a single rearranged
   human VL, preferably the rearranged germline kappa light chain IgVIl-39*01/IGJi1c*01
15 (nomenclature according to the IMGT database http://www.imgt.org) or fragment or a functional
   derivative thereof.
   An 'immunization protocol that causes the selective expansion of B cells' as used herein means that
   primary and booster immunizations are designed to cause selective expansions of B cells that produce
   antibodies that bind to the antigen or epitope of interest. The immunization protocol may for example
20 use different forms or fragments of the antigen during primary immunization and each subsequent
   booster immunization. For example, the antigen may be expressed on the membrane of a cell, a
   recombinant protein, a recombinant protein fused to another protein, a domain of a protein or a peptide
   of a protein. The immunization protocol may include the use of an adjuvant during the primary and/or
   booster immunizations. In a preferred embodiment, an adjuvant is used during primary immunization
25 only to limit the extent of non-specific expansion of bystander B cells. Bystander B cells are cells that
   are activated without the step of binding of antigen to the antibody receptor expressed on the surface
   of the B cell. It is known in the art that immunization with Fc-fusion proteins for example, often
   results in a robust anti-Fc response where up to about 70% of all B cells react to the Fe part of the
   fusion protein rather than to the antigen of interest. In a particularly preferred embodiment, an
30 immunization protocol is used without adjuvant to preferentially expand B cells that have been
   activated by the antigen used for immunization. It is therefore an aspect of the invention to provide a
   method for producing a defined population of binding molecules, said method comprising at least the
   step of providing a population of B cells expressing a limited VL repertoire, wherein said population
   of B cells is obtained from a transgenic mouse carrying a limited, preferably human, VL repertoire,
35 wherein said mouse has been immunized with an antigen, such that selective clonal expansion of B

                                                        - 13
  cells that react with the antigen or epitope of interest is preferentially induced, A preferred way of
  inducing selective clonal expansion of B cells is DNA tattoo vaccination. The term 'DNA tattoo
  vaccination' refers to an invasive procedure involving a solid vibrating needle loaded with plasmid
  DNA that repeatedly punctures the skin, wounding both the epidermis and the upper dermis and
  causing cutaneous inflammation followed by healing (Bins 2005/Pokoma 2008).
 In transgenic mice with human antibody genes, a plurality of human IgH V regions and/or a plurality
 of human Ig light chain kappa V regions have been introduced in the genome of the animals (Lonberg
 2005). Upon immunization, these mice mount an antigen-specific immune response that is diversified
 in heavy and light chain V region utilization. It is anticipated that, upon immunization of these
 transgenic mice with antigen, high throughput sequencing, frequency ranking of VH and VL genes,
 construction of CDR3 heat maps and random or frequency-guided pairing of VH and VL regions
 yields a large proportion of antibodies that do not bind to the antigen or bind with low affinity (Reddy
 et al., 2010). It is therefore an aspect of the present invention to use transgenic animals that harbor a
 restricted repertoire of human immrunoglobulin light chains for immunization purposes. Such
 transgenic animals that harbor a limited repertoire of human light chains are described in
 W02009/157771. Preferably, the endogenous kappa light chain is functionally silenced in such
 animals to minimize the use of murine light chains in antibodies generated in such mice. In a further
 embodiment, also the endogenous lambda light chain is functionally silenced to further reduce the use
 of murine light chains in antibodies. In a most preferred embodiment, transgenic animals that carry a
 single rearranged human VL region that is resistant to somatic hypermutation is used for immunization
 to generate antibodies in which the processes of somatic mutation and clonal expansion and selection
 mainly act on the VH regions of the antibody expressed on the membrane of a B cell. Hence, high
 throughput sequencing and creation of CDR3 heat maps to identify antigen-driven, clonally expanded
 B cells and the antibodies they encode may focus on VH regions only. It is therefore an aspect of the
 present invention to provide a method for producing a defined population of binding molecules, said
 method comprising the step of providing a population of B cells, wherein said population of B cells is
 obtained from a transgenic animal, preferably a mouse, carrying a limited, preferably human, VL
repertoire, wherein said animal has been immunized with an antigen. In a preferred embodiment, the
 invention provides for a method for producing a defined population of binding molecules, said method
comprising the step of providing a population of B cells, wherein said population of B cells is obtained
from a transgenic mouse carrying a single rearranged human VL, preferably the human IGVI1-39
 light chain (W02009/157771). The advantage of this germline human IGVicl-39 light chain is its
anticipated reduced immunogenicity due to absence of strong non-self DRBI binders
(W02009/157771, example 19). In addition, this light chain is known to be capable of pairing with
many different human VH regions. Through an array of genetic mechanisms, the antibody VL
repertoire that can be generated in an animal is virtually unlimited.

                                                        - 14
   In one aspect according to the invention, the method for producing a defined population of binding
   molecules further comprises the step of providing the host cell with means for expression of the at
   least one VH and VL in a desired format. The term 'desired format' as used herein means that the
   selected VH and VL sequences are expressed together with other sequences such that antibody formats
 5 can be expressed within the host cell. In one embodiment, after selection of suitable VHs, mixtures of
   antibodies are produced by a single cell by introducing at least 2 different heavy chains and one
   common light chain into a cell (W02004/009618). In another embodiment, after selection of suitable
   VH regions, the at least two different heavy chains are engineered such that heterodimerization of
   heavy chains is favored over homodimerization. Alternatively, the engineering is such that
10 homodimerization is favored over heterodimerization. Examples of such engineered heavy chains are
   for example the protuberance and cavity (knob-into-hole) constructs as described in W098/05043 1, or
   the charge-variants as described (Gunasekaran et al., 2010) or W02009/089004, or W02006/106905.
   It is another aspect of the invention to provide a method for producing a defined population of binding
   molecules, wherein said binding molecules have a desired effect according to a functional screening
15 assay, the method further comprising the step of taking the supernatants of said cultured cells, the
   supernatants comprising said binding molecules, subjecting the supernatants to at least one functional
   screening assay, and selecting at least one cell that expresses a binding molecule with desired
   characteristics. Preferably, said host cell comprises a nucleic acid sequence encoding a common light
   chain that is capable of pairing with said desired VH, such that produced antibodies comprise common
20 light chains, as described above. In specific embodiments said culturing step and said screening step of
   the method is performed with at least two clones. The method may optionally include an assay for
   measuring the expression levels of the antibodies that are produced. Such assays are well known to the
   person skilled in the art, and include protein concentration assays, immunoglobulin specific assays
   such as ELISA, RIA, and the like.
25 Also provided is the use of at least one population of binding molecules obtainable by a method
   according to the invention in the preparation of mixtures of antibodies, preferably comprising
   bispecific antibodies.
   It is another aspect of the invention to provide the use of the population of binding molecules
   obtainable with a method according to the invention, in an array of assays comprising one or more
30 functional screening assay for bispecific antibodies whereby each assay comprises cultured cells that
   produce a bispecific antibody in the supernatant, whereby the prevalence of said bispecific antibody in
   the supernatant is at least 90% more prevalent than that of monospecific antibodies, and whereby the
   supernatant is used for functional assay of the bispecific antibody.

                                                         - 15
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   One aspect of the invention provides a method for producing a defined population of binding
   molecules, said method comprises at least the following steps: a) providing a population of B cells
   expressing a limited VL repertoire wherein essentially all of said B cells carry at least one VL, b)
 5 isolating nucleic acids from said B cells, c) amplification of nucleic acid sequences encoding
   immunoglobulin heavy chain variable regions in said sample, d) at least partial sequencing of
   essentially all amplification products, e) performing a frequency analysis of all sequences from step d),
   f) selecting the desired VH sequences, g) providing a host cell with at least one vector comprising at
   least one of said desired VH sequences and at least one VL sequence of said limited VL repertoire, h)
10 culturing said host cells and allowing for expression of VH and VL polypeptides, i) obtaining said
   binding molecules. Alternatively, step c) and d) can be replaced by the alternative steps c' and d':
   c')constructing a cDNA library that is screened for VH region specific DNA sequences by probing
   with a nucleic acid probe specific for VH regions sequences and d') at least partial sequencing of
   clones containing VH inserts. Where VH or VL is mentioned, functional derivatives and/or fragments
15 thereof are also envisaged.
   The present invention inter alia describes a method for producing a defined population of binding
   molecules, wherein the starting point is a population of B cells that expresses a restricted repertoire of
   light chain variable (VL) regions and a diversified repertoire of heavy chain variable regions (VH).
   The VL region repertoire may for example be restricted by limiting the number of V and J genes
20 available during recombination in a transgenic animal or by inserting one or a few pre-rearranged VL
   regions in the genome of a transgenic animal, by reducing or abrogating the rate of somatic mutation
   occurring in the VL region or by a combination of these strategies (W02009/157771). The VH
   regions may be diversified by recombination of V, D and J gene segments and somatic mutation.
   Upon immunization, collections of heavy chain nucleic acid sequences are obtained from B cells in the
25 lymphoid organs of transgenic animals, subjected to high throughput sequencing and analyzed to rank
   all unique heavy chains based on frequency and to rank HCDR3 based on length, percentage identity
   and frequency to construct HCDR3 heat maps. Nucleotide sequence information is used to rank VH
   regions according to their frequency in the collection and frequently occurring sequences, assumingly
   representing VH regions expressed in B cells that have undergone clonal expansion as a result of
30 antigen stimulation, are cloned into expression vectors in conjunction with one of the VL regions
   present in the restricted repertoire. By using a restricted VL repertoire, the search for original VH/VL
   pairs is highly simplified because no VL sequence information needs to be retrieved, analyzed or
   ranked from the immunized animal; in case the original restricted VL repertoire comprises a single
   VL, all VH/VL combinations will represent original pairs as used by B cells in vivo. In case the
35  original restricted VL repertoire contained a few VL regions, combination with the ranked VH regions

                                                        - 16
   yields only small collections of VH/VL combinations that can be rapidly screened for binding and
   functional activity.
   Expression vectors containing the VH and VL regions are used to transfect cells to rapidly obtain
   antibodies for binding assays and functional screening. Different formats of antibodies can be
 5 obtained by using expression vectors that contain different genetic elements that, for example, drive
   the formation of antibody fragments or antibodies with different isotypes, bispecific antibodies,
   mixtures of antibodies or antibodies that have engineered variable or constant regions for modified
   effector functions or modified half life, or contain additional binding sites, are devoid of amino acid
   sequences that have a deleterious effect on development, production or formulation of antibodies such
10 as glycoslylation and deamidation sites.
   EXAMPLES
   Example 1: Deep sequence analysis and frequency ranking of VH genes expressed in murine
   spleen B cells using VH family-specific primers
15 This example describes the use of high throughput sequencing to retrieve and analyze the repertoire of
   antibody VH regions expressed in the spleen of wild type mice immunized with the antigens ErbB2 or
   ErbB3. Because immunization will enrich the B cell population for clones directed against the
   immunogen, it is anticipated that sequencing large numbers of VH transcripts identifies these B cell
   clones as they will be present within the population in higher frequencies. In this example,
20 approximately 25,000 VH region genes from the spleen of a single immunized mouse are retrieved by
   high throughput sequencing and ranked based on frequency.
   Spleens were collected from mice immunized with either the antigen ErbB2 or ErbB3 using DNA
   tattooing (see example 6). A single cell suspension was prepared according to standard techniques. B
   cells were isolated from this splenic single cell suspension in a two-step MACS procedure using
25 materials from Miltenyi biotec (http://www.miltenyibiotec.comi/en/default.aspx). Briefly, splenic B
   cells were isolated by first depleting the non-B cells, followed by positive selection of B cells. The
   non-B cells were depleted by labeling of T cells, NK cells, myeloid cells, plasma cells and
   erythrocytes with a cocktail of biotinylated antibodies (Table 1) and subsequent incubation with
   streptavidin Microbeads. Next the non-B cells were depleted over an LD column. The flow through,
30 containing the enriched B cell fraction, was labeled with magnetic Microbeads using FITC conjugated
   anti-lgG1 and IgG2ab antibodies (Table 1) followed by labeling with anti-FITC Microbeads (Miltenyi
   Biotec, Cat no. 130-048-701). The IgG labeled cells were subsequently positively selected over an LS
   column (Miltenyi Biotec, Cat no 130-042-401). MACS procedures were performed according to

                                                          - 17
   Kit/Microbead specific manuals supplied by Miltenyi. The purity of the isolated B cells was
   determined by FACS analysis according to standard techniques using the antibodies listed in Table 2.
   Table 1: antibodies to label non-B cells
   Ab #            Antigen         Label         Clone         Supplier                      Cat no.
   Ab0064          IgG1            FITC          A85-1          Becton Dickinson             553443
   AbO131          IgG2ab          FITC          R2-40          Becton Dickinson             553399
   Ab0158          CD138           Biotin        281-2          Becton Dickinson             553713
   AbO160         CD3E             Biotin        145-2C11      eBioscience                   13-0031
   Ab0161          Ly-6G           Biotin        RB6-8C5       eBioscience                   13-5921
   Ab0162         TER-119          Biotin        TER-119       eBioscience                   13-5921
   Ab0163         CD49b            Biotin        DX5           eBioscience                   13-5971
   Ab0164         CD11b            Biotin        M1/70         eBioscience                   13-0112
 5
   Table 2: antibodies for FACS analysis
   Ab #          Antigen         Label              Clone        Supplier                     Cat no.
   Ab0064        IgG1            FITC               A85-1         Becton Dickinson            553443
   Ab0131        IgG2ab          FITC               R2-40         Becton Dickinson            553399
   Ab0067        CD138           APC                281-2         Becton Dickinson            558626
   AbO160        IgM             PE-CY7             11/41        eBioscience                  25579082
   AbO161        IgD             PE                 11-26        eBioscience                  12599382
   Ab0162        CD19            PerCP-cy5.5        1D3          eBioscience                  45019382
   Ab0163        B220           Aallphycocyanin-    RA3-6B2      eBioscience                  47045282
                                efluor 780
   To extract the nucleic acids of the B cells, cells were Iyzed in Trizol LS (Invitrogen). RNA was
   prepared and cDNA synthesized according to standard techniques. Primers designed for amplification
10 of murine VH repertoires were taken as starting material and were modified for use in 454 high
   throughput sequencing by addition of 454 primer sequences (forward 454 primer:
   CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAG; reverse 454 primer:
   CTATGCGCCTTGCCAGCCCGCTCAG). The complete primer sequences for the PCR amplification
   of murine VH repertoires are shown in Tables 3 and 4.
15 Table 3: The forward 454 Phusion primers, complete. The phusion part
   (CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAG) is in italic, in bold is the 5'part of the VH genes.
   Name              sequence                                                  wobble
   mIGHV1A_ 454      CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCA   TCAGGAGKTCMAGCTGCAGCAGTC          K=15%T/85%G M=15%A/85%C
   mIGHV1B_ 454      CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAGSAGRTCCASCTGCAGCAGTC             51=5%G/95%C R=5%A/95%G
                                                                               52=95%G/5%C
   mIGHV1C_ 454      CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAGSAGGTCCAGCTHCAGCAGTC             S=50%C/50%G H=33%A/33%C/33%T
   mIGHV1D 454    I CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAGSAGRTCCAGCTGCAACAGTC              5=80%G/20%C R=15%A/85%G

                                                           -18
   mIGHV1E 454       CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAGCAKGTCCAACTGCAGCAGCC                K=15%T/85%G
   mIGHV1F 454       CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAGCAGGCTTATCTACAGCAGTC
   mIGHV1G_ 454      CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAGCAGCGTGAGCTGCAGCAGTC
   mIG HV2_ 454      CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCA TCAGCAGGTGCAGMTGAAGSAGTC               M=15%A/85%C S=50%C/50%G
   m1GHV3_454        CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAGSAKRTGCAGCTTCAGGAGTC                S=80%G/20%C K=50%G/50%T
                                                                                  R=15%A/85%G
   m1GHV4_A4         CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAGGAGGTGAAGCTTCTCCAGTC
   mIGHV5A_ 454      CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAGGAAGTGMWGCTGGTGGAGTC                M=15%A/85%C W=80%A/20%T
   mIGHV5B 454       CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAGGAVGTGAAGCTSGTGGAGTC                V=20%C/40%G/40%A S=80%G/20%C
   mIGHV6A_ 454      CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAGGAAGTGAARMTTGAGGAGTC                R=50%A/50%G M=50%A/50%C
   m|GHV6B 454       CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAGGATGTGAACCTGGAAGTGTC
   m|GHV6C 454       CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAGGAGGAGAAGCTGGATGAGTC
   mIGHV7_454        CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAGGAGGTGMAGCTGRTGGAATC                M=50%A/50%C R=50%A/50%G
   mIGHV8_ 454                                                                    R=50%A/50%G W=20%A/80%T
                     CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAGCAGRTTACTCWGAAASAGTC                S=80%G/20%C
   mIGHV9_454        CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAGCAGATCCAGTTSGTRCAGTC                S=80%G/20%C R=15%A/85%G
   mIGHV1_ 454       CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAGGAGGTGCAGCTTGTTGAGTC
   mIGHV11 454       CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCC4TCAGGAAGTGCAGCTGTTGGAGAC
   mIGHV13 454       CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCC4TCAGSAGGTGCAGCTKGTAGAGAC                5=50%C/50%G K=50%G/50%T
   mIGHV15_454       CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCC4TCAGCAGGTTCACCTACAACAGTC
 5 Table 4: The reverse 454 Phusion primers, complete. The phusion part
   (CTATGCGCCTTGCCAGCCCGCTCAG)            is in italic. The part specific for the murine J segments are in bold.
   Name                     sequence
   mIGHJ1 454               CTATGCGCCTTGCC4GCCCGCTCAGGAGGAGACGGTGACCGTGGTCCC
   m\GHJ2b 454              CTATGCGCCTTGCCAGCCCGCTCAGGAGGAGACTGTGAGAGTGGTGCC
   mIGHJ3454                CTATGCGCCTTGCCAGCCCGCTCAGGCAGAGACAGTGACCAGAGTCCC
   mIGHi4b 454              CTATGCGCC7TGCCAGCCCGCTCAGGAGGAGACGGTGACTGAGGTrCC
   In the PCR, the four reverse JH primers were mixed in equal ratios prior to use. The forward primers
   were not mixed, so 22 PCR reactions were performed. The PCR reaction products were analyzed on
10 gel and it was expected to yield PCR products of 350 to 400 base pairs in length. Some PCR products
   were mixed based on frequency of VH genes in normal repertoires (Table 5, below). The intensities of
   the bands on gel were expected to correspond to the ratios listed in this table and when this was the
   case, PCR products were mixed for sequencing based on volumes. Where intensities of bands on gel
   did not correspond to ratios listed in Table 5, over- or under represented bands could be adjusted. As
15 high throughput sequencing also identifies the primer and the PCR reaction, ratios can always be
   'adjusted' after sequencing and the frequency of each VH gene per PCR reaction analyzed.
   Table 5: PCR products that can be pooled.
    Pool name       Percentage (%)
        1A                 39
         1B

                                                         - 19
        1CD
       1EFG
          2                   4
          34                  7
          5                  15
          6                   1
        7/8                  10
          9                  16
       10/11                  6
       13/15                  2
    Sequence analysis was performed in order to rank all unique VH genes from a single animal,
   immunization, and/or cell population on frequency:
        -    Raw sequences were analyzed to identify those that encode a VH region open reading frame
 5           that at least contains HCDR3 plus some neighboring framework sequence to identify the VH.
             Preferably, the VH region open reading frame contains CDR1 to framework 4
        -    All sequences were translated into amino acid sequences
        -    All sequences were clustered based on identical HCDR3 protein sequence
        -    All clusters were ranked based on number of VH sequences in each cluster
10      -    An alignment of all sequences in each cluster was made based op protein sequences, in which
             differences with the germline VH and germline JH are indicated. All identical sequences in
             the alignment are again clustered.
   This provides information on the most frequently occurring VH gene within a CDR3 cluster. This
   gene may have differences compared to the germline as a result of somatic hypermutation. This gene
15 is chosen for construction and expression with the common VL gene
   High throughput sequencing was performed using Roche 454 sequencing on samples from an
   individual immunized mouse. Other high throughput sequencing methods are available to a skilled
   person and are also suitable for application in the method. In total, 118,546 sequence reads were used
   as a raw data set to first identify sequences that represented full length VH regions or portions thereof
20 encoding at least 75 amino acids. For each sequence within this set, frameworks 2-4 and all 3 CDR
   regions were identified as described (Al-Lazikani et. al., 1997). Sequences were subsequently
   subjected to a number of criteria including the presence of a canonical cysteine residue, the absence of
   stop codons and the minimal length for each CDR regions. All VH regions fulfilling these criteria
   were then clustered to identify the frequency in which each unique CDR3 are used, thereby generating
25 heavy chain CDR3 heat maps. Then, all identical clones in each CDR3 cluster were grouped and
   aligned with the germ line VH sequence. This analysis allows for the identification of abundantly used
   VH genes in large repertoires.

                                                         -20
   Albeit that this analysis can be carried out manually, the use of an algorithm including the above
   instructions greatly facilitates the analysis process (Reddy et al., 2010)
   A total of 18,659 clusters were identified within 30,995 annotated VH sequences and 2,733 clusters
   were found that had more than I member. In addition, 123 clusters had more than 20 members. The
 5 first 40 clusters of these are shown in Table 6. Nine clusters had more than 100 members. The number
   of 30.000 sequences is more than sufficient as many clones appear only once and the experiments are
   aimed at identifying frequent clones. In fact, less than 30.000 sequences would work quite well.
   Alignments of the two largest clusters demonstrated the presence of 100% germline genes and variants
   containing mutations throughout the VH gene (data not shown).
10 Table 6: Example of clusters identified by unique CDR3.
   cluster #                      # identical sequences      HCDR3
   Cluste rO01                              337              YSNYWYFDV
   Cluster002                               212              GGLRGYFDV
   Cluster003                               130              YDSNYWYFDV
   Cluster004                               124              TYDNYGGWFAY
   Cluster005                               116              AGLLGRWYFDV
   ClusterOO6                               116              RDY
   Cluster007                               113              RFGFPY
   ClusterOO8                               103              AITTVVATDY
   Cluster009                               102              AYYYGGDY
   ClusterO10                                99              SGPYYSIRYFDV
   ClusterOll                                91              SEGSSNWYFDV
   ClusterO12                                89              GTLRWYFDV
   ClusterO13                                76              DFYGSSYWYFDV
   ClusterO14                                75              DNWDWYFDV
   ClusterO15                                73              FYDYALYFDV
   ClusterO16                                72              GNYGSSYFDY
   ClusterO17                                72              WKVDYFDY
   Clusterols                                70              GGYWYFDV
   ClusterO19                                69              YKSNYWYFDV
   Cluster020                                66              LLPYWYFDV
   Cluster021                                64              SYYGSSYWYFDV
   Cluster022                                63              GGYYGSRDFDY
   Cluster023                                63              DYDWYFDV
   Cluster024                                61              TYNNYGGWFAY
   Cluster025                                57              GGLYYDYPFAY
   Cluster026                                57              WGDYDDPFDY
   Cluster027                                56              DYYGSSYWYFDV
   Cluster028                                55              EATY
   Cluster029                                S2              YGSSYWYFDV
   Cluster030                                52              WGYGSKDAMDY
   ClusterO31                                51              WGRELGNYFDY
   ClusterO32                               49               YGNYWYFDV
   Cluster033                               48               TVTTGIYYAMDY

                                                        -21
   cluster #                      # identical sequences     HCDR3
   ClusterO34                               48              HYYSNYVWWYFDV
   Cluster035                               47              GALRGYFDV
   ClusterO36                               47              HYYGSTWFAY
   Cluster037                               45              LGAYGNFDY
   Cluster038                               44              REFAY
   Cluster039                               43              EAAYYFDY
   Cluster04O                               43              GSLRGYFDV
   Example 2: Deep sequence analysis and frequency ranking of VI- genes expressed in marine
   IgG+ spleen B cells using a single primer set
 5 In this example, a primer specific for the IgG CHI constant region was used to interrogate the
   repertoire of VH gene sequences expressed in IgG+ memory B cells in the spleen of mice immunized
   with the ErbB2-Fc fusion protein. At the 5' end of the mRNA an oligonucleotide primer was annealed
   to a triple guanine stretch that was added to each mRNA by an MMLV reverse transcriptase. This 5'
   primer introduces a priming site at the 5'end of all cDNAs. Using this approach, amplifications of all
10 VH regions expressed in IgG+ B cells can be done using the 5' primer and the CHI primer, preventing
   a potential bias introduced by the use of a large number of VH family-specific primers and focusing
   the analysis on a population of B cells that has apparently undergone activation and isotype switching
   as a result of stimulation with antigen.
   Wild-type C57BL/6 mice were immunized intraperitoneally with ErbB2-Fc protein (I 129ER, R&D
15 systems) dissolved in Titermax Gold adjuvant (TMG, Sigma Aldrich, T2684) on days 0, 14, and 28
   and with ErbB2-Fc in PBS at day 42. Total splenic B cells were purified on day 45 by MACS
   procedure as detailed in Example 1. The total splenic B cell fraction from successfully-immunized
   mice, as determined by serum antibody titers in ELISA, contained 5-10% IgG+ B cells. This material
   was used to optimize the PCR conditions.
20 Transgenic mice containing the human HuVKl-39 light chain, as described in (W02009/157771) were
   either immunized with EGFR-Fc fusion protein (R&D Systems, Cat no 334-ER) emulsified in
   Titermax Gold adjuvant (TMG, Sigma Aldrich, T2684) or, as a control, with Titermax Gold adjuvant
    emulsified with PBS at an interval of 14 days. The latter group was included to identify the VH
    repertoire of B cells responding to the adjuvant alone. Mice were three times immunized with EGFR
25  Fe/adjuvant emulsion or adjuvant emulsion alone on days 0, 14 and 28. At day 35 the anti-EGFR
    serum titer was determined by FACS using standard procedures. Mice that had developed at day 35 a
    serum titer >1/1.000 received a final intraperitoneal boost with EGFR-Fc protein dissolved in PBS at
    day 42 followed by collection of spleen at day 45 for isolation of splenic B cells. Splenic B cells were

                                                        - 22
   isolated from the total spleen by positive selection using mouse CD19-specific magnetic beads. The
   splenic B cell fraction was lyzed in Trizol LS to isolate total RNA.
   After RNA isolation cDNA was prepared (cell populations from HuVxl-39 light chain transgenic
   mice and mock and control/test sample with similar cell population) using MMLV reverse
 5 transcriptase in the presence of primers mouse CHI rev 0, 1 , 2 or 3 together with MMLV 454 fw
   (Table 7). Four different primers were tested to identify the one that resulted in optimal cDNA yields
   and PCR products; MMLV was designed to contain the 3' GGG stretch similar to the Clontech
                                                                         TM
   primers, deleting cloning sites but adding 454 sequences (SMARTer         RACE cDNA Amplification
   Kit, Cat#634924, Clontech).
10 As a control, cDNA was also prepared using the standard Cloitech protocol; the SMARTer PCR
   cDNA synthesis kit using the SMARTer II A oligo together with the gene specific CHI rev 0, 1, 2 or 3
   primers (SMARTer TM RACE cDNA Amplification Kit, Cat#634924, Clontech). Using standard
   procedures, the optimal PCR cycle number and optimal primer combination were determined. The
   Clontech protocol was followed for PCR conditions.
15 Next, material from immunized HuVKI-39 light chain transgenic mice and mock-immunized mice
   was amplified under optimal conditions. Preferably amplifications were carried out with a reverse
   primer upstream from the primer used in cDNA synthesis to obtain a more specific PCR product
   (nested PCR). cDNA was cloned in pJET according to the manufacturer's instructions (CloneYET PCR
   cloning kit, Fermentas #K1232) and Sanger-sequence 100 clones. PCR product of material derived
20 from the immunized and mock-immunized animals was purified and used for 454 sequencing. The
   data were analyzed and used to construct CDR3 heat maps are constructed as described in example 1.
   Table 7: Primers used in this study. Primer MMLV 454 fw hybridizes at the 5'end of the mRNA. The
   position of the CHI rev primers is indicated in Figure 1.
   number            Name                      Sequence
   DO_1165           MMLV 454 fw               CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAGGGG
   DO_1166           454 fw                    CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAG
   DO_1167           mouse CH1 rev 0           TGATGGGGGTGTTGTTTTGG
   DO_1168           mouse CHI rev 1           CAGGGGCCAGTGGATAGAC
   DO_1169           mouse CHI rev 2           GCCCTTGACCAGGCATCC
   DO1170            mouse CH1 rev 3           CTGGACAGGGATCCAGAGTTC
   DO_1171           mouse CH1 454 rev 0       CTATGCGCCTTGCCAGCCCGCTCAGTGATGGGGGTGTTGTTTrGG
   DO1172            mouse CHI 454 rev 1       CTATGCGCCTTGCCAGCCCGCTCAGCAGGGGCCAGTGGATAGAC
   DO_1173           mouse CHI 454 rev 2       CTATGCGCCTTGCCAGCCCGCTCAGGCCCTTGACCAGGCATCC
   DO_1174           mouse CHI 454 rev 3       CTATGCGCCTTGCCAGCCCGCTCAGCTGGACAGGGATCCAGAGTTC
   DO_1175           smart IV oligo            AAGCAfG(TGTATCAACGCAGAGTGGCCATTACGGCCGGG
   DO_1176           smart IV oligo short      AAGCA(GTGGTATCAACGCAGAGTGGG
   DO 1177           5PCR primer 454           CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAGAAGCAGTGGTATCAACGCAGAGT

                                                         - 23
   Legends:           454 5' sequence           CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAG
                      454 3' sequence           CTATGCGCCTTGCCAGCCCGCTCAG
                      SMART sequence           AAGCAGT GGTA*TCAACGCAGAGT
                      Sfil                      GGCCATTACGGCC
   The results of these experiments yield heavy chain CDR3 heat maps that represent sequences used by
   B cells that have undergone activation and isotype switching as a result of stimulation by antigen. The
   VH region sequences present in the most frequently-occurring clusters derived from the transgenic
 5 mice containing the human IGVK1-39 light chain can be used to combine with the sequence of human
   IGVKI-39 light chain to collections of human monoclonal antibodies enriched for antibodies specific
   for EGFR.
   Example 3: Deep sequence analysis and frequency ranking of VHI genes expressed in murine
10 IgG+ spleen B cells without VH family specific primers
   For this example, the objective was to optimize deep sequencing technology of IgG VIH genes by
   using amplifications based on primers that amplify all Ig heavy chains and thus to prevent potential
   bias introduced by VIH family specific primers,
   Antibody VH gene amplification for phage display library generation uses primers that append
15 restriction sites for cloning to VI- genes at the required position within the genes. This requires primer
   annealing sites within the VH genes and therefore VH family specific primers. In example I such
   primer sequences were used. A downside of the use of VH family primers is that they amplify a subset
   of all VIH genes in the repertoire. As a large collection of primers and PCR reactions is used to amplify
   all genes and the PCR products are mixed afterwards, this will result in skewing of the ratios of the
20 VH genes originally present in the samples and therefore over/under representation of VH genes in the
   final sequenced repertoire. To circumvent these problems in this study the RACE (Rapid
   Amplification of cDNA Ends) amplification protocol was used in combination with an IgG 1-CH I
   specific primer set. The SMARTer RACE kit (Clontech; cat # 634923 & # 634924) was used which
   couples a 5' synthetic adaptor to the mRNA. The SMARTScribe RT enzyme produces a copy of the
25 RNA transcript. The SMARTScribe RT starts the cDNA synthesis from the IgG mRNA at an anti
   sense primer that recognizes a known sequence in the IgG mRNA such as the poly A tail in this study.
   When the SMARTScribe RT enzyme reaches the 5'end of the IgG RNA template it adds 3 to 5
   residues to the 3' end of the first-strand cDNA. The SMARTer oligo I[A contains a terminal stretch of
   modified bases that anneals to this extended tail added by the SMARTScribe RT, allowing the oligo to
30 serve as a template for the RT. Subsequently the SMARTScribe RT switches templates from the
   mRNA molecule to the SMARTer oligo IIA, generating a complete double strand cDNA copy of the

                                                          - 24
     original RNA with the additional SMARTer sequence at the end. Thereafter, for PCR amplification of
     VI- cDNA, an oligo that anneals to the 5' SMART sequence on one end of the cDNA (5 PCRprimer
     454) and an IgG-CHI specific primer at the other end of the cDNA are applied (Table 8). In this way
     the VH regions from IgG heavy chains are amplified with just one primer combination, independent
  5  from VH family specific primers, and in this case a primer specific for the IgG CHI constant region
     was used to interrogate the repertoire of VH gene sequences expressed in IgG+ memory B cells in the
     spleen of mice immunized with the ErbB2-Fc fusion protein. In the best case the IgG-CHI specific
     reverse primer should anneal as close as possible to the VH gene to increase the chance that the full
     VH gene can be sequenced.
10   Samples for deep sequencing were obtained from two immunized transgenic mice carrying the human
     huVkl-39 light chain; mice were numbered mouse 1145 and mouse 1146. Briefly, transgenic mice
     containing the human HuVKI-39 light chain, as described in (W02009/157771) were immunized with
     EGFR-Fc fusion protein (R&D Systems, Cat no 334-ER) emulsified in Titermax Gold adjuvant
     (TMG, Sigma Aldrich, T2684). Mice were three times immunized with EGFR-Fc/adjuvant emulsion
15  on days 0, 14 and 28. At day 35 the anti-EGFR serum titer was determined by FACS using standard
    procedures. Mice that had developed at day 35 a serum titer >1/1.000 received a final intraperitoneal
    boost with EGFR-Fc protein dissolved in PBS at day 42 followed by collection of spleen at day 45 for
     isolation of splenic B cells. Splenic B cells were isolated from the total spleen by positive selection
    using mouse CD19-specific magnetic beads. The splenic B cell fraction was lyzed in Trizol LS to
20  isolate total RNA according to standard procedures.
    cDNA was synthesized from these RNA samples using the SMARTer RACE cDNA Amplification kit
    according to manufacturer's instructions to come to so-called RACE-Ready cDNA. This RACE-ready
    cDNA was subsequently amplified by PCR according to manufacturer's instructions and the SMART
    specific primer (Table 8) and one of several IgG CHI specific primers were used to establish which
25  lgG-CH 1 specific primer amplifies the lgG transcript best. The IgG-CHI1 specific reverse primers
    DO_ 1171 to DO_ 1174 containing the 3' 454 sequences were tested and as a forward primer the
    SMART tag specific primer containing the 5' Roche 454 sequencing tag (DO 1177) was used (see
    table 8 and Figure 1) (SMARTer"       RACE cDNA Amplification Kit, Cat# 634923 & 634924,
    Clontech). The PCR schedule used is shown in Table 9.
30   Table 8: Primers used in this study. The position of the CH1 rev primers is indicated in Figure 1.
    number           Name                    Sequence
    DO_1171          mouse CHI 454 rev 0     CTA TGCGCCTTGCCAGCCCGCTCA  GTGATGGGGGTGTTGTTTTGG
    DO_1172          mouse CHI 454 rev 1     CTATGCGCCTTGCC4GCCCGCTCAGCAGGGGCCAGTGGATAGAC
    00_1173          mouse CHI 454 rev 2     CTATGCGCCTTGCCAGCCCGCTCAGGCCCTTGACCAGGCATCC
    DO1174           mouse CHI 454 rev 3     CTATGCGCCTTGCCAGCCCGCTCAGCTGGACAGGGATCCAGAGTTC

                                                        - 25
   DO 1177          5PCR primer 454         CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAGAAGCAGTGGTATCAACGCAGAGT
   Legends:       454 5' sequence             CGTATCGCCTCCCTCGCGCCATCAG
                  454 3' sequence             CTATGCGCCTTGCCAGCCCGCTCAG
                  SMART sequence              AAGCAGTGGTATCAACGCAGAGT
   Table 9. PCR schedule.
   Step         Temperature                 Time                                  Number of cycles
   1            980 C                       30 seconds                                        1
   2            980 C                       25 seconds
   3            720 C- 540 C                25 seconds                                       10
                                            50 seconds                                  Touchdown
   4            72cC
   5            980 C                       25 seconds
   6            580 C                       25 seconds                                       14
   8            720 C                       50 seconds
   9            720 C                       3 minutes                                         1
                  0                                                              __
   10           16 C
   PCR results are shown in Figure 2 demonstrating that DO_1171 did not give a PCR product, whereas
   the other three all gave an abundant PCR product, see Figure 2. It was concluded that DO_ 1172 is the
 5 best option to amplify the VH region, since this primer is closest to the VH gene and produces in PCR
   a clear and specific band.
   The PCR was performed several times on template (Table 9) to obtain enough material (500-1000 ng)
   for deep sequencing. To determine the DNA concentration after PCR, a fluorimetric quantification of
   DNA was performed. In this case, Quant-IT Picogreen dsDNA (Invitrogen P7589) measurements were
10 performed using a Biotek Synergy. PCR product of material derived from the immunized animals
   (samples 1145 and 1146) was subsequently sent to Eurofins MWG Operon (www.eurofinsdna.com)
   for high throughput sequencing.
   Eurofins first ligated barcoded linkers to each of the two samples. In this way both samples could be
   sequenced in one chip-segment, thereby reducing costs. With this layout Eurofins provided sequencing
15 with GS FLX+ technology where length read is 600-700 bp on average.
   Deep sequencing revealed more than 50.000 reads per mouse and data were analysed as explained in
   example 1. Table 10 provides the 25 largest clusters from two of the analyzed samples.

                                                - 26
Table 10: Cluster size, HCDR3 sequence and VH genes used are presented from cDNA samples from
mouse 1145 and 1146. #/25 provides the frequency of the VH gene in 25 clusters.

        03                                                                                                                                                                                                 N
        N            N~       H-      m         H                    m       m-i
                                                    cC:
                            N,        mm        M 3      Nn     H    H                      COW            30             H      H             -1      -4N                                F          T        Ho q '
                    uo        0i                c6 0303033p                         oo           op C o 0         3<    ob                     <0<                         <       w w
                                         00             mo in     n   in    Ln     in        LO L 0      03030               0         Lf                      "'"'               (D                 0    n Lt
                           m -mm                                                                                                                                             m> m > >                    >       c
                                   >-                                                     V
                    CL                          w-     LL                                 (-n(
               0    >-0j>                                                                                                                                                 L>                                   >   zU
                                                                    Z               03>                        LL      03                                                    Z             m       >
                    ujL 0                         -       -Ln       r                                                  Ln      r-,     o~ D            r-43 (0) 030          H,    r-4     m      0m
                    r- N      I H                                                                                                                                                                          H4
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                     H 1r           M~   '-03                 Nn         0(    030 OH              N      mO IT       03W                N'      00           a)    OH         N~         M     'T03
                           00            0               0     0      00                 H- H    H      H      H       H-      H       H-       H-      H-    N       N      N     N      N        N
     HZ
                                                            a     w. wi      wi     wi     vi    wi     w                  ci     wi       wi     i       wi    wi      wj      c     wi     wi
    C-                               wJ   wj    wj
                                                         -4 44       -4 4-                 -4    -4    4-4    4     4   4      4         "     4         4    4                             4      4
            0.       4          -     4   - 4    -                                  -
                             L        A   L       A      L      A    L         A    L       A    L        A       A     L        A     L         A      L       A     L        A   L        A      L
               EA
                                                                    -2                                      Z)-                   i.      -2              -2                              2
                         u -
    ('3                              2                                                        uU
            LA                      u     u     u       C-u       u      u       u      u               U      L.      U       U       U       U       u      U       U      U     u      u        u
        03
                                                -                                    H
                                                                                                                                                                             0
         wi          03       03           03     03     03     CO 03D w3            03     03     0      03      03      03     03      W       03          t0        ow l H                              c. 3 0   4
                                  -,                                        4,                       4  !;Q    -,     L      n  n    n                                 q                 >    -,       Lq
         ci                                                                                                    >                       >>
                                                                                                                                       >       >
         a)                                  >                                                          0         L                    LL    IC.    CC                >
                :3                  >                                                                                  >
                                  030>                                      >0                 Z0                                              Ln   0V) >       0
                     a-       03
                                      -0  w >wI       00 3
                                                          -   Hn
                                                                3      0
                                                                     LI.        3
                                                                                   =>
                                                                                        3       -B
                                                                                                 >                     t;
                                                                                                                       V)      Ln      5             0                 ;      E
                                                                                                                                                                                           VZZ     W     n V
            0)              ,         m     03    03     0    m     0     0    CO    03     N    0        N       0       03     03      m       N       N      m3     03      w3   N       m        N
                0 N                 :I.     Nn1, r     m N H          m3       H     0       m3    a)     w3      CO      Nl     N       03      03      w      0      m       'r    -I     IT       'IT   H
         M       7)    H      CO      n     'M    M       M     M     N        N     N       H     H      H4      H       H-     H       H-      H-      H      H-     Hi      H     H      H-       H-      4
        U
                                                    Lnv
                                                      0     000                                  H H H       H      H H        H       H        H-      H--         N N      N     N      N       (N
   H4E                  00               00
aii        2                        2222                2     2                02         2     22            222o-2                          2                    ?222                   ?2 2
                     w       0IC     w    w                                           i    a       j            (         j    W                W       W     W       0a

                                                       -28
The results from Table 10 show that different VH genes were amplified and sequenced in the PCR and
deep sequencing procedures. Sample 1145 contains many clusters within the 25 largest clusters that
use the J558.66.165 gene. Sample 1146 contains a large diversity of VH genes with 12 different VH
genes in which each is present between one and four times within the 25 largest clusters. These results
suggest that the method allows unbiased amplification and analysis of IgG VH repertoires.
To conclude, these experiments resulted in a ranking of the most frequent VHs that represent
sequences used by B cells that have undergone activation and isotype switching as a result of
stimulation by antigen. The VH region sequences present in the most frequently-occurring clusters
derived from the transgenic mice containing the human IGVK1-39 light chain can be used to combine
with the sequence of human IGVI-39 light chain to collections of human monoclonal antibodies
enriched for antibodies specific for EGFR.
Example 4: Immunization strategies for the construction of reliable VH CDR3 heat maps
A broad array of Immunization methods is available that use various formats of antigen in
combination with adjuvant to optimize the antigen-specific immune response in animals. For the
ranking of frequently used heavy chain genes optimally representing VH regions from B cells that
have expanded as a result of stimulation with the antigen of interest, it is critical that immunization
protocols are used that focus the immune response on said antigen or even on an epitope of said
antigen. Thus, the use of antigens fused or coupled to carrier proteins (such as Fe fusion proteins or
proteins coupled to carriers like Keyhole Limpet Hemocyanine, known in the art) is to be avoided or
restricted to a single step in the immunization procedure like a single primary immunization or a single
booster immunization.      It is expected that even limited activation of B cells through the use of carrier
or fusion proteins or adjuvant may show up in ranked VH sequences/HCDR3 heat maps, thereby
contaminating the analysis. Ideally, the immunizations are thus performed with 'essentially pure
antigens'. The present example demonstrates that single or repeated immunization with an antigen
fused to an Fc-portion indeed results in expansion of irrelevant B cells, i.e. B cells that react with the
Fc-portion rather than with the antigen of interest.
Single human VL transgenic mice (group 1) and wildtype mice (group 2) were immunized with the
EGFR overexpressing tumor cell line A431 on days 0 and day 14 (2xl0E6 A431 cells in 200 l PBS),
followed by ip immunization with Fc-EGFR fusion protein emulsified in Titermax Gold. At day 35,
serum was collected and tested in ELISA for the presence of anti-Fc antibodies.

                                                    - 29
As control, a third group of mice comprising both single human VL transgenic mice and wildtype
mice (group 3) were immunized with Fc-EGFR fusion protein only on days 0, 14, 28, 42 and 52. At
day 56, serum was collected and tested in ELISA for the presence of anti-Fc antibodies.
The results (Figure 3) show that even after a single immunization with Fc-EGFR, antibodies against
the Fc portion are detected in groups 1 and 2. Although the levels of anti-Fc antibodies in these two
groups were lower than the levels of anti-Fc as observed in group 3, the VH regions encoding these
anti-Fc antibodies will be found in CDR3 heat maps, constructed as described in example 1. If so
desired, such Fc-specific binders can either be circumvented by using essentially pure antigens such as
in DNA tattoo or by elimination of Fc-specific binders from the population of B cells prior to VH
sequence analysis.
Example 5: DNA vaccination by tattooing
DNA vaccination exploits plasmid DNA encoding a protein antigen to induce an immune response
against said protein antigen. There is no need for purification of proteins for immunization and
proteins, including membrane proteins, are expressed in their natural configuration on a cell
membrane (Jechlinger et al., 2006/Quaak, et al., 2008/Stevenson et al., 2004).
In this example, we have used DNA tattoo vaccination, an invasive procedure involving a solid
vibrating needle loaded with plasmid DNA that repeatedly punctures the skin, wounding both the
epidermis and the upper dermis and causing cutaneous inflammation followed by healing (Bins
2005/Pokorna 2008). Here we used DNA tattoo vaccination strategies to induce antibody responses in
mice. The goal was to assess the quality of the antibody response in the absence or presence of
adjuvant. As described in example 4, for the construction of adequate CDR3 heat maps, it is desirable
to focus the antibody response on the antigen of interest, omitting the use of adjuvant that causes
clonal expansion of unwanted B cells.
For tattoo vaccination, plasmids encoding human ErbB2 and plasmids encoding influenza virus
Hemagglutinin (HA) were used. Three DNA tattoo vaccination strategies were tested to optimize the
priming and boosting of the immune response: (A) vaccination with vector DNA encoding the ErbB2
or HA antigen, (B) vaccination of vector DNA encoding ErbB2 or HA together with an adjuvant or
(C) heterologous prime-boost vaccination with DNA encoding ERbB2 or HA followed by a boost with
purified ErbB2 or HA protein in TM Gold adjuvant. In addition, control group (group D) mice were
immunized with purified ErbB2 or HA in TM Gold adjuvant. To establish an optimized DNA tattoo
vaccination protocol the following immunization protocols were used:

                                                    -30
Group A (DNA only): In this group, mice were vaccinated on day 0, 3, and 6 with plasmid DNA
encoding ErbB2 or HA in the absence of adjuvant followed by a boost with the same DNA after four
weeks. No adjuvant was used.
Group B (DNA + genetic adjuvant): To test if an adjuvant increases the priming of the humoral
immune response, plasmid DNA encoding TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBKI) was co-vaccinated with
ErbB2 or HA plasmid DNA. It has been shown that TBKI acts as an adjuvant for DNA vaccination
using a gene gun (Ishii et al., 2009). Comparison of group B with group A will reveal what impact the
genetic adjuvant has on the generation of antibodies specific for HA or ErB2. Animals in group B
were DNA vaccinated at same time points as those in group A. To examine the contribution of genetic
adjuvant in priming of the immune system, plasmid DNA encoding TBK-l was mixed in a 1:1 ratio
with pVAX1-ErbB2 or pVAXI-HA and subsequently administrated by DNA tattoo. To this end mice
are vaccinated with 20 jig pTBK-1 and 20 pg pVAXI-ErbB2 or pVAXI-HA in 10 pl PBS.
Group C (DNA + protein): In this group a heterologous prime-boost protocol with DNA tattoo
followed by intraperitoneal (i.p.) protein boost was tested to examine if a final protein boost is
required to induce an antigen-specific serum IgG titer of> 1/1000 and if this boost is necessary to
efficiently induce splenic memory B cells. I.p. injection is the direct immunization route to the spleen.
So, by first priming the immune system by DNA vaccination ErbB2 or HA is presented to the immune
system as in vivo expressed protein. Subsequently, the primed immune system was boosted with
ErbB2 or HA in adjuvant via the i.p. injection route to induce a systemic immune reaction.
Comparison of group C to A reveals the impact of the systemic boost on 1) antigen-specific IgG serum
titer and 2) on generation of the splenic memory B cell compartment.
Immunization and first boost with pVAXI-ErbB2 or pVAXI-HA were carried out according to the
scheme described for group A. Subsequently mice are boosted at day 28 and day 42 with 20 pig of
protein in 200 pl emulsion of TitermaxGold adjuvant or in 200 pl PBS, respectively, administrated via
ip injection. For HA vaccination mice were injected with 20 ptg HA (Meridian life Science Inc, Cat no
R01249). For ErbB2 mice were injected with 20 ltg of a truncated ErbB2 protein: the extra cellular
domain (ECD, aa23-652) of ErbB2 fused to FC-tail (R&D systems, Cat no 1 129ER).
Group D (protein): In this control group mice were vaccinated i.p. with ErbB2 or HA in adjuvant.
Material from this group served as positive control for the analyses of the samples from groups A-C.
At day 0, 14 and 28 mice were vaccinated with 20 pg of ErbB2 or HA in 200 lpemulsion of
TitermaxGold adjuvant. For final boost, mice received 20 jig of ErbB2 or HA dissolved in 200 pl
PBS.

                                                      - 31
Serum titer and affinity were determined after each boost by ELISA and FACS respectively using
standard protocols (Middendorp et al., 2002). To study affinity maturation during the vaccination
protocol, the relative affinity of the polyclonal antigen-specific-IgG serum was determined by ELISA.
The efficacy and quality of memory B cell induction at the end of each vaccination strategy was
examined by FACS in spleen and draining inguinal lymph node (iLN) as described (Middendorp et al.,
2002).
All ErbB2 DNA immunized mice developed an anti-ErbB2 IgG serum titer > 10,000 after two
immunization rounds (Figure 4A-C), indicating that two rounds of DNA immunization via tattoo are
sufficient to induce a strong anti-ErbB2 antibody response. The results show protein immunized mice
develop a strong anti-ERbB2 IgG serum titer at day 21 (Figure 4D).
A third immunization round at day 28 with DNA (groups Al and B1) resulted in a further increase of
the anti-ErbB2 IgG serum titer at day 35 (seven days after third vaccination round) and day 45 (end
point) (Figure 4A and 4B). In group BI we found that co-administration of the ErbB2 expression
vector (group Al) together with a DNA-adjuvant (the pBoost3 vector encoding the TBK1 protein),
would boost the antibody response against ErbB2. Comparison of the anti-ErbB2 serum titer in time
showed that the mice in the groups Al and B11 developed a comparable anti-ErbB2 serum titer (Figure
4E-G). This indicated that for the ErbB2 antigen co-administration of the pBoost3 vector failed to
enhance the polyclonal anti-ErbB2 IgG serum titer. The mice in group Cl first received two
immunization rounds (day 0 and 14) with DNA followed by a boost (at day 28) with ErbB2-Fc protein
emulsified with TitermaxGold adjuvant. This protein boost at day 28 resulted in a strong increase of
the anti-ErbB2 IgG serum titer at day 35 (after third immunization at day 28) and day 45 (end point)
(Figure 4C). At day 35 the serum titer of group Cl (DNA - protein) was higher compared to the DNA
only vaccinated mice (groups Al and BI) and marginal lower compared to protein only immunized
mice (group Dl). At day 45 the serum titers of the groups C1 (DNA and protein) and DI (protein
only) were comparable.
All mice that were immunized with the HA antigen via the four vaccination strategies developed a
strong anti-HA IgG serum titer at day 21 (data not shown) and 35 (Figure 5). The anti-HA IgG serum
titer between the DNA (group A2) and DNA + adjuvant (group B2) strategies were comparable.
Moreover, DNA vaccination followed by a boost with HA protein emulsified with Titermax Gold
(group C2) or three times immunization with protein (group 02) gave higher serum titer than DNA
only vaccination. In summary, the similarities and differences between the four mice groups
vaccinated with HA antigen were comparable to the results observed for the ErbB2 vaccinated mice in
terms of antigen specific IgG serum titer.

                                                     - 32
To further compare the vaccination strategies we compared the polyclonal anti-ErbB2 IgG serum
based on relative affinity. The relative affinity was measured in day 45 sera samples, obtained three
days after the final boost. The relative affinity was determined by ELISA by incubating at a fixed
serum dilution on an ErbB2 antigen titration starting at 0.5 ig/ml. The selected fixed serum dilution
was based on the serum dilution at which the sera reached the plateau using a fixed concentration of
ErbB2 antigen in ELISA(0.5 pig/ml) . The fixed serum dilution was 1:1,500 for groups Al and B1, and
1:20,000 for the groups Cl and D1. To compare the individual groups we calculated and plotted the
relative binding based on the reduction of absorbance versus the antigen dilution range. For each
antigen concentration we calculated the relative binding, the OD of 0.5 4g/ml was set to 100%.
First we compared DNA vaccination with (group B1) and without DNA adjuvant (group Al) (Figure
6A). No difference was observed in the relative binding between the groups that received DNA (group
A 1) or DNA + adjuvant (group Bl). This indicated that the DNA adjuvant did not enhance the affinity
of the polyclonal serum. In addition, to compare the contribution of priming of the immune response
with DNA followed by a protein boost we compared the sera of DNA-protein (group Cl) and protein
(group DI) (Figure 6B). The relative binding was significant higher for group Cl than for group D1 (p
< 0,00 1 at antigen concentrations 0.0625 and 0.0313 pg/ml). This suggested that the relative affinity of
the polyclonal serum was on average higher for mice in group Cl than for mice in group D1.
Isolation and analysis of tissues from immunized mice: Total splenic and total inguinal lymph node
fractions from ErbB2 and HA vaccinated mice were collected and saved in Trizol LS. The draining
inguinal lymph node from the tattooed leg was isolated and saved in Trizol LS. In addition we
enriched the splenic IgG B cell fraction by MACS from mice immunized using strategy C1 and C2.
Finally we determined the fraction of splenic IgG+ B cells in all ErbB2 and HA vaccinated mice, To
isolate the splenic IgG+ B cells we performed a two step MACS purification. In the first step we
depleted the non-B cell using biotinylated non-B cell specific antibodies. In the second step we
enriched the splenic IgG B cells using anti-IgGl and anti-lgG2ab specific antibodies. Table 11 gives an
overview from which mice the splenic IgG (IgGI and IgG2ab) B cells were isolated. Purity of the
isolated IgG fractions was determined by FACS using B cell specific and IgGI/lgG2ab specific
antibodies. The % Ig B cells was determined by staining a fraction of cells alter the depletion step.
Table 11 summarizes the yield and purity of the isolated IgG+ B cell fractions per mouse and antigen
used for immunization.
Table 11: yield and purity of the isolated IgG+ B cell fractions
  Strategy and           Antigen         Animal        %B cells/total  %IgG B cells/B      Total igG
  experimental group                    number            life gate       cell gate      cells (E+0.6)
  DNA and protein          ErbB2           31               68,46           30,27             1,36
  DNA and protein          ErbB2           32               67,37           39,96             1,76

                                                    -  33
  DNA  and  protein        ErbB2           33               20,78          61,75            3,63
  DNA  and  protein        ErbB2           34               72,97          73,67            1,17
  DNA  and  protein        ErbB2           35               86,67          77,34             ND
  DNA  and  protein        ErbB2           36               84,98          82,12             ND
  DNA  and  protein        ErbB2           37               85,03          74,32             ND
  DNA  and  protein         HA             38               90,41          55,48            2,09
  DNA  and  protein          HA            40               92,60          49,09            1,17
  DNA  and  protein         HA             41               86,03          47,02            0,84
  DNA  and  protein         HA             42               88,46          46,99            1,21
To examine what protocol gives the best induction of the memory B cell compartment, we examined
the size of IgG B cell compartment in the spleen and the iLN per each vaccination strategy by FACS.
We used a cocktail of anti-IgGI-FITC and anti-lgG2ab-FITC monoclonals to visualize the IgG B cell
fraction. Table 12 gives an overview of the percentages B cells within the lymphocyte gate and the
percentages IgG B cells within the B cell fraction per mouse and tissue.
Table 12: IgG+ B cell fraction in the spleen and lymp node of ErbB2 vaccinated mice
  Group                  Animal                  Spleen                             iLN
                         number      %B cells/        % IgG+ B cells/ % B cells/       % lgG+ B cells/
                                     lympho. gate lympho. gate        lympho. gate     lympho, gate
  DNA (Al)               1           57,50            1,27            58,26            1,86
  DNA (Al)               2           51,81            1,09            51,09            2,80
  DNA (Al)               3           54,05            1,32            58,93            2,43
  DNA (Al)               4           54,06            1,73            55,24            2,93
  DNA (Al)               5           54,93            2,72            53,78            6,45
  DNA (Al)               6           58,68            1,98            53,89            2,90
  DNA (Al)               7           56,46            5,92            52,01            10,74
  DNA+ Adju (B1)         17          49,05            4,33            51,04            7,02
  DNA + Adju (B1)        17          55,84            1,55            53,80            4,38
  DNA+ Adju (B1)         18          44,13            4,05            54.78            6,31
  DNA + Adju (B1)        19          34,99            5,56            53,39            15,47
  DNA+ Adju (Bi)         20          51,81            1,41            60,30            2,40
  DNA + Adju (B1)        21          54,13            1,21            56,35            2,84
  DNA + Adju (B1)        22          58,34            2,11            62,29            1,80
  DNA + protein (Cl)     31          48,99            6,26            54,12            6,49
  DNA + protein (C1)     32          49,76            7,38            51,79            7,67
  DNA + protein (Cl)     33          45,94            12,76           45,14            4,19
  DNA + protein (C1)     34          30.50            16,07           44,83            10,91
  DNA + protein (Cl)     35          43,48            26,62           44,60            8,16
  DNA + protein (Cl)     36          41,12            24,07           45,13            11,00
  DNA + protein (Cl)     37          30,50            21,10           30,82            9,17

                                                       - 34
The mice from group CI (DNA-protein) that received a correct i.p. boost with ErbB2-Fc protein at
day28 (mice 35-37) had the largest fraction of IgG+ B cells per splenic B cell population. This was
expected as i.p. injection is the direct route of the antigen to the spleen. The percentages of IgG+ B
cells in the iLN of group Al (DNA) and BI (DNA + adjuvant) ranged between 1.8-15.47 with an
averaged IgG+ B cell fraction of 4.3 and 5.7 for group Al or B1, respectively. Interestingly, the mice
from group Al and B 1 with the highest fraction of IgG+ B cells in the iLN also contained a higher
percentage of splenic IgG+ B cells. Analysis of the percentages of IgG B cells in the iLN of the HA
vaccinated mice showed that these mice had on average comparable percentages of IgG+ B cells per
all iLN B cells as found in the Al and Bl groups. The averaged percentages of IgG+ B cells in the
iLN of DNA vaccinated (group A2) and the DNA+adjuvant vaccinated (group B2) mice was 5.0 and
3.0, respectively. Figure 7 gives a comparison of the percentages IgG B cells/ iLN B cells per
vaccination strategy and per antigen. In summary, these data showed that the draining iLN of DNA
only (group A) of DNA+adjuvant (group B) vaccinated mice had a significant fraction of IgG+ B
cells. Mice that received a protein boost (group C) contained a larger IgG+ B cell population in spleen
and iLN.
We conclude that mice that were vaccinated with DNA or vaccinated with DNA and boosted with
protein developed a strong antigen specific IgG serum titer. The relative affinity of the sera against
ErbB2 can be significantly enhanced using a DNA + protein immunization protocol instead of a
protein immunization protocol. The small variation of the antigen IgG serum titer between individual
DNA vaccinated mice shows that the DNA tattoo method has been carried out consistently. DNA
vaccination with ERbB2and HA both resulted in strong antigen specific antibody response,
It was reported that the adjuvant effect of plasmid DNA is mediated by its double-stranded structure,
which activates Tbkl-dependent innate immune signaling pathways in the absence of HRs (Ishii et al.,
2008). Therefore, co-administration of a TbkI-expressing plasmid was expected to further boost DNA
vaccine-induced immunogenicity. In our setting, we did not observe a beneficial effect of the co
administration of the Tbkl encoding pBoost3 vector. Co-administration of pBoost3 together with the
antigen encoding vector failed to result in a higher serum titer, increased relative affinity or enhanced
IgG B cell formation.
FACS analysis showed that the draining ilN in a mouse vaccinated with only DNA (group A and B)
contains a significant IgG+ B cell fraction. However the number of IgG B cells that can be isolated
from a single draining ilN is very limited due to the size of an ilN. Moreover, the fraction of IgG+ B
cells in the ilN varied significantly between individual DNA vaccinated mice. This could be the results
 of variation in administration of DNA via DNA tattoo. Interestingly, the mice with a high percentage
 of ilN IgG+ B cells also had a higher percentage of splenic IgG+ B cells. Another strategy to obtain a
 larger number of IgG+ B cells is to boost the DNA vaccinated mice once with protein emulsified in

                                                     - 35
TitermaxGold. The mice that were vaccinated with DNA and protein (group C) developed a
significant splenic IgG+ B cell fraction (in addition to a large ilN IgG+ B cell fraction). If no protein is
available to for boost immunizations, mice can be boosted with cells expressing the antigen or virus
like particles expressing the antigen.
In conclusion, DNA vaccination via DNA tattooing is an effective and robust vaccination strategy to
induce an antigen specific humoral immune response. The mice that were vaccinated with only DNA
(group A) developed a detectable IgG+ B cell fraction.
Example 6: Construction of eukaryotic vectors for the efficient production of single VL
bispecific human monoclonal antibodies
One aspect of the present invention concerns the possibility of using sequence information from VH
gene frequency analysis and/or HCDR3 heat maps to generate panels of antibodies in a desirable
therapeutic format and screen those antibodies for binding and or functional activity. One such format
is a bispecific IgG molecule. Conventional IgG molecules are comprised of two identical heavy- and
two identical light chains. Heavy chains are polypeptides made up from separate domains: a VH
region for antigen recognition, the CHI domain, the hinge region, the CH2 domain and the CH3
domain. Pairing of the heavy chains to form a homodimer is the result of high affinity interactions
between the CH3 domains, where after covalent coupling of the two heavy chains results from
disulfide bridge formation between cysteines in the hinge region of the heavy chains.
The CH3 region has been used to introduce amino acid substitutions that inhibit the formation of
homodimers (pairing of heavy chains with an identical CH3 region) while promoting
heterodimerization (pairing of 2 different heavy chains with complementary, engineered CH3
regions). This has resulted in efficient heterodimer formation upon co-expression of CH3 engineered
heavy chains (Gunasekaran et al., 2010; W02006/106905; W02009/089004).
In this example, we have constructed and tested expression vectors for the efficient production of
human bispecific single VL antibodies. The overall strategy is that genetic constructs encoding 2
different antibodies are co-transfected into a single cell. By using complementary engineered CH3
regions for the 2 different heavy chains, formation of heterodimers (bispecific antibodies) is favored
over the formation of homodimers (monospecific antibodies). Previously, it was shown that the
combination of K409D:K392D in the CH3 domain of one heavy chain in combination with
D399'K:E356'K in the CH3 domain of the second chain (thus, so-called complementary engineered
CH3 regions) drives the heterodimerization of human heavy chain constant regions in an engineered
bispecific molecule (Gunasekaran 2010). We used to the same amino acid pairs in the CH3 regions of

                                                    -36
constructs encoding single VL IgG antibodies to establish whether this would result in the efficient
production of bispecific single VL human IgG monoclonal antibodies through heterodimerisation.
The rearranged single TGVK: -39 VL gene was cloned into a eukaryotic expression vector that contains
the human gammail and kappa constant regions essentially as described (Throsby et al., 2008/de Kruif
et al., 2009). Vector MV1201 contains DNA encoding a CH3 domain with the K409D:K392D amino
acid substitutions in combination with a VH region encoding a human single VL monoclonal antibody
specific for fibrinogen. Vector MV 1200 contains DNA encoding a CH3 domain with the
D399'K:E356'K amino acid substitutions in combination with a VH region encoding a human single
VL monoclonal antibody specific for thyroblobulin (Gunasekaran et al., 2010/de Kruif et al., 2009).
MV 1201 and MV 1200 were co-transfected into -EK293T cells and transiently expressed as
described (de Kruif et al., 2009). After 13 days, supernatants were harvested and purified by protein A
affinity chromatography using standard protocols. The protein A-purified IgG was analyzed by SDS
PAGE under reduced and non-reducing conditions; staining of proteins in the gel was carried out with
colloidal blue. The results of this experiment are shown in Figure 8 Under non-reducing SDS-PAGE, a
single band with molecular weight of 150 kD was detected, showing that with these constructs hetero
and or homodimers were formed and no IgG half molecules consisting of a non-paired heavy/light
chain combination.
After protein A purification, mass spectrometry was used to identify the different IgG species
produced by the transiently transfected cells. As shown in Figure 9, the supernatant contained 96%
heterodimeric IgG and 3 % and 1%of each of the parental monoclonal antibodies. Thus, these protein
A supernatants can be immediately used for screening of binding activity and/or functional assays of
bispecific antibodies.
Example 7: Generation of bispecific antibodies specific for ErbB1 and ErbB2 tumor antigens
and analysis of tumor cell killing and inhibition of tumor cell proliferation
Erbbl and ErbB2 are growth factor receptors that play an important role in tumor development and
progression. Combinations of monoclonal antibodies against ErbB I and ErbB2 have shown
synergistic effects in animal models of cancer (Larbouret et al., 2007) and therefore represent
promising therapeutics for the treatment of cancer in humans. In this example, we demonstrate that,
upon immunization, human monoclonal antibodies can be obtained from transgenic mice with a single
human light chain through high throughput sequencing and creation of CDR3 heat maps and that
combinations of ErbBI and ErbB2 antibodies with additive and/or synergistic effect can be rapidly
identified by in vitro screening.

                                                    -37
Transgenic mice with a single human light chain are immunized with ErbB2 DNA and protein as
described in example 5. Using the same protocols, another group of mice is immunized with ErbB 1
DNA and proteins using the same procedures. For ErbB 1 and ErbB2 immunized mice, spleens are
isolated and the VH repertoire of IgG+ B cells is analyzed by high throughput sequencing as described
in examples 1 and 2. After construction of CDR3 heat maps, the top 100 VH sequence groups for
each ErbB I and ErbB2 immunized mice are selected for further analysis. For the collection of ErbB I
and ErbB2 VH sequences, VH sequences representative for each cluster, this is the VH gene that is
present most frequently within a cluster, which may be a germline gene or a gene containing
mutations, are cloned in an expression vector containing the single light chain and the CH3 mutation;
ErbBI VHs in MV1200 and ErbB2 VHs in MV1201. HEK293 cells are transiently transfected with
all 2500 combinations (50 times 50) of cloned ErbB1 and ErbB2 VH sequence groups using the
expression constructs that drive heterodimerization to form ErbB I x ErbB2 bispecific antibodies as
described in example 6. After 13 days, culture supernatants are harvested and purified using protein A
affinity chromatography. Purified IgG is used in functional assays of tumor cell killing and inhibition
of tumor cell proliferation known in the art,
After identification of ErbBI x ErbB2 bispecific antibodies with potent anti-tumor activity, VH
sequence collections present in the clusters that have an identical or similar CDR3 and that are used in
the functional bispecific antibodies can be further deconvoluted using the same approach to find those
VH members in the collection that give the most potent anti-tumor activity.
Example 8: Deep sequencing and diversity analysis of HCDR3 from samples obtained from
splenic B cells from non-immunized versus immunized mice
To demonstrate that the selective expansion of clones identified by unique HCDR3 sequences upon
immunization can be analyzed by deep sequencing, splenic B cells from non-immunized and
immunized mice were submitted to enrichment for B cells as described above. Nucleic acids were
isolated and, where needed amplified as described above and cDNA was sent to Eurofins for high
throughput sequencing.
Mice transgenic for huVKl-39 and for a human heavy chain (HG) minilocus were immunized with
protein only (fused to Fc) or by using alternating protein and cellular immunizations (with cells
expressing the same antigen on their surface). cMet and EGFR were used as antigens in this example
 (two animals per group):
 Group A: cMet-Fc in Titernax Gold adjuvant (TMG) on days 0, 14 and 28, and cMet-Fc in PBS on
 day 47.

                                                    -38
Group B: cMet-Fc in TMG on days 0, 14 and 28, MKN45 cells in PBS on day 49, and cMet-Fc in PBS
on day 64.
Group C; EGFR-Fc in TMG on days 0, 14 and 28, and EGFR-Fc in PBS on day 54.
Group D: EGFR-Fc in TMG on days 0, 14 and 28, A431 cells in PBS on day 49, and EGFR-Fc in PBS
on day 64.
Doses used were 20 [ig protein in 125 ptl TMG, 20 ptg protein in 200 ptl PBS and 2x10E6 cells in 200
pl PBS. Non-immunized transgenic mice were around the same age as immunized mice at sacrifice
(16 weeks, three mice in total).
Spleens were collected from all mice (for immunized mice three days after the last immunization) and
processed as described in Example 2. To be able to sequence many different samples in a mixture at
reduced cost, a material identification (MID) tag specific for each mouse was added at the 5' end of
each primer used in PCR amplification of cDNA together with the SMART sequence (as detailed in
Example 2). MID tag addition thus allowed pooling of material from several mice after PCR
amplification and before 454-sequencing. Primers for amplification were thus adjusted to include MID
tag complementary sequences (Table 3).
For non-immunized mice, spleen cell suspensions were enriched for B-cells using anti-CD19
Microbeads (Miltenyi Biotec, cat.no.130-052-201) and then sorted by flow cytometry to isolate
mature, antigen-naive B cells expressing IgM or IgD. This was done by sorting for CD19-positive,
B220-positive, huVxl-39-positive and mouse light chain-negative B-cells and discriminating these in
IgM-positive or IgD-positive cell fractions. In reverse primers used for cDNA synthesis, sequences
were used that annealed to either IgM or IgD coding sequences (Error! Reference source not found.).
To be able to perform pooled sequencing for different samples, MID tags were used here to identify
material from different samples (Table 14).
Table 13: Primers used for deep sequencing material from immunized mice (one MID tag per
mouse).
MID tag    Sequence*                                     Primer type Primer name
MID-01     ACGAGTGCGTAAGCAGTGGTATCAACGCAGAGT             Forward       SMART-MID1-fw
MID-01     ACGAGTGCGTCAGGGGCCAGTGGATAGAC                 Reverse       mIgG-CH1-MID1-rev
MID-02     ACGCTCGACAAAGCAGTGGTATCAACGCAGAGT             Forward       SMART-MID2-fw
MID-02     ACGCTCGACACAGGGGCCAGTGGATAGAC                 Reverse       mIgG-CH1-MID2-rev
MID-03     AGACGCACTCAAGCAGTGGTATCAACGCAGAGT             Forward       SMART-MID3-fw
MID-03     AGACGCACTCCAGGGGCCAGTGGATAGAC                 Reverse       mIgG-CH1-MID3-rev
MID-04     AGCACTGTAGAAGCAGTGGTATCAACGCAGAGT             Forward       SMART-MID4-fw
MID-04     AGCACTGTAGCAGGGGCCAGTGGATAGAC                 Reverse       mIgG-CH1-MID4-rev
MID-05     ATCAGACACGAAGCAGTGGTATCAACGCAGAGT             Forward       SMART-MIDS-fw
MID-05     ATCAGACACGCAGGGGCCAGTGGATAGAC                 Reverse       mIgG-CH1-MID-rev
MID-06     ATATCGCGAGAAGCAGTGGTATCAACGCAGAGT             Forward       SMART-MID6-fw
MID-06     ATATCGCGAGCAGGGGCCAGTGGATAGAC                 Reverse       mIgG-CH1-MID6-rev
MID-07     CGTGTCTCTAAAGCAGTGGTATCAACGCAGAGT             Forward       SMART-MI7-fw

                                                                          -39
               MID-07        CGTGTCTCTACAGGGGCCAGTGGATAGAC                       Reverse          migG-CH1-MID7-rev
               MID-08        CTCGCGTGTCAAGCAGTGGTATCAACGCAGAGT                   Forward          SMART-MID7-fw
               MID-08        CTCGCGTGTCCAGGGGCCAGTGGATAGAC                       Reverse          mlgG-CH1-MID8-rev
              * The MID    tag sequence is underlined; the SMART sequence IsIn bold; the IgG constant HC sequence in regular type.
              Table 14: Primers used for deep sequencing material from non-immunized mice (one MID tag per
              cell population per mouse).
 Cell fraction*                  MID tag      Sequence**                                           Primer        Primer-name
                                                                                                   type
 IgM HIGHB cells mouse 1 MID-04               AGCACTGTAGAAGCAGTGGTATCAACGCAGAGT                    Forward       SMART-MID4-fw
IgMHIGH B cells mouse 1          MID-04       AGCACTGTAGGGCCACCAGATTCTTATCAGAC                     Reverse       mouse IgM-CH1-MID4-rev
IgD      B cells mouse 1         MID-05       ATCAGACACGAAGCAGTGGTATCAACGCAGAGT                    Forward       SMART-MID5-fw
IgDHIGH B cells mouse 1          MID-05       ATCAGACACGCAGTTCTGAGGCCAGCACAGTG                     Reverse       mouse IgD-CH1-MIDS-rev
IgMHIGH B cells mouse 2          MID-10       TCTCTATGCGAAGCAGTGGTATCAACGCAGAGT                    Forward       SMART-MID1O-fw
IgMHG B cells mouse 2            MID-10       TCTCTATGCGGGCCACCAGATTCTTATCAGAC                     Reverse       mouse IgM-CHI1-MIDIO-rev
IgDHH B cells mouse 2 MID-11                  TGATACGTCTAAGCAGTGGTATCAACGCAGAGT                    Forward       SMART-M D11-fw
IgDHIGH B cells mouse 2          MID-11       TGATACGTCTCAGTTCTGAGGCCAGCACAGTG                     Reverse       mouse IgD-CH1-MID11-rev
 IgMHIGH B cells mouse    3      MID-16       TCACGTACTAAAGCAGTGGTATCAACGCAGAGT                    Forward       SMART-MID16-fw
 IgMHMH B cells mouse 3          MID-16       TCACGTACTAGGCCACCAGATTCTTATCAGAC                     Reverse       mouse IgM-CHl-MID16-rev
IgD HIG B cells mouse 3          MID-17       CGTCTAGTACAAGCAGTGGTATCAACGCAGAGT                    Forward       SMART-MID17-fw
IgDHIGH B cells mouse 3          MID-17       CGTCTAGTACCAGTTCTGAGGCCAGCACAGTG                     Reverse       mouse gD-CH1-M ID17-rev
              * B cells selected for expression of only huVK1-39 LC.
              ** The MID tag sequence is underlined; the SMART sequence is in bold; the IgD or IgM constant sequences in regular type.
             For analysis of the sequencing results, custom designed algorithms were used for VH gene
              identification and alignment of HCDR3 regions. Briefly, raw sequence data were imported into a
             dedicated computer program, which translated all nucleotide sequences into six potential protein
             reading frames, each of which was then submitted to the following sequential filter criteria to find
             correct and complete human VH genes:
                   -     Sequences shorter than 75 amino acids were rejected as this was considered as the minimal
                         length to positively identify VH genes.
                   -     Sequences without two canonical cysteines were rejected as these were used to identify VH
                         genes and reading frames.
                   -     Frameworks 1 to 4 were searched for based on homology with VH genes in a database. If one
                         or more of these frameworks were not found, the sequence was rejected.
                   -     CDRl, 2 and 3 were identified based on the identified framework regions. The sequence was
                         rejected when a stop codon was present in one or more of the CDRs.
             Sequences that passed these criteria were classified as annotated VH sequences. All selected VH
             sequences were then submitted to another algorithm to group them into clusters with a 100% identical
             HCDR3.
             These data resulted in annotated VH genes and these VH genes were clustered based on HCDR3
             sequence. To analyze the selective expansion of HCDR3 regions in VH genes in immunized versus

                                                       -40
  non-immunized mice, the results were tabulated and expressed as the ratio of annotated VH regions
  over clusters with identical HCDR3 regions (Table 15). For ease of interpretation, results for separate
  B cell fractions from non-immunized mice were pooled so that the ratio could analyzed for total
  mature, antigen-nafve B cells.
  Table 15: Deep sequencing data from immunized versus non-immunized mice.
  Immunization                 Analyzed B cell       Annotated       Clusters with         Ratio VH/clusters
                               population            VH regions      identical HCDR3
  None                         Total mature B cells*    39,626             30,716                    1.3
  None                         Total mature B cells*     6,102              5,676                    1.1
  None                         Total mature B cells*     9,128              8,437                    1.1
  cMet protein                 Total B cells            34,327              2,757                   12.5
  cMet protein                 Total B cells            90,049              4,511                   20.0
 cMet protein &                Total B cells            19,645              3,233                    6.1
 cells
 cMet protein &                Total B cells            75,838              4,557                   16.6
 cells
 EGFR protein                   IgG* B cells            46,924              4518                    10.4
 EGFR protein                   IgG* B cells             3,799              1201                    3.2
 EGFR protein &                Total B cells            60,979              3526                    17.3
 cells
 EGFR protein &                Total B cells            43,631              2452                   17.8
 cells
 * B cells expressing either IgM or igD.
 From table 15 it can readily be observed that the number of clusters with identical HCDR3 in non
 immunized mice is in the order of the number of annotated VH genes, which is reflected in VH/cluster
ratios near 1.0. This implies that in these mice there was no trigger for selective expansion of B cells
that would carry VHs with certain HCDR3 regions, as would be expected in the absence of an
 immunogenic stimulus. In contrast, in immunized mice the ratio of VH regions over clusters with
identical HCDR3 is, although variable between individual mice, much higher and VH/cluster ratios
range from 3.2 to 20.0. Thus, in immunized mice a large fraction of HCDR3 sequences is present in
high frequency in the repertoire probably as a result of clonal expansion of antigen-reactive B cells
due to immunization of the mice, This indicates that the high frequency VH regions are the clones that
are specific for the antigen of interest and suggests that mining these VH genes and expressing them as
Fab or IgG together with the common light chain will render antibodies with specificity for the
antigen. Data that this is indeed the case are shown in Example 9. Functionality of these antigen
specific antibodies can subsequently be tested in functional assays.
Example 9

                                                      -41
Deep sequencing of VH repertoires and HCDR3 heat map generation from immunized mice
expressing a common light chain.
As is clear from Example 8, a large fraction of HCDR3 sequences is present at a high frequency in the
VH repertoire of immunized mice carrying a common light chain as opposed to non-immunized mice.
In the present example, the repertoire of these most frequently used VH genes from immunized mice
was mined to find antigen-specific heavy chain-derived binding domains which upon combination
with the common light chain will render functional antibodies against the target of interest.
Material from mice carrying the huVxl-39 transgene and a human HC minilocus upon immunization
with cMet or EGFR (protein-Fc, or protein-Fe alternating with cells expressing the respective proteins
at their surface; two mice per strategy so eight in total) was generated and processed as described in
Example 8.
Deep sequencing and VH repertoire analysis including clustering based on HCDR3 identity revealed a
total 287920 sequences which could be grouped into 813 unique clusters. All sequences in a cluster
were derived from the same germline VH gene. Clusters that contained more than 50 VHs (with
identical HCDR3 at the amino acid level but otherwise different VH regions) were collected into one
database for repertoires from all eight mice. This was done since (limited) overlap of HCDR3
sequences was observed between the repertoires of the eight mice. VH sequences were then ranked on
HCDR3 length and HCDR3 sequence identity. Next, HCDR3 sequences were further grouped based
on the likelihood of a unique VDJ (i.e. if HCDR3 in different clusters contained <2 amino acids
difference then they were considered part of the same cluster and were grouped together). This process
was performed manually in an Excel worksheet but could be better performed on the basis of HCDR3
nucleotide sequence alignment. Tools to facilitate this are in development. This resulted in a total of
399 clusters with the same number of total sequences. The clusters were then aligned based on their
size (i.e. total number of sequences in the cluster) and the top -100 clusters for each target selected.
This resulted in a total of 228 unique sequences: 134 from cMet-immunized mice and 94 from EGFR
immunized mice. Finally to select the nucleotide sequence to be recloned as an IgG from each cluster,
the VH amino acid sequence alignment for each cluster was analysed and the most frequent sequence
in the cluster was chosen for recloning.
The corresponding nucleotide sequences were retrieved, modified to contain restriction sites for
cloning into an expression vector and for removal of excessive restriction sites by silent mutation and
then synthesized according to procedures known to the skilled person. Synthesized genes were cloned
in bulk into a vector for expression in human IgG1 format including the huVI1-39 common light
chain. Of the rendered clones, 400 clones were picked by standard procedures and sequenced, and
bulk cloning was repeated for missing or incorrect sequences until >90% of the 228-repertoire was
retrieved. DNA was recovered and transiently transfected into an antibody production cell line.

                                                      - 42
Methods used to modify sequences, synthesize DNA, clone, sequence and produce IgG by transfection
are all known in the art.
IgG concentration of productions was determined using Octet technology (Fort6BIO) according to the
manufacturer's instructions for basic quantitation with a protein A sensor chip with regeneration
(Fort6BIO, cat.no.18-0004/-5010/-5012/-5013). The 228 IgG were subsequently submitted to testing
for antigen specific binding by ELISA at a concentration of 5 tg/ml. Of the tested sequences, 16 out
of 110 (15%) were found to specifically bind to cMet and 6 out of 88 (7%) to EGFR. The other
frequent clusters represent, for the large majority, antibodies that are directed to the Fc part of the
antigen. It should be noted that the Fc-tail of the Fc-fusion proteins can be particularly immunogenic
(Ling 1987, Immunology, vol 62, part 1, pp 1-6). Since these sequences were derived from material of
mice immunized with Fe-fusion proteins in adjuvant, a large part of the humoral response will be
directed to the Fe-tail (see Example 3 and 4). Binding to cells expressing the antigen on their surface
was only done for IgG with binding domains derived from mice that were immunized with protein and
cells, using eMet-expressing MKN45 cells or EGFR-expressing A431 cells. All IgG from cell
immunized mice that stained cMet or EGFR in ELISA also stained cells expressing the respective
antigens (data not shown. It is expected that upon immunization with pure antigen such as via DNA
tattoo, the percentage of antigen-specific clones will be further increased.
To functionally characterize the EGFR-specific IgG, these were tested for their potency to inhibit
EGF-induced cell death of A431 cells (Gulli et al. 1996, Cell Growth Diff 7, p.173-178). Of the 5
tested anti-EGFR mAbs, 3 were shown to inhibit EGF-induced A43 1 cell death (Figure 10). The
eMet-specific IgG were tested for functionality by determining their capacity to compete with several
benchmark antibodies obtained from (patent) literature for binding to cMet in a binding competition
ELISA. Briefly, 96-wells plates were coated with cMet-Fc and then incubated with an excess of one
of several bench mark antibodies, Subsequently, tagged cMet-specific binders were added, followed
by a peroxydase-labeled detection antibody that recognized bound cMet binders. The latter was
detected using TMB as a substrate. Of the 10 tested cMet mAbs, 7 were demonstrated to compete for
cMet binding with bench mark antibodies.
Thus, by using deep sequencing methods a broad panel of diverse antigen-specific VHs can be
identified representing diverse VH usage, diverse HCDR3, and clonal maturation.

                                                      - 43
                                              REFERENCES
Babcook JS, Leslie KB, Olsen OA, Salmon RA, Schrader JW. A novel strategy for generating
monoclonal antibodies from single, isolated lymphocytes producing antibodies of defined specificities.
Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 93:7843-8 (1996).
Banchereau, J., de Paoli, P., Valle, A., Garcia, E. & Rousset, F. Long-term human B cell lines
dependent on interleukin-4 and antibody to CD40. Science 251, 70-72 (1991).
Bins, A.D., et al., A rapid and patent DNA vaccination strategy defined by in vivo monitoring of
antigen expression. Nat Med 11:899-904 (2005).
Boder, E.T. & Wittrup, K.D. Yeast surface display for screening combinatorial polypeptide libraries.
Nat. Biotech, 15, 553-557 (1997).
Cobaugh, C.W., Almagro, J.C., Pogson, M., Iverson, B. & Georgiou, G. Synthetic antibody libraries
focused towards peptide ligands. J. Mol. Biol. 378, 622-633 (2008).
Chao, G. et al. Isolating and engineering human antibodies using yeast surface
display. Nat. Protoc. 1, 755-768 (2006).
Al-Lazikani, B., Lesk, A. M. & Chothia, C. Standard conformations for the canonical structures of
immunoglobulins. J. Mol. Biol. 273, 927-948 (1997).
Clackson, T., Hoogenboom, H.R., Griffiths, A.D. & Winter, G. Making antibody fragments using
phage display libraries. Nature 352, 624-628 (1991).
Clark. Antibody humanization: a case of the 'Emperor's new clothes'? Immunol Today, 21:397-402
(2000).
Crowe Jr. Recent advances in the study of human antibody responses to influenza virus using
optimized human hybridoma approaches. Vaccine 27 (Suppl 6), G47 (2009)
Ettinger et al. IL-21 induces differentiation of human naive and memory B cells into antibody
secreting plasma cells. J. Immunol. 175, 7867-7879 (2005).
Feldhaus,    M.J.   et al.  Flow-cytometric    isolation of human antibodies     from   a nonimmune
Saccharomyces cerevisiae surface display library. Nat. Biotechnol. 21:163-170 (2003).

                                                     - 44
Fuchs, P., Breitling, F., Dubel, S., Seehaus, T. & Little, M. Targeting recombinant antibodies to the
surface of Escherichia-coli-fusion to a peptidoglycan associated lipoprotein. Biotechnology 9:1369
1372 (1991).
Ge X, Mazor Y, Hunicke-Smith SP, Ellington AD, Georgiou G: Rapid construction and
characterization of synthetic antibody libraries without DNA amplification. Biotechnol Bioeng
106:347-357 (2010).
Good, K.L., Bryant, V.L. & Tangye, S.G. Kinetics of human B cell behavior and amplification of
proliferative responses following stimulation with IL-21. J. Immunol. 177:5236-5247 (2006).
Green, L.L. et al. Antigen-specific human monoclonal antibodies from mice engineered with human Ig
heavy and light chain YACs. Nat. Genet. 7:13-21 (1994).
Glanville J, Zhai W, Berka J, Telman D, Huerta G, Mehta GR, Ni I, Mei L, Sundar PD, Day GMR et
al,: Precise determination of the diversity of a combinatorial antibody library gives insight into the
human immunoglobulin repertoire. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 106:20216-20221 (2009).
Gunasekaran et al. J. biol. Chem. 285: 19637-46. (2010)
Harding FA, Stickler MM, Razo J, DuBridge RB. The immunogenicity of humanized and fully human
antibodies: residual immunogenicity resides in the CDR regions. MAbs. 2:256-65 (2010).
 Harvey, B.R. et al. Anchored periplasmic expression, a versatile technology for the isolation of high
affinity antibodies from Escherichia coli-expressed libraries. Proc. Natl, Acad. Sci. USA 101:9193
9198 (2004).
Hoogenboom, H.R. Selecting and screening recombinant antibody libraries. Nat. Biotechnol. 23,
 1105-1116 (2005).
 Ishii, K.J., et al., TANK-binding kinase-l delineates innate and adaptive immune responses ta DNA
vaccines. Nature, 451:725-9 (2008).
 Jacob, J., et aI., Activity of DNA vaccines encoding self or heterolagaus Her-2ineu in Her-2 or neu
 transgenic mice. Cell Immunol. 240:96-106 (2006).

                                                     -45
Jacob, l.B., et aL, Combining human and rat sequences in her-2 DNA vaccines blunts immune
talerance and drives antitumor immunity. Cancer Res70:119-28 (2010).
Jechlinger, W., Optimization and delivery of plasmid DNA for vaccination. Expert Rev Vaccines 5:
803-25 (2006).
Jiang X, Suzuki H, Hanai Y, Wada F, Hitomi K, Yamane T, Nakano H. A novel strategy for
generation of monoclonal antibodies from single B cells using rt-PCR technique and in vitro
expression. Biotechnol Prog. 22:979-88 (2006).
Jin A, Ozawa T, Tajiri K, Obata T, Kondo S, Kinoshita K, Kadowaki S, Takahashi K, Sugiyama T,
Kishi H et al.: A rapid and efficient single-cell manipulation method for screening antigen-specific
antibody-secreting cells from human peripheral blood. Nat Med 15:1088-1092 (2009).
Kato M, Sasamori E, Chiba T, Hanyu Y. Cell activation by CpG ODN leads to improved electrofusion
in hybridoma production. J Immunol Methods. 2011 Aug 22. [Epub ahead of print]
Kim, C.H. et al. Subspecialization of CXCR5+ T cells: B helper activity is focused in a germinal
center-localized subset of CXCR5+ T cells. J. Exp. Med. 193: 1373-1381 (2001).
Khler, G. & Milstein, C. Continuous cultures of fused cells secreting antibody of predefined
specificity. Nature 256: 495-497 (1975).
de Kruif J, Kramer A, Visser T, Clements C, Nijhuis R, Cox F, van der Zande V, Smit R, Pinto D,
Throsby M, Logtenberg T. Human immunoglobulin repertoires against tetanus toxoid contain a large
and diverse fraction of high-affinity promiscuous V(H) genes. J Mol Biol. 387:548-58 (2009).
Kwakkenbos, M.J. et al. Generation of stable monoclonal antibody-producing B cell receptor-positive
 human memory B cells by genetic programming. Nat. Med. 16: 123-128 (2010).
Larbouret C, Robert B, Navarro-Teulon I, Thezenas S, Ladjemi M, Morisseau S, et al. In vivo
therapeutic synergism of anti-epidermal growth factor receptor and anti-HER2 monoclonal antibodies
 against pancreatic carcinomas. Clin Cancer Res. 13:3356-62 (2007).
 Lee, C.M.Y., lorno, N., Sierro, F. & Christ, D. Selection of human antibody fragments by phage
 display. Nat. Protoc. 2: 3001-3008 (2007).

                                                    - 46
Li, L.H., Hui, S.W. Characterization of PEG-mediated electrofusion of human erythrocytes. Biophys.
J. 67: 2361 (1994).
Ling et al. Immunology 1987, vol 6 part 1, 1-6
Lonberg, N. et al. Antigen-specific human antibodies from mice comprising four distinct genetic
modifications. Nature 368: 856-859 (1994).
Love, J.C., Ronan, J.L., Grotenbreg, G.M., van der Veen, A.G. & Ploegh, H.L. A microengraving
method for rapid selection of single cells producing antigen-specific antibodies. Nat. Biotechnol. 24:
703-707 (2006).
Manz, R.A., Hauser, A.E., Hiepe, F. & Radbruch, A. Maintenance of serum antibody levels. Annu.
Rev. Immunol. 23: 367-386 (2005).
Mao H, Graziano JJ, Chase TM, Bentley CA, Bazirgan CA, Reddy NP, Song BD, Smider VV.
Spatially addressed combinatorial protein libraries for recombinant antibody discovery and
optimization. Nat Biotechnol. 28:1195-202 (2010).
Mazor, Y., Blarcom, T.V,, Mabry, R., Iverson, B.L. & Georgiou, G. Isolation of engineered, full
length antibodies from libraries expressed in Escherichia coli. Nat. Biotechnol. 25: 563-565 (2007).
Meijer, P.-J. et al. Isolation of human antibody repertoires with preservation of the natural heavy and
light chain pairing. J. Mol. Biol. 358: 764-772 (2006).
Middendorp, S., G.M. Dingjan, and R.W. Hendriks, Impaired precursor B cell differentiation in
Bruton's tyrosine kinase-deficient mice. J Immunol 168: 2695-703 (2002).
Mohapatra, S. & San Juan, H. Designer monoclonal antibodies as drugs: the state of the art. Exp. Rev.
Clin. Immunol. 4: 305-307 (2008).
Ogunniyi AO, Story CM, Papa E, Guillen E, Love JC: Screening individual hybridomas by micro
engraving to discover monoclonal antibodies. Nat Protoc 4:767-782 (2009).
Persson, H., Lantto, J. & Ohlin, M. A focused antibody library for improved hapten recognition. J.
Mol. Biol. 357: 607-620 (2006).

                                                     - 47
Pokorna, D., I. Rubio, and M. Muller, DNA-vaccination via tattooing induces stronger humaral and
cellular immune responses than intramuscular delivery supparted by molecular adjuvants. Genet
Vaccines Ther. 6: 4 (2008).
Ponsel D, Neugebauer J, Ladetzki-Baehs K, Tissot K. High affinity, developability and functional
size: the holy grail of combinatorial antibody library generation. Molecules. 16:3675-700 (2011).
Quaak, 5.G., et al., GMP production of pDfRMA IT for vaccination against melanoma in a phase I
clinical trial. Eur J Pharm Biopharm, 70:429-38 (2008).
Ravn U, Gueneau F, Baerlocher L, Osteras M, Desmurs M, Malinge P, Magistrelli G, Farinelli L,
Kosco-Vilbois MH, Fischer N: By-passing in vitro screening-next generation sequencing
technologies applied to antibody display and in silico candidate selection. Nucleic Acids Res 38:e193
(2010).
Reddy ST, Ge X, Miklos AE, Hughes RA, Kang SH, Hoi 11-H, Chrysostomou C, Hunicke-Smith SP,
Iverson BL, Tucker PW, Ellington AD, Georgiou G. Monoclonal antibodies isolated without screening
by analyzing the variable-gene repertoire of plasma cells. Nat Biotechnol. 28:965-9 (2010).
Reddy ST, Georgiou G. Systems analysis of adaptive immunity by utilization of high-throughput
technologies. Curr Opin Biotechnol. 4:584-9 (2011).
Ruuls SR, Lammerts van Bueren JJ, van de Winkel JG, Parren PW. Novel human antibody
therapeutics: the age of the Umabs. Biotechnol J. 3:1157-71 (2008).
Schaffitzel, C., lanes., J., Jermutus, L. & Plickthun, A. Ribosome display: an in vitro method for
selection and evolution of antibodies from libraries. J. Immunol. Methods 231: 119-135 (1999).
Schmidlin H, Diehl SA, Blom B. New insights into the regulation of human B-cell differentiation.
Trends Immunol. 30:277-85 (2009).
Shapiro-Shelef, M. & Calame, K. Regulation of plasma-cell development. Nat. Rev. Immunol. 5: 230
242 (2005).
Smith K, Garman L, Wrammert J, Zheng N-Y, Capra JD, Ahmed R, Wilson PC: Rapid generation of
fully human monoclonal antibodies specific to a vaccinating antigen. Nat Protoc. 4:372-384 (2009.)
Stevenson, F.K., et al., DNA vaccines to attack cancer. Proc Nat] Acad Sci. 101 Suppl 2: p. 14646-52
(2004).

                                                    -48
Story CM, Papa E, Hu C-CA, Ronan JL, Herlihy K, Ploegh HL, Love JC: Profiling antibody responses
by multiparametric analysis of primary B cells. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 105:17902-17907 (2008).
Tajiri K, Kishi H, Tokirnitsu Y, Kondo S, Ozawa T, Kinoshita K, Jin A, Kadowaki S, Sugiyama T,
Muraguchi A: Cell-microarray analysis of antigen-specific B-cells: single cell analysis of antigen
receptor expression and specificity. Cytometry 71:961-967 (2007).
Tiller T, Meffre E, Yurasov S, Tsuiji M, Nussenzweig MC, Wardemann H: Efficient generation of
monoclonal antibodies from single human B cells by single cell RT-PCR and expression vector
cloning. J Immunol Methods 329:112-124 (2008).
Tokimitsu Y, Kishi H, Kondo S, Honda R, Tajiri K, Motoki K, Ozawa T, Kadowaki S, Obata T, Fujiki
S et al.: Single lymphocyte analysis with a microwell array chip. Cytometry 71:1003-1010 (2007).
Throsby, M., Geuijen, C., Goudsmit, J., Bakker, A.   Q., Korimbocus, J., Kramer, R. A. et al. Isolation
and characterization of human monoclonal antibodies 'from individuals infected with West Nile virus.
J. Virol. 80, 6982-6992 (2006).
Traggiai, E., Becker, S., Subbarao, K., Kolesnikova, L., Uematsu, Y., Gismondo, M.R., Murphy, B.R.,
Rappuoli, R., Lanzavecchia, A. An efficient method to make human monoclonal antibodies from
memory B cells: potent neutralization of SARS coronavirus. Nat. Med. 10, 871 (2004).
Weeratna, R., Comanita, L., Davis, H.L. CPG ODN allows lower dose of antigen against hepatitis B
surface antigen in BALB/c mice. Immunol. Cell Biol. 81: 59 (2003).
Whittington, P.J., et aI., DNA vaccination controls Her-2+ tumors that are refractory to targeted
therapies. Cancer Res, 68:7502-11 (2008).
Wrammert, J. et al. Rapid cloning of high-affinity human monoclonal antibodies against influenza
virus. Nature 453: 667-671 (2008).
Wu, C., Hua Ying, Grinnell, C., Bryant, S., Miller, R., et. al., Simultaneous targeting of multiple
disease mediators by a dual-variable-domain immunoglobulin Nature Biotechnology 25, 1290 - 1297
(2007).
Yu, X., McGraw, P.A., House, F.S., Crowe Jr., J.E. An optimized electrofusion-based protocol for
generating virus-specific human monoclonal antibodies. J. Immunol. Methods 336, 142 (2008).

                                               - 49
Zubler RH, Werner-Favre C, Wen L, Sekita K, Straub C. Theoretical and practical aspects of B-cell
activation: murine and human systems. Immunol Rev. 99:281-99 (1987).

                                            - 50
                                         CLAIMS
 1. A method for producing a defined population of binding molecules, said method
    comprises at least the following steps:
    a) providing a population of B cells expressing a limited VL repertoire wherein
        essentially all of said B cells carry at least one VL,
    b) obtaining nucleic acids from said B cells,
    c)  optionally, amplification of nucleic acid sequences encoding immunoglobulin
        heavy chain variable regions in said sample,
    d) at least partial sequencing of essentially all obtained nucleic acids of step b) or
        the amplification products of step c),
    e) performing a frequency analysis of sequences from step d),
    f)  selecting desired VH sequences,
    g) providing a host cell with at least one vector comprising at least one of said
        desired VH sequences and/or at least one VL sequence of said limited VL
        repertoire,
    h) culturing said host cells and allowing for expression of VH and/or VL
        polypeptides,
    i)  obtaining said binding molecules.
2. A method according to claim 1, further comprising taking a sample of said
    cultured cells, the sample comprising at least one of said binding molecules, and
    subjecting the samples to at least one functional assay, and selecting at least
    one cell that expresses a binding molecule with desired characteristics.
3. A method according to claim 1 or 2, further comprising providing said host cell
    with means for expression of said at least one VH and VL in a desired format.
4. A method according to claim 3, wherein said desired format comprises at least one
    immunoglobulin molecule, and/or at least one bispecific antibody.

                                           - 51
5. A method according to any one of claims 1- 4, wherein said limited VL repertoire
    consists of no more than 100 VL, preferably less than 10 VL, most preferably a
    single VL.
6. A method according to any one of claims 1 -5, wherein said limited VL repertoire
    consists of a single rearranged human VL, preferably the human IGKV1-39 light
    chain.
7. A method according to any one of claims 1-6, wherein said population of B cells is
    obtained from a transgenic mouse carrying a limited, preferably human, VL
    repertoire
8. A method according to claim 7, wherein said mouse has been immunized with an
    antigen.
9. A method according to claim 1, wherein said B cells comprise a collection of VH
    regions that is enriched for VH regions encoding antibodies directed to an
    antigen or epitope of interest.
10. A method according to claim 9 wherein said enrichment of VH regions is obtained
    by the method of claim 8.
11. A method according to claim 9 or 10, wherein the 20 most abundant clones,
    preferably, the 50 most abundant clones, more preferably the 100 most abundant
    clones, most preferably the 200 most abundant clones are selected.
12. A method according to any one of claims 7, 8 or 10, wherein said mouse has been
    immunized such that selective clonal expansion of B cells that react with the
    antigen or epitope of interest is preferentially induced.
13. The use of at least one population of binding molecules obtainable according to
    claims 1-12 in the preparation of mixtures of antibodies, preferably comprising
    bispecific antibodies.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
