ABSTRACT
         A catheter sheath introducer comprises a hub and a tubular sheath having an inner
lining with one or more dampers to improve retention of medical devices received or
passed through the sheath without significantly increasing the force required to advance the
medical device through the sheath. The dampers are made of a friction inducing material,
for example, rubber-based materials, and configured as fingers, bumps or flaps that are
unidirectional by means of an asymmetrical shape relative to a longitudinal axis of the
sheath.

   01/
co
       C?)j
      c0o

                                               1
CATHETER SHEATH INTRODUCER WITH DIRECTIONAL RETENTION DAMPER
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]          The present invention is directed to a novel catheter sheath introducer.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]          Catheter sheath introducers are well known in the health care industry as a
means of providing access to the circulatory system for a number of applications. In a now
well know process, the catheter sheath introducer is placed in a desired blood vessel to
facilitate various procedures. Among these medical procedures, for example, are mapping,
ablation and balloon angioplasty which require the manipulation of catheters through the
circulatory system.
[0003]          Catheter introducers typically include a tubular sheath and a hub attached to
a proximal end of the sheath. Throughout a medical procedure, a number of medical
devices may be received or fed through the hub and sheath, including a dilator, a guide
wire and/or one or more catheters. Catheters especially may have long shafts that require
much manipulation to pass through the hub and sheath in order to reach the desired
position in the body to effect the medical procedure. However, catheter shafts can slip
rotationally and/or longitudinally in the sheath, increasing the effort needed to correctly
position the diagnostic or therapeutic distal portion of the catheter within the body.
[0004]          Accordingly, a need exists for a catheter sheath introducer with improved
hold and retention of catheters and other medical devices extending there through without
significantly increasing the force required to advance the catheter or medical device
through the sheath.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION

                                               2
[0005]          In accordance with the present invention, a catheter sheath introducer
comprising a hub and a tubular sheath having an inner lining with one or more dampers is
provided. The dampers are unidirectional so as to improve retention of medical devices
received or passed through the sheath without significantly increasing the force required to
advance the medical device through the sheath.
[0006]          In one embodiment, the dampers extend from an inner circumferential lining
of the sheath and project inwardly in a lumen of the sheath so as to contact a medical
device received in or passed through the lumen of the sheath. The dampers are made of a
friction inducing material, for example, rubber-based materials, and configured as fingers,
bumps or flaps that are unidirectional by means of an asymmetrical shape relative to a
longitudinal axis of the sheath so that the medical device encounters less frictional
impedance when being advanced distally relative to the sheath and more frictional
impedance with being withdrawn proximally relative to the sheath.
[0007]          A more detailed explanation of the invention is provided in the following
description and claims and is illustrated in the accompanying drawings.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0008]          These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be
better understood by reference to the following detailed description when considered in
conjunction with the accompanying drawings. It is understood that selected structures and
features have not been shown in certain drawings so as to provide better viewing of the
remaining structures and features.
[0009]          FIG. 1 is a perspective view of a catheter sheath introducer of the present
invention in accordance with one embodiment.
[0010]          FIG. 2 is an elevational view, with portions broken away, of the catheter
sheath introducer of FIG. 1.

                                              3
[0011]         FIG. 3 is an enlarged side cross-sectional view of dampers within a sheath
of FIG. 2.
[0012]         FIG. 3A is an end cross-sectional view of the dampers of FIG. 3, taken
along line A-A.
[0013]         FIG. 4 is an enlarged side cross-sectional view of the dampers of FIG. 2,
engaged with a medical device being advanced distally through the sheath.
[0014]         FIG. 4A is an end cross-sectional view of the dampers and medical device
of FIG. 4, taken along line A-A.
[0015]         FIG. 5 is an enlarged side cross-sectional view of the dampers of FIG. 2
applying a retention force on the medical device.
[0016]         FIG. 5A is an end cross-sectional view of the dampers and medical device
of FIG. 5, taken along line A-A.
[0017]         FIG. 6 is an enlarged side cross-sectional view of dampers in accordance
with another embodiment, engaged with a medical device being advanced distally through
a sheath.
[0018]         FIG. 6A is an end cross-sectional view of the dampers and medical device
of FIG. 6, taken along line A-A.
[0019]         FIG. 7 is an enlarged side cross-sectional view of the dampers of FIG. 6,
engaged with a medical device being advanced distally through the sheath.
[0020]         FIG. 7A is an end cross-sectional view of the dampers and medical device
of FIG. 7, taken along line A-A.
[0021]         FIG. 8 is an enlarged side cross-sectional view of the dampers of FIG. 6
applying a retention force on the medical device.

                                               4
[0022]         FIG. 8A is an end cross-sectional view of the dampers and medical device
of FIG. 8, taken along line A-A.
[0023]         FIG. 9 is an enlarged side cross-sectional view of dampers in accordance
with yet another embodiment, engaged with a medical device being advanced distally
through a sheath.
[0024]         FIG. 9A is an end cross-sectional view of the dampers and medical device
of FIG. 9, taken along line A-A.
[0025]         FIG. 10 is an enlarged side cross-sectional view of the dampers of FIG. 9,
engaged with a medical device being advanced distally through the sheath.
[0026]         FIG. 10A is an end cross-sectional view of the dampers and medical device
of FIG. 10, taken along line A-A.
[0027]         FIG. 11 is an enlarged side cross-sectional view of the dampers of FIG. 9
applying a retention force on the medical device.
[0028]         FIG. 11 A is an end cross-sectional view of the dampers and medical device
of FIG. 11, taken along line A-A.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0029]         Referring to the drawings, FIGS. 1 and 2 show a catheter sheath introducer
10 having a tubular sheath 12 and a hub 14. The sheath 12 has a distal end 12D and a
proximal end 12P, and the hub 14 is attached to the proximal end 12D. The catheter sheath
introducer 10 also includes a hemostasis valve 16 to provide sealing of the sheath around a
medical device 18, e.g., a dilator unit. A branch conduit 20 and a locking sleeve 21 off of
hub 14 are provided to allow for, among other things, connections to saline solution or
medicines and access to other medical procedures. An end cap 24 is provided at the

                                                  5
proximal end of hub 14. A guide wire 22 is also shown as it is often used with such devices
as balloon angioplasty catheters.
[0030]           FIG. 2 shows the catheter sheath introducer 10 cut away to expose some of
the internal structure. The sheath 12 is joined to the internal body of hub 14. The sheath
12 is a tubular structure with at least one layer 26 providing an inner circumferential
surface or lining 28 surrounding a lumen 30. The layer 26 be constructed of any suitable
material that is sufficiently pliant, elastic, flexible and friction-inducing with medical
devices extending through the sheath 12. Suitable materials include rubber-based
materials, e.g., silicon rubber, or a thermoplastic elastomer, or extrudable tacky plastic,
e.g., polyethylene, polypropylene.
[0031]           In accordance with a feature of the present invention, one or more dampers
32 are formed on in inner surface 28 of the sheath 12. The dampers 32 include raised
formations that project inwardly from into lumen 30 to at least partially occlude the lumen
30. In the embodiment of FIGS. 2, 3 and 3A, the dampers 32 are configured like "fingers",
each with a base 34, two generally parallel side edges 36 and an unattached outer edge 38.
In the illustrated embodiment, the dampers 32 are arranged in diametrical pairs that oppose
each other in the lumen 30 and equally spaced from each other around the circumference
and each damper has a generally uniform thickness. When the lumen 30 is empty, each
pair of dampers 32 are in their neutral configuration with the outer edges 38 of one or more
pairs of dampers being in contact with each other, although it is understood that equal
spacing and contact are not necessary in every embodiment of the present invention. In the
neutral configuration, the dampers 32 point toward the distal end 12D of the sheath where
each side edge 36 defines an inner angle 0 ranging between about 0 and less than 90
degrees, preferably between about 20 and 60 degrees and more preferably about 45
degrees, relative to the inner surface 28 of the sheath 12. Each damper 32 has a length
such that at least a distal portion of each damper is distal of the base 34 of the respective
damper. The plurality of dampers may vary as needed or desired. In one embodiment, the
plurality ranges between about two and six, and more preferably about three or four.

                                                  6
[0032]          When a user advances a medical device 18 through the lumen (FIGS. 4 and
4A), the medical device comes into contact with one or more dampers 32. Angled distally,
the dampers deform, e.g., elongating and/or becoming further distally angled, under the
advancing force of the device 18 and allow further distal advancement of the device 18
through the lumen 30.
[0033]          When the medical device 18 is released by the user, elasticity of the
dampers 32 aided by their friction-inducing property causes the dampers to at least initially
shorten and thicken before stabilizing in a compressed state thereby providing a retention
force acting on the device 18 to hold it in place. The retention force prevents slippage of
the medical device in terms of rotational and/or longitudinal movement that may be caused
by other forces acting on the device, including the body's circulatory system and/or
deformation/elasticity of the device itself due to kinks or bends along its length. The
retention force is sufficient to hold the device 18 in place but a relatively low static
coefficient of friction provided by the dampers against the device 18 allows the device to
be withdrawn proximally when actively pulled by the user. The unidirectional geometry of
the dampers 32 by means of their shape and configuration allows the sheath introducer 10
to provide "hands-free" utility so that the user need not maintain a hand on the device at all
times while the device is inside the sheath introducer.
[0034]          In an alternate embodiment as illustrated in FIGS. 6 and 6A, the dampers 32
are configured as "bumps" with greater radial and circumferential thicknesses compared to
the above-described "finger" dampers. The thickness may be uniform and/or nonuniform
in the radial and/or circumferential direction. In the illustrated embodiment, the thickness
in the radial direction is tapered, that is, thicker at the base 34 and thinner at an outer edge
38. Compared to the "finger" dampers, the "bump" dampers may have a more curved
profile. However, the bump dampers are also unidirectional in that the curved profile is
angled distally, where the outer edge has a more linear proximal portion 38P and a more
curved distal portion 38D.
[0035]          In another alternate embodiment as illustrated in FIGS. 7 and 7A, the
dampers 32 are configured as "flaps" with a lesser radial thickness but a thicker base 34.

                                                7
The dampers are also unidirectional and thus are angled toward the distal end 12D of the
sheath. Both side edges 36 form an angle 0, as defined above. FIGs. 8, 8A, 9, 9A, 10,
10A, 11 and 11 A depict alternative configurations for the dampers according to some
embodiments of the present invention. In particular, FIGs. 8, 9, 10 and 11 are enlarged
side cross-sectional view of dampers according different embodiments of the invention,
and FIGS. 8A, 9A, 10A and 11 A are end cross-sectional views of the dampers of FIGS. 8,
9, 10 and 11, respectively, taken along line A--A.
[0036]          The preceding description has been presented with reference to presently
preferred embodiments of the invention. Workers skilled in the art and technology to
which this invention pertains will appreciate that alterations and changes in the described
structure may be practiced without meaningfully departing from the principal, spirit and
scope of this invention. As understood by one of ordinary skill in the art, the drawings are
not necessarily to scale. Some features are exaggerated for purposes of discussion.
Accordingly, the foregoing description should not be read as pertaining only to the precise
structures described and illustrated in the accompanying drawings, but rather should be
read consistent with and as support to the following claims which are to have their fullest
and fair scope.
[0037]          Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group
of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
steps.
[0038]          The reference to any prior art in this specification is not and should not be
taken as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the
common general knowledge in Australia.
[0039]          This application is a divisional application from Australian Application
2013273705. The full disclosure of AU 2013273705is incorporated herein by reference.

                                               8
CLAIMS
1.        A catheter sheath introducer adapted for use with a medical device, comprising:
          a hub;
          an elongated sheath comprising a tubular structure with a distal end and a
proximal end, the tubular structure having at least one layer with an inner circumferential
surface defining a lumen, the hub being connected to the proximal end of the sheath; and
          one or more pairs of diametrically opposing dampers, wherein the dampers:
           extend inwardly from the inner circumferential surface of the lumen of the
sheath;
          are angled toward the distal end of the sheath in a unidirectional configuration,
such that the medical device encounters less frictional impedance when advanced distally
relative to the sheath than when withdrawn proximally relative to the sheath; and
          are configured to contact and apply a retention force on the medical device
received in the lumen of the sheath.
2.        The catheter sheath introducer of claim 1, wherein the one or more dampers are
constructed of a rubber-based material.
3.        The catheter sheath introducer of claim 2, wherein the one or more dampers are
formed from the at least one layer of the tubular structure.
4.        The catheter sheath introducer of claim 1, wherein the one or more dampers are
configured as fingers.
5.        The catheter sheath introducer of claim 1, wherein the one or more dampers are
configured as bumps.
6.        The catheter sheath introducer of claim 1, wherein a plurality of the one or more
dampers ranges between about two and six.

                                               9
7.        The catheter sheath introducer of claim 8, wherein distal ends of at least one pair
of dampers are in contact with each other when the medical device is out of contact with
the dampers.
8.        The catheter sheath introducer of claim 1, wherein a distal end of at least one
damper is in contact with at least one other damper when the medical device is out of
contact with the dampers.
9.       The catheter sheath introducer of claim 1, wherein distal ends of the one or more
dampers are out of contact with each other when the medical device is out of contact with
the dampers.
10.       The catheter sheath introducer of claim 1, wherein each damper has at least one
edge whose inner angle with the inner surface toward the distal end of the tubular structure
is less than about 90 degrees.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
