Abstract
The disclosure relates to compositions and methods of mitigating tissue damage and fibrosis
in a patient by modulating latent transforming growth factor beta binding protein (LTBP4)
proteolysis and release of a TGFB superfamily protein. Methods according to the disclosure
comprise administration of an effective amount of a modulator of LTBP4, with that effective
amount being an amount sufficient to prevent, delay onset and/or treat a disorder according to
the disclosure. The compositions and methods provided by the disclosure will improve one or
more symptoms associated with disorders according to the disclosure in afflicted individuals,
thereby improving their quality of life while alleviating the financial, psychological and
physical burdens imposed on modem healthcare systems.

  MITIGATING TISSUE DAMAGE AND FIBROSIS VIA LATENT TRANSFORMING
                  GROWTH FACTOR BETA BINDING PROTEIN (LTBP4)
                    CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This application is a divisional of No. 2013313282 filed August 1, 2013 and claims
priority from U.S. Patent Application No. 61/678,564, filed August 1, 2012, the disclosures of
which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
                        STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST
[0002] This invention was made with government support under Grant Number HL61322,
awarded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH). The government has certain rights in the
invention.
                                               FIELD
[0003] The disclosure relates to compositions and methods of mitigating tissue damage and
fibrosis in a patient via latent transforming growth factor beta binding protein (LTBP4).
                                        SEQUENCE LISTING
[0004] This application contains, as a separate part of the disclosure, a Sequence Listing in
computer-readable form (filename: 46577 _SeqListing.txt; created: August 1, 2012; 217,614
bytes-ASCII text file) which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
                                          BACKGROUND
[0005] The transforming growth factor (TGF) beta superfamily proteins are key regulators of
fibrosis in all parenchymal organs [Kisseleva et al., Proc Am Thorac Soc. 5: 338-42 (2008)].
Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) is characterized by progressive fibrosis that is
accompanied by increased TGFp signaling [Bemasconi et al., J Clin Invest. 96: 1137-44
(1995); Chen et al., Neurology 65: 826-34 (2005)]. In DMD, fibrosis not only contributes
directly to muscle dysfunction but also inhibits regeneration. DMD is characterized by muscle
membrane fragility that leads to progressive myofiber loss. With disease progression, DMD
muscle is replaced by fibrosis. Although muscle is highly regenerative, regeneration in DMD is
not sufficient to offset degeneration leading to muscle weakness. Glucocorticoid steroids are
used to slow progression in DMD, but use of steroids is complicated by side effects including
osteoporosis and weight gain (Bushby et al., 2010). Experimental therapies for DMD include
approaches to increase dystrophin expression, modulate the inflammatory response, promote
muscle growth and reduce fibrosis [Bushby et al., Lancet 374: 1849-56 (2009)].

[0006]     In recent years, biological compounds such as antibodies have shown efficacy for
treating chronic diseases. For example, antibodies directed against TNFa (infliximab) or
anti-TNF receptor (etanercept) are now in wide use for rheumatoid arthritis and other related
disorders. While initially developed for its anti-cancer activity, the anti-VEGF antibody is
now used to treat macular degeneration (bevacizumab). Thus, long-term use with biological
compounds can be effective and safe. Consistent with therapeutic approaches comprising the
administration of a biological compound such as an antibody is the fact that antibodies are
readily detected in the matrix of dystrophic muscle, such as the muscle of DMD patients.
[0007]     A number of approaches, including but not limited to angiotensin inhibition, either
through the converting enzyme or the angiotensin receptor, aldosterone inhibition, and
inhibition by antibodies directed against TGF3 have been or are being tested to reduce
fibrosis in DMD. [Cohn et al., Nat Med. 13: 204-10 (2007); Rafael-Fortney et al.,
Circulation.124: 582-8 (2011); Nelson et al., Am J Pathol. 178: 2611-21 (2011)]. A major
limitation of these approaches is that these drugs are systemically active and often have
unwanted effects such as reduced blood pressure. Given the relative hypotension of DMD
patients, especially advanced DMD patients, such approaches are limited.
                                           SUMMARY
[0008]     Disclosed herein are compositions and methods for treating a transforming growth
factor beta superfamily protein-related disease. Compositions according to the disclosure
modulate the activity and/or proteolysis of latent TGFP binding protein 4 (LTBP4). Methods
according to the disclosure comprise administration of an effective amount of a modulator of
LTBP4, with that effective amount being an amount sufficient to prevent, delay onset and/or
treat a disorder according to the disclosure. The compositions and methods provided by the
disclosure will improve one or more symptoms associated with disorders according to the
disclosure in afflicted individuals, thereby improving their quality of life while alleviating the
financial, psychological and physical burdens imposed on modem healthcare systems.
[0009]     Accordingly, in one aspect the disclosure provides a method of treating a patient
having a transforming growth factor beta (TGF3) superfamily protein-related disease,
comprising administering an effective amount of an agent that modulates proteolysis of latent
TGFP binding protein 4 (LTBP4) to a patient in need thereof.
[0010]     A related aspect of the disclosure provides methods of delaying onset or preventing
a transforming growth factor beta (TGFP) superfamily protein -related disease, comprising
                                                 2

administering an effective amount of an agent that modulates proteolysis of latent TGF
binding protein 4 (LTBP4) to a patient in need thereof.
[0011]     In various embodiments of the foregoing methods, the patient has a disease selected
from the group consisting of Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy, Limb Girdle Muscular
Dystrophy, Becker Muscular Dystrophy, myopathy, cystic fibrosis, pulmonary fibrosis,
cardiomyopathy, acute lung injury, acute muscle injury, acute myocardial injury, radiation
induced injury and colon cancer.
[0012]     In further embodiments, the agent is selected from the group consisting of an
antibody, an inhibitory nucleic acid and a peptide.
[0013]     In further aspects of the disclosure, the methods disclosed herein further comprise
administering an effective amount of a second agent, wherein the second agent is selected
from the group consisting of a modulator of an inflammatory response, a promoter of muscle
growth, a chemotherapeutic agent and a modulator of fibrosis.
[0014]     Another aspect of the disclosure is drawn to a method of treating a patient having a
transforming growth factor beta (TGFj)-related disease, comprising administering to the
patient an effective amount of an agent that upregulates the activity of latent TGF binding
protein 4 (LTBP4).
[0015]     A further aspect of the disclosure provides a method of delaying onset or
preventing a transforming growth factor beta (TGFj)-related disease, comprising
administering to the patient an effective amount of an agent that upregulates the activity of
latent TGF binding protein 4 (LTBP4).
[0016]     In some embodiments of the methods, LTBP4 interacts with a TGF superfamily
protein, and in still further embodiments the TGF superfamily protein is selected from the
group consisting of TGF, a growth and differentiation factor (GDF), activin, inhibin, and a
bone morphogenetic protein. In specific embodiments, the GDF is myostatin.
[0017]     In additional embodiments, the agent is selected from the group consisting of a
peptide, an antibody and a polynucleotide capable of expressing a protein having LTBP4
activity, each as disclosed herein. In some embodiments, the polynucleotide is contained in a
vector and in further embodiments the vector is a viral vector. The disclosure further
contemplates embodiments wherein the viral vector is selected from the group consisting of a
herpes virus vector, an adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector, an adeno virus vector, and a
lentiviral vector. In one embodiment, the AAV vector is recombinant AAV9.
                                                  3

[0018]      In some embodiments, the compositions and methods disclosed herein are for
treating a transforming growth factor beta-related disease in a patient. In particular
embodiments, the patient suffers from a disease selected from the group consisting of
Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD), Limb Girdle Muscular Dystrophy (LGMD), Becker
Muscular Dystrophy (BMD), myopathy, cystic fibrosis, pulmonary fibrosis, cardiomyopathy,
acute lung injury, acute muscle injury, acute myocardial injury, radiation-induced injury and
colon cancer.
[0019]      An additional aspect of the disclosure is drawn to methods as disclosed above that
further comprise administering a therapeutically effective amount of a second agent that is
selected from the group consisting of a modulator of an inflammatory response, a promoter of
muscle growth, a chemotherapeutic agent and a modulator of fibrosis.
[0020]      In some embodiments, an isolated antibody is provided that specifically binds to a
peptide comprising any one of the sequences set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 2-5. In further
embodiments, the disclosure provides an isolated antibody that specifically binds to a peptide
that is at least 70% identical to a peptide comprising any one of the sequences set forth in
SEQ ID NOs: 2-5, wherein the antibody retains an ability to specifically bind to LTBP4 and
to decrease the susceptibility of LTBP4 to proteolysis.
[0021]      Still further embodiments of the disclosure provide a peptide comprising the
sequence as set out in SEQ ID NOs: 2-5, or a peptide that is at least 70% identical to any one
of the sequences as set out in SEQ ID NO: 2-5 that retains an ability to act as a substrate for a
protease.
[0022]      In another aspect, a pharmaceutical formulation is provided comprising an effective
amount, such as a therapeutically effective amount, of an antibody and/or peptide of the
disclosure, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.
[0023]      A further aspect of the disclosure provides a kit comprising an effective amount,
such as a therapeutically effective amount, of an antibody and/or peptide of the disclosure, a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent and instructions for use.
[0024]      In some embodiments, the formulation or the kit of the disclosure further comprises
an effective amount, such as a therapeutically effective amount, of a second agent, wherein
the second agent is selected from the group consisting of a modulator of an inflammatory
response, a promoter of muscle growth, a chemotherapeutic agent and a modulator of
fibrosis.
                                                  4

[0025]     Other features and advantages of the present disclosure will become apparent from
the following detailed description. It should be understood, however, that the detailed
description and the specific examples, while indicating specific embodiments of the
disclosure, are given by way of illustration only, because various changes and modifications
within the spirit and scope of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art
from this detailed description.
                       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0026]     Figure 1 depicts a model for action of LTBP4 (latent TGFP binding protein 4).
LTBP4 binds directly to TGFP family member proteins. In the extracellular matrix, the
complex of LTBP4 protein and TGFP forms the large latent complex. With proteolysis,
LTBP4 undergoes a conformational change which releases TGFP, thereby making it available
for release and binding TGFP receptors on neighboring cells. TGFP binding to its receptor
results in TGFP signaling in cells.
[0027]     Figure 2 depicts the gene structure of LTBP4. An insertion deletion polymorphism
in Ltbp4 alters the proline-rich region in mice. The N-terminus of LTBP binds the
extracellular matrix (ECM). The LTBP4 protein is composed of multiple epidermal growth
factor (EGF) repeats interspersed with motifs containing 8 cysteine residues (8-Cys). The
third 8-cys repeat binds TGFP directly. The proline-rich region (labeled horizontal rectangle)
separates the matrix-binding domain from the remainder of the protein. Mouse 129 is
protected against muscular dystrophy because of insertion of 12 amino acids in the proline
rich region. Muscular dystrophy in D2 strains of mice is more severe. Rat, dog, cow, and
humans each harbor a larger deletion of the proline-rich region of LTBP4.
[0028]     Figure 3 depicts results of studies using fragments of human and mouse LTBP4 that
were expressed and digested. Human LTBP4 is more readily cleaved than murine LTBP4.
The amino acid positions indicated for TP and TP2E are based on the human isoform a
LTBP4 sequence (SEQ ID NO: 1).
[0029]     Figure 4 depicts results of studies using a blocking antibody that was designed to
recognize and bind the proline-rich region (Y) of LTBP4. When incubated with cell lysates
expressing LTBP4, the presence of the antibody inhibits cleavage by plasmin. A nonspecific
antibody did not inhibit cleavage.
[0030]     Figure 5 depicts that the proline-rich region of human LTBP4 is more easily
cleaved than murine LTBP4.
                                                  5

[0031]      Figure 6 shows results of a study using a blocking antibody that inhibited cleavage
of full-length LTBP4. A nonspecific blocking antibody showed no effect. Assays were
conducted in triplicate with significant inhibition of proteolysis observed.
[0032]      Figure 7 shows results of a study wherein a bacterial artificial transgene expressing
human LTBP4 (hLTBP4 Tg) was crossed into the mouse mdx model of Duchenne Muscular
Dystrophy. (A) hLTBP4/mdx mice have enhanced fibrosis in their muscles as determined
grossly through histology and by direct quantitation. When quantified, fibrotic area was
increased in hLTBP4/mdx mice compared to littermate mdx mice. (B) hLTBP4/mdx mice
have reduced grip strength. Grip strength was compared between hLTBP4/mdx mice and
mdx mice to determine whether the human LTBP4 gene worsens the muscle disease seen in
mdx mice. hLTBP4/mdx mice are weaker than mdx littermates (*). Grip strength was
measured using the Treat NMD standard protocols.
[0033]      Figure 8 shows that LTBP4 forms a complex with myostatin. HEK293 cells were
transfected with LTBP4 and epitope-tagged myostatin. LTBP4 was precipitated with two
different anti-LTBP4 antibodies (lanes 3 and 5), and the precipitate was then immunoblotted
with anti-myc antibody. Unprocessed myostatin was detected in the immunoprecipitate
(arrow). The upper band in lanes 1 and 2 that migrates above 50 KDa is endogenous c-myc,
which is 63 KDa.
[0034]      Figure 9 depicts the results of experiments testing the effects of cardiotoxin on both
wild-type mice and transgenic mice that express human LTBP4. A) transgenic mice
displayed enhanced injury after cardiotoxin injury seen as greater inflammatory mononuclear
cell infiltrate and fibrosis and fat deposition into the injured muscle. B) LTBP4 protein levels
are increased after injury.
[0035]      Figure 10 shows that anti-LTBP4 antibodies mitigate muscle injury in vivo.
Compared to PBS-injected mice, LTBP4-831 antibody-treated mice showed reduced central
nucleation (panel A) and reduced fibrosis (panel B) following cardiotoxin injection.
[0036]      Figure 11 shows that increased TGFP signaling is associated with increased
macrophage infiltration in hLTBP4/mdx muscle compared to mdx muscle. A) Muscles were
stained with antibodies to activated macrophages using the F4/80 antibody. B) hLTBP4/mdx
muscle shows an increase in cleaved LTBP4 protein compared to mdx, while little LTBP4
protein is seen in wild type and hLTBP4 muscle in the absence of injury or muscular
                                                  6

dystrophy. C) Proteolytic cleavage and a conformational change in LTBP4 is associated
with TGF3 release.
                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0037]     The transforming growth factor beta (TGFO) superfamily consists of more than 40
members including TGFP , activins, inhibins, growth differentiation factors and bone
morphogenetic proteins (BMPs). All members of this family share common sequence
elements and structural motifs. They are multifunctional regulators of cell division,
differentiation, migration, adhesion, organization and death, promoting extracellular matrix
(ECM) production, tissue homeostasis and embryogenesis [Massague et al., Genes Dev 19:
2783-810 (2005); Javelaud et al., Int J Biochem Cell Biol 36: 1161-5 (2004); Moustakas et
al., Immunol Lett 82: 85-91 (2002)]. Among these proteins, TGFP has a crucial role in tissue
homeostasis and the disruption of the TGFP pathway has been implicated in many human
diseases, including cancer, autoimmune, fibrotic, and cardiovascular diseases [Ruiz-Ortega et
al., CardiovascularResearch 74: 196 - 206 (2007)].
[0038]     TGFP is synthesized as an inactive protein, named latent TGFP, which consists of a
main region and a latency associated peptide (LAP). This protein interacts with the latent
TGFP binding proteins (e.g., LTBP4) and is anchored in the extracellular matrix (ECM).
TGFP is activated following proteolysis of LTBP4, which results in release of TGFP.
Specifically, and as disclosed herein, the proline-rich region of LTBP4 is susceptible to
proteolysis by a protease, and this proteolysis leads to release and activation of TGFP.
[0039]     Active TGFP then binds its receptors and functions in autocrine and paracrine
manners to exert its biological and pathological activities via Smad-dependent and
independent signaling pathways [Lan, Int J Biol Sci 7(7): 1056-1067 (2011); Derynck et al.,
Nature.425: 577-84 (2003)].
[0040]     Thus, inhibition of the proteolysis of LTBP4 will inhibit the release of bound
TGFP, and the resulting sequestration of TGFP will inhibit the downstream signaling effects
of TGFP, resulting in mitigation of TGF3-related disease.
[0041]     The working examples and experimental data disclosed therein demonstrate that the
proline-rich region of LTBP4 is susceptible to proteolysis. These results support therapeutics
and therapies directed to modulating the proteolysis of LTBP4 in a patient having a TGFP
related disease.
                                                 7

[0042]     The experimental results disclosed herein also demonstrate that proteolysis of
LTBP4 can be inhibited by antibodies. Inhibition of LTBP4 proteolysis using
pharmacological approaches is expected to provide an effective approach to the treatment of
TGFj-related diseases.
[0043]     Experimental results disclosed herein additionally demonstrate that a fragment of
human LTBP4 is more susceptible to proteolysis than the mouse LTBP4 sequence.
Consequently, a phenomenon elucidated in the mouse is mirrored in humans, and inhibition
of LTPB4 proteolysis is expected to provide an effective treatment for TGFj-related diseases.
[0044]     Unless otherwise defined herein, scientific and technical terms employed in the
disclosure shall have the meanings that are commonly understood and used by one of
ordinary skill in the art. Unless otherwise required by context, it will be understood that
singular terms shall include plural forms of the same and plural terms shall include the
singular. Specifically, as used herein and in the claims, the singular forms "a" and "an"
include the plural reference unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
[0045]     As used in the disclosure, the term "treating" or "treatment" refers to an
intervention performed with the intention of preventing the further development of or altering
the pathology of a disease or infection. Accordingly, "treatment" refers to both therapeutic
treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures. Of course, when "treatment" is used in
conjunction with a form of the separate term "prophylaxis," it is understood that "treatment"
refers to the narrower meaning of altering the pathology of a disease or condition.
"Preventing" refers to a preventative measure taken with a subject not having a condition or
disease. A therapeutic agent may directly decrease the pathology of a disease, or render the
disease more susceptible to treatment by another therapeutic agent(s) or, for example, the
host's immune system. Treatment of patients suffering from clinical, biochemical, or
subjective symptoms of a disease may include alleviating one or more of such symptoms or
reducing the predisposition to the disease. Improvement after treatment may be manifested
as a decrease or elimination of one or more of such symptoms.
[0046]     As used herein, the phrase "effective amount" is meant to refer to an amount of a
therapeutic (i.e., a therapeutically effective amount), prophylactic (i.e., a prophylactically
effective amount), or symptom-mitigating (i.e., a symptom-mitigating effective amount)
compound (e.g., agent or second agent) sufficient to modulate proteolysis of latent TGF
binding protein 4 (LTBP4), such as would be appropriate for an embodiment of the
disclosure in eliciting the desired therapeutic, prophylactic, or symptom-mitigating effect or
                                                 8

response, including alleviating one or more of such symptoms of disease or reducing the
predisposition to the disease.
[0047]      As used herein, "hybridization" means the pairing of substantially complementary
strands of polymeric compounds. One mechanism of pairing involves hydrogen bonding,
which may be Watson-Crick, Hoogsteen or reversed Hoogsteen hydrogen bonding, between
complementary nucleotide bases (nucleotides) of the strands of polymeric compounds. For
example, adenine and thymine are complementary nucleotides which pair through the
formation of hydrogen bonds. Hybridization can occur under varying circumstances.
[0048]      An antisense compound is "specifically hybridizable" when binding of the
compound to the target nucleic acid interferes with the normal function of the target nucleic
acid to cause a modulation of function and/or activity, and there is a sufficient degree of
complementarity to avoid non-specific binding of the antisense compound to non-target
nucleic acid sequences under conditions in which specific binding is desired, i.e., under
physiological conditions in the case of in vivo applications such as therapeutic treatment, and
under conditions in which assays are performed in the case of in vitro assays.
[0049]      As used herein, the phrase "stringent hybridization conditions" or "stringent
conditions" refers to conditions under which a compound (e.g., agent) disclosed herein will
hybridize to its target sequence, but to a minimal number of other sequences. Stringent
conditions are sequence-dependent and will be different in different circumstances and in the
context of this disclosure, "stringent conditions" under which polymeric compounds
hybridize to a target sequence are determined by the nature and composition of the polymeric
compounds and by the application(s) involved. In general, stringent hybridization conditions
comprise low concentrations (<0.15M) of salts with inorganic cations such as Na** or K*
(i.e., low ionic strength), temperatures higher than 20'C-250 C below the Tm of the polymeric
compound:target sequence complex, and the presence of denaturants such as formamide,
dimethylformamide, dimethyl sulfoxide, or the detergent sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS). An
example of a set of high stringency hybridization conditions is 0. IX sodium chloride-sodium
citrate buffer (SSC)/0.1% (w/v) SDS at 60'C for 30 minutes.
[0050]      "Complementary," as used herein, refers to the capacity for precise pairing between
two nucleotides on one or two polymeric strands. Consistent with Watson-Crick base pairing
rules (A binds T or U; G binds C; where A, G, C, T and U are the conventional ribo-, or
deoxyribo-, nucleotide monophosphates). "Specifically hybridizable" and "complementary"
                                                 9

are terms which are used to indicate a sufficient degree of precise nucleotide pairing or
complementarity over a sufficient number of nucleotides such that stable and specific binding
occurs between the polymeric compound and a target nucleic acid. The terms thus allow for
base pairing gaps, but not to the extent that it prevents stable and specific binding.
[0051]     It is understood in the art that the sequence of a polymeric compound need not be
100% complementary to that of its target nucleic acid to be specifically hybridizable.
Moreover, a polynucleotide may hybridize over one or more segments such that intervening
or adjacent segments are not involved in the hybridization event (e.g., a loop structure,
mismatch or hairpin structure). The polymeric compounds of the present disclosure comprise
at least about 70%, or at least about 75%, or at least about 80%, or at least about 85%, or at
least about 90%, or at least about 95%, or at least about 99% sequence complementarity to a
target region, within the target nucleic acid sequence to which they are targeted. For
example, an antisense compound in which 18 of 20 nucleotides of the antisense compound
are complementary to a target region, and would therefore specifically hybridize, would
represent 90 percent complementarity. In this example, the remaining noncomplementary
nucleotides may be clustered or interspersed with complementary nucleotides and need not be
contiguous to each other or to complementary nucleotides. As such, an antisense compound
which is 18 nucleotides in length having 4 (four) noncomplementary nucleotides which are
flanked by two regions of complete complementarity with the target nucleic acid would have
77.8% overall complementarity with the target nucleic acid and would thus fall within the
scope of the present disclosure. Percent complementarity of an antisense compound with a
region of a target nucleic acid can be determined by use of routine sequence comparison
software and algorithms, e.g., BLAST programs (basic local alignment search tools) and
PowerBLAST programs known in the art [Altschul et al., J. Mol. Biol., 215: 403-410 (1990);
Zhang and Madden, Genome Res., 7: 649-656 (1997)]. Percent homology, sequence identity
or complementarity, can be determined by, for example, the Gap program (Wisconsin
Sequence Analysis Package, Version 8 for Unix, Genetics Computer Group, University
Research Park, Madison Wis.), using default settings, which uses the algorithm of Smith and
Waterman [Adv. Apple. Math., 2: 482-489 (1981)].
[0052]     As used herein, the term "(Tm)" means melting temperature and refers to the
temperature, under defined ionic strength, pH, and nucleic add concentration, at which 50%
of the polynucleotides complementary to the target sequence hybridize to the target sequence
at equilibrium. Typically, stringent conditions will be those in which the salt concentration is
                                                  10

at least about 0.01 to 1.0 M sodium ion concentration (or other salts) at pH 7.0 to 8.3 and the
temperature is at least about 30'C for short polynucleotides (e.g., 10 to 50 nucleotides).
Stringent conditions may also be achieved with the addition of destabilizing agents such as
formamide.
[0053]     As used herein, "modulation" of an activity means either an increase (stimulation)
or a decrease (inhibition) in that activity. For example, and without limitation, a modulation
of proteolysis can mean either an increase in proteolysis or a decrease in proteolysis.
                      LATENT TGFp BINDING PROTEIN 4 (LTBP4)
[0054]     The present disclosure is directed in part to Ltbp4, the gene encoding latent TGFP
binding protein (LTBP4; GenBank Accession Number NP_001036009.1; SEQ ID NO: 1),
which was identified in a genetic screen as a major genetic modifier of muscular dystrophy
[Heydemann et al., J Clin Invest. 119: 3703-12 (2009)]. This genetic screen was conducted
using mice lacking the dystrophin-associated protein, y-sarcoglycan (Sgcg null mice). The
Sgcg model of limb girdle muscular dystrophy (LGMD) was selected because there was
ample evidence from human LGMD of the importance of genetic modifiers affecting the
severity of this disease [McNally et al., Am J Hum Genet. 59:1040-7 (1996)]. It was
surprisingly found that modifiers identified for sarcoglycan-mediated muscular dystrophy
similarly modify DMD. Disruption of the dystrophin glycoprotein complex, either in DMD
or the sarcoglycan-associated LGMDs, leads to a fragile muscle membrane, enhanced
myofiber breakdown, and replacement of normal muscle tissue by fibrosis. Early in
pathology, fibrotic replacement is minimal, but in the advanced DMD patient, the muscle is
nearly completely replaced by fibrosis.
[0055]     LTBP4 is located on human chromosome 19q 13. 1-q 13.2, and is an extracellular
matrix protein that binds and sequesters TGFP (Figure 1). LTBP4 modifies murine muscular
dystrophy through a polymorphism in the Ltbp4 gene. There are two common variants of the
Ltbp4 gene in mice. Most strains of mice, including the mdx mouse, have the Ltbp4 insertion
allele (Ltbp4"'). Insertion of 36 base pairs (12 amino acids) into the proline-rich region of
LTBP4 encoded by Ltbp4"' leads to milder disease. Deletion of 36 bp/12aa in the proline
rich region is associated with more severe disease (Ltbp4D/D) (Figure 2). It was found that the
Ltbp4 genotype correlated strongly with two different aspects of muscular dystrophy
pathology, i.e., membrane leakage and fibrosis, and these features define DMD pathology.
                                                 11

[0056]     To assess muscle membrane leakage, Evans blue dye (EBD), which can complex
with serum albumin, and thus is a measure of membrane permeability, was used. EBD is
injected intraperitoneally and muscles from the injected animals are harvested approximately
8-40 hours later. Muscle membrane leakage was assessed by determining the amount of
EBD in multiple different muscle groups, including quadriceps and other skeletal muscles.
Hydroxyproline content was measured to quantify fibrosis, and this assay was also performed
on multiple different muscle groups. The Ltbp4 genotype was found to account for nearly
40% of the variance in membrane leakage in quadriceps muscle [Swaggart et al., Physiol
Genomics 43: 24-31 (2011)]. Similarly, the Ltbp4 genotype also highly correlated with
fibrosis in limb-based skeletal muscles where it also accounted for a significant amount of the
variance. Ltbp4 is an unusually strong genetic modifier and acts both on membrane fragility
as well as fibrosis. Accordingly, the present disclosure identifies LTBP4 as a target for
therapy because it will stabilize the plasma membrane in addition to reducing fibrosis in
patients in need thereof.
[0057]     As discussed hereinabove, LTBP4 is a matrix-associated protein that binds and
sequesters TGF3. TGF3 in this form is the large latent complex, which requires further
proteolysis to become fully active. It is expected that matrix-bound latent TGF3 is the least
active form with regard to receptor engagement, and therefore represents an ideal step at
which to inhibit TGF3 release. LTBP4, the fourth member of the LTBP carrier protein
family, is highly expressed in heart, muscle, lung and colon [Saharinen et al., J Biol Chem.
273: 18459-69 (1998)]. LTBP4 protein, like other members of this family, can be
proteolyzed with plasmin, which results in TGFP release [Saharinen et al., J Biol Chem. 273:
18459-69 (1998); Ge et al., J Cell Biol. 175: 111-20 (2006)]. The 12-amino-acid
insertion/deletion alters the susceptibility of LTBP4 to proteolysis, which in turn alters TGFP
release and its ability to bind TGFP receptors and activate signaling. It is disclosed herein
that inhibiting LTBP4 cleavage will hold TGFP inactive and limit the downstream effects of
TGFP release.
                                             AGENTS
[0058]     Methods of the disclosure contemplate treating a patient having a TGF3-related
disease comprising administering to the patient an effective amount of an agent that
modulates proteolysis of LTBP4.
[0059]     The term "agent" in this context refers to an antibody, an inhibitory nucleic acid, a
peptide, and combinations thereof.
                                                 12

                                           Antibodies
[0060]     The term "antibody" is used in the broadest sense and includes fully assembled
antibodies, monoclonal antibodies, polyclonal antibodies, multispecific antibodies (e.g.,
bispecific antibodies), antibody fragments that can bind antigen (e.g., Fab', F'(ab) 2 , Fv, single
chain antibodies, diabodies), camel bodies and recombinant peptides comprising the
foregoing provided they exhibit the desired biological activity. Antibody fragments may be
produced using recombinant DNA techniques or by enzymatic or chemical cleavage of intact
antibodies and are described further below. Non-limiting examples of monoclonal antibodies
include murine, chimeric, humanized, human, and human-engineered immunoglobulins,
antibodies, chimeric fusion proteins having sequences derived from immunoglobulins, or
muteins or derivatives thereof, each described further below. Multimers or aggregates of
intact molecules and/or fragments, including chemically derivatized antibodies, are
contemplated. Antibodies of any isotype class or subclass are contemplated.
[0061]     The term "monoclonal antibody" as used herein refers to an antibody obtained from
a population of substantially homogeneous antibodies, i.e., the individual antibodies
comprising the population are identical except for possible naturally occurring mutations that
may be present in minor amounts. Monoclonal antibodies are highly specific, being directed
against a single antigenic site. In contrast to conventional (polyclonal) antibody preparations
that typically include different antibodies directed against different determinants (epitopes),
each monoclonal antibody is directed against a single determinant on the antigen. In addition
to their specificity, monoclonal antibodies are advantageous in that they are synthesized in a
homogeneous culture, uncontaminated by other immunoglobulins with different specificities
and characteristics.
[0062]     The modifier "monoclonal" indicates the character of the antibody as being
obtained from a substantially homogeneous population of antibodies, and is not to be
construed as requiring production of the antibody by any particular method. For example, the
monoclonal antibodies to be used in accordance with the disclosure may be made by the
hybridoma method first described by Kohler et al., Nature 256: 495 (1975), or may be made
by recombinant DNA methods (see, e.g., U.S. Patent Number 4,816,567, incorporated herein
by reference). The "monoclonal antibodies" may also be recombinant, chimeric, humanized,
human, Human EngineeredTM, or antibody fragments, for example.
[0063]     Antibodies described herein are discussed in Example 3. In certain embodiments, a
variant of an antibody of the disclosure is contemplated. By "variant" is meant an antibody
                                                 13

comprising one or more amino acid substitutions, amino acid deletions, or amino acid
additions to a reference amino acid sequence. Variants include, but are not limited to,
antibodies having an amino acid sequence that is at least 70%, 71%, 72%, 73%, 74%, 75%,
76%, 77%, 78%, 79%, 80%, 81%, 82%, 83%, 84%, 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%,
92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98% or 99% identical to any of the amino acid sequences
of an antibody provided herein, provided that the antibody variant retains the ability to block
and/or inhibit the proteolysis of LTBP4.
[0064]     In further embodiments, an anti-LTBP4 antibody described herein specifically
binds at least one peptide selected from the group consisting of peptides having a sequence
set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 2-5, or a peptide selected from the group consisting of peptides
having a sequence at least 70% identical to a peptide having a sequence set forth in SEQ ID
NOs: 2-5. In additional embodiments, an anti-LTBP4 antibody described herein binds at
least one epitope of LTBP4 with an affinity of 10-6 M, 10-7 M, 10-8 M, 10-9 M, 10-10 M, 10-"
M, or 10-12 M or less (lower meaning higher binding affinity), or optionally binds all of
LTBP4 with an affinity of 10-6 M, 10-7 M, 10-8 M, 10-9 M 10-10 M, 10-" M, or 10-1 M or less.
In other embodiments, an antibody described herein "specifically binds" to LTBP4 with at
least 2-50 fold, 10-100 fold, 2-fold, 5-fold, 10-fold, 25-fold, 50-fold or 100-fold, or 20-50%,
50-100%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90% or 100% higher affinity
compared to binding to a non-target protein.
[0065]     Antibodies described hereinbelow are suitable for use in the methods described
herein. Additional antibodies are also contemplated, provided the antibody possesses the
property of modulating the proteolysis or upregulating the activity of LTBP4. Such
antibodies may, for example, be humanized according to known techniques and modified
and/or formulated to allow delivery and intracellular contact with LTBP4.
                                             Peptides
[0066]     The disclosure provides peptides that have the ability to act as a substrate for a
protease (i.e., "a protease-substrate peptide"). The protease, as discussed herein, means a
protease that can cleave LTBP4. In one embodiment, the protease is a seine protease. In
further embodiments, the protease is selected from the group consisting of plasmin, leukocyte
elastase, pancreatic elastase, human mast cell chymase, trypsin, chymotrypsin, pepsin and
papain.
                                                 14

[0067]      The ability of a peptide to act as a substrate for a protease can be readily determined
by one of ordinary skill in the art. By way of non-limiting example, a peptide can be tested in
vitro by incubating a labeled LTBP4 protein (or a labeled fragment thereof) with a candidate
peptide and a serine protease. The label can be any detectable label known in the art, and in
one embodiment is a radioactive label. Following incubation and subsequent gel
electrophoresis, it can be determined whether the LTBP4 protein (or fragment thereof) was
refractory to proteolysis based on the size of the protein on the gel. If the LTBP4 protein was
not protected from proteolysis by the peptide, the radioactive band on the gel will be smaller
than one would expect for a full-length LTBP4 protein. Thus, while peptide sequences
disclosed herein are contemplated for use according to the methods of the disclosure,
additional peptides are also contemplated, with the proviso being their ability to act as a
substrate for a protease in a manner that renders them an inhibitor of LTBP4 proteolysis.
[0068]      Use of one or more peptides or antibodies of the disclosure, each of which has an
ability to act either as a substrate for a protease (peptide) or to act as an inhibitor of
proteolysis (antibody), is expected to upregulate the activity of LTBP4 compared to the
activity of LTBP4 in the absence of the one or more peptides. In this context, upregulation of
LTBP4 activity results from its protection from proteolysis via the action of the one or more
peptides and/or antibodies of the disclosure. The downstream effect of this upregulation of
LTBP4 activity is the concomitant downregulation of TGF signaling. Intact LTBP4 will
continue to bind and sequester TGF and thus prevent its release and subsequent downstream
effects. Thus, in various embodiments, the upregulation of LTBP4 activity is measured by
quantitating TGF signaling. Methods of quantitating TGF signaling are known to those of
skill in the art, and include determination of Smad signaling from a biological sample
obtained from a patient. It is contemplated that, in some embodiments, Smad signaling in a
patient being administered one or more agent(s) and/or additional agent(s) of the disclosure is
reduced by at least about 1% and up to about 5%, about 10%, about 20%, about 30%, about
40% or about 50% relative to a patient not so treated. In further embodiments, Smad
signaling in a patient being administered one or more agent(s) and/or additional agent(s) of
the disclosure is reduced by at least about 10% and up to about 20%, about 50%, about 70%,
about 80%, about 90%, about 99% or more relative to a patient not so treated. In specific
embodiments, Smad signaling in a patient being administered one or more agent(s) and/or
additional agent(s) of the disclosure is reduced by at least about 1%, about 2%, about 5%,
about 10%, about 20%, about 25%, about 30%, about 35%, about 40%, about 50%, about
                                                   15

60%, about 70%, about 80%, about 90%, about 95%, about 99% or more relative to a patient
not so treated.
[0069]     Peptides described above (i.e., peptide inhibitors of LTBP4 proteolysis) are set
forth in Example 3 and Table 1. Thus, in certain embodiments, the peptide comprises or
consists of the amino acid sequence of any one of SEQ ID NOs: 2-5 or a variant of any of the
foregoing. By "variant" is meant a peptide comprising one or more amino acid substitutions,
amino acid deletions, or amino acid additions to a reference amino acid sequence (e.g., any
one of SEQ ID NOs: 2-5). Variants include, but are not limited to, peptides having an amino
acid sequence that is at least 70%, 71%, 72%, 73%, 74%, 75%, 76%, 77%, 78%, 79%, 80%,
81%, 82%, 83%, 84%, 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%,
97%, 98% or 99% identical to any of the amino acid sequences provided herein while
retaining the ability to act as a substrate for a protease.
[0070]     In one aspect, the peptide consists of 35 amino acids or less. In various
embodiments, the peptide comprises 15-35 amino acid residues (e.g., 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20,
21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, or 35 amino acid residues). It is also
contemplated that a peptide described herein comprising one or more deletions is suitable in
the context of the disclosure so long as the peptide can act as a substrate for a protease. In
some embodiments, amino acids are removed from within the amino acid sequence, at the N
terminus, and/or at the C-terminus. Such peptide fragments can comprise 3-14 amino acid
residues (e.g., 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, or 14 amino acid residues).
[0071]     Optionally, the peptide comprises one or more amino acid substitutions (with
reference to any of the amino acid sequences provided herein) that do not destroy the ability
of the peptide to act as a substrate for a protease. Amino acid substitutions include, but are
not limited to, those which: (1) reduce susceptibility to proteolysis, (2) reduce susceptibility
to oxidation, (3) alter binding affinities, and/or (4) confer or modify other physiochemical or
functional properties on a peptide. In one aspect, the substitution is a conservative
substitution, wherein an amino acid residue is replaced with an amino acid residue having a
similar side chain. Families of amino acid residues having similar side chains have been
defined within the art, and include amino acids with basic side chains (e.g., lysine, arginine,
and histidine), acidic side chains (e.g., aspartic acid and glutamic acid), uncharged polar side
chains (e.g., glycine, asparagine, glutamine, serine, threonine, tyrosine, and cysteine),
nonpolar side chains (e.g., alanine, valine, leucine, isoleucine, proline, phenylalanine,
methionine, and tryptophan), beta-branched side chains (e.g., threonine, valine, and
                                                    16

isoleucine) and side chains with aromatic character (e.g., tyrosine, phenylalanine, tryptophan,
and histidine). It will be appreciated, however, that a practitioner is not limited to
conservative substitutions, so long as the resulting peptide retains the ability to act as a
substrate, in whole or in part, for a protease. The disclosure also embraces protease-substrate
peptides comprising atypical, non-naturally occurring amino acids, which are well known in
the art. The individual amino acids may have either L or D stereochemistry when
appropriate, although the L stereochemistry is typically employed for all of the amino acids
in the peptide.
[0072]     The disclosure further includes protease-substrate peptide variants comprising one
or more amino acids inserted within an amino acid sequence provided herein and/or attached
to the N-terminus or C-terminus. In some embodiments, the peptide further comprises one or
more amino acids that facilitate synthesis, handling, or use of the peptide including, but not
limited to, one or two lysines at the N-terminus and/or C-terminus to increase solubility of the
peptide. Suitable fusion proteins include, but are not limited to, proteins comprising a
peptide linked to another polypeptide, a polypeptide fragment, or amino acids not generally
recognized to be part of the protein sequence. In some embodiments, a fusion peptide
comprises the entire amino acid sequences of two or more peptides or, alternatively,
comprises portions (fragments) of two or more peptides. In addition to all or part of the
peptides described herein, a fusion protein optionally includes all or part of any suitable
peptide comprising a desired biological activity/function. Indeed, in some embodiments, a
peptide is operably linked to, for instance, one or more of the following: a peptide with long
circulating half-life, a marker protein, a peptide that facilitates purification of the protease
substrate peptide, a peptide sequence that promotes formation of multimeric proteins, or a
fragment of any of the foregoing. In one embodiment, two or more protease- substrate
peptides are fused together, linked by a multimerization domain, or attached via chemical
linkage to generate a protease-substrate peptide complex. The protease-substrate peptides
may be the same or different.
[0073]     "Derivatives" are also contemplated by the disclosure and include protease
substrate peptides that have been chemically modified in some manner distinct from addition,
deletion, or substitution of amino acids. In this regard, a peptide provided herein is
chemically bonded with polymers, lipids, other organic moieties, and/or inorganic moieties.
Derivatives are prepared in some situations to increase solubility, absorption, or circulating
half-life. Various chemical modifications eliminate or attenuate any undesirable side effect
                                                 17

of the agent. In this regard, the disclosure provides protease-substrate peptides covalently
modified to include one or more water-soluble polymer attachments. Useful polymers known
in the art include, but are not limited to, polyethylene glycol, polyoxyethylene glycol,
polypropylene glycol, monomethoxy-polyethylene glycol, dextran, cellulose, poly-(N-vinyl
pyrrolidone)-polyethylene glycol, propylene glycol homopolymers, a polypropylene
oxide/ethylene oxide co-polymer, polyoxyethylated polyols (e.g., glycerol) and polyvinyl
alcohol, as well as mixtures of any of the foregoing. For further discussion of water soluble
polymer attachments, see U.S. Patent Nos. 4,640,835; 4,496,689; 4,301,144; 4,670,417;
4,791,192; and 4,179,337, incorporated herein by reference. In other embodiments, a peptide
derivative includes a targeting moiety specific for a particular cell type, tissue, and/or organ.
Alternatively, the peptide is linked to one or more chemical moieties that facilitate
purification, detection, multimerization, and/or characterization of peptide activity.
[0074]      Derivatives also include peptides comprising modified or non-proteinogenic amino
acids or a modified linker group [see, e.g., Grant, Synthetic Peptides: A User's Guide, Oxford
University Press (1992)]. Modified amino acids include, for example, amino acids wherein
the amino and/or carboxyl group is replaced by another group. Non-limiting examples
include modified amino acids incorporating thioamides, ureas, thioureas, acylhydrazides,
esters, olefines, sulfonamides, phosphoric acid amides, ketones, alcohols, boronic acid
amides, benzodiazepines and other aromatic or non-aromatic heterocycles [see Estiarte et al.,
Burgers Medicinal Chemistry, 6th edition, Volume 1, Part 4, John Wiley & Sons, New York
(2002)]. Modified amino acids are often connected to the peptide with at least one of the
above-mentioned functional groups instead of an amide bond. Non-proteinogenic amino
acids include, but are not limited, to P-alanine (-Ala), norvaline (Nva), norleucine (Nle), 4
aminobutyric acid (y-Abu), 2-aminoisobutyric acid (Aib), 6-aminohexanoic acid (s-Ahx),
ornithine (orn), hydroxyproline (Hyp), sarcosine, citrulline, cysteic acid (Coh),
cyclohexylalanine, methioninesulfoxide (Meo), methioninesulfone (Moo),
homoserinemethylester (Hsm), propargylglycine (Eag), 5-fluorotryptophan (5Fw), 6
fluorotryptophan (6Fw), 3',4'-dimethoxyphenyl-alanine (Ear), 3',4'-difluorophenylalanine
(Dff), 4'-fluorophenyl-alanine (Pff), 1-naphthyl-alanine (INi), 1-methyltryptophan (1Mw),
penicillamine (Pen), homoserine (HSe), a-amino isobutyric acid, t-butylglycine, t
butylalanine, phenylglycine (Phg), benzothienylalanine (Bta), L-homo-cysteine (L-Hcys), N
methyl-phenylalanine (NMF), 2-thienylalanine (Thi), 3,3-diphenylalanine (Ebw),
homophenylalanine (Hfe), s-benzyl-L-cysteine (Ece) and cyclohexylalanine (Cha). These
                                                 18

and other non-proteinogenic amino acids may exist as D- or L- isomers and D-isomers of
proteinogenic amino acids may also be found in derivatives.
[0075]      Examples of modified linkers include, but are not limited to, the flexible linker
4,7,1 0-trioxa- 1,13-tridecanediamine (Ttds), glycine, 6-aminohexanoic acid, beta-alanine, and
combinations of Ttds, glycine, 6-aminohexanoic acid and beta-alanine.
[0076]      Protease-substrate peptides are made in a variety of ways. In some embodiments,
the peptides are synthesized by solid-phase synthesis techniques including those described in
Merrifield, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 85: 2149 (1963); Davis et al., Biochem. Intl. 10: 394-414
(1985); Larsen et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 115: 6247 (1993); Smith et al., J. Peptide Protein
Res. 44:183 (1994); O'Donnell et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 118: 6070 (1996); Stewart and
Young, Solid Phase Peptide Synthesis, Freeman (1969); Finn et al., The Proteins, 3rd ed.,
vol. 2, pp. 105-253 (1976); and Erickson et al., The Proteins, 3rd ed., vol. 2, pp. 257-527
(1976). Alternatively, the protease- substrate peptide is expressed recombinantly by
introducing a nucleic acid encoding a protease-substrate peptide into host cells that are
cultured to express the peptide. Such peptides are purified from the cell culture using
standard protein purification techniques.
[0077]      The disclosure also encompasses a nucleic acid comprising a nucleic acid sequence
encoding an antibody or protease-substrate peptide. Methods of preparing DNA and/or RNA
molecules are well known in the art. In one aspect, a DNA/RNA molecule encoding an
antibody or protease-substrate peptide provided herein is generated using chemical synthesis
techniques and/or using polymerase chain reaction (PCR). If desired, an antibody and/or
protease-substrate peptide coding sequence is incorporated into an expression vector. One of
ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that any of a number of expression vectors known in
the art are suitable in the context of the disclosure, such as, but not limited to, plasmids,
plasmid-liposome complexes, and viral vectors. Any of these expression vectors are prepared
using standard recombinant DNA techniques described in, e.g., Sambrook et al., Molecular
Cloning, a Laboratory Manual, 2d edition, Cold Spring Harbor Press, Cold Spring Harbor,
N.Y. (1989), and Ausubel et al., Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, Greene Publishing
Associates and John Wiley & Sons, New York, N.Y. (1994). Optionally, the nucleic acid is
operably linked to one or more regulatory sequences, such as a promoter, activator, enhancer,
cap signal, polyadenylation signal, or other signal involved in the control of transcription or
translation.
                                                  19

[0078]     As with all binding agents and binding assays, one of skill in this art recognizes that
the various moieties to which a binding agent should not detectably bind in order to be
biologically (e.g., therapeutically) effective would be exhaustive and impractical to list.
Therefore, when discussing a peptide, the term "specifically binds" refers to the ability of a
peptide to bind (or otherwise inhibit) a protease involved in cleavage of LTBP4 with greater
affinity than it binds to a non-target control protein that is not the protease. For example, the
peptide may bind to the protease with an affinity that is at least, 5, 10, 15, 25, 50, 100, 250,
500, 1000, or 10,000 times greater than the affinity for a control protein. In some
embodiments, the peptide binds the protease with greater affinity than it binds to an "anti
target," a protein or other naturally occurring substance in humans wherein binding of the
peptide might lead to adverse effects. Several classes of peptides are potential anti-targets.
Because protease-substrate peptides are expected to exert their activity in the extracellular
matrix, ECM proteins are contemplated as anti-targets.
[0079]     Also specifically contemplated by the disclosure are peptides that elicit an immune
response to LTBP4 in methods to modulate LTBP4 that involve the host immune system.
Thus, in some aspects, a composition is provided that comprises a peptide of the disclosure
for use as a vaccine in an individual. Vaccines often include an adjuvant. The compositions
comprising one or more peptides described herein may also contain an adjuvant, or be
administered with an adjuvant. Thus, the adjuvant may be administered with the peptide
compositions or as part of the peptide compositions, before the peptide compositions, or after
the peptide compositions.
[0080]     A variety of adjuvants are suitable for use in combination with the peptide
composition to elicit an immune response to the peptide. Preferred adjuvants augment the
intrinsic response to an antigen without causing conformational changes in the antigen that
affect the qualitative form of the response. Adjuvants for use in the methods disclosed herein
include, but are not limited to, keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH), forms of alum (see below)
and 3 De-O-acylated monophosphoryl lipid A (MPL or 3-DMP) [see GB 2220211]. Other
suitable adjuvant include QS21, which is a triterpene glycoside or saponin isolated from the
bark of the Quillaja Saponaria Molina tree found in South America [see Kensil et al., in
Vaccine Design: The Subunit and Adjuvant Approach (eds. Powell and Newman, Plenum
Press, NY, 1995); U.S. Pat. No. 5,057,540] and CpG [Bioworld Today, Nov. 15, 1998]. Still
other suitable adjuvants are described in the following paragraph.
                                                 20

[0081]    One class of suitable adjuvants, noted briefly above, is aluminum salts (alum), such
as aluminum hydroxide, aluminum phosphate, and aluminum sulfate. Such adjuvants can be
used with or without other specific immunostimulating agents such as MPL or 3-DMP,
QS21, polymeric or monomeric amino acids such as polyglutamic acid or polylysine.
Another class of suitable adjuvants is oil-in-water emulsion formulations [such as squalene or
peanut oil], optionally in combination with immunological stimulants, such as
monophosphoryl lipid A [see Stoute et al., N. Engl. J. Med. 336, 86-91 (1997)]. Such
adjuvants can be used with or without other specific immunostimulating agents such as
muramyl peptides (e.g., N-acetylmuramyl-L-threonyl-D-isoglutamine (thr-MDP), N-acetyl
normuramyl-L-alanyl-D-isoglutamine (nor-MDP), N-acetyl-muramyl-L-alanyl-D
isoglutaminyl-L-alanine-2-(1,2- dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-(hydroxyphosphoryloxy))
ethylamide (MTP-PE), N-acetylglucsaminyl-N-acetylmuramyl-L-Al-D-isoglu-L-Ala
dipalmitoxy propylamide (DTP-DPP) theramideTM), or other bacterial cell wall components.
Additional oil-in-water emulsions include (a) MF59 (WO 90/14837), containing 5%
Squalene, 0.5% Tween 80, and 0.5% Span 85 (optionally containing various amounts of
MTP-PE) formulated into submicron particles using a microfluidizer such as a Model 11 OY
microfluidizer (Microfluidics, Newton Mass.), (b) SAF, containing 10% Squalane, 0.4%
Tween 80, 5% pluronic-blocked polymer L121, and thr-MDP, either microfluidized into a
submicron emulsion or vortexed to generate a larger particle size emulsion, and (c) the Ribi
adjuvant system (RAS), (Ribi Immunochem, Hamilton, Mont.) containing 2% squalene, 0.2%
Tween 80, and one or more bacterial cell wall components from the group consisting of
monophosphoryl lipid A (MPL), trehalose dimycolate (TDM), and cell wall skeleton (CWS),
preferably MPL+CWS (Detox TM). Another class of suitable adjuvants is saponin adjuvants,
such as StimulonTM (QS21, Aquila, Worcester, Mass.) or particles generated therefrom such
as ISCOMs (immunostimulating complexes) and ISCOMATRIX. Other adjuvants include
Complete Freund's Adjuvant (CFA) and Incomplete Freund's Adjuvant (IFA). Any of the
suitable adjuvants may include a cytokine, such as an interleukin (IL-1, IL-2, or IL-12),
macrophage colony stimulating factor (M-CSF), tumor necrosis factor (TNF), or
combinations of cytokines.
[0082]    An adjuvant can be administered with a peptide composition of the disclosure as a
single composition, or can be administered before, concurrent with or after administration of
a peptide composition of the disclosure. Immunogen and adjuvant can be packaged and
supplied in the same vial or can be packaged in separate vials and mixed before use.
                                               21

Immunogen and adjuvant are typically packaged with a label indicating the intended
application, such as a therapeutic application. If immunogen and adjuvant are packaged
separately, the packaging typically includes instructions for mixing before use. The choice of
an adjuvant and/or carrier depends on the stability of the vaccine containing the adjuvant, the
route of administration, the dosing schedule, the efficacy of the adjuvant for the species being
vaccinated, and, in humans, a pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvant is one that has been
approved or is approvable for human administration by pertinent regulatory agencies. For
example, Complete Freund's adjuvant is not suitable for human administration, while alum,
MPL and QS21 are suitable. Optionally, two or more different adjuvants can be used
simultaneously, such as alum with MPL, alum with QS21, MPL with QS21, and alum, QS21
and MPL together. Also, Incomplete Freund's adjuvant can be used [Chang et al., Advanced
Drug Delivery Reviews 32, 173-186 (1998)], optionally in combination with any of alum,
QS21, and MPL and all combinations thereof.
                                    Inhibitory Nucleic Acids
[0083]     By "inhibitory nucleic acid" is meant an RNA or DNA polynucleotide that binds to
another RNA or DNA (target RNA, DNA). An inhibitory nucleic acid downregulates
expression and/or function of a particular target polynucleotide. The definition is meant to
include any foreign RNA or DNA molecule which is useful from a therapeutic, diagnostic, or
other viewpoint. Such molecules include, for example, antisense polynucleotides such as
RNA or DNA molecules, interference RNA (RNAi), micro RNA (miRNA), siRNA,
enzymatic RNA, aptamers, ribozymes and other polymeric compounds that hybridize to at
least a portion of the target polynucleotide or target polypeptide. As such, these compounds
may be introduced in the form of single-stranded, double-stranded, triple-stranded, or
partially single-stranded molecules, and the molecules may be linear or circular polymeric
compounds.
[0084]     The production and use of aptamers is known to those of ordinary skill in the art.
In general, aptamers are nucleic acid- or peptide-binding species capable of tightly binding to
and discreetly distinguishing target ligands [Yan et al., RNA Biol. 6(3): 316-320 (2009),
incorporated by reference herein in its entirety]. Aptamers, in some embodiments, may be
obtained by a technique called the systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment
(SELEX) process [Tuerk et al., Science 249: 505-10 (1990), U.S. Patent Number 5,270,163,
and U.S. Patent Number 5,637,459, each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its
entirety]. General discussions of nucleic acid aptamers are found in, for example and without
                                                22

limitation, Nucleic Acid and Peptide Aptamers: Methods and Protocols (Edited by Mayer,
Humana Press, 2009) and Crawford et al., Briefings in FunctionalGenomics and Proteomics
2(1): 72-79 (2003). In various aspects, an aptamer is between 10-100 nucleotides in length.
[0085]      As used herein, the term "target polynucleotide" encompasses DNA, RNA
(comprising pre-mRNA and mRNA) transcribed from such DNA, and also cDNA derived
from such RNA, coding sequences, noncoding sequences, sense polynucleotides or antisense
polynucleotides. The specific hybridization of a polymeric compound with its target nucleic
acid interferes with the normal function of the target nucleic acid. This modulation of
function of a target nucleic acid or polynucleotide by compounds that specifically hybridize
to it is generally referred to as antisense modulation or inhibition. The functions of DNA to
be interfered include, for example, replication and transcription. The functions of RNA to be
interfered include all vital functions such as, for example and without limitation, translocation
of the RNA to the site of protein translation, translation of protein from the RNA, splicing of
the RNA to yield one or more mRNA species, catalytic activity which may be engaged in or
facilitated by the RNA, and/or translation to express an encoded polypeptide. The overall
effect of such modulation (e.g., inhibition) with target polynucleotide function is modulation
of the expression of an encoded product or activity of the polynucleotide itself.
[0086]      RNA interference "RNAi" is mediated by double-stranded RNA (dsRNA)
molecules that have sequence-specific homology to their target nucleic acid sequence(s)
[Caplen et al., Proc. Natl. Acad Sci. USA 98: 9742-9747 (2001)]. In certain embodiments of
the present disclosure, the mediators are "small interfering" RNA duplexes (siRNAs) of 5-25
nucleotides. The siRNAs are derived from the processing of dsRNA by an RNase enzyme
known as Dicer [Bernstein et al., Nature 409: 363-366 (2001)]. The siRNA duplex products
are recruited into a multi-protein siRNA complex termed RISC (RNA-Induced Silencing
Complex). Small interfering RNAs that can be used in accordance with the present
disclosure can be synthesized and used according to procedures that are well known in the art
and that will be familiar to the ordinarily skilled artisan. The siRNAs for use in the methods
of the present disclosure suitably comprise between about 1 to about 50 nucleotides (nt). In
non-limiting embodiments, siRNAs comprise about 5 to about 40 nt, about 5 to about 30 nt,
about 10 to about 30 nt, about 15 to about 25 nt, or about 20-25 nucleotides.
[0087]      Methods for inhibiting target polynucleotide expression are provided that include
those wherein expression of the target polynucleotide is inhibited by at least about 5% and up
to about 10%, 20%, 50% or 100%, at least about 5% and up to about 30%, 60%, 70% or
                                                 23

90%, or at least 10% and up to about 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90% or 100%. In additional
embodiments, expression of the target polynucleotide is inhibited by at least about 5%, at
least about 10%, at least about 15%, at least about 20%, at least about 25%, at least about
30%, at least about 35%, at least about 40%, at least about 45%, at least about 50%, at least
about 55%, at least about 60%, at least about 65%, at least about 70%, at least about 75%, at
least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about
96%, at least about 97%, at least about 98%, at least about 99%, or 100% compared to target
polynucleotide expression in the absence of an inhibitory nucleic acid. In other words,
methods of inhibiting the expression or activity of a polynucleotide according to the
disclosure result in essentially any degree of inhibition of expression of a target
polynucleotide.
[0088]     The degree of inhibition is determined in vivo from a body fluid sample or from a
biopsy sample or by imaging techniques well known in the art. Alternatively, the degree of
inhibition is determined in a cell culture assay, generally as a predictable measure of a degree
of inhibition that can be expected in vivo resulting from use of a specific type of specific
inhibitory nucleic acid.
                                          Exon Skipping
[0089]     Inhibitory nucleic acids are also contemplated for use in exon skipping. In general,
exon skipping is a method in which inhibitory nucleic acids are designed to modulate the
splicing of a gene of interest, resulting in mRNA transcripts that are able to make some level
of gene product with some function. The inhibitory nucleic acids are, in various
embodiments, short nucleic acid sequences designed to selectively bind to specific mRNA or
pre-mRNA sequences to generate small double-stranded regions of the target mRNA. By
binding to these regions and forming double strands at key sites where the spliceosome or
proteins of the spliceosome would normally bind, mutated (frameshifting) exons are skipped
and the remainder of the pre-mRNA is edited correctly in frame, albeit shorter.
[0090]     Exon skipping is generally described in Hoffman et al. [The American J. of Path.
179(1): 12-22 (2011)], Lu et al. [The American Soc. of Gene and Cell Therapy 19(1): 9-15
(2011)], and U.S. Patent Numbers 8,084,601, 7,960,541 and 7,973,015, all of which are
incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
                                                24

[0091]     Thus, the disclosure contemplates that skipping exons that encode the proline-rich
region of LTBP4 will generate a protease-resistant protein. In some embodiments, one or
more of exons 11, 12 and 13 of mouse LTBP4 (corresponding to exons 11, 12 and 13 in
human LTBP4) are targeted for exon skipping. It is expected that skipping of the exons that
encode part or all of the proline-rich region of LTBP4 will generate a protein that is resistant
to protease activity.
                                        COMPOSITIONS
[0092]     Any of the agents and/or additional agents described herein (or nucleic acids
encoding any of the agents and/or additional agents described herein) also is provided in a
composition. In this regard, the agent and/or additional agent is formulated with a
physiologically-acceptable (i.e., pharmacologically acceptable) carrier, buffer, or diluent, as
described further herein. Optionally, the peptide is in the form of a physiologically
acceptable salt, which is encompassed by the disclosure. "Physiologically acceptable salts"
means any salts that are pharmaceutically acceptable. Some examples of appropriate salts
include acetate, trifluoroacetate, hydrochloride, hydrobromide, sulfate, citrate, tartrate,
glycolate, and oxalate.
                                 TGFp-RELATED DISEASES
[0093]     TGFO-related diseases contemplated for treatment according to the disclosure
include Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy, Limb Girdle Muscular Dystrophy, Becker Muscular
Dystrophy, myopathy, cystic fibrosis, pulmonary fibrosis, cardiomyopathy, acute lung injury,
acute muscle injury, acute myocardial injury, radiation-induced injury, colon cancer,
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, idiopathic interstitial pneumonia, autoimmune lung diseases,
benign prostate hypertrophy, cerebral infarction, musculoskeletal fibrosis, post-surgical
adhesions, liver cirrhosis, renal fibrotic disease, fibrotic vascular disease, neurofibromatosis,
Alzheimer's disease, diabetic retinopathy, skin lesions, lymph node fibrosis associated with
HIV, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), inflammatory pulmonary fibrosis,
rheumatoid arthritis; rheumatoid spondylitis; osteoarthritis; gout, other arthritic conditions;
sepsis; septic shock; endotoxic shock; gram-negative sepsis; toxic shock syndrome;
myofacial pain syndrome (MPS); Shigellosis; asthma; adult respiratory distress syndrome;
inflammatory bowel disease; Crohn's disease; psoriasis; eczema; ulcerative colitis;
glomerular nephritis; scleroderma; chronic thyroiditis; Grave's disease; Ormond's disease;
                                                 25

autoimmune gastritis; myasthenia gravis; autoimmune hemolytic anemia; autoimmune
neutropenia; thrombocytopenia; pancreatic fibrosis; chronic active hepatitis including hepatic
fibrosis; renal fibrosis, irritable bowel syndrome; pyresis; restenosis; cerebral malaria; stroke
and ischemic injury; neural trauma; Huntington's disease; Parkinson's disease; allergies,
including allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis; cachexia; Reiter's syndrome; acute
synoviitis; muscle degeneration, bursitis; tendonitis; tenosynoviitis; osteopetrosis;
thrombosis; silicosis; pulmonary sarcosis; bone resorption diseases, such as osteoporosis or
multiple myeloma-related bone disorders; cancer, including but not limited to metastatic
breast carcinoma, colorectal carcinoma, malignant melanoma, gastric cancer, and non-small
cell lung cancer; graft-versus-host reaction; and auto-immune diseases, such as multiple
sclerosis, lupus and fibromyalgia; viral diseases such as Herpes Zoster, Herpes Simplex I or
II, influenza virus, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and cytomegalovirus.
[0094]      As used herein, "cardiomyopathy" refers to any disease or dysfunction of the
myocardium (heart muscle) in which the heart is abnormally enlarged, thickened and/or
stiffened. As a result, the heart muscle's ability to pump blood is usually weakened, often
leading to congestive heart failure. The disease or disorder can be, for example,
inflammatory, metabolic, toxic, infiltrative, fibrotic, hematological, genetic, or unknown in
origin. Such cardiomyopathies may result from a lack of oxygen. Other diseases include
those that result from myocardial injury which involves damage to the muscle or the
myocardium in the wall of the heart as a result of disease or trauma. Myocardial injury can
be attributed to many things such as, but not limited to, cardiomyopathy, myocardial
infarction, or congenital heart disease. The cardiac disorder may be pediatric in origin.
Cardiomyopathy includes, but is not limited to, cardiomyopathy (dilated, hypertrophic,
restrictive, arrhythmogenic, genetic, idiopathic and unclassified cardiomyopathy), sporadic
dilated cardiomyopathy, X-linked Dilated Cardiomyopathy (XLDC), acute and chronic heart
failure, right heart failure, left heart failure, biventricular heart failure, congenital heart
defects, myocardiac fibrosis, mitral valve stenosis, mitral valve insufficiency, aortic valve
stenosis, aortic valve insufficiency, tricuspidal valve stenosis, tricuspidal valve insufficiency,
pulmonal valve stenosis, pulmonal valve insufficiency, combined valve defects, myocarditis,
acute myocarditis, chronic myocarditis, viral myocarditis, diastolic heart failure, systolic
heart failure, diabetic heart failure and accumulation diseases.
                                                    26

                                         TGFp PROTEINS
[0095]     The disclosure provides compositions and methods directed to modulating the
activity, including the expression, of LTBP4, which is a protein that interacts with TGF3
proteins. Modulation of the activity of any protein that interacts with LTBP4 is contemplated
by the disclosure, and in various embodiments the TGFP protein is selected from the group
consisting of a growth and differentiation factor (GDF), activin, inhibin, and a bone
morphogenetic protein. TGFP proteins are known in the art and are discussed, for example
and without limitation, in Schmierer et al. (NatureReviews Molecular Cell Biology 8: 970
982 (2007)], incorporated herein by reference. In addition, isoforms of TGFP proteins are
contemplated and include, without limitation, TGFP 1, TGFP 2, TGFP 3, GDF 8, and GDF
11.
[0096]     Practice of methods of the disclosure wherein a patient is administered one or more
agent(s) and optionally additional agent(s) is expected to result in modulation of the activity
of a TGFP protein by at least about 1% relative to a patient not so treated. In further
embodiments, the activity of a TGFP protein in a patient that is administered one or more
agent(s) and/or additional agent(s) is modulated by at least about 1% and up to any one of
about 2%, about 5%, about 10% or about 15% TGFP activity relative to a patient not so
treated. In still further embodiments, the activity of a TGFP protein in a patient that is
administered one or more agent(s) and optionally additional agent(s) is modulated by at least
about 10% and up to any one of about 15%, about 20%, about 25% or about 30% TGFP
activity relative to a patient not so treated. In further embodiments, the activity of a TGFP
protein in a patient that is administered one or more agent(s) and/or additional agent(s) is
modulated by at least about 10% and up to any one of about 40%, about 50%, about 60%,
about 70%, about 80%, about 90%, about 95%, about 99% or more TGFP activity relative to
a patient not so treated. In specific embodiments, the activity of a TGFP protein in a patient
that is administered one or more agent(s) and optionally additional agent(s) is modulated by
at least about 1%, about 2%, about 5%, about 10%, about 20%, about 25%, about 30%, about
35%, about 40%, about 50%, about 60%, about 70%, about 80%, about 90%, about 95%,
about 99% TGFP activity or more relative to a patient not so treated. Protein activity may be
quantitated by methods generally known to those of skill in the art.
                              ADDITIONAL (SECOND) AGENTS
[0097]     In various embodiments of the disclosure it is contemplated that a second agent is
administered with the agent that modulates LTBP4 activity by modulating the proteolysis of
                                                  27

LTBP4. Nonlimiting examples of the second agent are a modulator of an inflammatory
response, a promoter of muscle growth, a chemotherapeutic agent and a modulator of
fibrosis. Further, the methods disclosed herein can, in various embodiments, encompass one
or more of such agents, or one or more of such agents in composition with any other active
agent(s).
                                    Chemotherapeutic Agents
[0098]     Chemotherapeutic agents contemplated for use include, without limitation,
alkylating agents including: nitrogen mustards, such as mechlor-ethamine,
cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide, melphalan and chlorambucil; nitrosoureas, such as
carmustine (BCNU), lomustine (CCNU), and semustine (methyl-CCNU);
ethylenimines/methylmelamine such as thriethylenemelamine (TEM), triethylene,
thiophosphoramide (thiotepa), hexamethylmelamine (HMM, altretamine); alkyl sulfonates
such as busulfan; triazines such as dacarbazine (DTIC); antimetabolites including folic acid
analogs such as methotrexate and trimetrexate, pyrimidine analogs such as 5-fluorouracil,
fluorodeoxyuridine, gemcitabine, cytosine arabinoside (AraC, cytarabine), 5-azacytidine,
2,2'-difluorodeoxycytidine, purine analogs such as 6-mercaptopurine, 6-thioguanine,
azathioprine, 2'-deoxycoformycin (pentostatin), erythrohydroxynonyladenine (EHNA),
fludarabine phosphate, and 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine (cladribine, 2-CdA); natural products
including antimitotic drugs such as paclitaxel, vinca alkaloids including vinblastine (VLB),
vincristine, and vinorelbine, taxotere, estramustine, and estramustine phosphate;
epipodophylotoxins such as etoposide and teniposide; antibiotics such as actimomycin D,
daunomycin (rubidomycin), doxorubicin, mitoxantrone, idarubicin, bleomycins, plicamycin
(mithramycin), mitomycin C, and actinomycin; enzymes such as L-asparaginase; biological
response modifiers such as interferon-alpha, IL-2, G-CSF and GM-CSF; miscellaneous
agents including platinum coordination complexes such as cisplatin and carboplatin,
anthracenediones such as mitoxantrone, substituted urea such as hydroxyurea,
methylhydrazine derivatives including N-methylhydrazine (MIH) and procarbazine,
adrenocortical suppressants such as mitotane (o,p'-DDD) and aminoglutethimide; hormones
and antagonists including adrenocorticosteroid antagonists such as prednisone and
equivalents, dexamethasone and aminoglutethimide; progestin such as hydroxyprogesterone
caproate, medroxyprogesterone acetate and megestrol acetate; estrogen such as
diethylstilbestrol and ethinyl estradiol equivalents; antiestrogen such as tamoxifen; androgens
including testosterone propionate and fluoxymesterone/equivalents; antiandrogens such as
                                                28

flutamide, gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogs and leuprolide; and non-steroidal
antiandrogens such as flutamide.
                                    Modulators of Fibrosis
[0099]     A "modulator of fibrosis" as used herein is synonymous with antifibrotic agent.
The term "antifibrotic agent" refers to a chemical compound that has antifibrotic activity (i.e.,
prevents or reduces fibrosis) in mammals. This takes into account the abnormal formation of
fibrous connective tissue, which is typically comprised of collagen. These compounds may
have different mechanisms of action, some reducing the formation of collagen or another
protein, others enhancing the catabolism or removal of collagen in the affected area of the
body. All such compounds having activity in the reduction of the presence of fibrotic tissue
are included herein, without regard to the particular mechanism of action by which each such
drug functions. Antifibrotic agents useful in the methods and compositions of the disclosure
include those described in U.S. Patent Number 5,720,950, incorporated herein by reference.
Additional antifibrotic agents contemplated by the disclosure include, but are not limited to,
Type II interferon receptor agonists (e.g., interferon-gamma); pirfenidone and pirfenidone
analogs; anti-angiogenic agents, such as VEGF antagonists, VEGF receptor antagonists,
bFGF antagonists, bFGF receptor antagonists, TGFO antagonists, TGFO receptor antagonists;
anti-inflammatory agents, IL-1 antagonists, such as IL-IRa, angiotensin-converting-enzyme
(ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers and aldosterone antagonists.
                          Modulators of an Inflammatory Response
[0100]     A modulator of an inflammatory response includes the following agents. In one
embodiment of the disclosure, the modulator of an inflammatory response is a beta2
adrenergic receptor agonist (e.g., albuterol). The term beta2-adrenergic receptor agonist is
used herein to define a class of drugs which act on the 2-adrenergic receptor, thereby
causing smooth muscle relaxation resulting in dilation of bronchial passages, vasodilation in
muscle and liver, relaxation of uterine muscle and release of insulin. In one embodiment, the
beta2-adrenergic receptor agonist for use according to the disclosure is albuterol, an
immunosuppressant drug that is widely used in inhalant form for asthmatics. Albuterol is
thought to slow disease progression by suppressing the infiltration of macrophages and other
immune cells that contribute to inflammatory tissue loss. Albuterol also appears to have
some anabolic effects and promotes the growth of muscle tissue. Albuterol may also
suppress protein degradation (possibly via calpain inhibition).
                                                29

[0101]     In DMD, the loss of dystrophin leads to breaks in muscle cell membrane, and
destabilizes neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), a protein that normally generates nitric
oxide (NO). It is thought that at least part of the muscle degeneration observed in DMD
patients may result from the reduced production of muscle membrane-associated neuronal
nitric oxide synthase. This reduction may lead to impaired regulation of the vasoconstrictor
response and eventual muscle damage.
[0102]     In one embodiment, modulators of an inflammatory response suitable for use in
compositions of the disclosure are Nuclear Factor Kappa-B (NF-KB) inhibitors. NF-KB is a
major transcription factor modulating cellular immune, inflammatory and proliferative
responses. NF-KB functions in activated macrophages to promote inflammation and muscle
necrosis and in skeletal muscle fibers to limit regeneration through the inhibition of muscle
progenitor cells. The activation of this factor in DMD contributes to diseases pathology.
Thus, NF-kB plays an important role in the progression of muscular dystrophy and the
IKK/NF-KB signaling pathway is a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of a TGF
related disease. Inhibitors of NF-KB (for example, IRFI 042, a vitamin E analog) enhance
muscle function, decrease serum creatine kinase (CK) level and muscle necrosis and enhance
muscle regeneration. Furthermore, specific inhibition of NF-KB -mediated signaling by IKK
has similar benefits.
[0103]     In a further embodiment, the modulator of an inflammatory response is a tumor
necrosis factor alpha antagonist. TNF-a is one of the key cytokines that triggers and sustains
the inflammation response. In one specific embodiment of the disclosure, the modulator of
an inflammatory response is the TNF-a antagonist infliximab.
[0104]     TNF-a antagonists for use according to the disclosure include, in addition to
infliximab (RemicadeTM), a chimeric monoclonal antibody comprising murine VK and VH
domains and human constant Fc domains. The drug blocks the action of TNF-a by binding to
it and preventing it from signaling the receptors for TNF-a on the surface of cells. Another
TNF-a antagonist for use according to the disclosure is adalimumab (HumiraTM).
Adalimumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody. Another TNF-a antagonist for use
according to the disclosure is etanercept (EnbrelTM). Etanercept is a dimeric fusion protein
comprising soluble human TNF receptor linked to an Fc portion of an IgG1. It is a large
molecule that binds to TNF-a and thereby blocks its action. Etanercept mimics the inhibitory
effects of naturally occurring soluble TNF receptors, but as a fusion protein it has a greatly
                                                 30

extended half-life in the bloodstream and therefore a more profound and long-lasting
inhibitory effect.
[0105]     Another TNF-a antagonist for use according to the disclosure is pentoxifylline
(TrentalTM), chemical name 1-(5-oxohexyl)-3,7-dimethylxanthine. The usual dosage in
controlled-release tablet form is one tablet (400 mg) three times a day with meals.
[0106]     Dosing: Remicade is administered by intravenous infusion, typically at 2-month
intervals. The recommended dose is 3 mg/kg given as an intravenous infusion followed with
additional similar doses at 2 and 6 weeks after the first infusion, then every 8 weeks
thereafter. For patients who have an incomplete response, consideration may be given to
adjusting the dose up to 10 mg/kg or treating as often as every 4 weeks. Humira is marketed
in both preloaded 0.8 ml (40 mg) syringes and also in preloaded pen devices, both injected
subcutaneously, typically by the patient at home. Etanercept can be administered at a dose of
25 mg (twice weekly) or 50 mg (once weekly).
[0107]     In another embodiment of the disclosure, the modulator of an inflammatory
response is cyclosporin. Cyclosporin A, the main form of the drug, is a cyclic nonribosomal
peptide of 11 amino acids produced by the fungus Tolypocladium inflatum. Cyclosporin is
thought to bind to the cytosolic protein cyclophilin (immunophilin) of immunocompetent
lymphocytes (especially T-lymphocytes). This complex of cyclosporin and cyclophylin
inhibits calcineurin, which under normal circumstances is responsible for activating the
transcription of interleukin-2. It also inhibits lymphokine production and interleukin release
and therefore leads to a reduced function of effector T-cells. It does not affect cytostatic
activity. It has also an effect on mitochondria, preventing the mitochondrial PT pore from
opening, thus inhibiting cytochrome c release (a potent apoptotic stimulation factor).
Cyclosporin may be administered at a dose of 1-10 mg/kg/day.
                                 A Promoter of Muscle Growth
[0108]     In some embodiments of the disclosure, a therapeutically effective amount of a
promoter of muscle growth is administered to a patient. Promoters of muscle growth
contemplated by the disclosure include, but are not limited to, insulin-like growth factor-I
(IGF-1), Akt/protein kinase B, clenbuterol, creatine, decorin (see U.S. Patent Publication
Number 20120058955), a steroid (for example and without limitation, a corticosteroid or a
glucocorticoid steroid), testosterone and a myostatin antagonist.
                                                 31

                                      Myostatin Antagonist
[0109]     Another class of promoters of muscle growth suitable for use in the combinations
of the disclosure is myostatin antagonists. Myostatin, also known as growth/differentiation
factor 8 (GDF-8) is a transforming growth factor-n (TGF) superfamily member involved in
the regulation of skeletal muscle mass. Most members of the TGF-j-GDF family are widely
expressed and are pleiotropic; however, myostatin is primarily expressed in skeletal muscle
tissue where it negatively controls skeletal muscle growth. Myostatin is synthesized as an
inactive preproprotein which is activated by proteolyic cleavage. The precurser protein is
cleaved to produce an approximately 109-amino-acid COOH-terminal protein which, in the
form of a homodimer of about 25 kDa, is the mature, active form. The mature dimer appears
to circulate in the blood as an inactive latent complex bound to the propeptide. As used
herein the term "myostatin antagonist" defines a class of agents that inhibits or blocks at least
one activity of myostatin, or alternatively, blocks or reduces the expression of myostatin or its
receptor (for example, by interference with the binding of myostatin to its receptor and/or
blocking signal transduction resulting from the binding of myostatin to its receptor). Such
agents therefore include agents which bind to myostatin itself or to its receptor.
[0110]     Myostatin antagonists for use according to the disclosure include antibodies to
GDF-8; antibodies to GDF-8 receptors; soluble GDF-8 receptors and fragments thereof (e.g.,
the ActRIIB fusion polypeptides as described in U.S. Patent Publication Number
2004/0223966, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety, including soluble
ActRIIB receptors in which ActRIIB is joined to the Fc portion of an immunoglobulin);
GDF-8 propeptide and modified forms thereof (e.g., as described in WO 2002/068650 or U.S.
Pat. No. 7,202,210, including forms in which GDF-8 propeptide is joined to the Fc portion of
an immunoglobulin and/or form in which GDF-8 is mutated at an aspartate (asp) residue, e.g.,
asp-99 in murine GDF-8 propeptide and asp-100 in human GDF-8 propeptide); a small
molecule inhibitor of GDF-8; follistatin (e.g., as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,004,937,
incorporated herein by reference) or follistatin-domain-containing proteins (e.g., GASP-I or
other proteins as described in U.S. Patent Number 7,192,717 and U.S. Patent No. 7,572,763,
each incorporated herein by reference); and modulators of metalloprotease activity that affect
GDF-8 activation, as described in U.S. Patent Publication Number 2004/0138118,
incorporated herein by reference.
[0111]     Additional myostatin antagonists include myostatin antibodies which bind to and
inhibit or neutralize myostatin (including the myostatin proprotein and/or mature protein, in
                                                 32

monomeric or dimeric form). Myostatin antibodies are mammalian or non-mammalian
derived antibodies, for example an IgNAR antibody derived from sharks, or humanized
antibodies, or comprise a functional fragment derived from antibodies. Such antibodies are
described, for example, in WO 2005/094446 and WO 2006/116269, the content of which is
incorporated herein by reference. Myostatin antibodies also include those antibodies that
bind to the myostatin proprotein and prevent cleavage into the mature active form.
Additional antibody antagonists include the antibodies described in U.S. Patent Number
6,096,506 and U.S. Patent Number 6,468,535 (each of which is incorporated herein by
reference). In some embodiments, the GDF-8 inhibitor is a monoclonal antibody or a
fragment thereof that blocks GDF-8 binding to its receptor. Further embodiments include
murine monoclonal antibody JA-16 (as described in U.S. Patent Number 7,320,789 (ATCC
Deposit No. PTA-4236); humanized derivatives thereof and fully human monoclonal anti
GDF-8 antibodies (e.g., Myo29, Myo28 and Myo22, ATCC Deposit Nos. PTA-4741, PTA
4740, and PTA-4739, respectively, or derivatives thereof) as described in U.S. Patent
Number 7,261,893 and incorporated herein by reference.
[0112]     In still further embodiments, myostatin antagonists include soluble receptors which
bind to myostatin and inhibit at least one activity thereof. The term "soluble receptor" herein
includes truncated versions or fragments of the myostatin receptor that specifically bind
myostatin thereby blocking or inhibiting myostatin signal transduction. Truncated versions
of the myostatin receptor, for example, include the naturally occurring soluble domains, as
well as variations produced by proteolysis of the N- or C-termini. The soluble domain
includes all or part of the extracellular domain of the receptor, either alone or attached to
additional peptides or other moieties. Because myostatin binds activin receptors (including
the activin type IEB receptor (ActRHB) and activin type HA receptor (ActRHA)), activin
receptors can form the basis of soluble receptor antagonists. Soluble receptor fusion proteins
can also be used, including soluble receptor Fc (see U.S. Patent Publication Number
2004/0223966 and WO 2006/012627, both of which are incorporated herein by reference in
their entireties).
[0113]     Other myostatin antagonists based on the myostatin receptors are ALK-5 and/or
ALK-7 inhibitors (see for example WO 2006/025988 and WO 2005/084699, each
incorporated herein by reference). As a TGF-P cytokine, myostatin signals through a family
of single transmembrane serine/threonine kinase receptors. These receptors can be divided in
two classes, the type I or activin-like kinase (ALK) receptors and type II receptors. The ALK
                                                33

receptors are distinguished from the Type II receptors in that the ALK receptors (a) lack the
serine/threonine-rich intracellular tail, (b) possess serine/threonine kinase domains that are
highly homologous among Type I receptors, and (c) share a common sequence motif called
the GS domain, consisting of a region rich in glycine and serine residues. The GS domain is
at the amino terminal end of the intracellular kinase domain and is believed to be critical for
activation by the Type II receptor. Several studies have shown that TGF- signaling requires
both the ALK (Type I) and Type II receptors. Specifically, the Type II receptor
phosphorylates the GS domain of the Type 1 receptor for TGF ALK5, in the presence of
TGF.      The ALK5, in turn, phosphorylates the cytoplasmic proteins smad2 and smad3 at two
carboxy terminal serines. Generally, it is believed that in many species, the Type II receptors
regulate cell proliferation and the Type I receptors regulate matrix production. Various
ALK5 receptor inhibitors have been described (see, for example, U.S. Patent Number
6,465,493, U.S. Patent Number 6,906,089, U.S. Patent Publication Numbers 2003/0166633,
2004/0063745 and 2004/0039198, the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by
reference). Thus, the myostatin antagonists for use according to the disclosure may comprise
the myostatin binding domain of an ALK5 and/or ALK7 receptor.
[0114]      Other myostatin antagonists include soluble ligand antagonists that compete with
myostatin for binding to myostatin receptors. The term "soluble ligand antagonist" herein
refers to soluble peptides, polypeptides or peptidomimetics capable of non-productively
binding the myostatin receptor(s) (e.g., the activin type HB receptor (ActRHA)) and thereby
competitively blocking myostatin-receptor signal transduction. Soluble ligand antagonists
include variants of myostatin, also referred to as "myostatin analogs" that have homology to,
but not the activity of, myostatin. Such analogs include truncates (such as N- or C-terminal
truncations, substitutions, deletions, and other alterations in the amino acid sequence, such as
variants having non-amino acid substitutions).
[0115]      Additional myostatin antagonists contemplated by the disclosure include inhibitory
nucleic acids as described herein. These antagonists include antisense or sense
polynucleotides comprising a single-stranded polynucleotide sequence (either RNA or DNA)
capable of binding to target mRNA (sense) or DNA (antisense) sequences. Thus, RNA
interference (RNAi) produced by the introduction of specific small interfering RNA (siRNA),
may also be used to inhibit or eliminate the activity of myostatin.
[0116]      In specific embodiments, myostatin antagonists include, but are not limited to,
follistatin, the myostatin prodomain, growth and differentiation factor 11 (GDF-11)
                                                 34

prodomain, prodomain fusion proteins, antagonistic antibodies or antibody fragments that
bind to myostatin, antagonistic antibodies or antibody fragments that bind to the activin type
IEB receptor, soluble activin type IHB receptor, soluble activin type IEB receptor fusion
proteins, soluble myostatin analogs (soluble ligands), polynucleotides, small molecules,
peptidomimetics, and myostatin binding agents. Other antagonists include the peptide
immunogens described in U.S. Patent Number 6,369,201 and WO 2001/05820 (each of
which is incorporated herein by reference) and myostatin multimers and immunoconjugates
capable of eliciting an immune response and thereby blocking myostatin activity. Other
antagonists include the protein inhibitors of myostatin described in WO 2002/085306
(incorporated herein by reference), which include the truncated Activin type II receptor, the
myostatin pro-domain, and follistatin. Other myostatin inhibitors include those released into
culture from cells overexpressing myostatin (see WO 2000/4378 1), dominant negative
myostatin proteins (see WO 2001/53350) including the protein encoded by the Piedmontese
allele, and mature myostatin peptides having a C-terminal truncation at a position either at or
between amino acid positions 335 to 375. The small peptides described in U.S. Patent
Publication Number 2004/0181033 (incorporated herein by reference) that comprise the
amino acid sequence WMCPP, are also suitable for use in the compositions of the disclosure.
                                           VECTORS
[0117]     An appropriate expression vector may be used to deliver exogenous nucleic acid to
a recipient muscle cell in the methods of the disclosure. In order to achieve effective gene
therapy, the expression vector must be designed for efficient cell uptake and gene product
expression. Use of adenovirus or adeno-associated virus (AAV) based vectors for gene
delivery have been described [Berkner, Current Topics in Microbiol. and Imunol. 158: 39-66
(1992); Stratford-Perricaudet et al., Hum. Gene Ther. 1: 241-256 (1990); Rosenfeld et al.,
Cell 8: 143-144 (1992); Stratford-Perricaudet et al., J. Clin. Invest. 90: 626-630 (1992)]. In
one specific embodiment, the adeno-associated virus vector is AAV9. Specific methods for
gene therapy useful in the context of the present disclosure depend largely upon the
expression system employed; however, most methods involve insertion of coding sequence at
an appropriate position within the expression vector, and subsequent delivery of the
expression vector to the target muscle tissue for expression.
[0118]     Additional delivery systems useful in the practice of the methods of the disclosure
are discussed in U.S. Patent Publication Numbers 2012/0046345 and 2012/0039806, each of
which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                               35

                                 THERAPEUTIC ENDPOINTS
[0119]     In various aspects of the disclosure, use of the agent(s) and optional additional
agent(s) as described herein provide one or more benefits related to specific therapeutic
endpoints relative to a patient not receiving the agent(s) and/or additional agent(s).
[0120]     In embodiments wherein the TGFj-related disease is a muscle-related disease (e.g.,
a muscular dystrophy or cardiomyopathy), therapeutic endpoints include, but are not limited
to, length of time until a patient is non-ambulatory, ambulatory capacity as measured by, for
example and without limitation, six-minute-walk distance which has been shown to correlate
with human LTBP4 SNPs [see, for example, Hersh et al., Am J Respir Crit Care Med.
173(9): 977-84 (2006)], relative health of heart as determined by, e.g., echocardiography,
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), muscle mechanics, pulmonary function and/or amount of
tissue fibrosis.
[0121]     With respect to the length of time until a patient is non-ambulatory, it is
contemplated that, in some embodiments, a patient that is administered one or more agent(s)
and, optionally, additional agent(s) remains ambulatory at least 1 day and up to any of about
5, about 10, about 30, about 60 or about 90 days longer than a patient not so treated. In
further embodiments, a patient that is administered one or more agent(s) and optional
additional agent(s) remains ambulatory at least about 1 month and up to any of about 2, about
4, about 6, about 8, about 10 or about 12 months longer than a patient not so treated. Still
further embodiments of the disclosure contemplate that a patient that is administered one or
more agent(s) and, optionally, additional agent(s) remains ambulatory at least about 1 year
and up to any of about 1.5, about 2, about 3, about 4, about 5, about 6, about 7, about 8, about
9, about 10 or more years longer than a patient not so treated.
[0122]     In embodiments wherein the TGFj-related disease is a cancer, therapeutic
endpoints include but are not limited to a reduction in tumor volume (i.e., the size of the
tumor measured by the amount of space taken up by it expressed in traditional units of
volume (e.g., cubic centimeters) or as a percentage of the tissue or organ within which it is
found (e.g., the tumor volume of prostate cancer is the percentage of the prostate taken up by
the tumor)) and/or a reduction in metastasis. With respect to the reduction in tumor volume
and/or a reduction in metastasis, it is contemplated that in some embodiments the tumor
volume or amount of metastasis is reduced in a patient that is administered one or more
agent(s) and, optionally, additional agent(s) by about 1% relative to a patient not so treated.
In further embodiments, the tumor volume or amount of metastasis is reduced in a patient that
                                                 36

is administered one or more agent(s) and, optionally, additional agent(s) by at least about 1%
and up to any of about 2%, about 5%, about 10% or about 15% relative to a patient not so
treated. In still further embodiments, the tumor volume or amount of metastasis is reduced in
a patient that is administered one or more agent(s) and, optionally, additional agent(s) by at
least about 10% and up to about 15%, about 20%, about 25% or about 30% relative to a
patient not so treated. In further embodiments, the tumor volume or amount of metastasis is
reduced in a patient that is administered one or more agent(s) and, optionally, additional
agent(s) by at least about 10% and up to any of about 40%, about 50%, about 60%, about
70%, about 80%, about 90%, about 95%, about 99% or more relative to a patient not so
treated. In specific embodiments, the tumor volume or amount of metastasis is reduced in a
patient that is administered one or more agent(s) and, optionally, additional agent(s) by at
least about 1%, about 2%, about 5%, about 10%, about 20%, about 25%, about 30%, about
35%, about 40%, about 50%, about 60%, about 70%, about 80%, about 90%, about 95%,
about 99% or more relative to a patient not so treated. Methods of measuring tumor volume
as well as amount of metastasis are known in the art.
[0123]     In embodiments wherein the TGF3-related disease is a viral disease, therapeutic
endopoints relate to the viral load in the patient. Methods of determining viral load are well
known in the art and can be quantitated using methods such as polymerase chain reaction
(PCR), reverse-transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR), probe-specific amplification or by the branched
DNA (bDNA) method. In various embodiments, the viral load of a patient being
administered one or more agent(s) and, optionally, additional agent(s) of the disclosure is
reduced by at least about 1% and up to any of about 5%, about 10%, about 20%, about 30%,
about 40% or about 50% relative to a patient not so treated. In further embodiments, the viral
load of a patient being administered one or more agent(s) and, optionally, additional agent(s)
of the disclosure is reduced by at least about 10% and up to any of about 20%, about 50%,
about 70%, about 80%, about 90%, about 99% or more relative to a patient not so treated. In
specific embodiments, the viral load of a patient being administered one or more agent(s)
and/or additional agent(s) of the disclosure is reduced by at least about 1%, about 2%, about
5%, about 10%, about 20%, about 25%, about 30%, about 35%, about 40%, about 50%,
about 60%, about 70%, about 80%, about 90%, about 95%, about 99% or more relative to a
patient not so treated.
[0124]     In general, a therapeutic endpoint achieved by practice of the methods of the
disclosure is a reduction in the amount of fibrosis in a patient being administered one or more
                                                 37

agent(s) and, optionally, additional agent(s) of the disclosure. Relative amounts of fibrosis in
a patient can be quantitated by tissue biopsy and subsequent histology, e.g., by quantifying
Evans blue dye uptake as a measure of myofiber or cellular damage [Heydemann et al.,
Neuromuscular Disorders 15(9-10): 601-9 (2005)], and/or quantitation of hydroxyproline
content as described previously [Swaggart et al., Physiol Genomics 43: 24-31 (2011)]. In
various embodiments, the amount of fibrosis in a patient being administered one or more
agent(s) and, optionally, additional agent(s) of the disclosure is reduced by at least about 1%
and up to any of about 5%, about 10%, about 20%, about 30%, about 40% or about 50%
relative to a patient not so treated. In further embodiments, the amount of fibrosis in a patient
being administered one or more agent(s) and, optionally, additional agent(s) of the disclosure
is reduced by at least about 10% and up to about 20%, about 50%, about 70%, about 80%,
about 90%, about 99% or more relative to a patient not so treated. In specific embodiments,
the amount of fibrosis in a patient being administered one or more agent(s) and/or additional
agent(s) of the disclosure is reduced by at least about 1%, about 2%, about 5%, about 10%,
about 20%, about 25%, about 30%, about 35%, about 40%, about 50%, about 60%, about
70%, about 80%, about 90%, about 95%, about 99% or more relative to a patient not so
treated.
[0125]      The amount of fibrosis in a patient can be routinely determined by one of ordinary
skill in the art. For example, and without limitation, the amount of fibrosis can be determined
by taking a muscle biopsy from a patient, sectioning the muscle onto slides and assessing the
amount of fibrosis as revealed by staining techniques known in the art (e.g., Hematoxylin and
Eosin (H&E) staining and/or Masson's trichrome staining). Alternatively, or in addition, the
amount of fibrosis can be determined in vivo by using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
                              DOSING/ADMINISTRATION/KITS
[0126]      A particular administration regimen for a particular subject will depend, in part,
upon the agent and optional additional agent used, the amount of the agent and optional
additional agent administered, the route of administration, the particular ailment being
treated, and the cause and extent of any side effects. The amount of agent and optional
additional agent administered to a subject (e.g., a mammal, such as a human) is sufficient to
effect the desired response. Dosage typically depends upon a variety of factors, including the
particular agent and/or additional agent employed, the age and body weight of the subject, as
well as the existence and severity of any disease or disorder in the subject. The size of the
dose also will be determined by the route, timing, and frequency of administration.
                                                 38

Accordingly, the clinician may titer the dosage and modify the route of administration to
obtain optimal therapeutic effect, and conventional range-finding techniques are known to
those of ordinary skill in the art. Purely by way of illustration, in some embodiments, the
method comprises administering, e.g., from about 0.1 pg/kg up to about 100 mg/kg or more,
depending on the factors mentioned above. In other embodiments, the dosage may range
from 1 pg/kg up to about 75 mg/kg; or 5 pg/kg up to about 50 mg/kg; or 10 pg/kg up to about
20 mg/kg. In certain embodiments, the dose comprises about 0.5 mg/kg to about 20 mg/kg
(e.g., about 1 mg/kg, 1.5 mg/kg, 2 mg/kg, 2.3 mg/kg, 2.5 mg/kg, 3 mg/kg, 3.5 mg/kg, 4
mg/kg, 4.5 mg/kg, 5 mg/kg, 5.5 mg/kg, 6 mg/kg, 6.5 mg/kg, 7 mg/kg, 8 mg/kg, 9 mg/kg, or
10 mg/kg) of agent and optional additional agent. In embodiments in which an agent and
additional agent are administered, the above dosages are contemplated to represent the
amount of each agent administered, or in further embodiments the dosage represents the total
dosage administered. Given the chronic nature of many TGF-related disorders, it is
envisioned that a subject will receive the agent and/or additional agent over a treatment
course lasting weeks, months, or years, and may require one or more doses daily or weekly.
Dosages are also contemplated for once daily, twice daily (BID) or three times daily (TID)
dosing. A unit dose may be formulated in either capsule or tablet form. In other
embodiments, the agent and optional additional agent is administered to treat an acute
condition (e.g., acute muscle injury or acute myocardial injury) for a relatively short
treatment period, e.g., one to 14 days.
[0127]     Suitable methods of administering a physiologically-acceptable composition, such
as a pharmaceutical composition comprising an agent and optional additional agent described
herein, are well known in the art. Although more than one route can be used to administer an
agent and/or additional agent, a particular route can provide a more immediate and more
effective avenue than another route. Depending on the circumstances, a pharmaceutical
composition is applied or instilled into body cavities, absorbed through the skin or mucous
membranes, ingested, inhaled, and/or introduced into circulation. In some embodiments, a
composition comprising an agent and/or additional agent is administered intravenously,
intraarterially, or intraperitoneally to introduce an agent and optional additional agent into
circulation. Non-intravenous administration also is appropriate, particularly with respect to
low molecular weight therapeutics. In certain circumstances, it is desirable to deliver a
pharmaceutical composition comprising the agent and/or additional agent orally, topically,
sublingually, vaginally, rectally; through injection by intracerebral (intra-parenchymal),
                                                 39

intracerebroventricular, intramuscular, intra-ocular, intraportal, intralesional, intramedullary,
intrathecal, intraventricular, transdermal, subcutaneous, intranasal, urethral, or enteral means;
by sustained release systems; or by implantation devices. If desired, the agent and/or
additional agent is administered regionally via intraarterial or intravenous administration to a
region of interest, e.g., via the femoral artery for delivery to the leg. In one embodiment, the
composition is administered via implantation of a membrane, sponge, or another appropriate
material within or upon which the desired agent and optional additional agent has been
absorbed or encapsulated. Where an implantation device is used, the device in one aspect is
implanted into any suitable tissue, and delivery of the desired agent and/or additional agent is,
in various embodiments, effected via diffusion, time-release bolus, or continuous
administration. In other embodiments, the agent and optional additional agent is
administered directly to exposed tissue during surgical procedures or treatment of injury, or is
administered via transfusion of blood products. Therapeutic delivery approaches are well
known to the skilled artisan, some of which are further described, for example, in U.S. Patent
No. 5,399,363.
[0128]     In some embodiments facilitating administration, the agent and optional additional
agent in one embodiment is formulated into a physiologically-acceptable composition
comprising a carrier (i.e., vehicle, adjuvant, buffer, or diluent). The particular carrier
employed is limited only by chemico-physical considerations, such as solubility and lack of
reactivity with the agent and/or additional agent, by the route of administration, and by the
requirement of compatibility with the recipient organism. Physiologically acceptable carriers
are well known in the art. Illustrative pharmaceutical forms suitable for injectable use
include, without limitation, sterile aqueous solutions or dispersions and sterile powders for
the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersions (for example, see
U.S. Patent No. 5,466,468). Injectable formulations are further described in, e.g.,
Pharmaceutics and Pharmacy Practice, J. B. Lippincott Co., Philadelphia. Pa., Banker and
Chalmers. eds., pages 238-250 (1982), and ASHP Handbook on Injectable Drugs, Toissel,
4th ed., pages 622-630 (1986), incorporated herein by reference).
[0129]     A pharmaceutical composition comprising an agent and optional additional agent as
provided herein is optionally placed within containers/kits, along with packaging material
that provides instructions regarding the use of such pharmaceutical compositions. Generally,
such instructions include a tangible expression describing the reagent concentration, as well
                                                  40

as, in certain embodiments, relative amounts of excipient ingredients or diluents that may be
necessary to reconstitute the pharmaceutical composition.
[0130]     The disclosure thus includes administering to a subject one or more agent(s), in
combination with one or more additional agent(s), each being administered according to a
regimen suitable for that medicament. Administration strategies include concurrent
administration (i.e., substantially simultaneous administration) and non-concurrent
administration (i.e., administration at different times, in any order, whether overlapping or
not) of the agent and one or more additional agents(s). It will be appreciated that different
components are optionally administered in the same or in separate compositions, and by the
same or different routes of administration.
[0131]     All publications, patents and patent applications cited in this specification are
herein incorporated by reference as if each individual publication or patent application were
specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. In addition, the entire
document is intended to be related as a unified disclosure, and it should be understood that all
combinations of features described herein are contemplated, even if the combination of
features are not found together in the same sentence, or paragraph, or section of this
document. For example, where protein therapy is described, embodiments involving
polynucleotide therapy (using polynucleotides/vectors that encode the protein) are
specifically contemplated, and the reverse also is true. With respect to elements described as
one or more members of a set, it should be understood that all combinations within the set are
contemplated.
                                           EXAMPLES
                                             Example 1
      Structure-function relationship between the proline-rich region of LTBP4 and
                                    proteolytic susceptibility
[0132]     The data provided in this Example show that the proline-rich region of LTBP4
contributes to its proteolytic susceptibility.
[0133]     LTBP4 binds to TGF in the extracellular matrix (ECM), where it serves as a
readily available TGF storage site. A 36-nucleotide deletion was identified in the proline
rich domain of murine LTBP4 that associates with enhanced pathogenic features of muscular
dystrophy in mice. This region in murine LTBP4 is associated with variable susceptibility to
proteolysis. Sequence comparison analysis between LTBP4 from mouse and humans reveals
                                                 41

an even larger deletion in the proline-rich region of human LTBP4. Thus, consistent with the
murine deletion being associated with pathogenic features and variable proteolysis [see
Heydemann et al., J Clin Invest. 119(12): 3703-12 (2009)], it was contemplated that the
larger deletion of the proline-rich region of human LTBP4 was associated with enhanced
susceptibility to proteolytic cleavage.
[0134]     To investigate this possibility, a portion of the human LTBP4 coding region was
ligated into an expression vector to express the proline-rich region. The TP fragment (amino
acids 483-565 of the human LTBP4 protein (SEQ ID NO: 1)) was expressed and migrated as
a 3.5 KDa protein although its predicted molecular mass is 8.9 KDa. A second fragment,
TP2E fragment (amino acids 357-586 of the human LTBP4 protein (SEQ ID NO: 1)) was
also expressed. Its predicted molecular mass is 24.5 KDa, yet it electrophoretically migrated
as a 31 KDa protein. TP2E included the two EGF-like domains that flank the proline-rich
region of LTBP4 along with the amino terminal 8-cysteine rich region immediately amino
terminal of the proline-rich region. Murine TP2E and TP each contained an additional 44
amino acids compared to the human sequences, reflecting the larger proline-rich region. The
murine TP2E electrophoretically migrates as a 35 KDa protein while its calculated molecular
mass is 30.58 KDa.
                               Susceptibility to proteolysis in vitro
[0135]     Human and mouse TP2E fragments were expressed in vitro using a transcription
translation coupled assay (Promega TnT@ Quick Coupled in vitro Transcription/Translation
System) and the expressed fragments were labeled using        3 5S-Cysteine. Dose-response and
time course experiments were performed with elastase and plasmin, which are both seine
proteases that cleave LTBP4, to determine the differential digestion of the human and mouse
TP2E fragments. Data from these experiments showed that the human TP2E fragment is
more readily cleaved than the mouse LTBP4 sequence (Figure 3).
                  Effects of smaller fragments of LTBP4 on TGFp signaling
[0136]     An antibody to the proline-rich region of human LTBP4 was generated to inhibit
LTBP4 cleavage. This antibody was tested and confirmed to recognize and bind to the full
length human LTBP4 by immunoblot. Conditions were then optimized for the digestion of
full-length human LTBP4 by plasmin, and inhibition of proteolysis using the antibody was
tested. The data in Figure 4 show that the anti-LTBP4 antibody specifically inhibited the
protein digestion compared to a nonrelated antibody raised in the same species (Figure 4).
                                                 42

                                           Example 2
           Effect of human LTBP4 expression on muscle and cardiac phenotypes
[0137]     LTBP4 plays a critical role in TGF3 secretion and activation in cardiac muscle,
skeletal muscle and lung. Human LTBP4 has a larger deletion in the proline-rich region
compared to a mutant murine LTBP4, with wild-type murine LTBP4 used as a reference.
Thus, it is contemplated that human LTBP4 is associated with increased pathogenic TGF3
signaling and, therefore, will be associated with more severe disease in mice with muscular
dystrophy.
                          Transgenic mice expressing human LTBP4
[0138]     A mouse harboring the human LTBP4 gene was generated according to standard
protocols [see, e.g., Heintz, Nat Rev Neurosci. 2(12):861-70 (2001)]. A bacterial artificial
chromosome (BAC) that included the complete human LTBP4 gene; the BAC transgenic
positive (Tg+) mice are referred to as hLTBP4 Tg+. To generate the hLTBP4 Tg+ mice, a
single, unmodified BAC clone (clone number CDT-2166J9) was used to inject a fertilized
oocyte using conventional methodology [see, e.g., Heintz, Nat Rev Neurosci. 2(12):861-70
(2001)]. The human sequence of this BAC (Genbank accession number AC010412.9; SEQ
ID NO: 7) contains 155085 bp from chromosome 19. The LTBP4 gene spans from 19891 to
57891 bp of this clone. Eleven founder lines were evaluated by PCR and found to contain the
full-length human LTBP4, including promoter regions. Six lines were chosen for breeding to
ensure that these mice were passing the BAC in their germline. By RT-PCR, it was
determined that the human LTBP4 mRNA was expressed in cardiac and skeletal muscle of
the transgenic mice. At present, there is no antibody that distinguishes human LTBP4 from
mouse LTBP4; human and mouse LTBP4 are 98% similar. Overall, LTBP4 expression may
be slightly elevated in hLTBP4 Tg+ mice compared to littermate controls. hLTBP4 Tg+
mice are outwardly normal and breed normally. Histological examination showed grossly
normal histology in brain, kidney, lung, heart and muscle. Interestingly, hLTBP4 Tg+
skeletal muscle fibers were significantly larger than littermate control transgene negative
mice. It is contemplated that even modest overexpression of LTBP4 may be sufficient to
bind other TGFP superfamily members such as myostatin, and sequestration of myostatin
would inhibit myostatin activity and would be expected to result in larger muscle fibers.
[0139]     The hLTBP4 Tg+ animal will be bred to the mouse mdx model of Duchenne
Muscular Dystrophy and the phenotype and TGFP signaling capacity will be assessed. Ten
                                               43

mice of each genotype (hLTBP4 Tg+/mdx, mdx, hLTBP4+ and WT) will be generated. Basic
neuromuscular function will be evaluated using SHIRPA protocols. SHIRPA is a
combination of neurological tests that assess neuromuscular function [Rafael et al., Mamm
Genome. 11(9): 725-8 (2000)]. For example and without limitation, grip strength, running
capacity, wire maneuver and rotorod are basic tests that will be used to assess muscle
function. In addition, cardiac function will be assessed using echocardiography, and
histology will be performed to evaluate fibrosis and membrane permeability using Evans blue
dye uptake. All analyses will be conducted on male mice at 8 weeks of age. A cohort of
mice will also be aged to examine the effect on mice at a later time point(s). Fibroblasts will
also be isolated from these mice to determine their level of SMAD signaling using methods
as previously described [Heydemann et al., J Clin Invest. 119(12): 3703-12 (2009)]. It is
expected that insertion of the human LTBP4 will result in increased SMAD signaling and
enhancement of the mdx phenotype.
                                          Example 3
                          LTBP4 peptides and antibody generation
[0140]     Antibodies were generated using multiple different peptides including the mouse
and human LTBP4 sequences (see Table 1, below). Each of the peptides in Table 1 cross
reacts to the human protein as determined by immunoblotting. A longer LTBP4 peptide,
FLPTHRLEPRPEPRPDPRPGPELPLPSIPAWTGPEIPESGPSS (SEQ ID NO: 6), is also
contemplated for use according to the disclosure. Humanized monoclonal antibodies directed
against LTBP4 will also be generated.
                                               44

   Antibody                                                        Antigen       Western      Results on
    Name          Species            Peptide Used                  Source          Blot       Proteolysis
                                                                                 Activity
 mLTBP4d36-       chicken     EPRPRPEPRPQPESQPWP                 Mouse - D2         +++           NA
      829                           (SEQ ID NO: 2)
 mLTBP4d36-       chicken     EPRPRPEPRPQPESQPWP                 Mouse - D2         ++            NA
      830                           (SEQ ID NO: 2)
hLTBP4pr-831  1 chicken
         hLTBP~~pr-83           EPRPEPRPDPRPGPELP
                                    (SEQ ID NO: 3)                 Human
                                                                   Hmnpstv         ++++        positive
hLTBP4pr-832      chicken       EPRPEPRPDPRPGPELP                  Human            ++            NA
                                    (SEQ ID NO: 3)
  mLTBP4ins-       rabbit     ESQPRPESRPRPESQPWP                 Mouse - 129        ++            NA
    24226                           (SEQ ID NO: 4)
  mLTBP4ins-       rabbit     ESQPRPESRPRPESQPWP                 Mouse - 129        ++            NA
    24226                           (SEQ ID NO: 4)
 hLTBP4(511-                  EPRPEPRPDPRPGPELPLP                  Human            NA
     530)          rabbit           (SEQ ID NO: 5)                                                NA
    28200
 hLTBP4(511-                  EPRPEPRPDPRPGPELPLP                  Human            NA            NA
     530)          rabbit           (SEQ ID NO: 5)HuaNAA
    28199
    Table 1. LTBP4 peptides used for antibody generation. "Species" indicates antibody source.
    [0141]    Table 1 shows that each antibody recognized a protein the size of human LTBP4, as
    determined by immunoblot. The data in the table also indicates that the antibody raised
    against the human sequence (SEQ ID NO: 3) protects LTBP4 against proteolysis in vitro
    (Figure 6, described below) and, given the cross reactivity, the other anti-hLTBP4 antibodies
    are also expected to protect hLTBP4 from proteolysis. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent
    assays (ELISA) will also be performed to compare the relative affinity of antibodies to each
    peptide using serum and purified antibodies.
                  Proteolysis of LTBP4 can be inhibited with LTBP4 antibodies
    [0142]    It was contemplated that the insertion/deletion polymorphism in murine Ltbp4
    discussed hereinabove indicated that the proline-rich region is important since the presence or
    absence of 12 additional amino acids in this region explains its ability to reduce membrane
    leak and suppress fibrosis, two activities that were attributed to LTBP4's ability to sequester
                                                    45

TGF.     This position is consistent with the differential sensitivity to proteolysis of the various
forms of LTBP4 and the associated TGF activity in the form of nuclear pSMAD
[Heydemann et al., J Clin Invest. 119: 3703-12 (2009)].
[0143]     To demonstrate that the proline-rich region of human LTBP4 was susceptible to
proteolysis, protein domains were expressed using in vitro transcription and translation
according to methods as previously described [Heydemann et al., J Clin Invest. 119(12):
3703-12 (2009)]. By design, only the carboxy-terminus of these expressed proteins was
labeled. The expressed fragments were exposed to plasmin. Murine LTBP4 with the 12
amino-acid insertion was largely resistant to proteolysis while the murine LTBP4 deleted for
the 12 amino acids was readily degraded (Figure 5, middle and right lanes). The human
LTBP4 was most readily degraded (Figure 5, left lanes). Similar results were obtained with
elastase. It is contemplated that this region (i.e., the region included in the TP and TP2E
sequences) is a general serine protease target. Antibodies were generated that were directed
at the proline-rich region and it was found that these antibodies inhibited LTBP4 cleavage in
vitro (Figure 6). A nonspecific antibody generated from the same species showed no
blocking effect. Additional anti-LTBP4 antibodies have been generated, and Fab fragments
will be purified and tested because these fragments are expected to be more useful for in vivo
delivery.
[0144]     Full-length LTBP4 protein, produced from cultured cells, is also susceptible to
plasmin proteolysis (Figure 6). With muscle injury, such as the injury that occurs in DMD,
release of proteases into the extracellular matrix is expected to result in LTBP4 cleavage.
The sources of these proteases in vivo may be inflammatory cells, fibroblasts or the
myofibers. Increased LTBP4 cleavage was shown to correlate with increased fibrosis,
increased muscle membrane leak, increased muscle weakness and increased TGF signaling
[Heydemann et al., J Clin Invest. 119(12): 3703-12 (2009)]. Reduction of TGF signaling
was shown to improve outcome in muscular dystrophy [Cohn et al., Nat Med. 13(2): 204-10
(2007); Goldstein et al., Hum Mol Genet. 20(5): 894-904 (2011)].
[0145]     This example demonstrates that proteolysis of the proline-rich region of LTBP4 can
be inhibited by antibodies provided herein.
                                                 46

                                            Example 4
                           Transgenic mice harboring human Ltbp4
[0146]     A human bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) carrying the full length human
LTBP4 gene was isolated and characterized. This BAC was injected into mice and several
lines of transgenic mice were characterized. Human LTBP4 (hLTBP4-BAC) transgenic mice
were bred to mdx mice. The human LTBP4 BAC in the normal background resulted in larger
myofiber diameter, a sign of hypertrophy. When the human LTBP4 BAC was in the mdx
background, it resulted in enhanced fibrosis in skeletal and cardiac muscle as well as reduced
grip strength, relative to control mice that did not carry the transgene (Figure 7). This
supports the observation that the human LTBP4 sequence, with its larger deletion in the
proline-rich region, enhances the muscular dystrophy phenotype. These mice will be further
used to test whether antibodies directed against human LTBP4 can reduce muscular
dystrophy fibrosis and muscle membrane leakage.
                                            Example 5
                                          in vivo studies
[0147]     Short-term studies are conducted in dystrophic mice (i.e., mdx and limb girdle
muscular dystrophy (LGMD)) to determine safety and efficacy of inhibiting LTBP4 cleavage
in vivo. Animals are treated from 3 weeks to 8 weeks of age with antibody injections, three
times weekly, delivered via intraperitoneal injection. Dose responsiveness is determined.
Echocardiography, plethysmography, muscle harvest and ex vivo muscle mechanics are
conducted on treated animals and controls. Target tissues are studied, including heart,
diaphragm, quadriceps, gluteus/hamstrings, gastrocnemius/soleus, triceps and abdominal
muscles, according to previously identified protocols [Heydemann et al., Neuromuscul
Disord. 15: 601-9 (2005); Heydemann, et al., J Clin Invest. 119: 3703-12 (2009); Swaggart et
al., Physiol Genomics. 43: 24-31 (2011)]. TGFP signaling is also determined.
[0148]     Long-term studies are conducted in dystrophic mice to determine the safety and
efficacy of the treatment. Once dosing has been determined, cohorts of mice are treated from
3 weeks until 1 year of age. A similar analysis of efficacy are undertaken, as discussed above
(i.e., echocardiography, plethysmography, muscle harvest and ex vivo muscle mechanics).
Analysis of other organs, including lung, colon, kidney, brain, and other tissues, is included.
Mice that are null for LTBP4 develop cardiomyopathy, pulmonary fibrosis and colon cancer.
Because LTBP4 is not ablated in these studies, these cardiomyopathy, pulmonary fibrosis and
                                                 47

colon cancer defects are not expected, consistent with the results of the genetic studies
described above. Nonetheless, off-target tissues are also analyzed.
[0149]     The studies described above are expected to show that inhibition of LTBP4
cleavage in vivo results in decreased TGF3 signaling, which is further expected to lead to a
decrease in membrane permeability as well as a decrease in fibrosis in the muscles of
dystrophic mice. These results will be evidenced by an improvement or lack of decline in
therapeutic endpoints as described herein, thereby establishing that blockage of LTBP4
proteolysis is a robust therapeutic in the treatment of TGFP superfamily protein -related
diseases.
                                             Example 6
                            LTBP4 interacts with myostatin in vitro
[0150]     The ability of LTBP4 to directly interact with myostatin, a TGF-P superfamily
member, was also investigated. The methods used to investigate the interaction were as
follows. Full length LTBP4 was cloned into an expression vector (pcDNA3.1, Life
Technologies (Invitrogen), Grand Island, NY) and the Xpress epitope tag (Life Technologies
(Invitrogen), Grand Island, NY) was added to its 5' end/amino terminus. Full-length
myostatin, encoding the propeptide and mature regions, was tagged at its 3' end/carboxy
terminus with the myc epitope tag. Both plasmids were introduced into HEK293 (Human
Embryonic Kidney 293) cells. The cells were lysed and the proteins were blotted or
immunoprecipitated with either antibody 28200 or, in a separate experiment, antibody 28199
(see Table 1). Both of these rabbit polyclonal antibodies are directed at the LTBP4 proline
rich region. The immunoprecipitated material was then blotted with the anti-myc antibody,
showing that myostatin associates with LTBP4 (Figure 8).
[0151]     This Example shows that LTBP4 is able to directly interact with myostatin. The
results indicate that, by inhibiting the proteolysis of LTBP4 according to the present
disclosure, one can sequester myostatin and prevent its activation and resultant downstream
signaling. Because myostatin is a known negative regulator of muscle growth, the inhibition
of myostatin signaling is expected to result in increased muscle growth and increased muscle
strength.
                                                 48

                                            Example 7
Expression of human LTBP4 in mice leads to enhanced damage after cardiotoxin injury
[0152]     Mice were generated to express the human LTBP4 gene on a bacterial artificial
chromosome, and these transgenic mice were referred to as hLTBP4 Tg+ mice. The human
LTBP4 protein is more readily proteolyzed because of its shorter proline-rich region. This
increased proteolysis leads to enhanced damage in muscle due to increased TGF release.
Cardiotoxin was injected into the tibialis anterior muscle of normal (WT w/CTX) and
hLTBP4 transgenic mice (hLTBP4 Tg+ w/CTX). Transgenic mice displayed enhanced
injury after cardiotoxin injury seen as greater inflammatory mononuclear cell infiltrate and
fibrosis and fat deposition into the injured muscle (Figure 9A), similar to what is seen in
muscular dystrophy.
[0153]     Normal (WT) and hLTBP4 muscle were injected with cardiotoxin to induce injury.
Immunoblotting with an anti-LTBP4 antibody showed increased levels of LTBP4 protein
induced by injury in both normal and in hLTBP4 transgenic muscle (Figure 9B). hLTBP4
muscle was also found to be associated with increased TGF signaling seen as nuclear
localized phosphorylated SMAD.
[0154]     The results showed that expression of human LTBP4 protein in muscle leads to
enhanced muscle damage following cardiotoxin injury.
                                            Example 8
                     Anti-LTBP4 antibodies mitigate muscle injury in vivo
[0155]     To test whether anti-LTBP4 antibody mitigated skeletal muscle injury in muscular
dystrophy, experiments were carried out using hLTBP4/mdx mice. Cardiotoxin, which is
known to cause necrosis of skeletal muscle cells, was injected into the tibialis anterior muscle
to induce enhanced injury. This injury model resolves within 2 weeks because a low-volume
injection of 10 k 1 is used. hLTBP4/mdx mice (8 weeks of age) were pretreated on day 0 with
either (i) PBS or (ii) antibody to LTBP4-831 antibody at 5 mg/Kg intraperitoneally. On day
1, cardiotoxin was injected into the tibialis anterior muscle. LTBP4-831 antibody was
injected on days 1, 3, and 5, each time delivering a 5 mg/Kg dose intraperitoneally. Mice
were sacrificed on day 7 and tibialis anterior muscle was harvested for study. The
experimental design of sacrificing the mice on day 7 was used because the LTBP4-831
antibody is a chicken antibody that was expected to be recognized as foreign after 2-3 weeks.
                                                49

[0156]     Following harvest, the muscle was processed for analysis by snap-freezing in liquid
nitrogen-cooled isopentane. The frozen muscle was sectioned and the sections were
subjected to hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining.
[0157]     Results of the experiment showed that, compared to PBS-injected mice, LTBP4
831 antibody-treated mice showed reduced central nucleation and reduced fibrosis (Figure
1 OA and 1 OB). Centralized nuclei are indicative of newly formed (i.e., regenerating)
myofibers, and reduced central nucleation in the muscle of animals that were administered
LTBP4-831 antibody provides evidence that the antibody mitigated muscle injury in the
mice.
                                              Example 9
      Increased inflammatory infiltrate in hLTBP4/mdx mice compared to mdx mice
[0158]     Quadriceps muscles obtained from both mdx and hLTPB4/mdx mice were stained
with F4/80 antibodies that recognize and bind to activated macrophages (shown as speckles
throughout the muscle). The immunofluorescent staining showed an increase in activated
macrophages in hLTBP4/mdx muscle compared to mdx muscle (Figure 11 A). hLTBP4/mdx
muscle showed an increase in cleaved LTBP4 protein compared to mdx, while little LTBP4
protein was seen in wild-type and hLTBP4 muscle in the absence of injury or muscular
dystrophy (Figure 1 IB).
[0159]     The results showed that there is an increase in inflammatory cell infiltrate in the
muscle of hLTBP4/mdx mice versus mdx mice. The results also showed that hLTBP4/mdx
muscle possessed increased cleaved LTBP4 protein relative to mdx muscle.
[0160]     The disclosed subject matter has been described with reference to various specific
and preferred embodiments and techniques. It should be understood, however, that many
variations and modifications may be made while remaining within the spirit and scope of the
disclosed subject matter. All references cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in
their entireties, or to the extent that they provide relevant disclosure, as would be ascertained
from context.
                                                  50

                                           CLAIMS
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
        1.      A method of treating a patient having a transforming growth factor beta
(TGF) superfamily protein-related disease, comprising administering a therapeutically
effective amount of an agent that modulates proteolysis of latent TGF binding protein 4
(LTBP4) to a patient in need thereof.
        2.      A method of delaying onset or preventing a transforming growth factor beta
(TGF) superfamily protein -related disease, comprising administering an effective amount
of an agent that modulates proteolysis of latent TGF binding protein 4 (LTBP4) to a patient
in need thereof.
        3.      The method of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the patient suffers from a disease
selected from the group consisting of Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy, Limb Girdle Muscular
Dystrophy, Becker Muscular Dystrophy, myopathy, cystic fibrosis, pulmonary fibrosis,
cardiomyopathy, acute lung injury, acute muscle injury, acute myocardial injury, radiation
induced injury and colon cancer.
        4.      The method of any one of claims 1-3 wherein the agent is selected from the
group consisting of an anti-LTBP4 antibody and a peptide.
        5.      The method of any one of claims 1-4 further comprising administering an
effective amount of a second agent, wherein the second agent is selected from the group
consisting of a modulator of an inflammatory response, a promoter of muscle growth, a
chemotherapeutic agent, and a modulator of fibrosis.
        6.      A method of treating a patient having a transforming growth factor beta
(TGF) superfamily protein -related disease, comprising administering to the patient a
therapeutically effective amount of an agent that upregulates the activity of latent TGF
binding protein 4 (LTBP4).
        7.      A method of delaying onset or preventing a transforming growth factor beta
(TGF) superfamily protein -related disease, comprising administering to the patient an
effective amount of an agent that upregulates the activity of latent TGF binding protein 4
(LTBP4).
        8.      The method of claim 6 or claim 7 wherein LTBP4 interacts with a TGF
superfamily protein.
                                               51

        9.      The method of any one of claim 8 wherein the TGF3 superfamily protein is
selected from the group consisting of TGFP, a growth and differentiation factor (GDF),
activin, inhibin, and a bone morphogenetic protein.
         10.    The method of claim 9 wherein the GDF is myostatin.
         11.    The method of any one of claims 6-10 wherein the agent is selected from the
group consisting of a peptide, an antibody and a polynucleotide capable of expressing a
protein having LTBP4 activity.
         12.    The method of claim 11 wherein the agent is the peptide of claim 21.
         13.    The method of claim 11 wherein the agent is the antibody of claim 20.
         14.    The method of claim 11 wherein the polynucleotide is contained in a vector.
         15.    The method of claim 14 wherein the vector is a viral vector.
         16.    The method of claim 15 wherein the viral vector is selected from the group
consisting of a herpes virus vector, an adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector, an adeno virus
vector, and a lentiviral vector.
         17.    The method of claim 16 wherein the AAV vector is recombinant AAV9.
         18.    The method of any one of claims 6-17 wherein the patient has a disease
selected from the group consisting of Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy, Limb Girdle Muscular
Dystrophy, Becker Muscular Dystrophy, myopathy, cystic fibrosis, pulmonary fibrosis,
cardiomyopathy, acute lung injury, acute muscle injury, acute myocardial injury, radiation
induced injury, and colon cancer.
         19.    The method of any one of claims 6-18 further comprising administering an
effective amount of a second agent, wherein the second agent is selected from the group
consisting of a modulator of an inflammatory response, a promoter of muscle growth, a
chemotherapeutic agent and a modulator of fibrosis.
        20.     An isolated antibody that specifically binds to a peptide comprising the
sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 5.
        21.     A peptide comprising the sequence as set out in any one of SEQ ID NOs: 2-5,
or a peptide that is at least 70% identical to the sequence as set out in SEQ ID NOs: 2-5 that
retains an ability to act as a substrate for a protease.
                                                  52

        22.     A pharmaceutical formulation comprising an effective amount of the antibody
of claim 20 or the peptide of claim 21, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.
        23.     A kit comprising a therapeutically effective amount of the antibody of claim
20 or the peptide of claim 21, a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent and
instructions for use.
        24.     The formulation of claim 22 or the kit of claim 23, further comprising an
effective amount of a second agent, wherein the second agent is selected from the group
consisting of a modulator of an inflammatory response, a promoter of muscle growth, a
chemotherapeutic agent and a modulator of fibrosis.
                                               53

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                   46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
                                                SEQUENCE LI STI NG
               <110>   Mc Nal l y , et al .
               <120>   Mi t i gat i ng Ti s s ue Damage And Fi br os i s Vi a Lat ent Tr ans f or mi ng
                       Gr owt h Fac t or Bet a Bi ndi ng Pr ot ei n ( LTBP4)
               <130>   31982/ 46577A
               <150>   US 61/ 678, 564
               <151>   2012- 08- 01
 <removed-apn>
               <160>   7
               <170>   Pat ent I n v er s i on 3. 5
               <210>   1
               <211>   1624
               <212>   PRT
               <213>   Homo s api ens
               <220>
               <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
               <222>   ( 357) . . ( 586)
               <223>   TP2E f r agment
               <220>
               <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
               <222>   ( 483) . . ( 565)
               <223>   TP f r agment
               <400>   1
               Met Pr o Ar g Pr o Gl y Thr Ser Gl y Ar g Ar g Pr o Leu Leu Leu Val Leu
               1                  5                      10                    15
               Leu Leu Pr o Leu Phe Al a Al a Al a Thr Ser Al a Al a Ser Pr o Ser Pr o
                            20                     25                    30
               Ser Pr o Ser Gl n Val Val Gl u Val Pr o Gl y Val Pr o Ser Ar g Pr o Al a
                        35                    40                     45
               Ser Val Al a Val Cy s Ar g Cy s Cy s Pr o Gl y Gl n Thr Ser Ar g Ar g Ser
                   50                     55                       60
               Ar g Cy s I l e Ar g Al a Phe Cy s Ar g Val Ar g Ser Cy s Gl n Pr o Ly s Ly s
               65                        70                     75                      80
               Cy s Al a Gl y Pr o Gl n Ar g Cy s Leu As n Pr o Val Pr o Al a Val Pr o Ser
                                   85                      90                     95
               Pr o Ser Pr o Ser Val Ar g Ly s Ar g Gl n Val Ser Leu As n Tr p Gl n Pr o
                             100                    105                   110
               Leu Thr Leu Gl n Gl u Al a Ar g Al a Leu Leu Ly s Ar g Ar g Ar g Pr o Ar g
                       115                     120                    125
               Gl y Pr o Gl y Gl y Ar g Gl y Leu Leu Ar g Ar g Ar g Pr o Pr o Gl n Ar g Al a
                    130                      135                    140
                                                           Page 1
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                 46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               Pr o Al a Gl y Ly s Al a Pr o Val Leu Cy s Pr o Leu I l e Cy s Hi s As n Gl y
               145                      150                    155                      160
               Gl y Val Cy s Val Ly s Pr o As p Ar g Cy s Leu Cy s Pr o Pr o As p Phe Al a
                                 165                      170                     175
               Gl y Ly s Phe Cy s Gl n Leu Hi s Ser Ser Gl y Al a Ar g Pr o Pr o Al a Pr o
                             180                    185                     190
 <removed-apn>
               Al a Val Pr o Gl y Leu Thr Ar g Ser Val Ty r Thr Met Pr o Leu Al a As n
                        195                    200                  205
               Hi s Ar g As p As p Gl u Hi s Gl y Val Al a Ser Met Val Ser Val Hi s Val
                    210                      215                   220
               Gl u Hi s Pr o Gl n Gl u Al a Ser Val Val Val Hi s Gl n Val Gl u Ar g Val
               225                      230                  235                     240
               Ser Gl y Pr o Tr p Gl u Gl u Al a As p Al a Gl u Al a Val Al a Ar g Al a Gl u
                                  245                      250                     255
               Al a Al a Al a Ar g Al a Gl u Al a Al a Al a Pr o Ty r Thr Val Leu Al a Gl n
                              260                      265                    270
               Ser Al a Pr o Ar g Gl u As p Gl y Ty r Ser As p Al a Ser Gl y Phe Gl y Ty r
                        275                      280                    285
               Cy s Phe Ar g Gl u Leu Ar g Gl y Gl y Gl u Cy s Al a Ser Pr o Leu Pr o Gl y
                    290                    295                      300
               Leu Ar g Thr Gl n Gl u Val Cy s Cy s Ar g Gl y Al a Gl y Leu Al a Tr p Gl y
               305                    310                     315                     320
               Val Hi s As p Cy s Gl n Leu Cy s Ser Gl u Ar g Leu Gl y As n Ser Gl u Ar g
                                  325                    330                    335
               Val Ser Al a Pr o As p Gl y Pr o Cy s Pr o Thr Gl y Phe Gl u Ar g Val As n
                            340                      345                    350
               Gl y Ser Cy s Gl u As p Val As p Gl u Cy s Al a Thr Gl y Gl y Ar g Cy s Gl n
                        355                     360                     365
               Hi s Gl y Gl u Cy s Al a As n Thr Ar g Gl y Gl y Ty r Thr Cy s Val Cy s Pr o
                    370                      375                     380
               As p Gl y Phe Leu Leu As p Ser Ser Ar g Ser Ser Cy s I l e Ser Gl n Hi s
               385                   390                   395                     400
               Val I l e Ser Gl u Al a Ly s Gl y Pr o Cy s Phe Ar g Val Leu Ar g As p Gl y
                                  405                      410                   415
                                                            Page 2
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                 46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               Gl y Cy s Ser Leu Pr o I l e Leu Ar g As n I l e Thr Ly s Gl n I l e Cy s Cy s
                             420                     425                      430
               Cy s Ser Ar g Val Gl y Ly s Al a Tr p Gl y Ar g Gl y Cy s Gl n Leu Cy s Pr o
                        435                     440                      445
               Pr o Phe Gl y Ser Gl u Gl y Phe Ar g Gl u I l e Cy s Pr o Al a Gl y Pr o Gl y
                    450                    455                      460
 <removed-apn>
               Ty r Hi s Ty r Ser Al a Ser As p Leu Ar g Ty r As n Thr Ar g Pr o Leu Gl y
               465                     470                    475                    480
               Gl n Gl u Pr o Pr o Ar g Val Ser Leu Ser Gl n Pr o Ar g Thr Leu Pr o Al a
                                   485                  490                    495
               Thr Ser Ar g Pr o Ser Al a Gl y Phe Leu Pr o Thr Hi s Ar g Leu Gl u Pr o
                            500                    505                    510
               Ar g Pr o Gl u Pr o Ar g Pr o As p Pr o Ar g Pr o Gl y Pr o Gl u Leu Pr o Leu
                         515                      520                      525
               Pr o Ser I l e Pr o Al a Tr p Thr Gl y Pr o Gl u I l e Pr o Gl u Ser Gl y Pr o
                    530                      535                      540
               Ser Ser Gl y Met Cy s Gl n Ar g As n Pr o Gl n Val Cy s Gl y Pr o Gl y Ar g
               545                   550                      555                     560
               Cy s I l e Ser Ar g Pr o Ser Gl y Ty r Thr Cy s Al a Cy s As p Ser Gl y Phe
                                   565                    570                     575
               Ar g Leu Ser Pr o Gl n Gl y Thr Ar g Cy s I l e As p Val As p Gl u Cy s Ar g
                            580                     585                      590
               Ar g Val Pr o Pr o Pr o Cy s Al a Pr o Gl y Ar g Cy s Gl u As n Ser Pr o Gl y
                        595                      600                      605
               Ser Phe Ar g Cy s Val Cy s Gl y Pr o Gl y Phe Ar g Al a Gl y Pr o Ar g Al a
                   610                    615                     620
               Al a Gl u Cy s Leu As p Val As p Gl u Cy s Hi s Ar g Val Pr o Pr o Pr o Cy s
               625                     630                     635                     640
               As p Leu Gl y Ar g Cy s Gl u As n Thr Pr o Gl y Ser Phe Leu Cy s Val Cy s
                                  645                     650                   655
               Pr o Al a Gl y Ty r Gl n Al a Al a Pr o Hi s Gl y Al a Ser Cy s Gl n As p Val
                              660                      665                     670
               As p Gl u Cy s Thr Gl n Ser Pr o Gl y Leu Cy s Gl y Ar g Gl y Al a Cy s Ly s
                         675                    680                     685
                                                          Page 3
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                 46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               As n Leu Pr o Gl y Ser Phe Ar g Cy s Val Cy s Pr o Al a Gl y Phe Ar g Gl y
                    690                   695                     700
               Ser Al a Cy s Gl u Gl u As p Val As p Gl u Cy s Al a Gl n Gl u Pr o Pr o Pr o
               705                     710                     715                      720
               Cy s Gl y Pr o Gl y Ar g Cy s As p As n Thr Al a Gl y Ser Phe Hi s Cy s Al a
                                   725                     730                    735
 <removed-apn>
               Cy s Pr o Al a Gl y Phe Ar g Ser Ar g Gl y Pr o Gl y Al a Pr o Cy s Gl n As p
                              740                    745                      750
               Val As p Gl u Cy s Al a Ar g Ser Pr o Pr o Pr o Cy s Thr Ty r Gl y Ar g Cy s
                        755                     760                     765
               Gl u As n Thr Gl u Gl y Ser Phe Gl n Cy s Val Cy s Pr o Met Gl y Phe Gl n
                    770                    775                    780
               Pr o As n Thr Al a Gl y Ser Gl u Cy s Gl u As p Val As p Gl u Cy s Gl u As n
               785                     790                     795                     800
               Hi s Leu Al a Cy s Pr o Gl y Gl n Gl u Cy s Val As n Ser Pr o Gl y Ser Phe
                                  805                      810                    815
               Gl n Cy s Ar g Thr Cy s Pr o Ser Gl y Hi s Hi s Leu Hi s Ar g Gl y Ar g Cy s
                              820                    825                     830
               Thr As p Val As p Gl u Cy s Ser Ser Gl y Al a Pr o Pr o Cy s Gl y Pr o Hi s
                        835                    840                     845
               Gl y Hi s Cy s Thr As n Thr Gl u Gl y Ser Phe Ar g Cy s Ser Cy s Al a Pr o
                    850                    855                    860
               Gl y Ty r Ar g Al a Pr o Ser Gl y Ar g Pr o Gl y Pr o Cy s Al a As p Val As n
               865                      870                     875                     880
               Gl u Cy s Leu Gl u Gl y As p Phe Cy s Phe Pr o Hi s Gl y Gl u Cy s Leu As n
                                  885                    890                      895
               Thr As p Gl y Ser Phe Al a Cy s Thr Cy s Al a Pr o Gl y Ty r Ar g Pr o Gl y
                             900                   905                      910
               Pr o Ar g Gl y Al a Ser Cy s Leu As p Val As p Gl u Cy s Ser Gl u Gl u As p
                         915                    920                     925
               Leu Cy s Gl n Ser Gl y I l e Cy s Thr As n Thr As p Gl y Ser Phe Gl u Cy s
                   930                      935                    940
               I l e Cy s Pr o Pr o Gl y Hi s Ar g Al a Gl y Pr o As p Leu Al a Ser Cy s Leu
               945                       950                      955                    960
                                                              Page 4
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                 46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               As p Val As p Gl u Cy s Ar g Gl u Ar g Gl y Pr o Al a Leu Cy s Gl y Ser Gl n
                                  965                      970                     975
               Ar g Cy s Gl u As n Ser Pr o Gl y Ser Ty r Ar g Cy s Val Ar g As p Cy s As p
                              980                    985                     990
               Pr o Gl y Ty r Hi s Al a Gl y Pr o Gl u Gl y Thr Cy s As p As p Val As p Gl u
                         995                      1000                    1005
 <removed-apn>
               Cy s Gl n Gl u Ty r Gl y Pr o Gl u I l e Cy s Gl y Al a Gl n Ar g Cy s Gl u
                    1010                     1015                      1020
               As n Thr Pr o Gl y Ser Ty r Ar g Cy s Thr Pr o Al a Cy s As p Pr o Gl y
                    1025                   1030                    1035
               Ty r Gl n Pr o Thr Pr o Gl y Gl y Gl y Cy s Gl n As p Val  As p Gl u Cy s
                    1040                    1045                     1050
               Ar g As n Ar g Ser Phe Cy s Gl y Al a Hi s Al a Val Cy s Gl n As n Leu
                    1055                   1060                    1065
               Pr o Gl y Ser Phe Gl n Cy s Leu Cy s As p Gl n Gl y Ty r Gl u Gl y Al a
                    1070                   1075                    1080
               Ar g As p Gl y Ar g Hi s Cy s Val  As p Val As n Gl u Cy s Gl u Thr Leu
                    1085                     1090                    1095
               Gl n Gl y Val Cy s Gl y Al a Al a Leu Cy s Gl u As n Val  Gl u Gl y Ser
                    1100                    1105                    1110
               Phe Leu Cy s Val Cy s Pr o As n Ser Pr o Gl u Gl u Phe As p Pr o Met
                   1115                   1120                    1125
               Thr Gl y Ar g Cy s Val Pr o Pr o Ar g Thr Ser Al a Gl y Thr Phe Pr o
                   1130                    1135                   1140
               Gl y Ser Gl n Pr o Gl n Al a Pr o Al a Ser Pr o Val Leu Pr o Al a Ar g
                    1145                    1150                   1155
               Pr o Pr o Pr o Pr o Pr o Leu Pr o Ar g Ar g Pr o Ser Thr Pr o Ar g Gl n
                    1160                    1165                    1170
               Gl y Pr o Val Gl y Ser Gl y Ar g Ar g Gl u Cy s Ty r Phe As p Thr Al a
                    1175                   1180                     1185
               Al a Pr o As p Al a Cy s As p As n I l e Leu Al a Ar g As n Val Thr Tr p
                    1190                     1195                     1200
               Gl n Gl u Cy s Cy s Cy s Thr Val  Gl y Gl u Gl y Tr p Gl y Ser Gl y Cy s
                    1205                    1210                     1215
                                                          Page 5
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                 46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               Ar g I l e Gl n Gl n Cy s Pr o Gl y Thr Gl u Thr Al a Gl u Ty r Gl n Ser
                    1220                      1225                   1230
               Leu Cy s Pr o Hi s Gl y Ar g Gl y Ty r Leu Al a Pr o Ser Gl y As p Leu
                   1235                     1240                    1245
               Ser Leu Ar g Ar g As p Val As p Gl u Cy s Gl n Leu Phe Ar g As p Gl n
                   1250                   1255                    1260
 <removed-apn>
               Val Cy s Ly s Ser Gl y Val Cy s Val As n Thr Al a Pr o Gl y Ty r Ser
                   1265                   1270                   1275
               Cy s Ty r Cy s Ser As n Gl y Ty r Ty r Ty r Hi s Thr Gl n Ar g Leu Gl u
                    1280                    1285                    1290
               Cy s I l e As p As n As p Gl u Cy s Al a As p Gl u Gl u Pr o Al a Cy s Gl u
                    1295                      1300                     1305
               Gl y Gl y Ar g Cy s Val As n Thr Val Gl y Ser Ty r Hi s Cy s Thr Cy s
                    1310                    1315                  1320
               Gl u Pr o Pr o Leu Val Leu As p Gl y Ser Gl n Ar g Ar g Cy s Val Ser
                    1325                  1330                    1335
               As n Gl u Ser Gl n Ser Leu As p As p As n Leu Gl y Val  Cy s Tr p Gl n
                    1340                  1345                    1350
               Gl u Val  Gl y Al a As p Leu Val  Cy s Ser Hi s Pr o Ar g Leu As p Ar g
                    1355                    1360                    1365
               Gl n Al a Thr Ty r Thr Gl u Cy s Cy s Cy s Leu Ty r Gl y Gl u Al a Tr p
                    1370                   1375                    1380
               Gl y Met  As p Cy s Al a Leu Cy s Pr o Al a Gl n As p Ser As p As p Phe
                    1385                    1390                     1395
               Gl u Al a Leu Cy s As n Val Leu Ar g Pr o Pr o Al a Ty r Ser Pr o Pr o
                    1400                   1405                    1410
               Ar g Pr o Gl y Gl y Phe Gl y Leu Pr o Ty r Gl u Ty r Gl y Pr o As p Leu
                    1415                    1420                    1425
               Gl y Pr o Pr o Ty r Gl n Gl y Leu Pr o Ty r Gl y Pr o Gl u Leu Ty r Pr o
                    1430                     1435                    1440
               Pr o Pr o Al a Leu Pr o Ty r As p Pr o Ty r Pr o Pr o Pr o Pr o Gl y Pr o
                    1445                    1450                     1455
               Phe Al a Ar g Ar g Gl u Al a Pr o Ty r Gl y Al a Pr o Ar g Phe As p Met
                   1460                     1465                     1470
                                                          Page 6
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                 46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               Pr o As p Phe Gl u As p As p Gl y Gl y Pr o Ty r Gl y Gl u Ser Gl u Al a
                    1475                    1480                     1485
               Pr o Al a Pr o Pr o Gl y Pr o Gl y Thr Ar g Tr p Pr o Ty r Ar g Ser Ar g
                    1490                     1495                    1500
               As p Thr Ar g Ar g Ser Phe Pr o Gl u Pr o Gl u Gl u Pr o Pr o Gl u Gl y
                    1505                  1510                     1515
 <removed-apn>
               Gl y Ser Ty r Al a Gl y Ser Leu Al a Gl u Pr o Ty r Gl u Gl u Leu Gl u
                    1520                   1525                    1530
               Al a Gl u Gl u Cy s Gl y I l e Leu As p Gl y Cy s Thr As n Gl y Ar g Cy s
                    1535                      1540                   1545
               Val Ar g Val Pr o Gl u Gl y Phe Thr Cy s Ar g Cy s Phe As p Gl y Ty r
                   1550                    1555                   1560
               Ar g Leu As p Met Thr Ar g Met  Al a Cy s Val As p I l e As n Gl u Cy s
                    1565                  1570                    1575
               As p Gl u Al a Gl u Al a Al a Ser Pr o Leu Cy s Val As n Al a Ar g Cy s
                    1580                     1585                  1590
               Leu As n Thr As p Gl y Ser Phe Ar g Cy s I l e Cy s Ar g Pr o Gl y Phe
                   1595                   1600                     1605
               Al a Pr o Thr Hi s Gl n Pr o Hi s Hi s Cy s Al a Pr o Al a Ar g Pr o Ar g
                    1610                    1615                     1620
               Al a
               <210>       2
               <211>       18
               <212>       PRT
               <213>       Mus mus c ul us
               <400>       2
               Gl u Pr o Ar g Pr o Ar g Pr o Gl u Pr o Ar g Pr o Gl n Pr o Gl u Ser Gl n Pr o
               1                   5                        10                      15
               Tr p Pr o
               <210>       3
               <211>       17
               <212>       PRT
               <213>       Homo s api ens
               <400>       3
                                                             Page 7
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                  46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               Gl u Pr o Ar g Pr o Gl u Pr o Ar g Pr o As p Pr o Ar g Pr o Gl y Pr o Gl u Leu
               1                   5                        10                       15
               Pr o
               <210>       4
               <211>       18
               <212>       PRT
               <213>       Mus mus c ul us
 <removed-apn>
               <400>       4
               Gl u Ser Gl n Pr o Ar g Pr o Gl u Ser Ar g Pr o Ar g Pr o Gl u Ser Gl n Pr o
               1                  5                       10                      15
               Tr p Pr o
               <210>       5
               <211>       19
               <212>       PRT
               <213>       Homo s api ens
               <400>       5
               Gl u Pr o Ar g Pr o Gl u Pr o Ar g Pr o As p Pr o Ar g Pr o Gl y Pr o Gl u Leu
               1                   5                        10                       15
               Pr o Leu Pr o
               <210>       6
               <211>       43
               <212>       PRT
               <213>       Homo s api ens
               <400>       6
               Phe Leu Pr o Thr Hi s Ar g Leu Gl u Pr o Ar g Pr o Gl u Pr o Ar g Pr o As p
               1                5                       10                       15
               Pr o Ar g Pr o Gl y Pr o Gl u Leu Pr o Leu Pr o Ser I l e Pr o Al a Tr p Thr
                              20                      25                      30
               Gl y Pr o Gl u I l e Pr o Gl u Ser Gl y Pr o Ser Ser
                         35                       40
               <210>       7
               <211>       155085
               <212>       DNA
               <213>       Homo s api ens
               <400> 7
               aagc t t t at a t t at aaat ac aaagt aaac a t gaaaat aaa ac c c aaac at agc agt gt t a            60
               t t aaac t c t g gc c t gt agc a gt ggc t c ac a c c t gt aat c c t agc agt t t g gaggc c gaga   120
               c aggt ggat t ac t t gagac c t ggagt t t ga gac c agc c c a ggt gac ac ag c aagac c t c a        180
                                                                 Page 8
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                          46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               t c t c t ac t aa aaat aaaaaa aaat t agc c a ggt gt ggt gg t at gc ac c t g t ggt c c c agc             240
               t ac t t aggat gc t ggagt gc gaggat c gc t t gagc c c agg aggt c aaggc t gc agt gaac                    300
               t at gat c ac t c at t ac ac c c c agc c t gggt gac agagc ga gat gc t gt c t c aaaac aaaa               360
               c aaaac gaaa aac aac t c t g gc t agat gc t at t gc t t gc c aagggt gc ag t c t t c c at t t            420
               at t aaaagt g aaaat t aggg c c aggc ac at t ggc t c at gc c t gt aat c c c agc ac t t t gg              480
               gaggc t gagg t gggt ggat c ac c t gaggt c aggagt t c ga gac c agc c t g gc c aac at gg                  540
 <removed-apn>
               t gaaac c t t a t c t c t gc c aa aaat at aaaa gat t agc c at gt gt c gt ggt gggt gc t t gt             600
               aat c t c agc t ac t t gggagg c t gaggc agg agaat c ac t t gaac c c agga ggc agaggt t                   660
               gc agt gagc c aagat t gt gc c at t gc ac t c c agc c t gt gc aac gagc gaa ac t c c aac t c              720
               aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaac ggaaaa t t aggt aat a c t gc agat t c at t aat at c a                        780
               c agc agc ac t aaac t c agt c t t c c t c t gt g c t gggc t c aa gggaac t gaa agggaagt aa               840
               c t t gc t at gt ggt t c agt gt c at t t c at gc t gt gt c ac t g c ac c ac t t aa aat c t t c ac c     900
               c ggagac t at gt c c c ac ac a t ggggaaat c aat c ac c gt c at at t t t aag t gc t t gc t gt            960
               gt gac agc c a c gat t ac aat gac t gt t ac t c t ac c t c t t a t t c t c ac t gt agt gt t c c c a    1020
               gt gaagc ggc ggaac c ggc a c agc c t agt g gggc c t c agc agc t aggagg ac ggc c agc c                  1080
               c c t gt c c gac ggagc aac ac gat gc c c c c c aac c t t ggc a at gc agggc t gc t gggc c ga            1140
               at gc t ggat g agaaaac c c c t c c c t c ac c c t c aggt ac gt t t c t at c t c g t ggaaggt t g        1200
               gggc agc t gt ggggt c c c t g t gac c c t c t t c t gat c c c t a c t c t t c c c c t c aaggac aac     1260
               c t gaggagc c ggggat ggt g c gc c t ggt gt gt ggac ac c a t aat t ggat c gc t gt ggc c t               1320
               at ac c c agt t t c t agt c t gc t ac aggt gc t t ggggaggga gt ggc aggag gt c c c agc c c              1380
               t gt t gat ggg aagggc at gc ggt gagggt t ggt gat gt c c c c t c gat c c t ac aggt t gaa                1440
               ggaagc c t c t ggc t ggc agc t ggt gt t t t c c agc c c c c gc c t ggac t ggc c c at c gaac g          1500
               ac t ggc gc t c ac agc c c ggg t gc at ggt gg ggc t t t gggt gaac at gac a agat ggt ggc                1560
               agc agc c ac c ggc agc gaga t c c t gc t at g ggc t c t gc ag gc ggaaggc g gt ggc t c c ga             1620
               gat aggt at g ac c c c aagc c t t t t c c agaa c c c t c t gt c c t t t aaat t c t ac t gc c t gt t    1680
               aaaat gac c c ac c c c at aaa at c c t c aaac c c at aagaat t c t c t gc t c t at t agat c t g         1740
               t t t gt gt c at t agaat gc t c c agc c c t t c a gaat t c t gt a t c c t gt t aga at t c c c t ggc    1800
               t t c c t agaaa aat c c ac c c a c at ac aat t c t c c c t c c at c agaat t c c c t gc c c t gt t ag   1860
               at c t c t t ggt t t t gt t agaa t gc gc t at t c t gt gt ggc c a t gagaaat gt c t gac t t ggc         1920
               c c ggt gc ggt ggc t c at gc t t gt aat c c c a gc ac t t t ggg aggc t gaggc gggc agat c a             1980
               c t t gaggt c a ggagt t c gag ac c c c c t t gg c c aac agggt gaaac c c agt c t t t at t t c a         2040
               aaaat ac aaa aaaat t agc t gggt gt ggt g gc ac gt gc c t gt aat c c c ag c t ac t c agga               2100
               ggt t aaggc a ggagaat c ac t ggaac c t gg gaggc agat g t t gc agt gag c t gagat c gc                   2160
               ac c ac t gc at t c c agc c t ga gc gac agagt ggac agagt g agac ac c at c t c aaaaaaaa                 2220
                                                                  Page 9
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                            46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               aaaaaaaac a aaaaaagaaa t c t c t gac t t at ggc t gggc ac agt aac t c ac at c t gt ag                       2280
               t t c c agc ac t t t gggaggc c at ggc aggag gat t gc t t ga ggc c aggagt t c gaggc t gc                     2340
               c gt gagc t at gt aagc c at g at t gc ac c ac t gc ac t c c ag c c t ggac aac agagc aagac                   2400
               c c t gt c t c aa agc c ac agc a ac aaat c t c g gac t t at t aa t c t gt c c c c a aat aaat c t c          2460
               agc c c t c gt a agaat c c c c t gc c ac c agt g gaggt t t t t t t gc c t t at t g c aaat c t c ag          2520
               t gc t gt t aga at t c c agac c gt t t t agaat c c c at ac c c c at c agaaat c t t c t ggc c c a            2580
 <removed-apn>
               t t t t at c t t c t c t aat t c c t gc t ggaat c t t c ac t t t t t t t t t t t t t gaa at ggagt c at      2640
               t c t c t gt t gc c c agat t gga gt ac agt ggt at gat c t c gg c t c ac t gc aa c c t c t gc c t c          2700
               c t ggggt c ac gc aat t c t c c t t c c t c aac c t c c c aagt ag c t ggggc t ac agt t gt gt gc             2760
               t ac c ac ac t c agc t aat t t t t at at t t t t t agt agagat g gagt t t c at c at gt t ggc c a             2820
               ggc t ggt c t c aaac t c c t gg c c t c aaat ga t c c gc c c ac c t gagc c t c t c aaagt gt t gg            2880
               gat t ac aggt gt gagc c ac t gt gc c c agc c c c t gat ggaa t c t t c t at c c t t c aaggat t               2940
               c t gt ggt c c c ac t gaac c c t c t ggt c c t t g gagt t c t t c c t c c c ac c t c t c c t c c t c c at   3000
               gaggc agggt t c c agc t gag c c c t t t t t gc c c ac t gc agg ggt c t t t c at c t gggggt gc               3060
               c t gt ggaggc c t t gt t c t t c gt c gggaac c agc t c at t gc t ac aagc c ac ac agggc gc a                 3120
               t c ggggt gt g gaat gc c gt c ac c aagc ac t ggc aggt c ag agt t c t ggc c agc c t ggc t g                  3180
               c c c c c t t c c c agt t t t c c ag ac t gt ac aga c c c aggaagg ggt t c ac gt c t gc c c c c ac c         3240
               c c c ac c c c c t aagc c t ggag gaagc c agag aac c agc agc t ggc c agagc c t ggggat gt                     3300
               c t gt gat aaa ggc c t aagga gc ac c aggga agc c t t c c t g gaggaggt gc t gc agagc c c                     3360
               ac at gaagc a t gaat gggt t t gaaaaggag t agggaggat t gt c t t ggga c t gggt gaga                           3420
               gagc aggt t a ggggggat gc t gt agaagac aagaac t ggc t t ggc t c ggt ggc t c ac ac t                         3480
               t gt aat c c c a gc ac t t t ggg aggc t gaggt gggaggat gg c t t t gggaga aagac agac a                       3540
               gaggc agaga aagagac aga gaggc agaaa ac c aggc aaa t agaaat aga aaat c agaaa                                 3600
               gaggt gac ag agaagggt ag ac agagt c aa ac c agac t ga ac c ac t gt gg c agat ggggg                          3660
               aac t c agaga gat aaat gga gat gaat t ag agt c at gt c a gaagt ac at a gt ggaggc c g                        3720
               ggt gc agt ga c t c c c gc c c g t aat c c c agc ac t t t gggag gc c gaggc aa gaggat ggc t                  3780
               t gagc c c agg agt t t gac gc c agc c t ggga aac at aat aa gac t c t gt c t c t ac aaaaaa                   3840
               t t t aaaaaat t aaaac t t t a aaaagt ac ag agt c c aggag aggc c aagag t c agac agac                         3900
               agat gc at c a aagggaggaa gggagggaac aagac aggga c aaaggc agg c c t ggggt gg                                3960
               ac ggggc t gg ggagc agt gg gt gggt t c t g gaggt ggagg agagggc c c a t c c t c t gt ga                      4020
               ggggt c ac c a c ggaaggaaa ggaat ggaag ggc t c c c ggc t gc agc c t gt c c t gc c c c ac                    4080
               c c c c aggt c c aggaggt gc a gc c c at c ac c agt t at gac g c ggc aggc t c c t t c c t c c t c            4140
               c t gggc t gc a ac aac ggc t c c at t t ac t ac gt gggt gagc agc agc c t gt gt c c c gggt g                 4200
               c c c gagac c c t c c c c t ggga gaggggaagg gagggagaga ggc t ggggc a c t t ggaac aa                         4260
                                                               Page 10
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                                46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               ac c c gc t c c a c c c t c c c t gc c c ac c c c aga t gt gc agaag t t c c c c t t gc gc at gaaaga                  4320
               c aac gac c t c c t t gt c agc g agc t c t at c g ggac c c agc g gaggat gggg t c ac c gc c c t                       4380
               c agt gt c t ac c t c ac c c c c a agac c agt aa gc t at gac c c ggc t t c c c c t gc t gc t gt c a                  4440
               c c t gc c agc c c c agc c c c ag c c t gc agc t g t c c c c c aac t t gt gt agc at gac c c agagg                    4500
               ggt t t at c ga ggggc ggc ag at t c aac t c t c t c t c at t t t t t t t t c t gag ac agac t c t c                   4560
               at t c t gt t gc c c aggc t gga gt gc agt ggt gc aat c t t gg c t c ac t gc aa c c t c c ac c t c                    4620
 <removed-apn>
               c t gagt t c aa gc gat t c t c c t gc c t c agc c t c c c aagt ag c t aggat t ac aggc gc c c ac                      4680
               t gc c ac gc c t ggc t aat t t t t gt agt t t t a gt agagat gg ggt t t c ac c a t gt t ggc c ag                      4740
               gc t ggt c t t g aac t c c t gac c t c agat gat c c t c c c gc c t c agc c c c c c a aagt ac t ggg                   4800
               at t ac agac g t gagc c ac c g c gc c c agc c a gat t c aac t c t c at c c agt c at t c aac aaa                      4860
               t at t t ac t ga gt at c c c t gt at at aagc ac gt t c t aggt g c t agat ggt g gc c ac c c t c t                     4920
               c c ac t agggg c agaat ggac c at t aggagt t aat c t t t gt gt t t c t t t c c c ac c t t t gt g                      4980
               at t aaggc at gat gt t c ac a t gt t c at aaa ac aac ac aga t gc aggt t t t ac agc agat g                            5040
               aac c t gagt t c t c t t ac t t g agac agt t t t t t gt t t t gt t t t c t t gac at c aaat gc aga                    5100
               at gggt t aat t t t t gagac g t aat t c t c at ac c at aaaat t t c c c at t t g aac gt gc ac a                       5160
               at t c agc gga t t t t agt at a t t c ac aaggt t gt ac aac t a t c ac c at gaa c aaat t c c ag                       5220
               agt at gt t c a t c ac c c c c gt aagaaac c c c c t gat c t t t a gc agt aac t c c ac at t t c t c                   5280
               ac t t c t gat a c c c t c t agaa at c ac t aat a t gc t t t c t c t t t t t gt t t ga gac aaggt c t                 5340
               c gc t c t gc t g c c c aggc t gg agt gc agt gg c at gat c t c a gc t c ac t gc a at c t c t gc c t                  5400
               c t t gggt t c a agc gat t c t c at gc c t c agc t t c c t gagt a ggggaggat t ac aggt gt gc                          5460
               at c ac c at gc c t ggc t aat t t t t c t ac t t t aagt agagac t gggt t ac gc c ac gt t ggc c                        5520
               aggc t c aat a t gc t t c c t at ac c t at ggat t t gc c t gt t c t ggac aat t c c t gt aaat gg                      5580
               gat c at ac at t at at ggt c t t t t gt gt c t g c at t t t t c ac t t agc at at t t t t t t aaat g                  5640
               gt t agt gt t t t c t gggt c t t aagat at c c t t ac c t at t c t aggt t ac aaa gat c t t c t c c                    5700
               t gaat t t c t t c t agaagat t t ac agt t t ag t t t t t ac at g gaagt c t gt t c t at c agaaa                       5760
               t t aaat t t t a t gt at ggt gt gaagc aggga t t at t c t t t t t t aaaaaaaa at agagac ag                             5820
               ggt c t t gc t c t gt t gc c c ag gc t agagt gc agt ggc at ga t gt gagt t c t c t gc c ac c t c                      5880
               c gc c ac t c gg gc t c aagc ga t t c t t c t ac c t c aac c t c c t gaac agc aga ac c ac aggc a                     5940
               t gc at c ac c a c ac c t gt c t a at t t t t gt at t t t t t t gt ag agac agggt t t t gc c at gt t                  6000
               gc c c aggc t a c t c t t gaac t c c t gggc t c a agt gat c c t c ac ac t t t ggc c t c c aaagt g                    6060
               c t ggaaat ac agac t t gagt c ac t gt gc t t ggc c at agc t gc t gc t gc t g c t t t t c t t t t                     6120
               t t t t t t aaag c agaaat aag t t aat aat ac ac c t aac t t c at gac ac at t at c ac c t t t c                       6180
               t t c t t t gt aa ggc c c t t t t c t t at t t c t t t t t t t t c t t t c t t t c t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t g   6240
               t c t t t t c c t g agac agagt a t c gc t c t gt c at t c aac c c a ggc t ggagt g c aat ggc gc a                     6300
                                                                        Page 11
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                               46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               at c t c agc t c ac t ac aac c t c t gc c t c c t g ggt t c aagc a at t c t c c aga c t c agc c t c c             6360
               c aagt agc t g ggat t ac ggg t gc c t gc c ac c at gc c c agc t aat t t t t gt gt t t t t agt a                   6420
               gaggc agggt t t t gc c ac gt t ggc t aagc a agt t t t gaac t c c t gggat t c t c c t c t c gt                     6480
               c gt c t c c c aa agt gc t ggaa t t ac aggc at gggc t gc t gc ac c c ggc c t c t t t c t t at t t                 6540
               c ac t t ac t t a c t c at t t c c t c c t c at c t c c c t t c c c gc c a c at gc c ac t a t t at gt c at t      6600
               t t t c t t t gt t t t t t gagac a gt c t c gc t t c gt c ac c t agg c t ggagt gc a gt ggc gc aat                 6660
 <removed-apn>
               c at agc t c ac t gc agc c t c a c c c c c t gggc t c aagt gat c c t c c t ac t t c agc c t c t t ga              6720
               gt agc t ggga t c at aggt ga at gc c at c ac ac c c aac t ag t t t t t t aaaa at c t t t t gt a                   6780
               gagat gaggg t c t c ac t at g t t gc c c aggc t ggc c t c aaa c gc c t ggc c t c aagc aat c t                     6840
               t c c t gc c t c g gc c t c t gt t c t c t gt t t t ac t t t c t c t t t c c t c t c t t at t t gc t gt t t c a   6900
               c t gt t ac aat t t c t gt c t c t gggc c t c t c c t c c t t t gac c t gt gc c t t t g t c t c c c t gt t        6960
               c c t c c at t t c c c ac at c t c a t c ac c at c t t t t t gt gt c c t t c c c t c t c t c c t t gc t t t c t   7020
               gac t gt gt c t c t gt t c t gt g t c t c t t t c t t t c t t t c t t t c t t t t t t t t t t t t t gagac ag      7080
               agt c ac at t c t gt c at gc ag gc t ggagt gc agt ggc gt gg t c t t ggc t c a t t gc aac c t c                    7140
               t gc c t c c t gg gt t c aagc aa t t c t c at gc c t c agc c t t c t gagt agc t gg gat t ac aggt                  7200
               gc gt ac t ac c ac c ac c agc t aat t t t t gt a t t t t t ac t ag agac agggt t t c agc ac gt t                   7260
               ggc c aggc t g gt c t t gaac g c c t gac c t c a agc gat c c ac c c gc c t c agc t t c c c aaagt                  7320
               gat gggat t a c ggc gt gagc c ac c gt gc c c ggc c t c t c c t t gc t t t c t ga c t gt gt c t c t                7380
               gt t c t gt gc c t gt t t c t t t c t c c c t gc c c t ggt t t c t gt c t c t gt ggc c c aggc c c t c t c         7440
               c t c at c c t t g gc c c c t c ac c aggt gac agt gggaac t gga t c gagat c gc c t at ggc ac c                     7500
               agc t c agggg gc gt gc gggt c at c gt gc ag c ac c c ggaga c t gt gggc t c ggggc c t c ag                         7560
               c t c t t c c aga c c t t c ac t gt gc ac c gc agc c c t gt c ac c a agat c at gc t gt c ggagaag                  7620
               c ac c t c at c t c aggt gagc c t c t gt ggggt gc t c c agt gc t gggagagac agc t c agat g                         7680
               ggagt gt gga gac aggagga t gagaat t t c c ac t ggggag ggac at t gt g t aggaagaga                                  7740
               gc t c t ggc gg agaggat t ga c c t gggat gg gac t gt aat t gc agaagt ga gagaat ac c a                             7800
               t aggggat c a gt c t ggggaa gagt gaat c t gt gt gt gt t t gggaat c c at c aat t c agc a                           7860
               ac gat t t ac g gggc ac c c ac c at gt gc c ag gc at agggga t ac agt gat g aac aagac ag                           7920
               gc c aagt c c c t gc c c t c gt g gagc t gac at t c t agc agc g at ggc agac a at aaat c t at                      7980
               aaaaat ggac at c aat ggc c agc t gc ggt g gc t c ac ac c t at aat c c c ag aac t t t ggga                         8040
               ggc c aaggc g ggt agat t ac t t gaggt c ag gagt t c gaga c c agc c t ggc c aac at ggt g                           8100
               aaac c c c ac c t c t ac c aaaa at at aaaaaa t t agc c aggt gt ggt ggc ac gt gc c t gt aa                         8160
               t c c c c gc t ac t c gggaggc c gagggaggag aat t gc t t ga ac c t gggagg c ggagat t gc                            8220
               agagagc c c a gat c at gc t a c t gc ac t c c a gc c t aggc aa c agagc gaga c t c c at c t c a                    8280
               aaaat aaat a gat aaaaat g c aaat c aggc t gggc ac t gt ggc t c at gc c t at aat c c c a                           8340
                                                            Page 12
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                            46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               gc ac t t t ggg aggc c aaggt gggaggat t g c t t gaggc t a ggagt gt gag ac c aac c t gg                      8400
               ac aac aaagt gagac at t gt t t c t ac aaaa aat t t t t aaa aaat t agc c a agt at ggt gg                     8460
               c at gc ac c t g gggt c c c agc t t c t t gggag gc t gaggt gg agggat c ac t t gagc c c aag                  8520
               agt c aggggc t gc aat c agc t at gat t gc a c c c c t gc ac t c c agc c c agg c aac aaagc a                 8580
               agac t c t at c t c at aaaat a t t aat aaaat aat c t aaat c aac ac c aggc aat gat aagg                      8640
               gc t at gaat a aac at gaagc t gt gt gt ggc t agagagt gt c aagt c gc t g gagaggggt c                         8700
 <removed-apn>
               at t c agggaa ggc c t gagga aggac c t t t g agc agaaat a ac agaat gag c agt gc agat                         8760
               t ggt agggac aagc at t c ag gc c gagggaa c aggc at t gc aaaggc t c t g aggt gagagg                          8820
               at gc c t gagg aagt gc aggg agc c ac t t gt gc c t ggaac a gagt aaat ga gggggagaat                          8880
               gggaggagat gagggt at gg aggt gac aag ggc aggagc c ac agagggc t c c gagc aggg                                8940
               gagggac at g ac t agc t t c a ggt gt t c ac a ggc t c c ac c t ggc t gc c c gt gggagc ac ac                 9000
               t ac t gggat a ggac aggagc agggac c t c t gggaggggc g t gc t gat ac g gt c c aggc ag                        9060
               gt gac gaaat ggac c aggac c ggt gt gggg c agaggat ag ggc aaggt ga gat c aggc t c                            9120
               t ggaac agt t t t ggaggc ag aggc aac agg gt t t t t aac a t t t ggaat t c t ggggaggaa                       9180
               aggat t c t c t gaaagggaag aac t c agc aa gggc t gac c c t c c t gaaac g gggc t gt c c t                    9240
               gaggc t c t gg ac gggc aggc agc at t gat g c c t gc ac c ag gc c t gac t t c c t gc t c t c c t             9300
               t gt gc c c c t c agt c t gt gc c gac aac aac c ac gt gc ggac at ggt c t gt g ac t c gc t t c c             9360
               gc ggc at gat t t c c ac c c ag c c c ggc t c c a c c c c ac t c gc t t c c t t t aag at c c t ggc t c      9420
               t ggagt c ggc agat gggc at ggc ggc t gc a gt gc t ggc aa t gac at t ggt gc c t ac t ggc                     9480
               t c c t ggc c t t c c c ac c c c ac t gac c c c c t t ac c t gac c c c t gt t gac c t c c gc t gat t c c    9540
               c ac t t gc ggc c ac c t gac c c aggagc c t gc aac gat t ggg gt gt c c t gat c c t t gaggc a                9600
               c c t gagc t c c ac t gac t gc c ac aac c c c c c agc c c t c t c t ggc c c t gc c c aac t c t aac a        9660
               ac c t ggggat gggac t gggg t c t t ggggt g gt gggt t t c a t c agt gggga aggaagt c t g                      9720
               aggc t gaggg aat c c c agc t ggc c c t gac c c c t gc c c c t g c c t ggc c c ag gc c c c t ac gg           9780
               t gagc gggac gac c agc aag t gt t c at c c a gaaggt ggt g c c c agt gc c a gc c agc t c t t                 9840
               c gt gc gt c t c t c at c t ac t g ggc agc ggt g aggac agt c c t gt c c aac ag ggagggagga                   9900
               c agt c c t gt c c aac agggag ggaggt c agg ggagaaggc a agat gc t agc c agat c ac t g                        9960
               aggc c agaaa ggggt c c c ag c c aaggagc a t t gaaggagc aaaggc t ggg agggaggac a                            10020
               ggc c t ggt ag gt t t gt c t t c t ggt at c aaa ggt gt gac ag gt gt t ggt gg gac t gac c t g               10080
               gc gc agt gc c agc c c agt gc aggc agggc c aggt t gaagg c ac agggggt ggggt c aggg                          10140
               t gggat gggg ggc c c aggc g gagggggagg ggt gggat gg gggc c c aggg ggagaggt c g                             10200
               gggt gggat g gggggac c ag ggggaggggt t ggggt ggga t agggggac c aggggc aggg                                 10260
               gt c gggat gg gat ggaggag ac c c agggag c t gt aggagc c t t gc t t c ag c t gggaaagg                       10320
               ggc c t c ggag gat gt t c t gg at gaagggac t c t gagc aga gac c t agagg ac aagt agga                       10380
                                                                 Page 13
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                               46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               aggagc agaa gaaagaaggc aggggaaggg ggc c c c agc c t gagggaac t gt at gt gc ag                                     10440
               aggc t gagaa gggc c aaat a gggt c ac at g ggaaggac ac gt gggc t c c t gggc t ggagc                                10500
               ac agaac agg aggt gaggat ggggt gc aga t gc gggc ggg c c t t gt c agg c t gt ggaagg                                10560
               gc t gaggc t t t gt c c t gt gc ggggagc c gt ggc c ac t gc a t gggggat ga aaggaggc t t                            10620
               gat gggaggc c aggagc c c a gggaggaggc c aggaggc t g at aggaggt g ggggagc agc                                      10680
               t gggac gggc c t c aggt c t t c c c t gc agt g ggagc aggga agagc agaag c t c t gggaga                             10740
 <removed-apn>
               c t c c c t gggt gt t t ggggc t gc ggt gt c c a agagc t gc t g gac c c t t ggg ac t ggaac t c                     10800
               aaaagc aggc t agggat gga t aaagat t gg gat ggc c c c t ggagaggc ag gaac t gc agc                                  10860
               c ac agt ggt g gggac t ggga c gaggaaggg t gagaaagc g agggt gac c a c c t c c c c c ac                             10920
               t gc ac c c c c c agggt gt gc t c c gt gc gc t c c gt ggac ggc t c ac c c ac ga c agc c t t c ac                  10980
               agt gc t ggag t gc gagggc t c c c ggc ggc t c ggc t c t c gg c c c c ggc gc t ac c t gc t c ac                    11040
               t ggc c aggc c aac ggc agc t t ggc c at gt g ggac c t aac c ac c gc c at gg ac ggc c t c gg                       11100
               c c aggc c c c t ggt ac t c c c t gc c c c ac c c c aat c c c gt c c c aagc c c c ac agc c t c ac c c             11160
               agaac c ac t c t c c ac t gc c a ac t gc t t gat c t c t c t c c c a ggc c c t t gc c c t c t gac c c c           11220
               t t t t c c t t t g ac c c c c t c t c t gc t c c c c at c c c t t c c t gc c c t t gt t t t t c aac c c c t gt   11280
               c t c agc c t c t ggc c c c c at g c at t gat c t c t gc t t c c t c t c t c c t gt c c t gac c c t c ggt         11340
               gc t t gc ac t g c aat gc aac c c aggc c c t t g c c c t at gac c c c t gt c t t gc c c c c t gac c c             11400
               t gc t t c c gt g c c c c c c agc a ggt ggc c t ga c ggagc aaga gc t gat ggaa c agc t ggaac                       11460
               ac t gt gagc t ggc c c c gc c g gc t c c t t c ag c t c c c t c at g gggc t gt c t c c c c agc c c c t            11520
               c ac c c c gc at c t c c c t c ac c aggt agc c ac aac t c c ac t g c c c c t t c t gt gc aat gaggg                11580
               gagaggggac agc at ggt gt t c c c ggggac agagt ggc c c agc t gc c c c g t gat gac gt g                             11640
               c ac t t ac t gt c c t t ac t t c c t c agc c t c c a c t c agc c t c c agc aac ac c t c c t t gt c t gg          11700
               c c ac c gt ggg agc c c aagc c c c c c gc aggc t gaggc c c gg c gc c gt ggt g ggggc agc t t                       11760
               t gt ggaac gc t gc c aggaac t ggt gc ggag t gggc c agac c t c c gac ggc c ac c c ac ac c                          11820
               agc c c c gt gg c c c t c c agc g gt c t c ggc ac t c c c c t c ac a c c t c c c aaga t gaagc t c aa              11880
               t gaaac t t c c t t t t gaac aa c gc agc t gc c at gat gc c t t gggat gc c c t ggt c c t gggg                     11940
               gac t c aggt g c c t c c c t gat t c c t gt ggga ac c c c gggt t c agggc c agg gc c t c c t t gg                  12000
               aat aaat ggt t at t gt t ac t aggt c c c c ac c t t c c c t c t t t t c t ggaagc c aaagt c ac c                   12060
               c t c c c c aat a aagt c c t c ac t gc c aac at c t t gc t t at t c t t agc aggt t t gggac t c c c                12120
               c aggaaaggg gt ggggaaga t gt gggac c c aac c c gat at at gc aaaat c aggaac at c t                                 12180
               ac c t c t c t t g t t t aagc aaa gggaggc c ag gc at ggt ggc t c ac at c t at aat c c t ggc a                     12240
               c t t t gggagg c c agt t t gc t t gt gc t c aga agt t t c agac t agc c t gggc aac at aac aa                       12300
               aac c c c at c t c t ac aaaaaa at ac aaaaat t aagc aggc a t ggt ggt gc a t gc c t gt ggt                          12360
               c c c agc t t c t t gggaggc t g aggt gggagg at c gc t t gag c c t aggaggc c aaggc t ac a                          12420
                                                                 Page 14
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                            46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               gt gagc c at g at c ac ac c ac t gc ac t c c ag c c t gagt gac agagt gagat c c t gt c t c aa                12480
               aaac aaaac a aaac aaaaaa ggt gt t gc ag gggaggaat g t gt t ggc t t t t ac t c t gc c t                      12540
               t c aggc at gg c t ggat c c gg ggc t t c aaac ac t aat t c ag aat at c t t t t t t t c t t t t t t          12600
               c t t t t c t t t t t t aaagt c t c ac t c t gt c at c c aggc t gga gt gt agt ggt at gat c t c ag           12660
               c t c ac t gc aa c c t c c ac c t c c c gggt t c aa gc aat c gc aa t c c t c c t gc a t c agc c t c c c     12720
               gagt agc t gg gat t ac aggt gt gc ac c ac c at gc c c agc t aat t t t t t t a t t t t t agt ag              12780
 <removed-apn>
               agac agagt t t c ac c at at t ggc c aggc t g gt c t c gaac t c c t gac c t c a ggt gat c t gc               12840
               c c ac c t c agc c t c c c aaagt gc t gggat t a c aggc gagag c c ac t gt gt c c ggc c c agaa                12900
               t at c t t t t t a t c t c c t aac t t c ac t t ac c t c t ggaat ac a t c t t c aat c a ggt t t t c t c t   12960
               c t gt ggc aag gt gac t c t aa gc agc t gc t t agc aac t c t t t c t t c c c t ag c aac agc aaa             13020
               aat c ac aaga c t gat t t t c a t t ggc t t gaa t t aagt c agg t ggc c at t c c t gaac c aat t              13080
               ac t gt ggc c a gt gt gat gaa ggc c t t c c at t at t gc agc c t ggat c at gt gt c c t gc t gt              13140
               at t t t t agt a gaggc agggt t t c ac c at gt t ggc c aggc t ggt c t c aaac t c c t gac c t c               13200
               agat gat c c a c c t aac t c gg c c t c c c agag t gc t gggat t ac aggc gt ga gc c ac c t t t c             13260
               c t ggc t ggc c t t gggat t t t t t t t c c c c aa at aat gc c c g t t c c t ac ggc ac t t c c t t ga       13320
               ggagat t t t c t gc at c t t t t t t c c t t gt gc c aat aaaaaa gggac agaaa gt ggggac ag                    13380
               ac t aggagt a gagaat ac t a gaac at gc t a at t c t agaat t c c at agt t t c t ggaat gc c                   13440
               agagc t t c t g aaac at agt a gagaggggt c t c gaac at t a ggac at c t c g gac ac aagga                      13500
               t at t c t ggag t gc t c at gga t t aac aat at t agagt t c t c c c c t gc t t at c agagaat c c              13560
               agaat at aga agt t t c t gac aaaaaggac c t gaaaaat c a c t gat t c t ag aat aggggag                         13620
               t gt c aagggg agt t c at ac c c at gaat c t c c ac c ggt agg aat at c t t gc at gc c aggat                  13680
               gt c t ggaat g c t gagaat t a t aggat ac ag aaaggaac c t ggat t ac t ag gaaat c t aga                       13740
               gaat gggaga gat c c t ggac t at c c gc c c t t c c agagc ac t ggaaggt t t gt t t gc gt t c                  13800
               c aagaaat c c at aat ggc ag gagat t c c gg at t at c agag aat c t ggaac ac aaat ggga                        13860
               gac gt aaaag gt gagt gc c t c t gaaac c gg ggt gt t c t ga aat agc t gt g c ac c t c aaac                   13920
               c c t aat t t t g t t t t t gt t t g t t t gt t t t t g agac agggt c t t gc t t t gt t gc c c gggc t a      13980
               gggt gc agt g gt gc aat c at ggc t c ac t gc agc c t c ggc c t t c t gggc t c aagt gat c c t                14040
               c c t gc c t c ag c c t c c t gagt at t t gggac t ac aggt gt gt gc c ac c ac ag c c agc t ac t t            14100
               t t t aagt t t t t t t gt agaga c at t gt c t c a c t at gt t gc c c aggc t ggt c t c aaac t c c t          14160
               gggc t c aagc c at t c t c c t g c c t t agc c t c c c aaagt gc t gggat t ac ag gt gt gagc t a              14220
               c c at gc c c ag c c t c ac ac t c t agaaaat t t t t t ac at gc c aggat at t c a gaat at t ggg              14280
               ggat at t ggc at gt t aggaa at c t agt at g t agggggagg gc c t ggaagg t c aggaaat c                         14340
               t agaat at gg t ggt gt t t t g t aat gc t c ac agat c t agaa t at t agagt c at t t t t t t t t              14400
               c c aggc c gga gaat c c agaa c gc t c gt gt t gc t gaaat gc t ggt c at t c t at t c t t at t t              14460
                                                                   Page 15
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                           46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               c at gt t t aaa t t t t t at t at t t t c t t t at t t c t t t t t t t t gagac agggt c t t t c t c t gt   14520
               t gc c c gggt t ggagt gc agt ggt gt gat c t c agc t c ac c t c aac c t c t gc c t c c c gggt t            14580
               c aagt gat c c t c c c ac c t t a gc c t c t t gag t agc c gggat t ac aggc gt g c gc c ac c at g          14640
               c c t ggat aat t t t t gt at t c t t agt agaga c agggt t t c a c t gt gt t ggc c aggc t ggc c             14700
               t gaaac t c c t gac c t c aagt gat c t gc c c t c c c ac c t c gg c c t c c c aaag t gc t gggat t         14760
               ac agac gt ga gc c ggc c t t a t t c t ggggga gggggt gggg ggggagagag agagagggag                           14820
 <removed-apn>
               agagagagga gaat t t ggga t gt t agc aaa t c t agaac ac t gaagagc t g ggt t t t t t aa                     14880
               at gc t agaga t agt at t at c c t agt at agt at t aac t c t g t gt gt t t t t g t gc gt gagag             14940
               ggc at ggggg gaggggt gga agat t c t gga at gc gggggg ac t agaac t c t gagggat t c                         15000
               t gaagggt t g agat gagt t a ggat t c aaga ggt gac at ag ac ac gat c c t gggagat agt                       15060
               gac ac t gat g ggagggat gg ggagc t gggg ac t c c aaat t c t agggggag gggaggc t aa                         15120
               c gc c ggaagt t gc agt ggt g agc c agagga t gt t gc c t ag c aac aagc at t gaagat gc g                    15180
               c t ggat c c c g gac agaaggg agaaat t t c a gc agc gc c c c c agc aaat gc t c c agc c ac a                15240
               gggt aggagg t ggt gagggg ggaagc gggt agggat at gc t gt c c t gc ag ggt c at gt ga                         15300
               gc aggggt c t t gggggt t at ac aaaaac ag ggt c at ggag t ac agt c at g gggc agagc c                       15360
               gggc t c t ggg ac agc c c ac g aat agc t gt g aat ggagt gt gagt gc c gt c gt c ac c t gc c                15420
               c c agggac t g t gt gt c c c t g gac ggt gc t g gac c c agat t t c t gggt gt c agt gt gggat               15480
               ggaggc at gg at t gc t gt ag gt ggc agt aa t ggt gt gt ag c c gt gt gagt c agc c t gt gt                  15540
               gt c t c ac agt gagc gggggt gaagggc t t c c c c gt c agt c c t gc ac ac c c t c c t ggat t g              15600
               gaagaaggag c aggagt ggg gggt gggggg t gc aac t gga t c agt t gc c a t t c t t ggt c t                     15660
               ggggt gggc t c t gt ggt c ac ggc gt gt ggc c t agt ac c c t gt gt gggt gg agc c t gggat                   15720
               c c ac gaggt g ggggc ggggc t aac gc t ac a gaac t gggaa gc t t aagaat c c aac t gc t t                    15780
               t gggat at gg ggc c t ggaac c c c aaagc ga agc aaac at g aaaggggt gg gc t t gggat c                       15840
               c t ac at gt gg t c ac gt c c c a gt t t t c t gt g ggaaagggt g t ggc c t gaaa c t c t ggaaaa             15900
               agaggt gat t aggggc agag t gaagc t c t g agggt ggt gc c t t agggaga gaaggggc t t                          15960
               gt at t t c aga gaat at aggg t ggagc c t t g aat t t at aat gat c t t c t c a aagaat t gat                16020
               c c c t t c t c aa ggc c c t aggc t t c aggggt t c c aggc t c ac c at c t gc aaa agc t t gc t c c         16080
               c c gaagc t c t gt c c c t c agt gaac c c agc c aggc t c t gc c c c t gac c c ac aggat c t gc t           16140
               c c c agggggt c c t gggggc t c c t ggc t c t g c c c c c t c c t g c ac c t c ac t t at t gc c at c c     16200
               c c agagggt a t c agac c c c c t t c c t t gc c t gagt c t t t ga at gc t c c c aa gagc t t t gag         16260
               t c t c aagc t g ggc t t gagac c c t gagt t t g aaggc t t gaa gc c t ggaac c c c ggt gt gga               16320
               c ggggt t t aa gggc c c c t gt ggc t t gc agc t c c t agt ggt ggagac t c t t aggc aaggaa                  16380
               gggat c ggt a c t c t c t t t t a t at agt t t t a t gt at t t at t t at t at t gag at agggt c t c        16440
               ac t c t at c gt c c aggc t gga gt gc agt gc a gt gc agt ggt gc c at c t c aa c t c ac t gc ag            16500
                                                                   Page 16
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                            46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               c c t c c ac t t a c c aggc t c aa gt gat c c t c c t ac c t c at c c t c c c gagt ag c t gggac t ac        16560
               t ggc t c at gc c ac c at ac c c ggc t aat t t t t ggat t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t   16620
               t t t t t t t gag ac agagt c t t gc t c t gt c gc c c aggc t aga gt gc agt ggt gt gat c t t gg              16680
               c t c ac t gc aa c c t c c ac c t c c t gggt t c aa ac gat t c t c c t gc c t c agc c t c c c gagt c g      16740
               c t gggat t ac aggc gc c c ac c ac t gc ac c c agc t aat t t t t gt at t t t t t agt agagat g               16800
               gggt t t c ac c at c t t ggc c a ggc t ggt c t c gaac t c c t ga c c t c at gat c c ac c c gc c t c         16860
 <removed-apn>
               ggc c t c c c aa agt gc t ggga t t ac aggc at gagc c ac c gc gc c c ggc c t a at t t t t ggat               16920
               t t t t aat aga gat ggggt c c t at gt t gt ac t at gt t gc t c aggc t c ac c t c aaac t c c t g             16980
               gac t c aagc g at c c ac c t c g gc c t t c c aaa gt gc t gggat t ac aggc c c g c gc c agggc a              17040
               c c t agc c gga ac t gggaac t c t c t aaggag aaagt c t gc a at t c t gggt g gt gggaggc t                    17100
               gc t c t t ggga gc at t c aaag ac t c aggc aa ggaagggggt c t gat ac c c t c t gggggc gg                     17160
               c gat aagt gg ggt gc aggag ggggc agagc c aggagc ac c c t gggagc ag agt t t gt gga                           17220
               t c aggggc ag agc c t ggc t g ggt t c ac t ga gggac agagc t t c ggggagc aagc t t t t gc                     17280
               agat ggt gag c c t ggaat c c c t gaagc c c a gggt c t t gag aagagat c aa t t c t t t gaga                   17340
               agat c c aat g t gaac t t ggg ac c c t c agag gggc aggac c t gggggc t gg t gc agggt t g                     17400
               gt gc t c c at t t gc agaat c c t c agt c t c t c t c gt ggaaag gggt ac c c gt ggggggc t t c                17460
               c agc t t c t ac gc c agc gagg gagc t aaat t c t gac c gaat t c t c c c agaa c t gggagc ag                  17520
               agagc t gagg ac t gc c agat ggagt c c agc t t aggggac c c t gc c c c c aa c c c c gc t c c c                17580
               gt at c c c t c c c at t t t t aag c ac c c c t ac g c c t gggac c t c t gt t c c ac g agaaggt t c a        17640
               c ggagc c agt at c c gagt c c t aat t t c c c c c c ac c gc gt g gggaac t c ga ggt c c c c c gc             17700
               gc c c c t agt c c ggc ac c t gt c c c t gc t gc c t c c t gat t gg c c gc gc ggc g agc gc t ggc g          17760
               gc gc c gggc t gt gat t ggc g ggaagt t c gc agc c c gt ggc t ggac t gt gg agaaagt gag                       17820
               t c ggc c t c gg gc gggggc gg gggc gggggc aggggc gggg c c ggggc t ag c c t gac c c gc                       17880
               t ggac agac c gc c c gc c c gg agc gggac t c ggc gc c c gac ac gat gc c ga ggc c t ggc ac                   17940
               c agc ggc c gc c gc c c c c t c c t gc t ggt gc t gt t gc t gc c g c t c t t c gc ag c c gc c ac c t c      18000
               c gc c gc c agc c c c agc c c c a gc c c c agc c a ggt c gt c gag gt c c c ggggg t c c c c agc c g          18060
               c c c ggc c agg t aagc c c c c t gc t t c c t t gt gc c c c t t c c a c c c aat aagt c t ggt ggt c c        18120
               aggaggac c a c ggc t t t c gg at t c agggga aac t c gaac c c ac t gc t t c g at gt ggagat                   18180
               gc aaagaggg c c c t t ggat t t at t aggc gc c c t c aat t t g t aggggt t ag at t c ggggag                   18240
               t ac t gagat t t t t aggggaa agagt c c c c t t t at t gt ggt ggagaaggc t aagt c t c c ag                    18300
               agaat c c t gg ggt t agt t c g gggaaaggt c t c t agt t t at t ggggc aggg ggt ggggggc                        18360
               t gagc t c t c c t agaat gat a gagac gt gt g gggt c t t c ga gc t aggat gg agc gc c c c aa                  18420
               gt t t c t t ggg c gc gt aagga ggaaaggt gt t gggggat t c t ggagggac t t t at gaggc c                        18480
               gc t gagt t gt c c t ggt t t t c t aggat t t gg gggc t c t gt g t t c at gaaaa gc gac c t t t g             18540
                                                                   Page 17
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                               46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               ggt t t t t c ga at t ggt c agg aagac at aga c t c t t gc gt t gat ggt ggag gggc t t gt gg                        18600
               ggagt ggggt c gggt ggggg agt c c t c agg c t t c agaac g gt t ggggat g c t c aagt t t c                           18660
               c t agaat t ag aggac t c t gg gat t gaat ga ggc t c c agt g at t t c ac c gc gagagat c c a                        18720
               ggat t c c c t a t agat c t ggg ggc t at aggc gc c c t t c c t g t c t gc gggt g ac gggac t ga                    18780
               aggaagc c gt c t gc c c agc a c c c c c ac c c a c c c t c c c c gc c t ggc ggc c c agc gc t c c gt               18840
               t ac aaaggc c c c gggc t c c t c t c c c gc c t g ggt c t c t gc g aat gc gt t t a gt aac c c gag                 18900
 <removed-apn>
               c c gc ggc ggg ggc ggggc c g ggaaggggt t aac c t ggaga aaaggc ggga gggat gac gg                                   18960
               c aagat c ggg gat c c c c gag gc t c c c c ac c agat ggc c t c at c c t c c ac t c ggc c c c ac c                 19020
               c ac c t gagag gggc c c ac gc gc t ggac ac c c c c c t c t c t g c ac c c c c c c a c t gc t c t c c t            19080
               c t c ggggt c t gggc gc gc gc c c t c gt c t c t agac c c c c t t agc c t gggga t aat ggac t t                    19140
               gt c t gggggg c c c c t t c at t gc gac gc ac t t gaac c ggag c t ggaagc t c c gc c ac t gag                      19200
               ac c c t c t ggg c t gggagat g t c t gc aagaa c ggc ac c t t t c t c c t ggt c a ggc gggaaac                      19260
               t gaggc c c aa agac c aagaa ac gc t ggc t t c t ggac ac ac at c gt ggaag ggc aagaac g                             19320
               ggc t agaac t c aggc t c t gg gat t c t c agt c c t ggac t gt gac t c c c gt t at c c c c c t c c                 19380
               ac c t c agc ac c c t gc t ggac c c ac agt c ag agggaagagc c t t c c c t c c c c agc t gc c ga                    19440
               ggc c t gt gaa aat ggc gc c a c c t gt c ggc c aggc t c agga t ggc gt c t ga gt c c c ggac c                      19500
               gggat gt gc g ggagggc ggg gt t c t agat t c c c agac agt gc gggc t t ag aaat gc t c t t                           19560
               agaaat c gag t c t t t t gt t t t t gt t t t t gt t t t t t aat c a c t t t t aaaag gc t t t aaaat                19620
               aac gt at t t t t t c aat aaaa t c gt ac gc c a aaat c t c t t c at aagac aaa agt ac ggt t t                      19680
               c t gt gc c c t t c agc c c gaag t c t aagc c aa t t t gc c t c c c at t gt ac aga t ggagaaac t                   19740
               gaggc gt ggg gagaagaac c t c gt t agt c a t at ac c t gt t t c aagc c c c c t c aggat gc g                        19800
               t c t t ggt t t c c c c t c c c c ga t t gc c c t c c t t t gc agagt t c t ggggt gc t aggggc c t ga               19860
               gt gac t t c c a c t c c ac t at t t at agc gt t g c t gt t t gt c g c t gc t gc c c g ggc c agac gt              19920
               c t aggaggag c c gc t gc at c c gaggt gggt t c t ggaagat ggagt at gag t agggggc aa                                19980
               aagggaat ag gaggagaggg gc agggagc t c c c c at c c c t c c c c t c at c c c agt gggaga                            20040
               gc t ggat gc a t t t ggt agag aagt ac t t gg t c c c c t c c t t c c c c ac t t ag t c c c t ggc t g              20100
               t c t c c gaagc c t t c t gc agg gt c c gaagc t gc c agc c c aa aaagt gt gc a ggc c c c c agc                     20160
               ggt gc c t gaa c c c agt gc c t gc agt gc c c a gt c c c agc c c c agc gt gagg aagagac agg                        20220
               t gt c c c t c aa c t ggc agc c a c t gac gt gag t gggc agt c c c t c c c c t ac c aaat c c t c c c               20280
               t c aggaac t c c t agc t t t gc c c c c gt t t c c gc t c c t c c t c c c t t c c c c t c t c c c t c t c t c     20340
               t c c c c c c t c c c t c c c c ggc t c t t t c t t t t g c t at c agc c t gt c t gt c c gt t t c t at t t c a    20400
               t c c c t t gc c t gc c t at c t c a ggc t c t t c c c at c t c t gc at t at t t c t gt c t c t t t c t gt t      20460
               t c t t t c t agt t ac c t gt c t c t t t t c c t c t c t c t c t t t c t c c c t gt gt c t c ac t gc c t gc c    20520
               t c t at gt c t a agt c t c t c t g c c c c t t c t c t c t t t c t c t c c c c c aac c c c c at c at c t c t c   20580
                                                                              Page 18
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                            46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               t t t c t c t c ag ggt c t t t gt t t c t c t c c c ac t agaggc c t g gt c c c c at aa at aggt gt t g       20640
               t ggggggagg gt t gggc aga gc c gc t ac t g aaagac at t t t c c t ggc at g gaggc c c t t t                   20700
               ggt ggggagg t c agt t t aac c c ggt gac ag c agc t t t t c c gt c c t c t c c c ac c c aggc t c             20760
               c aggaggc c a gagc t c t ac t gaagc ggc gg c ggc c c c ggg ggc c aggggg c c ggggac t a                      20820
               c t gagaagga ggc c c c c ac a gc gt gc c c c c gc t ggc aagg c c c c gggt aa gc ac at c c gc                20880
               c t t t c c t c c g c c t ggggc ga ggggggt t c c gggc c agat a aagc c gt c t g gt t c c c ac gg             20940
 <removed-apn>
               t c c agc c gc c gc c t ac c c gc c c c c c gt t gt agc t c agc ac c c ac c c c c ag gac gaggc c c          21000
               c c t c t aggga c c c c agc gt c c ggc c gt gc g aggt gagc c c gggac aggac c agac ac agg                    21060
               c c agaggc ac t gac c c gc gg gggt ggggc c gggaagc c ag gc gt c c gggc t c c c c gc ggc                     21120
               c gaagaggga gggc gc t ggc c c gt t agaaa gc t c c gc c ga ac c agc c c ag ac aac aaaag                      21180
               c gat t gt gc g ggt t ggc gc c t gc c t gggc a c c aaat gc t c aagat t gt gg ggc ggc t ggg                  21240
               ggc c aaaggc c t c c t c c t gt t t c c c gaat c t t c c c c c t gc c c t c c t c c c g c t c c agc t c t   21300
               t gac c c c t ag t c t agaac ac c c c t c at c t c aaac ac c c t c aaaac c c t c c t c t t gc t gt a        21360
               gc c t t c agc c c agat gt gac c c c t c c c c c t aaagt c t t c c agat gt gagc c t c gggc c ag             21420
               at gt t agt ac c c c c gc c c ac agc c t c c c t t t at c c at t gt gac t t c t c c c gc c aggt gt g        21480
               gc gt t c t ggc c agat gt ggc t ac at c t t c a c at gt at c c c c c c c ac c t c c agc c t c c t gc        21540
               c c aggat c t a gac gc c c aat t c c t t t at gt gc c c aggt gt agc gac c c t t c t c c c at c c c          21600
               t c agat gt c c c ac c t ggc t g t c c agat gt a c c at gat agc c c c c t at c aa gat gaagc c c             21660
               c t t t c t c t gt gc c c c gggc a gaagaggat c aac t c t t agc t gt c t c c c c a aat gt ggc c c            21720
               c c ac t ac t c t t aat ggat t t c c t c t t t at g gat t c agc t c t gt c t ggggg gaaac c c gc c           21780
               c gc c c c c ac c t gt t c c c t t c c c c gc c gc t c c c c t ac aggc c c ggt c c ac t t gt t ggt gc g     21840
               c ggat gggga c agagggggc gc c c c gc t c a c c c c t gc gag t c t agc gc c c agc c t gc gag                 21900
               c c t c t ggc t a agc gc c c agc c c c ac gc gc c c c c gc gc ggc c gc c ggggag ggagt ggt ga                21960
               ggaggggggg c c t gagc ggg ggc gc gggc g ac c t c c c c c g c gggc gggc g ggc gggt gc g                      22020
               gc c gggc c c c t c gggc gggc t ggggc ggc g gc gc ggc gga gc gc ggc gc t gc agc c at gg                     22080
               c gggc ggc gt gc ggc t gc t c t gggt gt c gc t at t ggt gc t gc t ggc gc ag c t agggc c gc                  22140
               agc c t ggac t gggc c ggc t c ggagagc gt c t c c gc gt gc g c t t c ac c c c g gt c gt gt gc g              22200
               gc c t gc gc t g c gt c c at ggg c c gac c ggc t c c c gc t gt ac c c c gac c t gc gc gc c c c gc a         22260
               ac gc c ac c ag c gt ggac agc ggc gc t c c c g gc ggggc ggc c c c gggggga c c c ggc t t c c                 22320
               gc gc c t gt ga gt gc ggggt g gt ggt c c c ga gagagc ggc t c c ggggggga ggaggat c c c                       22380
               t ggggat gga ggagac agt c c t c c agggag agggagc c c a gat t c c at at gc aat agt gc                        22440
               aagggaat at c aggggc t at t t gaggaagg gggc c c c aaa t t c c t ggc t t t t ggggt t gg                      22500
               gt c c t gaggg t t c c gat t t t gc aagc aat g agggt t c t t a gaggc c t gt g at gt c c c ac g              22560
               t gagggaat t ggc gc c agc t t t c at gc t t t gc gt c aaaat ggggat c t c a gaat t gaggg                     22620
                                                                  Page 19
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                              46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               gc c t gagaac t t t t gggagg ggggc t c gaa t t c t gagac g c t gagt aagg agt c c c c ggg                         22680
               gac c aagc aa gagt c t c agg ac c gc at ggg ggac gt c t c a gt t t c t gt gt gt t t gggt gg                      22740
               gaaggt t c t g t at gggaat g c c t gt gaggt ggggt ac t ag agagaagaaa gt t aat c c ga                             22800
               agaac t aaga gggagagggg ac agagac gg gggt t gt gt g t gt gt gt gt g t gt gt gt gt g                              22860
               t gt gt gt gt g t ggc ggc ggg ggt ggggt gg gggt gt c t c c gc aggac c t g agt t gc aggg                          22920
               gt c c c ac gt g c gac agaaat c c agat aaga gggc t t ac gg aaggggc gc c c c c t gggggc                           22980
 <removed-apn>
               ggaggggac a ggaggt gt at gc ac c aggc a c t c c t agaga t ggggagc c t t gggggt t c a                             23040
               ggt gaggt gg gggagggc gc ac c ac c t gt t gt t c c aggat gc aaaagt gg gc agac t c t c                            23100
               t gggat c ggg c c t t c c t gc c c c c t ac c c c g c agac c c t at ggagt gggga gt gggggc c c                    23160
               c t ggagc gga gaac t c gc c c agc c t ggc c c c c agc c agc c c agc c c ggc c ggc gt gagc t                      23220
               c at c t c c c gc c t gagc c c c c gc c c gc t gc c ac t c c c t c t c t c c t c c c c t t c c t c c c t c t t   23280
               t c t t t c ac t c t t t c c c ggc c c agc c c c aac gt gc c t gt gc c aggc gc c at gc c c aggc gg               23340
               gt gc c aagc c c t t gggggt g c aaggagt gg c at gt gaagt gggggc t gac c t c aaaggga                              23400
               c c c c t at gt c c t c aac t c c c c gc t t ggc c a gggc t gt ggg gc at gac gt t ggc t gt ggc c                 23460
               at c t agt ggc c c ac c c t ggg t gt aggc ac c c c c agggagc t ggc c t gc gg gc c t gc at t c                    23520
               aggc c aagag aaggc agaga aat gc c t c t g gagc c t ggga aat ac c c t c a gac c t ggc t g                         23580
               gt t t c c c ac c c c c t c c at c a gagac c c t t a c c at t c t gc a at t t t gat t c c t agt t aagc           23640
               c t c t c c t agg c c c c ac t ac t c aat t aaaag c c c c c at t ag ac c ac c c t gg agt c at ggc c              23700
               c c ac ac t c c t ac c t aaggga gc t gagt t t t t gc t c c aggc c c t agac c c g c t c t c c aac c               23760
               at ggc aac ag ac t t t agaga c c ac t c c t c c agt gaaat t c c c t c t c at t c t t c c c t c c c a             23820
               c c t c c c aaac t gt gc c t t t c c c c agat aac t c t gt agt at t gt c c agaag t c c t gt t c t t              23880
               c t agc t c ac c c c c t t c c c c a ggaac t t c t g at c c c at t t a t c t t c agaga ac c c c agggt            23940
               t ggt c t t gat aagt gggt t c t c gc aagagg ac t c c agac a t t gt gc t c c t t ac aggc agc                      24000
               c at t aat aaa aagc c t t t gg c ac t t aat c c t t agc t ggga ggggagggga t t c c ac agag                        24060
               ggac t c ggc c aat t gagc c t c t t aagt gc t gat gac t t c c aggaat t c c a c t t c ac t at c                   24120
               t aaac c c t gt t t t c agc ac c gt c aaac t gg t t gt c t c c t a ggc ggc ac t a gagt c c t gt t                24180
               t t c t aggt aa c t gt c c ac aa aaggac t c c t gc t gaaagga c gc c t c agt t t c c t c t gagc                   24240
               t aggt t c c t c c at c c c agaa ac c t c c agc c gt c t t t gaac t c gagaggac t gc c c t t t ag                 24300
               t c gat c t c c t c c c aggac t c c agt c c c t t t at c c t t c t aa ac ggaggt gg c t c t c t gc gt             24360
               c c t t t c c t c t c t ac agt t gt ggc t c agaat c c c ac ac gc g c c t c c c c c gg c c gc c t gc c t          24420
               c c t c c c t c c c c t c c gc ac ag c t gt c t c c ag c t gt t c t c t g c agc c c c ggg agagagaggg             24480
               agggggt gc c c t c gc aggac agc c c ggc c t c c t t t ggc t c aaaggt c c c g gggc t c c c c a                    24540
               agggt c c gga at gt ggagc c t c c gc c c t gc c c c c gc c gc a c c t c t c t c t t t gt t t ac c c c            24600
               gc c gc ac agc t ggc agt gc c c c gc c c agag gt ggc c t ggg gc c c agc gag ggc gc gc aga                        24660
                                                                  Page 20
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                            46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               ggggagt gga ggc gc gt t c c c gc t c gt ggc t c c gc c c c gg t gc t ac t gga ggc t gt aagg                 24720
               c c gagc t aga ac t c t aaagc c c c agc c aga aagaagt t gg gc ggagac ac agc gc ggt gg                       24780
               gc ggaac t ag ggc ac c c gga c agc c t ggag gt ggggt ggg aggggc gt ga ac aagt gagc                          24840
               c gggc gaat c agagt gc gga aaggaaggt g ggaggggc t a gaggc agc ag gt t aagc t c c                            24900
               t ggat aggc g gggt t t agaa t c c c gc gggt agaaggt aat gt gagagggg c t ac aaaggg                           24960
               ggc ac agc c a gggggc ggag gt aggac t t c gt ggac c aag c agagggagt gt gggc gggc                            25020
 <removed-apn>
               at agaat gc g aaggagac ag agt t gggc gg ggagt t at gc c agggagt gg t t aaaat gt g                           25080
               gt t t gagt c a at ggaaggga t c agc at t gg gt c ggagggg c t ggaac agc aaagggt t c c                        25140
               gt c ggac t ac ggaat gggc g gggt c agc gc c gt c t gggc t ggt c t ggaac t c c gt ggac t                     25200
               c agc c agaaa t t gggat c c g agaggt t gac at gaaagt ga at aaac agc c t gagggc t gg                         25260
               c t gggc t c ac gc c t gt aat c c c agc ac t t t gggagac t ga ggc agaagga t t gc c t gagc                   25320
               c c aggagt t c aagac c agc c t ggc c aac at agt gagac c c c gc c t c t ac c aaat t t t t aa                 25380
               aaaac gt agc c c gat gt ggt gc ac gc c t gt c gt c t c agc t ac t t aggagg c t c agat ggg                   25440
               aggat c ac t t c agc t t agga ggt c gaggc t gc agagc c at aat c ac gc t a c t gc at t c c a                 25500
               gc c t gggc aa t agagc gaga t c c t gc c gac t t agt gggt g ggac c gt ac c t c t gat ggc t                  25560
               gaac aac t gg ac t gggc c aa t gc t gat gc c agaat t gggg c ggggc c ac a t gac agc t aa                     25620
               gggc ggagc g ac t t agaaat gaat gat ac c t t gagggagt agggac c c c a ggagaac c t g                          25680
               c c aggaat gg t ggc gc c c c t gagt gt c c t c gt t c t c c t c c c agt c c t gt g t c c c t t gat c        25740
               t gt c ac aat g gc ggt gt gt g c gt gaagc c t gac c gc t gc c t c t gt c c c c c ggac t t c gc t            25800
               ggc aagt t c t gc c agt t gc a c t c c t c gggc gc c c ggc c c c c ggc c c c ggc t gt ac c aggc             25860
               c t c ac c c gc t c c gt gt ac ac t at gc c ac t g gc c aac c ac c gc gac gac ga gc ac ggt gag              25920
               gaaagggt gg c c agagt c c c c t c c gac c c c t gt c aagc at t t c ac t t t gc c c c t gac c c t            25980
               c at at t t c c c gc c t t c c c ga gc ac c t t t gc c c agc t c gc c c t c c c c gc c t t gt c t agc c c   26040
               c ac c c c gt aa gaac c c gt gt agac at c c gt t t gc c c ggc c gt gc c t c c c c t aggc gt ggc             26100
               at c t at ggt g agc gt c c ac g t ggagc ac c c gc aggaggc g t c ggt ggt gg t gc ac c aggt                   26160
               ggagc gt gt g t c t ggc c c t t gggaggaggc ggac gc t gag gc ggt ggc gc gggc ggaagc                          26220
               ggc ggc gc gg gc ggaggc gg c agc gc c c t a c ac ggt gt t g gc ac agagc g c gc c gc ggga                    26280
               ggac ggc t ac t c agat gc c t c gggc t t c gg t t ac t gc t t t c gggagc t gc gc ggaggc ga                  26340
               agt gagagga ggc c c gt ggg gaggggc c c g gagc t t gc c t c c gc gc gggg gc gc gc t c ac                     26400
               c c aac ac t t c c c c gc agt gc gc gt c c c c gc t gc c c gggc t c c ggac gc ag gaggt c t gc t             26460
               gc c gaggggc c ggc t t ggc c t ggggc gt t c ac gac t gt c a gc t gt gc t c c gagc gc c t gg                 26520
               gt aagc c c c a ggac gt c c c c gaagt gc t c g gagc t gggga gt ggt gac aa c c t c ac c gt t                 26580
               c c t c c t ac t c t gc c c t agat aaac c c agt t c ac aaat t gt agc c ac gc c t ac c c c at t gt           26640
               ggaggc gac t t c c agt c c t g agc t t t t c at ac c gc t c t gg gac c ac c c ac c c c at t t t c t         26700
                                                                     Page 21
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                             46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               gac t t t ggc c ac t c t gt t c t c ac c c t gc c t t t gt gc c t t g gc c c c c c ac c at at ac t t t g       26760
               ggagt c t c c a at gt t gc c at t t c aac t gc c aac c t aaggc t gt c c c t gc a c t t aaac t ac               26820
               agc c aac at c t t t t agt c c c t c c c ac c c c g t c t t c gt c t c t gc c c ac t c c at t c t c gc t c     26880
               t gc c c ac c t g t c c c t ggc c c ac c c c t c t c c t c t c gc c ac a gggaac t c c g aaagagt gag            26940
               c gc c c c agat ggac c t t gt c c aac c ggc t t t gaaagagt t aat gggt c c t gc gaaggt gc                       27000
               aac ggggc ag gggt gggagg ggc t t ggt t c t gggggc ggg at t t gc aggg at c aagt t c c                           27060
 <removed-apn>
               t gac t c c ac g gt gac c t c c c c aac c c t ggc agat gt ggat gagt gc gc ga c t ggc gggc g                    27120
               c t gc c agc ac ggc gagt gt g c aaac ac gc g c ggc gggt ac ac gt gt gt gt gc c c c gac gg                      27180
               c t t t c t gc t c gac t c gt c c c gc agc agc t g c at c t gt gag c aac c agc ag ggagc t gagg                 27240
               c t gggt c c c g c c c t c c c t gc c c t c agaagt c c c agagc at c c t ggggc c t t t aat t c c c t            27300
               c ggac c c c c c c agac t c c c g ggt t c c t c t g t c agc c t t ag agc c c c c t c a gaac t t c t c a        27360
               gat t c t t at a c agc t t c agc at c c c t ggac c ac c t t t aga c c t t t c aagc c t t t t ggat c            27420
               c agat c c c t c c agac t c c c a gac t t t t t t t t t t ggagat g gagt c t c gc t c t gt c gc c c a           27480
               ggc t ggagt g c agt ggc gc g at c t c ggc t c ac t gc aat c t c t gc c t c c t g gt t t c aagt g               27540
               at t c t c c t gc c t c ggc c t c c c gagt agc t a gaac t ac agg c gggc ac c ac c at gc c c ggc                27600
               t aaat t t t t t t gt at t t t t g gt agagac ag ggt t t c gc c a c gt t ggc c ag gc t ggc c t c a              27660
               aac c c c t ggc t t c aagt gat c t gc c c ac c t c agc c t c c c a aagt gc t ggg at t ac aggc g                27720
               t aagc c ac t g c gc c c agc t c t c c c agac t t t c t ggaat c c t t c t c agac c c c c aaat c c t            27780
               c t c gt c c c c c t c aac gac t c gac t at c t t c agat c t t gag at c c t t c t c a gagt c t c t c a         27840
               t t c ac c ac t g ac ac c c c at t gaggc t c c aa gc c c t t c t c a gac c t c c aga gc c c ac t gc t          27900
               c t c c t t c aga c c c t c t c aga c c t c t c c c aa at gc c c c t c g c ac c c ac c aa c c c c c c ac c c   27960
               c c aac c c c ag aac c at t c c c c t c t c t c c c a aat c c c t c ag t gc t ac agc a t t c c c agc c c       28020
               c gc c c t gaag gat t t c c t c c c t gc t c c t c g c agc c c aac a c gt gat c t c a gaggc c aaag             28080
               ggc c c t gc t t c c gc gt gc t c c gc gac ggc g gc t gt t c gc t gc c c at t c t g c ggaac at c a             28140
               c t aaac agat c t gc t gc t gc agc c gc gt ag gc aaggc c t g gggc c ggggc t gc c agc t c t                     28200
               gc c c ac c c t t c ggc t c aggt gagc c c c t gc ggc agt gc c t agc c c t ac gc gc aac ac at g                 28260
               t ggc gc t c at t c t ac gc c c c ac c c t c c aac c c t gagt t c a c t gc c c c aac c t gac t ggc t           28320
               gggc t c c agc c t t ggc c ac g c agc agc c t c t gagac c c gc aggc c t c aga c t ggac agc a                   28380
               t c c at ggc t c c ac c t c c at c t gt agc c ac a gc c ac c c c t c c at t c gt agc c ac agc t ac c           28440
               c c ggagc t c c c aagt t agt t t t t gt c t c c t gagc gt c aac gc c c agt c c c ac c c t gt c c c             28500
               t gaac t t t ga c c aagt c c t t ggc t t c t gag ac ac t gc c t t c agc t t agc c c c ac c c c agg             28560
               c at gc c c c t c c c t gagac ac c t c c c t ggc a t t c t at c t t c t gc t t aaaac t aaat c t c ac           28620
               aagggagc t a t t t c c t agc c t c c aac t c t g t c c c t gt aga c c c aac c gga c c c t gc c c t c           28680
               aac c c t gt t c c t ac c ac c at c c c aaat gt g ggaaaac gc t c t t ggc c c c a c c t gt agc c t              28740
                                                                     Page 22
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                             46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               c t aagac at t c t ac t c t t t g gc c aggac ac c ac c c c at c c c agc c t c c ag c t c aaac c c c           28800
               t gac ac t c t c c agc c aagc c c t gc c c c t ag c c aaggc c ag agt c t gggc t ggc c at c gt t               28860
               t t c t t c c c gc t c t c t t gt c c t c t c t c t gt c t c t c t t ac c t at t c c c agag ggt t t c c ggg   28920
               agat c t gc c c ggc t ggt c c t ggt t ac c ac t ac t c ggc c t c c gac c t c c gc t ac aac ac c a             28980
               gac c c c t ggg c c aggagc c a c c c c gagt gt c ac t c agc c a gc c t c gt ac c c t gc c agc c a             29040
               c c t c t c ggc c at c t gc aggt gagc t ggc t c t ggc agaagt gggt gc c at c t t c aaggggc                     29100
 <removed-apn>
               t gc c c c agc c c c at agt gaa aggaggc aag agaggat t t g ggc t c c ac t c gt t gat ac c c                    29160
               c t t c t t t at c aggc t t t c t g c c c ac c c at c gc c t ggagc c c c ggc c t gaa c c c c ggc c c g        29220
               at c c c c ggc c c ggc c c t gag c t t c c c t t gc c c agc at c c c t gc c t ggac t ggt c c t gaga           29280
               t t c c t gaat c aggt t t gc t a gaaagaac t g agggc at t gg gc c t gc agc a gt ggc t c ac g                   29340
               c c t gt aat c c c agc at t t t g ggaggc t gag gagggt ggat c ac c aggt c a ggagt t c gag                      29400
               ac c agc c t gg c c aac at ggc gaaac c c t gt c t c t ac t aaa ac t ac aaaaa t t aac t gggc                   29460
               gt ggt ggc ag at gc c t gt aa t c c c agc t ac t t gggaggc t gaggc aggag aat c ac t t ga                      29520
               ac c c aggagg c agaggt t gc agt gagc t ga gat c gt gc c a t t gc ac t c c a gc t t gagc ga                    29580
               c ac t c c at c t c aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa gaat t c aggg c at t gat ggg ggt at t ac ag                          29640
               gt gggat t c t ggggt aaaag ac t c c aaggt gaagat t c c a ggt t ac agc a aat aggaat g                          29700
               gt at gggc ag agat aagc gt t t gaagggt t gggt ggt agt t agat c agga gc t ggagt c a                            29760
               c agt t gggc t c t t c t gt gt c aat c gagc aa gc c at t t aac c t c t gagac t c agt t t t c t c              29820
               at t ggt aaaa t ggggat ggt t gt t gagat g c c t c t gaagt gt c t gac ac c t agt aagt gc                       29880
               t c agat aaat ac t t at ggt a gat aat t at t t t t c at t at c t aat at t aga t aat t at t t c                29940
               t c aggt aggg c ac t aagaat gt at c t c agg c ggagggt t g gagagc aaac t at t c aaagc                          30000
               c agagac c t t ggggt ggc at gat gagggga t t c ggc c aag gat c t gat ga gaac gt t c c a                        30060
               ggat aaaaaa gat ggagat c agaagaagac t gggc t t gc t t ggggaggag ac at c c at ga                               30120
               aggt gt t t t a t ggat gt c t c c gggggt ggg ggt t t t ac t g ggat gaaagg aac ggaggat                         30180
               t c agagat gg gggaac c c t g gc t gac t gga c c c c c c aggt c c c t c c t c c g gc at gt gt c a              30240
               gc gc aac c c c c aggt c t gc g gc c c aggac g c t gc at t t c c c ggc c c agc g gc t ac ac c t g             30300
               c gc t t gc gac t c t ggc t t c c ggc t c agc c c c c agggc ac c c gat gc at t g gt gagc aaga                 30360
               c ggagggc gc ggaaggaggc ggggc ggggg gc t t t gc c t g gt c ac c t t gt c ac c agc c c c                       30420
               c t c c gt gt c c t c agat gt gg ac gaat gt c g c c gc gt gc c c c c gc c c t gt g c t c c c gggc g           30480
               c t gc gagaac t c ac c aggc a gc t t c c gc t g c gt gt gc ggc c c gggc t t c c gagc c ggc c c                30540
               ac gggc t gc g gaat gc c t gg gt gagaaat t t gc c c c ac c c ggc t c c aggc c c ac c c c agg                  30600
               gt c t c gc t c c t gc t c t c ac t c c agagc c t c t c c agc c c t c c c ac gc t t c c c c t c t c gggt      30660
               c c c gc c c c ag gac t gc t c t g c c c t ggc c c t t ggc c c t gc c c t t c c c t gac c c gc c t c c ac     30720
               c c agc t c c ag c c t c c c t t t g ac c c c ac c c c t ac c c agc t c c c aaac t gc c agt t t c t at c      30780
                                                                            Page 23
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                             46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               ggggc c t ggt c gc aac t c gt at t gc t c c gc c c c c ac gc c c aggc c c c gc c c t t at t ggc c             30840
               ac gc c c c t c c c t gac t aac t c c c t c c c c c a ggc c c c gc c a c t gt c c t gc a ac t gc ggc aa       30900
               c c aat c t c c t gac c gc gac c c c gat t c c aa c c c t gc c ac a c c agagc c c t at c c c c aaac           30960
               t gc t c c t t t c t t c t c t agc c c c t ac c c c ac c t t c c c t t ag c t t ggt c c c c aaagc t c t c c   31020
               t t t c t gc c c t t gc gc t ac c a aac c c t gc c c t c c ac aat t g c c t c t c t c ac t gt gc c c c t c    31080
               t c c ggc t gt c c t ggc c gggt c c c c at c c t g gc t c t ggc c c aagc t t ggt c c c gc t c c c gc          31140
 <removed-apn>
               t t c c c t c t ac c c c t gc c t c c t t gc gt c gc t t c t c c c gggg c t gt c t gc c c c agt c c c agc     31200
               c gc c t ggt c t gt gc c t ac ag at gt ggac ga gt gc c ac c gc gt gc c gc c gc c gt gt gac c t                31260
               c gggc gc t gc gagaac ac gc c aggc agc t t c c t gt gc gt g t gc c c c gc c g ggt ac c aggc                   31320
               t gc ac c gc ac ggagc c agc t gc c agggt ga gggc c t ggga ggggc agc t g ggaaggggt g                           31380
               t gagc ggt t g ggt agagc gc agt gat gagg gc c agagaga c t gaac aat a gggc aaagc g                             31440
               agt t gat t t g gagac agagg c c aggc t c t c gagc agac gt gt ggc c t gat ggc agt agag                         31500
               agagac c t gg gat gc agagg c c aagt gat g ggaaac agaa aggc t gagt c at gaaagat g                              31560
               gagaagc aga at gaggaggg at ggagat gt c agt aat c gg gt aaggggag c agagt t at g                                31620
               gaggaaaggg gagaaggagg c c t t c t c at g gggac t ac ag agac agaac c agc c aggc ag                             31680
               c t t agt aggg at t ggt ggag gat gc agagt c agat gat gg t gac aaggag gaat agagat                              31740
               ggggt c ac gg ggac agaat g t t ggagggt g gaaagc c aaa gt gac agagg t c agggaggc                               31800
               agaggggaac aagt gac c c c gggc c c c c t g c c c t gt gc ag at gt ggat ga at gc ac c c ag                     31860
               agc c c aggc c t gt gt ggc c g aggggc c t gc aagaac c t gc c t ggc t c t t t c c gc t gt gt t                 31920
               t gc c c ggc t g gc t t c c gggg c t c ggc gt gt gaagaggat g t ggat gagt g t gc c c aggag                     31980
               c c gc c gc c c t gt gggc c c gg c c gc t gt gac aac ac ggc ag gc t c c t t t c a c t gt gc c t gc            32040
               c c t gc t ggc t t c c gc t c c c g agggc c c ggg gc c c c c t gc c aaggt gaggg t gc t gagc c c               32100
               agc c c t ac t c c at c ac t gt t t gc t gt ggag ac t ggagaga gat t at t gag gggc agagag                      32160
               gc agagt gat ggggc t c agg gat ggagaac aggggc t gag ggat ggggac c t c ac t c c ag                             32220
               agt c t t c t c t c c t t t c aac a aaat aaggc a gt c c t c c c c a c c c c t c c t c c c t t t t t gaaa      32280
               gat ac t c t t g t gc t t at ggg aac c c t gagg agggggt c ac c t gaggc agg gc aggc aac a                      32340
               t ggagt t ggt gc c t t agc c c c c ac c t t agt agc t ggagag ac c at t gaat ggggac ac ga                      32400
               ggaaggt gt c t gt c t t c c t g ggaagaggga gc agc c t gag gc aagt c c ag aaggc aggc t                         32460
               c aagac t gga at gc t ggggt gggt ggt gat ggc c at ggga at ggat t c ag gc c c c t t c c t                      32520
               c agc c t c at t ggt c c c c t c t gc c c c agat g t ggat gagt g t gc c c gaagc c c c c c ac c c t            32580
               gc ac c t ac gg c c ggt gt gag aac ac agaag gc agc t t c c a gt gt gt c t gc c c c at gggc t                  32640
               t c c aac c c aa c ac t gc t ggc t c c gagt gc g agggt gaggc c ggggaggga gggaggagt g                          32700
               t ggat gggt g aggggggagt t ggac c ac t t c t t c aaggc c ac c c t c t c c c c t gc c c c c c a                32760
               gat gt ggat g agt gt gagaa c c ac c t c gc a t gc c c t gggc aggagt gt gt gaac t c gc c c                     32820
                                                                  Page 24
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                                46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               ggc t c c t t c c agt gc aggac c t gt c c t t c t ggc c ac c ac c t gc ac c gt gg c agat gc ac t                     32880
               ggt gagac c a ggc c c t ggc t gt gac c t t gg gc c t gc at c a t gac c c c c ga c c c t t gac c c                    32940
               agat c ac aac t at gac c t gg c c gt aac c t c c t gac c t gga c c t c agt c c c t c agt c c c c a                   33000
               gagc c t gt ga c t c c t gac c c t gac c t ggac c ac aac t c t t gac c c t gaat gt gac t c c t g                     33060
               agac c c aac t t gac agt aac at t t gac c c t aac c at c ac c c t t gat gat a gt c c c t gc c c                      33120
               at ac c c t gat agc aat t gt g ac c c t c at ga c t c t ggc c c t gaat gt gac c t at aac t c c t                     33180
 <removed-apn>
               gaat t t gac t gt gac at t t g ac c c t aat c a t aac c ac t aa c c at agc ac t gac c at aac c                       33240
               t t gac t gt gt gac t c t t ggt c c t at c t c t t t c ac agc c c c t gc c t c t t c t c agaat c c c t               33300
               t c t c t ggaac c t ggt t gggt t c at aat c c c t gac c c t ggc c c c t gac t t g aggc agaat t                       33360
               c t ggac c c t g ac t at aac t t c t gat c c t aa c t ggat t c ag at t c c agt c a c t aac t c t ga                  33420
               c c c at ggc t c agc c gaat c c c at c c aat ga t c c t agt t t a t aat ac t t ga c t ggt c c c t t                  33480
               gc c c t agt t g at t t c t gat c c c t gt c t gat c c c t c t c c t g ac t c c aaaat c c t ggc ac ag                33540
               gt agt t c c t a gaaac c t aga c c c ac aggac t t gc aac c at ggt c c c c gga ac c c gagaac                          33600
               c t t ggt c agc c c t ac c c ac c t c t gc c at ag agc c c t c c c c c agc c t c c aa c t c at gagac                 33660
               t t c c c ac c ac c t c c c c c aga c ac c c t ac t c c aaggggat t ggt c gggt gt gt c c c gagac                      33720
               t ggac c c t t t c t gaac ac c c c c ac c c c c c a c agat gt gga c gaat gc agt t c gggt gc c c                      33780
               c t c c c t gt gg t c c c c ac ggc c ac t gc ac t a ac ac c gaagg c t c c t t c c gc t gc agc t gc g                 33840
               c gc c aggc t a c c gggc gc c g t c gggt c ggc c c gggc c c t g c gc aggt gag c agc at aggg                          33900
               ac c c gc c aga gagt c t ggga gt agggc c t g ggt t c c aggg c aaagc c ggc t ggaaaggt g                               33960
               gaggc gggac c aaggc gc t g t gggaggagc t t agaaac c t ggc at t ggt g ggggc ggggt                                     34020
               t ac t gc gat g t gggc ggagc t t gt c t ggga ggc c gggt c c c gt gac t c c g c c c aat c t c c                       34080
               c gc gt ac c c t agac gt gaac gagt gc c t gg agggc gat t t c t gc t t c c c t c ac ggc gagt                          34140
               gc c t c aac ac t gac ggc t c c t t t gc c t gt a c t t gt gc c c c t ggc t ac c ga c c c ggac c c c                 34200
               gc ggagc c t c t t gc c t c ggt t c gt ac c c gg gc t gat c c t g gc c c c ggaaa gggt gggc t t                       34260
               agggc aggaa aaggc gggac ggggagaaga gggc gaaaag gggaaaac ga gt t t t t agc c                                          34320
               ggggt at t c c agc aggat c a gggggc agc t ggt gggagt c t c gaggc agt gagggggggc                                      34380
               ggggc gt gga gat gaaaggg c c gagt c t gg gt at t t ggac c gt gat t gt a aagaagc t gt                                 34440
               t c t aaac c c g t c ggggggc g gt gt t t gc ag ggagggaagt agc gt gaggc aggt t gggga                                  34500
               aggc gt gaga ggc c t aggag agc c gagggg c ggt ggaggg gt gt ggc c t a gaat gt t agg                                   34560
               c ggagc ggga ggt gggc c gg gc c t t c ggac gc c c t gt c c c gc agac gt t g ac gagt gc ag                            34620
               c gaggaggac c t t t gc c aga gc ggc at c t g t ac c aac ac c gac ggc t c c t t c gagt gc at                          34680
               c t gt c c t c c g ggac ac c gc g c t ggc c c gga c c t c gc c t c c t gc c t c ggt g agaggc c c c g                 34740
               c c c c ggc c t g at c c c t c c t c c c t t c gac t c c c c gac t c gc c gat t ggc c t c c c ac c t c t g           34800
               t c t t t c c t c c t c c gc t t c t c c c c t c c c c t t ac c t c t t t c c c c c gc c t c c t c t c c t agc c t   34860
                                                                                Page 25
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                               46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               c c c c aac t c t c c t c t ac c c c aat c t t c t c c t gc c c t c t c c t c t gc t t c c c c ggc c t c c c c    34920
               c t t c t gac t c t c c t c t c c c c t c t t t gt at c c c c c at c t t g c c t c c c t gc t t c c c ac at c c   34980
               gac c ac c c ga c c t c t c t c c t c agac gt gga c gaat gt c gc gagc gaggc c c agc c c t gt g                    35040
               c gggt c gc ag c gc t gt gaga ac t c t c c c gg c t c c t ac c gc t gt gt c c ggg ac t gc gat c c                 35100
               t gggt ac c ac gc gggc c c c g agggc ac c t g t gac ggt gag c c t gc c c c c a c c c gc c t t c g                 35160
               c t agc gc t t g c aac gc ggt g c t ggaggc t g c t c c c t t ggg gac t gaggag gggc gc c c t g                     35220
 <removed-apn>
               c t t c c c agac t t aggc ggag ggaaagaac a c c c t c t c ac c gt at c t c t gt agt ggaaat a                       35280
               agc c gc c ac c gt gt c c at gt at t t t c t t gt gt c aggat c a c ggc c aagc c t c c c t t c c ag                35340
               c c gc agt c c a t t c c c c c t c t gc agc t gaag c c c ggt c c ac at t t t aggc t at gc c c c c ag              35400
               t aagac ac c g c c c c aaaac t gt t aggc c c c gc c c c t t c c a at c ggc c t c t ggat t aaaac                   35460
               c c c c t c t t c a ggc c c c t t c t c t t c c t aac a gaagt t t gga c gt gc c c t t t c c gc gc c c t c         35520
               c ac c agt c c t ac t t c c agc c t t c c c t c c aa agaggc c c aa t c c c ggt ggc c c t aggc c c c               35580
               at t c t t t c c c aat gagaaat t c c c aaggt g aaat t c t c c t agc at t ggc c c c c gc c c gt t                  35640
               t aagc t c t gc c c t t c c t t gg t c t c t c t aga c agggc t t t c c at t c gc t c g gat ggc t c c a            35700
               gt c t c t c gaa c ac t t aggc c c t c c c t t c c t at c t t t gc t c c gc c c ac aga c c c gc c c c t t         35760
               gc c t t t t c t t ac t t t c c agg c c t t c c c t c c c gc c c c gc t c t t t c ac c c c t c c c gggt c ag      35820
               gc t c c agc ga ggc aggaggg t ggggc t aat c t t c c at ac a gt at at at t t t t t t gt gt c g                     35880
               gc gggggggg gggggc ggt g at ggt gt gt g agt c c gc at c t t gt ggaac a c at gaaac aa                              35940
               aac at c t gt g ggc t gc c gt t gac t c t gc t a gac c t c t gac t c at ggaaat c t agc t t c at                   36000
               aagat c t c at t c at t aat t c c ac aagaat t c ac t aagc ac c t ac t c t at g c c agc gt c t g                   36060
               gaaaaggt aa t aagagc aac aggaaat aag t c at at aaaa ac c c c t gc c t t c c t ggagt t                             36120
               at t gt ggggt aat aaat at g t aaat aaat t c aagat t t at ac agc aggc c aggagc t gt g                              36180
               gc t c at gc c t gt aat c c c ag c ac t t t ggga ggc c aaggc g gat ggat c ac gaggt c agga                         36240
               gat c gagac t agc c t ggc c a ac at ggt gaa ac c c c gt c t c t ac t aaaaat ac aaaaat t a                         36300
               gc t gggc at g gt ggc at gc g c c t gt agt c c c agc t ac t c a ggagac t gag gc aggat ac t                        36360
               c gc t t gaac c c gggaggc gg aggt ggc agt t gagc c gaga t c gc gc c ac t gc ac t gc agc                           36420
               c t c ggc gac a gagt gagat t gt c t c aaaaa aaaaat t t at ac aac aaaaa ac t ggggggc                               36480
               ac c t t ac t at at gt t gggc a c t ggagat gt agc aaggaac aaaat agac a c aaat c c c t g                           36540
               c t at t gt aga gt t t gt at t c t agagaggc g ac agt t ggc a t ac c aat aaa t ac at ac gt a                       36600
               t aac at c agg t t t aggaagg aaaac aaagc aagac aaat g ggac agagat gac agagc ag                                    36660
               t ggat ggagg agt gc t agga gggc t t gac c t agac ac c ag ac agaagc ga gggaggc agc                                 36720
               c at gc agaga gc t gagggga gac t gt t c c t ggc agaggga agagc c agt g c aaaggc t c t                              36780
               gaggc aggac c at gc t t t t g agaaat ggc a gt gaggac t t gagagt t at c aac t at gc t a                            36840
               ggt gt ggt gg c ac aagc t t g t aat c c c agc t ac t c aggag gc t aaggt gg gagaac t gc c                          36900
                                                                   Page 26
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                           46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               t gaac c c ggg aggt t gaagc t c c agt gagc c at gat c c t g t c ac t ac ac t c c agc c t gag              36960
               c aac agagc a agac c c c at t t aaaaaaaag aaaaaaaagc t ggat ggggt ggc t c at gc c                         37020
               t at aat c c c a gc ac t t t gga aggc t gaggc agc t agat t g c c t gaggt c a gaagt t c at c               37080
               ac c agc c t gg c c aat at gat gaaac c c c at c t c t ac t aaa gaaaaaaaaa aaagat agt g                    37140
               gc t gggc gt g gt ggc t c ac a c c t gt aat c c t aggac t t ga ggaggc c gag gt ggac agat                  37200
               c gc t t gaggt c aggagt t c g agac c at t c t ggt c aac at g gt gaaat c t c at c t c t ac t a             37260
 <removed-apn>
               aaaat ac aaa aat t agc t ag gc at gat ggt gc at gc c t gt agt c c c agc t gc t c t agaag                  37320
               c t gaggt aga at t gc t t gaa c c t aggaggc aaaagt t gc a gt gagc t gag at t gagc c ac                    37380
               t gc ac t c c ag c c t gagt gaa agagc gagac t c c gt c t c aa agaaaaaac a aagt t t t c aa                 37440
               c at t gt t gat c t t c agaagc t c aggc t c c t agaat ac c ag at t gc t aaag ac t t c t t agt             37500
               c t t gggc ac c ggaagt ggt g t t agaac t t c t gaat t c agg c c t t t gac t c c c c t t t c at c          37560
               t c c t c c ac ac t c t gc agat g t ggat gagt g c c aagaat at ggt c c c gaga t t t gt ggagc               37620
               c c agc gt t gt gagaac ac c c c t ggc t c c t a c c gc t gc ac a c c agc c t gt g ac c c t ggc t a        37680
               t c agc c c ac g c c agggggc g gat gc c aggg t gggt gt c c a t c aggc at c g ggt gagat gt                 37740
               ggagat ggt a gaaggt c c ag aaat ggc c t g ac t gt c t ggt ggt t gc agat gt ggac gaat                      37800
               gc c ggaac c g gt c c t t c t gc ggt gc c c ac g c c gt gt gc c a gaac c t gc c c ggc t c c t t c c       37860
               agt gc c t c t g t gac c aggt t ac gagggggc ac gggat ggg c gt c ac t gc g t gggt ac ggg                   37920
               ac t t c aggag gt ggat ggga c c aaaggggg t gggggaggt t ggt c aggc c c t gt c c c t c c                    37980
               c c at at at c t gaac aaat gg gaat t t t c gg gt t gt ggaat t t agac t t t g gaat at aaga                 38040
               t c at c t t c at gc c aggc ac g gt ggc t c ac g c c t gt aat c c c agt ac t t t g ggaggc c gag           38100
               gc gggc agat c ac t t gaagt c aggagt t t g aaac c agc c t ggt c aac at g gt gaaac c c c                   38160
               gt c t c t ac t a aaaat ac aaa aat t agc c gg at c t ggt ggc aaat gc c t gt aat c c c agc t               38220
               ac t c aggaag c t gaggc ac a agaat t gc c t gaac c c aaga ggt ggaggt t gc agt gagc c                      38280
               aagat t gt gc aat t gc ac t c c agc c t gggt gac agagt ga gac c c t gt c t c aaaaaaaaa                    38340
               aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaat c ag aac t gt t gt a gt ggc t ggt g ac agaaac c t gac t t aat c a                      38400
               ggt t t t at t t t t gt gt gt gt t c t t t t aaaa at gt at aaag t at aaat gt a t aaagt ac t a             38460
               at c t t aagt g t t c at aaac a t t aat c t t t c c t aac at t t t at gaggaaaa t t t c t aaac a           38520
               c aaagc aaat t gagagaat c at agaat gaa c ac c t ac c t a c t c at gat c t agat t at at t                  38580
               at c at t t t at t ac ac t t gc t t c c t c ac at a t c t at c c at t aat c c at c t a at t t t t t gga   38640
               c agagt t aaa agt aaat t gc aggc ac c agt c t gc t t c c c c at aaat t c t t c aat at gc at               38700
               at c ac t aac c agaat t c aat at gt gt t t ac c aat gt at t c t t c t c t t c t c t c t t t t t t t t     38760
               t t t t ac t t t g aggt ggggt c t t gc t c t gt t gc c c aggc t g gagt gt ggt t gt t t gat c at           38820
               agc t t ac t gc agc c t c t aac t c c t gggc t c aagc c at c c t c c c t c c agaa c t gagc t t c c        38880
               gagt agc t gc t ac c ac aggc ac ac gc aac c ac gc c c agc t aat gt t t t t a at t t t t gt ag             38940
                                                                Page 27
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                          46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               agat gagt t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t ggagac a gagt t t t gc t c t agt t gt c c aggc t ggagt         39000
               gc aat ggc at gat c t t ggc t c ac t gc aac c t c c ac c t c c c gggt t c aagc aat t c t c c t g       39060
               c c t c agc c t c c c aagt agc t gagat t ac ag gt gc c c ac c a c t at gc c c ag c t aat t t t t t     39120
               gt ac t t t gag t agagat gga gt t t t gc c at gt t ggc c agg c t ggt c t t ga ac t c c t gac c         39180
               t t aggt gat c c gc c c ac c gt ggc c t c c t aa agt gc t ggga t t at aagc at gagc c ac c ac           39240
               gc c t ggc c t g t agagat gag t t at t gc t c t gt t gc c c aga c t ggt c t c aa ac t c c t ggc t      39300
 <removed-apn>
               t t aagc aac c c t c c c t c c t t ggc c t c c c aa agc ac t ggga t t ac aggc at gagc c at t gt        39360
               ac c c t ac aga t at t t t c at t c aac gt t c aa t t t at at ac a gt gaaat gc a gc aat c t t aa       39420
               t t at ac at t c t gt aaat t t t c ac aaat gc a aac ac aac ag gt t t t at t t c t t t aaaggga          39480
               at t aaaac t a t aaagt c t t g ggat at at t t gaac t c c agg c at aac t gga t c c aggaat t             39540
               t t aac aaggc t at t t c t at c t t c t c t gagt t c t gc t t t c t t c t at t gc at gat t t t c agg   39600
               c agat t at t t t t c ac aat ga t gaaggt ggc c c t agaac c t c t gggc t aac at c t c c agt g           39660
               ggc c ac c c ga gagc t aaaaa gggaggt t t t t t t t t c aat a t t t c t agc aa aagc gc c agg            39720
               c c t ggc t t t g at t gac c c ag c at gat c ac t gc c t at gt c t gaac c agaga aat gc c gt c a        39780
               t c t gt t t ggt c at t c c t gga ac t t gt gc c c ac c t c t c aga gt agat at ag c c c t ac t c aa    39840
               agaac aggat t gaaaat aga ggagc ac agg gt t c c c aagg gaaat t c aag gt t t c t c ac t                  39900
               agaagaaaaa c agat gat gg gat c t gggc c at t aaat at a c ac at t at at t t gaaagc t g                  39960
               agac t t t c gg ac c t t t ggaa t c at agaagc t t at aac c ac t gagt c c c t c t c c c c t gt t g      40020
               t c t c c t gc t t ac agat gt ga ac gagt gt ga aac ac t ac ag ggt gt at gt g gagc t gc c c t           40080
               gt gt gaaaat gt c gaaggc t c c t t c c t c t g t gt c t gc c c c aac agc c c gg aagagt t t ga          40140
               c c c c at gac t ggac gc t gt g t t c c c c c ac g aac t t c t gc t ggt gagac t g at gt gt c t at      40200
               t t aac t gat g gc ggc t ggc c c c at gggaaa at c ac gt ggt c t aat c at t c c t gat gt gga            40260
               c agc t ac c at c agc t aaat a c t gt t gt t t t aaac at c aac aaaagac ac a t aagt t aac a             40320
               t gggt agt ga gac t gt gt c a ggagaat t ag ac c c t ggt c c t gac t c t ac c agat t c t t t c          40380
               at t c aac aaa t gt t c ac agg gt gt gc ac t g t gt t c aggc c at c t t c t ggg c ac t gagaac          40440
               at agt agt ga c c agaaggga t c ac t gt c t g t c c t c aaggg gc t c ac aagc c aat ggggc a              40500
               gac agagat a t c ac c agat a gt gac aac c c agagaaat c a ac aagac t gt gac ggggaaa                     40560
               gc c c aggggg gt t t t ggagg aggc gc c t gg c c c agc at ga gaagaggat t agggagt t c t                  40620
               t c c t gt agga gac gac at c t gaac t gagag c t gt gggat g aat agaaat g agc c aggc c c                 40680
               gat gagt gag gagggc at t c t gggc agagg ac ac agc aag ggc aaaggc c t ggc aaagc c                       40740
               agagagc at c t ggc at gt ga gaagaac t ga aac aggt t c a ac at ggc at g at t t agagag                   40800
               c aaaggaagg ggt agggaga gat ggggc c a gggaaagagt c aggt gc c c g at c ac ac t ga                       40860
               c t t at c ac ag t aagagagc a c t gc ggt ac c gt ggaagggg t t t c ggc gt t t t t t t t t t ga          40920
               aaat t t t t t t t aaat gt t t t t t t t t t aaga c agggt c gt a c t t t c ac c c a ggc c ggagt g      40980
                                                                      Page 28
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                            46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               c agt ggc gt g at c t c agc t c ac t gc aac c t c c ac c t c c t g t gc t c aagga at c c t c c aac         41040
               c t c agc c t gc t gagt aac t g ggac t ac agg c ac at at c ac c ac aac agc t aat t t t t gt a              41100
               t t t t t t gt ag agat gt ggt t t t gt c at gt t gc c c aggc t g c agt at t t t t t t t t t t t t aa       41160
               t t t t t aaat g t t ac at at t t aggc t aggat t ggt ggc t ga aggc c at aat c c c agc t c t c              41220
               t gggaggc c a aggc gggagg at c ac c t gag gt c aggagt t c gagac c agc at ggc c aac a                       41280
               t ggc aaaac c c t gt c t c t ac t aaaaat ac a aaaat t agc t gggt gt agt g gt gc ac gc c t                  41340
 <removed-apn>
               gt aat c c c ag c t at t c gaaa ggc t gaggc a ggaaaat c gc t t gaat c c ag gaggc ggagg                     41400
               t t gt gggat t gc ac c ac t gc ac t c c agc c t gggt gagaga ggaagac t c c gt c c c aaaaa                   41460
               aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaagc t a t gt at t t at t t at t t t t aat aat t t c c at c t t t ac t t t ag               41520
               at t c agggga t ac at gt gc a ggc t t t t t ac c t gggt at at t t c gt gat gc t gagc t t t gg              41580
               gat ac aaat g at c c c gt c ac c c agat agt a agc ac agt ac c c aac agc c a gt t t t t t t t t             41640
               t t c t t t gaga c ggagt t t t g c t c t t gt t gc c c aggc t aga gt gc agt ggc gt gat c t c ag            41700
               c t c ac t gt aa c c t c c ac c t c c c t ggt t c aa gt gat t c t c c t gc c t c agc c t c c t gagt ag     41760
               c t gggat t ac aggt gt c c gc c ac c ac gc c c agc t aat t t t t t gt at t t t t agt ac agac g             41820
               gggt t t c at c at at t ggt c a ggc t ggt c t c gaac t c c t ga c c t c aggt c a t c c ac c t gc c         41880
               t c ggc t t c c c aaagt gc agg gat t ac aggc gt gagc c ac c at gc t c ggc c c aac agc c ag                 41940
               t t t t t c aac c c t t gt ac c t c t gt c c c t c c c c c at c t agt g gt c c c c agc a ac t at t gt gg   42000
               gc at c t t t ac at c c at gagt ac c c ac t gt t t agc t c t c ac t t gt aagt ga gaac at gt gg             42060
               t at t t ggt c t t c t gt t t c t g c at t aat t t g c t t aggat aa t ggc c t c c ag c t gc at c c at      42120
               gt t gc t gc t a aggac at gat t t c at t c t t t t t c at ggc t g t gt agt at t c at ggaagggt              42180
               t c t aagc agg aaagat agaa t c agat t t t g aaac c t c c c t c t ggc c gc c a t gt gaaggt g                42240
               at t gaagc gg gt gat at gga ggc t gggagc t c agggaac a ggc t ggggc a ggggc c t gga                         42300
               c aggagagaa c agggc t gga c c aaggc agg ggc t gt ggaa ggggaggaga aggt ggt ggg                              42360
               agaaaaac c c aagaggc c at gt ggac aagc t gt ggat gt c t gggt gggga agc t gt gt c c                         42420
               aagac aaggc at aggt t t t t t gt t t gt t t g t t t t gt gac a gagt c t c gc t c t gt c gc c c a           42480
               ggc t agaat g c agt ggt gt g at c t c ggc t c ac t gc aac t t c c gc t c c c gg gt t c aagc ga             42540
               t t c t c c t gc c t c agc c t c c c aagt agc t gg gat t ac aggc at gc gc c ac c ac ac c c ggc t           42600
               aat t t t t t c t at t t t t agt a gagac c gggt t t c ac c at gt t ggt c aggc t ggt c t c gaac             42660
               t c c t gac c t c aagt aat c c a ac c gc gt c gg c c t c c t gaag t gc t gggagg ac aggc agga               42720
               gc c ac t gc ac c t ggc gac aa at t gt aggt t t t gagat gaa gac t c agc c a gt t t gc c ac a               42780
               c ac t ggat aa gagac c c aga gaggc at c c a ggaagc c agg gaagt t c c c t c ac c ac c c ac                  42840
               c c aagc t gt t agc t gc agt g ac gggaaagt gt gaggt ggg gaggc aagag at gc agaaat                           42900
               gac aggaggt gac agt ggga gaaagagaaa c agt gac aga ggagc gt gag aggt gt ggag                                42960
               t c t ggt t c t g c c ac t gat gg c t gc c ac c c t c t gt t t c c c t at c t at gc c a gc c t c agt t t   43020
                                                                         Page 29
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                               46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               c c c c at c t at gat agt ggc g gggc t gggga t t c agc c c ac ac t gggc t aa agc t c c t t gt                     43080
               c t c c c c aggc ac gt t c c c ag gc t c gc agc c c c aggc ac c t gc t agc c c c g t t c t gc c c gc              43140
               c aggc c ac c t c c gc c ac c c c t gc c c c gc c g ac c c agc ac a c c t aggc agg gc c c t gt ggg                43200
               gagt gggc gc c gggagt gc t ac t t t gac ac agc ggc c c c g gat gc at gt g ac aac at c c t                         43260
               ggc t c ggaat gt gac at ggc aggagt gc t g c t gt ac t gt g ggt gagggc t ggggc agc gg                              43320
               c t gc c gc at c c agc agt gc c c gggc ac c ga gac aggt ggg c at gggc t ga t ggggac ac a                          43380
 <removed-apn>
               gggc t gaggg c t t gggt gga aat ac t gggt ggggt gt ggg c c t gggac ag gggac ac t t t                              43440
               t ggac agggc c t t gaggt ac t agt ac t gt c agggc aaggg c gagc t gc c a ggc aggt ggg                              43500
               c at gggc aga c at aaggc t g agaggt gggc ac t aac aggc ac agggc c ag agggac t t t t                               43560
               gt gac aagt g ggc ac gagc a ggt c agggc t ggggc t gggg c t c t ggt gt c c t ggc t c agg                           43620
               c t t gt c t c t g t gt gt agc t g agt ac c agt c at t gt gc c c t c ac ggc c ggg gc t ac c t ggc                 43680
               gc c c agt gga gac c t gagc c t c c ggagagg t gaggc c agc c t t t gac c c t c c ac c c c ac t                     43740
               c agc t c t gag gc c c agc t t c gt c t c t t c c t gt t t t c t t t g c c t c t gt c t c t c ac c c t t t c      43800
               t gt t t c t c t g t at c t gt c t c c c c gac c c c a c c c at ac t c t gt c t c t t t c t t t c t t t t c t t   43860
               t c t t t t t t t t t t t t t t c t t a agat agagt t t t gt t c t t gt c gc c c aggc t ggagagc aat                43920
               ggc gagat c t t ggc t c ac t g c aac c t t t gt c t c c t gggt t c aagc gat t c t c t t gc c t c a                43980
               gc c t c t ggc g t agc t ggc t a c agac ac t ag c c ac t ac gc c t ggc t aat t t t t t t gt at t t                44040
               t t agt agaga c agggt t t c a c c at gt t ggc c agat t ggt c t c gaac t c c t gac c t c aagt                      44100
               gat c c gc c c a c c t t agc c t c c t gaagt gc t gggat t t c ag gc at gagc c a c c gc t c c t gg                 44160
               c c t c t c c at c t t t c t t t c c c t gt c t c t ac t t c t t ggt c t a t c ac c agc t c t gt c t c t gt c     44220
               t t c c c ac gt c at gc c c t c ac ac ac t c c ac c c at c c agc c c gc c c c c at c t c t c t c t c t gc         44280
               t t t t c gc ac a gac gt ggac g aat gt c agc t c t t c c gagac c aggt gt gc a agagt ggc gt                        44340
               gt gt gt gaac ac ggc c c c gg gc t ac t c at g c t at t gc agc aac ggc t ac t ac t ac c ac ac                     44400
               ac agc ggc t g gagt gc at c g gt ac aagc c c c ac c t c c c c c aac c c c c ggc aac t c t c t c c                 44460
               aac c c c t agc c t t gc c agc t c c c c t c t gga at gt ggc c ac c ac c agc ggg aagt c t t t c c                 44520
               t ggagt c t ag ac t c c at c c a t c ac ac t gc c aat gt gc t gg gaagagaaat gggaaagggt                            44580
               ggggagagt t gaaggggat g c c t c t t aat c at c c t c t c c c t agac aat ga c gagt gc gc c                         44640
               gat gaggaac c ggc c t gt ga gggc ggc c gc t gt gt c aac a c t gt gggc t c t t at c ac t gt                        44700
               ac c t gc gagc c c c c ac t ggt gc t ggat ggc t c gc agc gc c gc t gc gt c t c c aac gagagc                       44760
               c agagc c t c g gt aac c c c gc c c ac gc c at c c aggc c c t c c t t c c c t t ggc t c ggc c t c ac              44820
               ac c c gc ac c c gggc c ac ac c t t t gc gac gg c c ac gc c c t c c gaaggc c ac gc c c c at gc t                  44880
               c c t ggc t c ga c c ac gc c c c a c t gagc c c t c ac t c agt c t c t gt c c c ac t g t c t gt c t c t c         44940
               t gaggc gagc t ggc t aggt g gt t aaaggc a aaagt t t t ag ggc aac c t t t gc at gt t gc c                          45000
               t c t t ggac t c c aggt t t c t t t c t gc ac ac t gggt gaat ag c c c c t ac c t t at agggt ggc                   45060
                                                                      Page 30
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                             46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               t gt gaggaat t t t at t t aat t t t at t t at t t at t t t t t ga gac ggagt t t c gc t c t t gt t              45120
               gc c c aggc t a gagc gc agt g gc gc c at c t c agc t c ac t gc aac c t c c ac c t c c ggggt t c                45180
               aaac gat t c t c c t gc c t c ag gc t c c c gagt agc t gggat t ac aggc at gt gc t ac c ac gc                   45240
               c c agc t aat t t t gt at t t t t t t c t t t agt a gagac agggt t t c t c c at gt t ggt c aggc t               45300
               ggt c t c gaac t c c c gac c t c aggt gat c c g c c t gc c t t gg c c t c c c aaag t gc t aggat t              45360
               ac aggt gt ga gc c ac c ac ac c t ggc t gat g aat t t t at t t t at t t t at t t t at t t t t aat              45420
 <removed-apn>
               t t t t aat t t t t agt t t t at t at t t at t t t t t ac t aagt ac c ac at gagt g c t gc c t gt t a           45480
               t t at t t at c t gc at c t c t ag gt c t c t gt c t c t t t c c agc t gt t t gt ggat t t c t gt c t t t       45540
               ggggt t t t c t c t gaat t t c t gac ac c c t c t ggat c t t t gt t t t c aggt c c c t t t c t c c t g         45600
               c c t c t gt at c t t t gt t t t c c t gt t t t gagt c t t t gac t c t t t ggat gt gt t t c t c t c t c t      45660
               c t c t t t gggt c t t t t t t c t c c c t t t t c gt t t c t gac t at t t t c c t at c t c t aggc c c c t a   45720
               ac aac t t c t g c t gaagc t c t gt c t c t t gaa c ac t c t ac t t gt c gt t gt t t gt t t t c at t t         45780
               t t gagac aag at c t c gc t c t gt c at c c aag c t gaagt ac a gt ggc ac aat c ac agc t c ac                   45840
               t gc agc t t c c ac c t c t c at g c c c aaat gat c c t c c c ac c t c agac t t gc a gt agc t ggga             45900
               gt c c aggagc c c gc c ac c aa gc c t ggc t aa t t t t t gt at t t at at at at a t at at at at a               45960
               t at at at at a t at at at at a t at at at at a t at at at at a t at at t t t t t t t t t t aaaga              46020
               t gggt t t t t g c c at gt t gc c c aggc t ggt c t t gaac t c at gggc t c aagc aac c c c c c c a               46080
               c c t c agc c t c c c aaagt gc t gggat t ac ag gc t c c aac ac ac t c t c t c t g t gc t t c t t gc            46140
               c ac c t c t c t t t t t gc c c ac t gt c c c aac c a c t c t t c t c t c at t t c c t gt g c c t t c agc ac   46200
               t t ac c c c c at ac agt gagat gt c agac aat gc t c agagaa gc aaagc aac t gc c c c gagg                        46260
               c c ac ac agc c c t c c agaggc c agac t t ggg t agac c c c t c t c aggc c c t a c c t c c c agt c              46320
               at t ggac ac c t t c t t c t gc c c t c t c c t c c t at at gac agt c t c c t t gt t c c t c aat c c ag        46380
               aac c c t ggag t gac c t c aga gaac t t c c ag agt t agat c a c agc t gat ga gaaggat t t g                     46440
               c t gat aggc a gagggt gc c t gggc t gc t c a gc aggggaag ggt c c agc c c c t gggaggac                          46500
               c t gagt gc c a ggc c c ac t c t gac ac at gc t gt c t c c ac c t ac agat gac a at c t gggagt                  46560
               gt gc t ggc ag gaagt ggggg c t gac c t c gt gt gc agc c ac c c t c ggc t gg ac c gt c aggc                     46620
               c ac c t ac ac a gagt gc t gc t gc c t gt at gg agaggc c t gg ggc at ggac t gc gc c c t c t g                  46680
               c c c t gc gc ag gac t c aggt g c t ggc ac t gg c c t aggc t ga ac t c agaggc c t t gc c c c at                46740
               gggc t c c aaa t c t aggc c c t c agat c c c c a gt c gc agaac c c c c agac t c t at c c aaac t                46800
               c t gt c c c c t a gac c aac c c c t at gt c gc ag c c c at c c c aa aat c t t ggt c c c c gat t c ac          46860
               ac t c c aaaga c t t c c aagt c t c agc c ac ag ac at c c c aag gc c t gac c c a gc agat c c c a               46920
               t agt ac c aga c c c ac aggc c c c t gaggt c t ggt c t c t c at at gc t c agc t c c t ggt c t c t              46980
               agaac c ac c a gac ac agc c t at gagat gt c c t c c c c t aaa t c c t gggc c c t t agac c t ga                 47040
               aat gc c agt t gc t c agac c t c ac c at c c t g gc c c c agac c c c c t ggt c ac agc c c c ac ag              47100
                                                                      Page 31
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                           46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               ac c t c c aagt c c c at t gc c t t agac ac c c t c c aagt c c c a t t gc c t t ac a c ac c ac at c c    47160
               gggt gc c t aa gac c c c aac a c ac agc c c c a gagat t c c c a agt c t t ggt t t c t ac aac c t         47220
               c t gagt c c c t c agt c c t c ag c c c t t aggaa c c c agt t c c a aagc c c c agt c c t gggt c c t      47280
               c agac c t c c a ggt c c c agt g c c t c agac t g t c t c c c at gc at c c t gc c c c c t c aggt c c c   47340
               c agc agc aat c c c t gggat t c c c c agt c c t ggt c c ac aga ac ac c c c c at c t aat t t c t t        47400
               c aggt c c c t a gt c c t agc t c c c at gggt c g c t c c aat t c c agc c t c t c ag ac c c t gat t c    47460
 <removed-apn>
               t t agc aggc t t c at t ac c c t t gat c t c agc ac gt c c gaat c c c agt c t c a gc c t t c agat        47520
               t c t c agc gc t ggc t c c agaa ac c c c ggggc c ac c c aggac c c t c c c c at c c agt c c t c t g       47580
               c c t c c t c t c c c aaggggggt at gt gagt gg t gggt gt ggg ggc c agc agg ggc t gat t gt                 47640
               t t gc c t t ggc t c c t gt t c c c agat gac t t c gaggc c c t gt gc aat gt gc t ac gc c c c c c c       47700
               gc at at agc c c c c c gc gac c aggt ggc t t t ggac t c c c c t ac gagt ac gg c c c agac t t a           47760
               ggt c c ac c t t ac c agggc c t c c c at at ggg c c t gagt t gt ac c c ac c ac c t gc gc t ac c c        47820
               t ac gac c c c t ac c c ac c gc c ac c t gggc c c t t c gc c c gc c gggaggc t c c t t at ggggc a         47880
               c c c c gc t t c g ac at gc c aga c t t t gaggac gat ggt ggc c c c t at ggc ga at c t gaggc t            47940
               c c t gc gc c ac c t ggc c c ggg c ac c c gc t gg c c c t at c ggt c c c gggac ac c c gc c gc t c c      48000
               t t c c c agagc c c gaggagc c t c c t gaaggt ggaagc t at g c t ggt gagc a c t gc c agc gc                48060
               at gat gagac t gagat gagg ggt gaggt gt gc ac ggagag aggagggagg gaaac agaag                               48120
               gc gggaggag agac ggaac a c aggt gc aac t ggagagagc c ac agaaagg gac agagaag                              48180
               t gt c t at agc c c ggc aaaga aagagaaggt ggc agaggga aagc t ggc ga gagaat gagg                           48240
               t aagc t t ac t ggc c c c gc ag c ac c c gc c ac agc c c t ggag c gggat ggac agt t t ac agc              48300
               gagaaagat g gagc c aagga c gc gc ac c c a c c gt t gt ggg t aaggggt ga aggc agggac                       48360
               c t c aagt c at agggt c c c c g c at t t c c c ac aggt t c c c t g gc t gagc c c t ac gaggagc t          48420
               ggaggc ggag gagt gc ggga t c c t ggac gg c t gc ac c aac ggc c gc t gc g t gc gc gt c c c                48480
               c gaaggc t t c ac c t gc c gt t gc t t c gac gg c t ac c gc c t g gac at gac c c gc at ggc c t g         48540
               c gt t ggt gag ggc gggc c c g gggc c agc at gc gc agggag aggc gaggc t t gt c c aggga                     48600
               gggt ggaagc c c t gac t agg gggt gc t ggt c agggac ggg aaaggac c t c ac t ac agggg                       48660
               ac gggc c agc gc aaaaggga ggagt aat t c t t c c ac c t gg gt ggggc t t g ac t gaagaag                    48720
               gc ggagt c ag ggt gc c agc a gggc agggc t t aac c ac ggg gc t ggagc c g ggc c t t gaag                   48780
               c aggat agag gaat agaat a gt gc t ggt gt gac t t gc agt gc t ac c t t gg gc agt c t gc a                 48840
               ggac c t c t t t ggagagc c t c agt c t t c c c a c c t gt aaaat gggaat at t a at c aagt c t g            48900
               c c t aat t t gg at ggc agt aa agc c aagt ga t t aaaat c aa gaac at agc c gggc gc agt g                  48960
               gc t c ac gc c t gt aat c c c ag c ac t t t ggga ggc c gaggc g ggc ggat c at t aggt c agga               49020
               gt t t gagac c agc c t ggc c a at at ggt gaa ac c c c gt c t c t aaaaat ac a aaat t agc c g              49080
               ggt gt ggt gg t gc at gc gt g t aat c c c agc t ac t c gggag gaac c c agga ggc agaggt t                  49140
                                                                   Page 32
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                              46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               gt ggt gagc c aagat c gc gc c at t gc ac t c c agc c t gggc aat aagagc a aaac t c c gt c                         49200
               t c aaaaaac a aac aaaac t c gaggaggt c a c at agac c t c agac t c agt c c agc aac t t g                          49260
               c t gt gt gac g c t ggac aggt c ac t gt c c c t t ac c t aat t t t t c t gat at g aaaaat ggc t                   49320
               ac agt c aaag at c c c at t t c at agaat t gc gaat at t at t aac ac t gat t t ac aat aac a                       49380
               t t gagagt c a t gt gc aaat g gaggc ac at g c gt aaaac ga at t ac agt ac c t ac c t aat a                        49440
               ggggt at t ag aaggac aaag t t aat ac t t g t aat gt gc t t aaaac aat gc at gaac at t t                           49500
 <removed-apn>
               at t gt t gt t g ac ac c at c at c agt at t t t t t t c t t c t t t t t t t t t t c t t t t c t t ggc gac        49560
               agagac t c ac t c t gt c gc c c aggc t ggagt gc agt ggc c t gat c t c ggc t c ac agc aac c                       49620
               t c c t c c t c c c aggt t c aagc gat t c t c c t g c c t c agc c t c t c gagt agc t gggat t ac ag               49680
               gc gc c c gc c a c c at gc c t gg c t aat t t t t g t at t c t t agt agagac gggg t c t c ac c at g               49740
               t t ggc c aggt t c gt c t c gaa c t c c ggc c t c aagt gat c c a c c c gc c t c ag c c t c c c aaag              49800
               t gc t gagat t ac aggc at ga gc c ac c gc gc c c ggc c at t a t t at t t t c t t aac aaaat c c                   49860
               t agt gc ggt a t gggc c ac c a t at c c at c t t ac agaac ac g aaac t gaagc ac agt gaggt                         49920
               t aagc c ac c t ggc c gggc t c ac ac agt t ag c agat ggc ag aggc c agat t ggac t c c aaa                         49980
               c t gc t c agc a t c t gt gc t c c t c t gt t c c aa gaac t t aagg ggc c aaggag gc gagc t t c t                  50040
               ggggc c c c ag c c t t c agc ag c gat c gt t gt c t c c c c t c c g c agac at c aa c gagt gt gat                 50100
               gaggc c gagg c t gc c t c c c c gc t gt gc gt c aac gc gc gt t gc c t c aac ac ggat ggc t c c                    50160
               t t c c gc t gc a t c t gc c gc c c gggat t c gc a c c c ac gc ac c agc c gc ac c a c t gt gc gc c c             50220
               gc ac ggc c c c gggc c t gagc c c t ggc ac c c gc t ggc c gc c c ac c c gc gc c c gc c ac t c gg                 50280
               ggc c c c t gc c gc gc at c c t g c agc c c gc t t at gc gt at gt gc ac ggggc c gc c c gc c t gg                 50340
               ac c t ggagaa gggac c t ac g gac gc c t gga agc t gc gac g c c c t gc ac t g c t c c c gc c t c                  50400
               c ac c agc gc c t c c c ac t gat gt c gt ggt c c c gggc c t ggc c c aggggc c c c t t t ac at gc                  50460
               c c t c t c c c t t t t at aaaat t t t c c at t aaa aac c ac c t at t t t c t at c t t t t gc c t c c t c        50520
               c t gt c t at t t c t c c aagt c t ac c c c agt t t gt gc t t t gag t c ac t aaat g ac at t c c c t t            50580
               c c c t t c t gac c c c t agt t t c gt c t gt c t c t c t gc c t c t c t t ggt c t c t gt c t t c c t t c t c    50640
               t c t c t gt c t c t gt c gt t c t a t c t c at c t c t gt c t c t t t c t gat t t gt t t t c t c t gc c t aa    50700
               c c t c t ac at c c t gt c t t t t c at t t c t gt t t c t gc at gc gt c t t t c t c t t t t c c c t t c t c t   50760
               t t gt t t ggt t c t t t c at c t c gagagc aat c t t gc c t c t gg at t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t        50820
               t t t t t t t t t g agat ggagt c t c ac t c t gt c ac c c aggc t g gagt gc ac t g gc gc c at c t c               50880
               c at c c ac t gc aac c t c t gc c t c c c ggt t t c aagc gat t c t c c t gc c t t ag c c t c c c aagg            50940
               agc c gggat t ac aggt gc ac ac t ac aac c c aggc t aat t t t t gt at t t t t agt agagac g                        51000
               gagt t t c gc c at gt t ggc c a ggc t ggt c t c aaac t c c t gg c t t c aggt ga t c c ac c c ac c                51060
               t t ggc c t c c c aaagt gc t gg gat t ac aggt gt gagc c ac c gc ac c c agc t t t t at t t t t t                  51120
               agagat gagg t c t c c c t at g t t gc c c agt c t ggt c t c aaa t t c c t gggc t c aagt gat c c                  51180
                                                                    Page 33
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                            46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               t c c c ac c t c g gc c t c c c aaa gt gc t gagat t at agat gt g agc c ac c gt g c t t ggc c t ag            51240
               aagt c t t aag c t gt c c t gga ac aagt gggg c aagagc agg gagc aggagt c c c t ggaggg                         51300
               c c aaac c c ag ac c t gac gc t c c agc t agga gt t ggc t gt g gat ggagt at ggagc ggc ag                     51360
               t c c t gac agc t ggaggc ggg aat gagc t c t gt gt gt gat g gt ggagt gc c c agc ac ggac                       51420
               c t c c t c c at g t gc c c t gc c t gc t t ac t ggc c at gt t c c t a gt c c agac t c c t c c t c c c t a   51480
               aaaaac aaga ac ggc c t aga t c agc at aaa c t t agggc ag gagt aggggt c gggaat c gt                           51540
 <removed-apn>
               gggt gat c aa c t t ggc ac t g ggc c aagc t g ggaaaaaaaa aaaaaat gt a c c t c agc c ag                       51600
               gc gc gat ggc t c ac ac at gt aat c c c agc g c t t t gggagg c c c aggc agg c ggat c ac ga                   51660
               ggt c aagaga t c aagac c at c c t ggc c aac at ggt gaaac c t ggt c t c aa c t aaaaat at                      51720
               aaaaat t agc c c gc c at ggt ggc at gc aac t gt aat c c c a gc t at t t agg aggc ggagat                      51780
               aggagaat c a c t t aaac c c a ggaggc agag gt t gc agt ga gc c gagat ga c gc c ac t gc a                      51840
               c t c c agt c t g gc gac agagc c agac t gc at c t c aaaaac a aaaac c c ac a aaac t gt ac c                   51900
               t gt c at t c t t c ac c c ac c t g t c aat t c t t g t gt c c c c agg gt t t c aaac t c at at gc t gc       51960
               aaagac c aga ac c ggaat gt t agc aggaag c agggaaaat t gaggc ac ac at t ac c t t c t                          52020
               gc c t aaggc t t ggt t agac t aggaagggga at t t t c c c c a t t gt t aat ac t t t t t t t t gg               52080
               c c t ggc gggg t ggc t c ac ga t t gt aat c c c agc ac t t c gg gaggc c aagg c aggat gat c                   52140
               ac t t gagc t c gggagt t t ga gac c agc c t g gc aac at agt gagac c c c at c t c t ac aaaa                   52200
               aagt agc t gg gt gc gat ggt ac at gc c t gt agt c c c aac t ac t t gggagg c t gaggt ggg                      52260
               at gat t gc t t gagc c c agga ggt c gagac t gc agt gagc t gt gat c gt gc c t c t gc at t c                   52320
               c agc c t gggt gac aaaggc a t ac c t t gt c t c c aaaaaagt t t t t t t t aat gt at at t t t t                52380
               aat aac t at c t gat at t gt t t ggc t gt gt c c c c ac c c aaa t c t c at c t c a aat t gt aat c            52440
               agaat t gt aa t c c ggggaag gac c t ggt gg gaggt gat t g gat c at gggg ac agt t t c c c                      52500
               c c at gc t gt t at c gt gat ag t gagt gagt t c t c ac aagat c t gat ggt t t t at aaggggc                    52560
               t c t t c t c c c t t ggc t c gc t g t c t c t c c t gc c gc c t t gt ga agaaggt gac t gc t t c c c c t      52620
               t t gc c t t c t g c c at gat t gt aagt t t c t ga ggc c t c c c t a gc c at gc aga ac t gt gaat c           52680
               aagt aaac c t c t t t c c t t t a t aaat t ac c c agt c t t gggt ggt at c t t t a t ggc agagt a              52740
               agaat ggac c aat agggc c g ggc ac ggt gg c t c at gc c t g c aat c c c agc ac t t t gggag                    52800
               gc t gaaac ag gt ggat c ac c t gaggt c t gg agt t c aagag c agc c t ggc c aac at ggt ga                      52860
               aac c c c at c t c t ac t aaaaa t ac aaaaat t agc agagc at ggt ggt ggat gc c t gt aat a                      52920
               c t ac c t ac t c gggaggc t ga ggc aggagaa t c gc t t gaac c c aggagc c g gaggt t gc ag                      52980
               t gagc t gaga t t gggc c ac t gc ac t c c agc c t gggt gac a gagc aagac t c t gt c t c aaa                   53040
               aaaac c aaaa ac aaac agaa aaagac t aat at agt ac c c t at ggggc c t a t t t ggc c t at                       53100
               gaggc t c c ag t t t t aat c c t c t aggc ac t g c t gaaat t gc at aaat t gt g gat t ggaggc                  53160
               t gc t t c c t ga c c t gat c t c c agc c c ac c c g c t gagt gt c a ggaggggt c a c at gc c c agc            53220
                                                                          Page 34
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                               46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               agc c t c c t gt gc t ac at c gg ggaat c at ac t aagagc gc c t ac c c t gc ag gat t ggt ggt                       53280
               ggt ggt t aaa t gaat t gt c a t at at gt gc t t agaat gt c a c c t ggt ac ag agc aagggc t                         53340
               c agt c at t gt t ggc at aac c c t gggc c t c c c aggat at gc t gagc c c t gt ggc t gggc ag                       53400
               at agt aaggt c t t gt t c t t t t c t c t t t t c c t t t c c t t c t t c c t t t t c t t t t c t t t c t t t c   53460
               t t t c t t t c t t t t t t t t t t t t gac at agggt c t t gc t c t gt t gc c c aggt t ggagt gc agt               53520
               ggt gc c ac c a t ggc t c ac t g c agc c t c aac c t c c c aggc t c aagt gat c c t c c c ac c t c a               53580
 <removed-apn>
               gc c t c t c aat t agc t ggaac t gc aggc at g t gc c ac c at g c t c agc t aat t t t t t aat t t                  53640
               t t at t t t t t g t agagagggg ac c t t ac t gt gt t gc ac aag c t gat c t c aa ac t c c t gggc                   53700
               t aaagt gat t c t c c t gc ac t t t ggc c t gc c aaagt gc t gg gat t ac at gt at gac c c ac g                     53760
               gc ac c t ggc c t ggc t aggt c t t t t t c t t t a c c aat t c t c c c t c c c agggt ggaggaggag                   53820
               gc c agac c c c at c c c c t t c a ac aggac agt gagaaac ac c t aac ac aagg c c t t ggt ggg                        53880
               gaggagt gt c agac aaggag t ggc t c aagg c t c c ac aaag gggt gac agt t gc ac aaaac                                53940
               t gt c t gt ac c aaaaat c at t gaat t at ac a c t ac ac at gg gt gac t t gt g t ggt at gt ga                      54000
               at c at aagt c aat aaagc c c t t c t t t aaaa ac gc c gac t c t ac aaagc gt t t c agaaagt                         54060
               t ac c c t c c ag c t gat ac agg gaac c c gac c c aac c ac t aa t t c c t c agt c at t c at t c aa                54120
               c aaat at t t t c c t gc t t t gc aat aagt gaa t t c gaggaac ac aaac t t t a ac c c agc c t t                     54180
               ggggggt ggt t agggagggc t c c t ggagga ggagat gt t g gagc t gagag t t gat t ac t g                                54240
               t agggaaat g agc aagat ga aaggggt gga ggt gc c t at a at c c c agc t a c t c c ggaggc                             54300
               t gaggc agga gaat c t c t t g aac c c gggag gc agaggt t g c agt gagc c a ggat t gc ac c                           54360
               gc t gc ac t c c agc c t gggc a ac agagt gag ac t c t gt c ag aaagaaagag agagagagag                               54420
               aggaaggaag gaaggaaaga aggaaggaaa agaaagaaag aaagaaagaa agaaagaaag                                                 54480
               aaagaaagaa agaaagaaag aaagagaaag aaagaaagaa agagagagaa aaagaaaaga                                                 54540
               gaaagaggt g gagaac c at g t t c c aggt gg aggggac agc ac t t c c gaag gc c t agaagt                               54600
               aagagagc aa gt gt c t gt t a gat gt c t t t c c t t t ggt at c t aaggc c t gt at t ggac aac                       54660
               aat ggt gac a at c t t ggt gc c t gagaaat c c c aggc c c t t gc c t t c at gg gggac ac c ga                       54720
               c ac at c ac c a c ac at gagag c c t gt gc t gt at gggggagg c ac aggc agg ggt c aggc t g                          54780
               c ggt ggggga agat c agagg gc at gc at gc c c agaggaga c ac t t gat c c agt c t gagag                              54840
               at gat c aggg aaggc t t t c t ggagaaagag ac aaagc t c t gaac agt c t c t gt t t gggc g                            54900
               t c t agat c c c t t t gagaat c t gt c gaaagc t c at t c ac ag aagaaaaac t c ac ac aaac a                         54960
               aaggt t gc ag gc aat t t c c a agt at t c t c a t c c t t c c t c g gaat c t t c t g t gggt at c c c              55020
               at t c c c ac c c c gc c c c c ac a ac c ac c t t gc t gc at aaat g t c c c aggaat t gc gac aggg                  55080
               c t ggc c aac a gt gc t ggaaa ac t gc aat c g aat t t c agc a t c c t gggagt gggat c t t t c                      55140
               t t c t gagat c t c gc c c gc c g c c gggc c t gg agggt gt gc c c c at ggat c t aat t gt t at c                   55200
               c t gc c t gc at c c c c t gc ac t aac c c c c aga c c t ggc gt t g gggc t t c t gg c ac t ggc c gg               55260
                                                                         Page 35
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                            46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               gac c gac gc g t t c t c c t c t g gaat gt t c ag agggaggt ag t c c aggc ggt c ac c gc gc t c               55320
               gc c agac aag c aac gc agc g c c c c c c gat g gc c ac c gc gc gc c ggc gc ag c c c aagc c gg               55380
               c t gc gc c c c c t agt ggc c ga t gc t c gt aaa gt c t t c agc g agc c c c gagc t t t t gc t agc           55440
               c agc c c t t gg t t t t gc aggc t ggggt c at c gt c gt t gt c a t c gt t ggc at c at c at c at c           55500
               at c at c at c a t c at c at c at c at c aat agc t agt aggc t t ggc gt ggt gg c c c ac ac c t g             55560
               t aat c c t agc ac t t t gggag gc c gaggc ag gt ggat c ac t t gaggc c aga agt t c gagac                     55620
 <removed-apn>
               c agc c t ggc c aac at ggt ga aac c c c gt c t c t ac aaaac a gt ac aaaaaa gc aac c gggt                    55680
               gt ggt ggt gg gc ac c t gt aa t c c c agc t ac t c gggaggc t gaggc at gag aat agc t t ga                    55740
               ac c t ggaagg c ggaggt t ac agt gaac t ga gat c gaac c a c t gc ac t c c a gc c t gggc aa                   55800
               c agagt gaga c t c t gt c t c a aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa gc t at gat c a t c c aggc agt                        55860
               gat t c at gc c t gt aac c gc a gggc t t t ggg aggc c aaggc aggaggat gt c at gaggc c a                      55920
               t gagt t c t ag ac t aac c t gg gc gac agagc aagagc t gt c t c t at aaaac aaaac aaaat                       55980
               gc t at agac c agac gc agt a gc t c ac ac c t at aat c c c ag t gc t t t ggga ggc c aaggc a                 56040
               ggc ggat c ac c t gaggt c ag gagt t c gaga c c agc c t ggc c aac at ggt g aaac c c c at c                   56100
               t c t ac ac t t t gaaaac c ac t ac t t t aac t g t c t c t c c c ac agggagagc t gc c t c c t t c a          56160
               c t c t c agc t c at t t ggt t c a c at gt t gac c c t ac t ggaag ac t c c agac c t ggc c agt ga            56220
               gagaat c c c t t c c c t t c agc c t t t gc aac t ggc t t aggga c aggt gt gt c c c t gaagc t g              56280
               gac t gat gag c at t ggc t c t ggaac t ac t g c t gat t gt t g aagaaggggc t t c c t agac a                  56340
               t ac t gt gc t g aaagggc ac a ggc t t ggaac ac t gggt t c t t ac at gggag aagagc t ggc                      56400
               c t gaaaat gc agc c aac ac g aggggaagc a gc gc t gggag aggaac agag agac t ggt gc                            56460
               c t ggc gc ac g t c at c t gc ac c t c t gt c t c a c c c t t c t c c a gaac at t t c t t t gc at c t t a   56520
               c at c aaat t t gt c agc aaat t c t gt c ggc t c t agt t agaa aaggt gt c c c at t c t gt gt t               56580
               ggaggaaaag c gat gc t gt c t at c aggac g t t ac c gggt c agt t gac aga ac t ggaat ac                       56640
               gaac agt c ga t t agaaaaat t c ac at ac t a at at t aaat t t ac t gaagt t gat c ac t at a                   56700
               t t gt ggt c at gt aagagaat at c c c t at t c t t t t gt t t t g c t t t gt t c t g t t t t t gagac         56760
               ggagt c t c gc t c t gt t gc c c aggc t ggagt gc agt ggt gc aat c t c agc t c c t gc aac c t                56820
               c c t c c t c c t g ggt t c aagc a at t c t c c t gc c t c agc c t c c c gagt agc t g ggac t ac agg         56880
               t gt gt gc c ac c at gc c c agc t aat t t t c gt at t aat at t t c c agt ac aga c ggggt t t c a             56940
               c c at gt t ggc c agggt t c t c gaac t t ac gg c c t c aagt ga t c t gc c c ac c t t t gc t t c c c         57000
               aaagt gc t gg gac c ac aggt gt aagc c ac g t c gc c t ggc c agaaat at c c c t at t c t t t t                57060
               c t t t t c t t t t c t t t t t t gag at ggagt t t t gc t c t t gt t g c c c aggc t gg agt gc aat gg        57120
               c gaaat c t c g gc t c ac t gaa gc c t c t gc c t c t ggggt t c g agaaat t c t c c t gc c t t agc           57180
               c t c c t gagt a gc t gggat t a c aggc ac c c a c c ac c ac ac c c agc t aat t t t t t gt at t t t          57240
               t agt agagac agagt t t t gc c at gt t agc c aggc t ggt c t t gaac t t c t g ac c t c aggt g                 57300
                                                               Page 36
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                          46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               at c c gc c c c c c t c ggc c t c c c aaagt gt t g ggat t ac agg c at gagc c ac c gc t c c c ggc       57360
               c aaat at c c c aat t c t t aag aaat ac at ag ggc ggc t gag c ac at t ac c t c at gc t t gt a          57420
               at c t c agc ac t t t gggac ac t gaggt ggga c gat c c c t t g agc c c aagag t t c aagac c a            57480
               ac c t gggc aa c at ggc aaga ac c c at c t c t c aaaaac t t t aaaaat gat c c aggt gt ggt               57540
               ggc t gc agt g t c aaggc t gc agt gagc c ag gat c at gc c a c t gc ac t c c a gc c t gggt ga           57600
               c agagt gaga c c c t gt c t c t ac ggaaaaaa agaaagaaaa gaaaaagaga t ac at t ac ag                      57660
 <removed-apn>
               aagt t t t t gt t t gt t t gt t t gt t t gt t t gt t t gagac agt c t t gc t c t gt c gc c c aggc t     57720
               ggagt gc aga gt gc agt t c a gt t c ac t gaa at c c t ggt t c ac t gc aac c t c ac c t c c c gg        57780
               gt t c aagt ga t t c t c c t gc c t c agc c t c c t gagt agc c ag gac t ac aggt gt gt gc c ac c        57840
               ac ac c c aggt aat t t t t gt a t t t t t agt ag agac aaggt t t c t t c at c t t ggc t gggc t g        57900
               gt c t c gaac t t c t gac c t c a gat gat t c gc c t gc c t t ggc c t t c c gaagt t c t gagat t a      57960
               t aggc at gag c c ac c gt gc c c agc c c at t a t agaagc t t t t aggggt gat gt t gt t t gt a           58020
               ac t t agc c t c aaagat t t t t t t aaaaat c a gaaaaagaaa at ac at aac a gagaagagag                    58080
               c aagt gat aa aggaaat gag gt agaaat gt t ac c aat c c a t gaac c t gag t at aaaat ac                   58140
               aagagagt t c t t t gt c c t at t at t t gt c t t gc aac t t t t t ggt aaat t t g aaat t at t t c       58200
               c aaaggaaaa gt t aaaac ac t t t c t aaaat t gagagat c t aaaat c t t ag gc c aggc gt g                  58260
               gt ggc t c ac a c c t gt aat c c c agc ac t t t g ggaggc t gag gc aggt ggat c ac at gaggt              58320
               c aggagt t gg agac c agc c c ggc c aat at g gt gaaaac c t gt c t c t gc t a aaaat ac aaa               58380
               aat c agc t gg gc at ggt ggg aggt gc t t gt aat c t c agc t ac t c aggc ac gagaat c gc t               58440
               t gaac c t ggg gagc ggaggt t gc agt gagc c gagat ggc g c c ac t gc ac t c c ac c c t ggg               58500
               t aac agagc a agac t c c aac t c aaaaat aa t at gaaat aa aat aaaat c t t agac aac ac                   58560
               t at c at t at a agt aggat t g gggagat c aa aaac aac at g c t c t gt gc t c c aggt ac t gt             58620
               t t ggt gt gat gt t gaaaat a t t agat t t t a aac t t gat t t t t t c t t t t t t t t t t t t t t ga   58680
               ggc agagt gt t gc t c t gt c g c c c aggc t gg agt gc agt gg c gt c at c t c g gc t c ac t gt a        58740
               ac c t c c gc c t c c t aggt t c a agc gac t c t t c t gc c t c agc c t c c t gagt a gc t gggac t a    58800
               c aggt gt gc g c c ac c ac ac c t ggc t aat t t t t gt at t t t t agt agagac g gggt t t c ac c         58860
               at at t ggc c a ggc t gat c t c gaac t c c t ga c c t c at gat c t gc c c t c c t c ggc c t c c c aa   58920
               agt gc t gaga t aac aggc gt gagc c ac t gc gc c t agc c t a gac t t gat t t t t t aaat t t c           58980
               t gt c c t c c aa t agaaat aga c c t gat t t t t aaaaat gt gc at ggc c aggc ac agt aat t c             59040
               at gc c t at aa t c c t aggac t t t gggaggc c aat gt gggag gat c ac t t ga gc c c aggagt               59100
               t ggagat c aa c c t ggac aac at agc t agac c c t gt c t c t a c aaaaat aaa aat at t aggt               59160
               gggt gt ggt c t t gt ac ac c t gt agt gc c ag c t ac ac aggg ggt t gaggag ggaggat c c a                59220
               t t gagac c ag gagt t c c agc c t gc aac gag c t aggat c t c ac c ac t gc ac t gc aggc t gg            59280
               gc aac agagc aagac c c t gc c t c aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaagc at g t t aaaat t t c                      59340
                                                             Page 37
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                            46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               aaagat t gc t ac aaaaagaa agaaat ggt g c at agat t c c aaac t agt ag agggaaaac a                             59400
               aagaat aaga aaac at aaga c aaaac t aaa c aaaaaat gc agc c aat t c a aagaagc t t a                            59460
               aat gagc at g aaaaaat aaa t aaac gt aga aaaat gagga c ac t agaat c ac aaagc aaa                              59520
               at ggt agaag t aaat aaaat ac at c at t aa t c ac at ac ac aaaaaat gt a t t c agggc c a                       59580
               ggt at ggt gg c t c ac ac c t g t aat c c c agc ac t t t gt gag gc t ggggc ag ac ggat c ac t                 59640
               t gaggc aac a agt t t gagac t agc c t ggc c aac at ggt ga aac c c c at c t c t ac c aaaaa                    59700
 <removed-apn>
               t ac aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaagaagaa gaagt t at c c aggc at t gt g gt gc ac gc c t                             59760
               gt aat c c c ag c t ac t t ggga ggc t gaggt a ggagaat t gc t t gaat c c ag gaagt ggagg                       59820
               t t gc agt gag c t c agat t gc ac c ac t gc ac t c c agc c t gg gt gac agagt gagac t c c c t                 59880
               c t c aaaaac a aac aaagaaa aaat gt at t c agaggc c aaa t ac t t c t t ac c ac c t c c at a                   59940
               gc t gc c ac c c at at c t t ac c c t c c t c c t ag ggt t t ggagt t c c t ac t c c t ggc c c c ac aa        60000
               t c t c t c c c c g t c at gc agat agagggac t c t gggaat aac c aagt c aac t c aac t c c c t c                60060
               t gc t gc t c aa aac t t t c c t g t ggc t c c at c t c ac t c aaag at t at t t t gc t c at t t t t t t      60120
               t t t gt t t t t t t t t gagac ag ggt c t c ac t c t gt t gc c c ag gc t ggagt gc agt ggt gc aa              60180
               gt c at gac t c ac t gc agc c t agac t t c c t c ggc t c aagc c at c c t c c agg c c t c c agggc             60240
               t ac c ac aac c c agc c aat t t t t t gat agag ac gaggc c t c c c t t at t gc c c aagc t ggt c               60300
               t t gaac t t at gggc t c aac t t at c t ac c c a c c t c ggc c t c c c aaaat gc t gggat t c c ag             60360
               gc c t gagc c a c t gt gt t c c g c c aat c t c at t c aaagt aag agc c aaagt c c t c ac t gt gg              60420
               t c c agc agac t c t gc ac c gt c t gc t t c t t g t t c c c t c t c t gac c t c ac c t c c c c t c c ac c   60480
               c c c c ac ac gc t c c t c t gc ag c aac ac ggat c t c c t t gt t g t t t c t c t aag at c c agac at         60540
               gt t c c c at c c c ac c c c agga c c t t ggc ac t ggc t gt t c c c t c t gc c t agg ggac t c t t t c        60600
               c ac t aggt t c agt t t c t c t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t gagac gg agt t t t t t c a c t c t t gt t gc     60660
               c c agac t gga gt gc agt ggc ac gat c t c gg c t c ac agc aa gc t c c t c c t c t c aggt t c ag              60720
               gc aat t c t c c t gc c t c agc c t c c c gagt ag c t gggac t ac aggc ac c c gc c ac c ac c c c c            60780
               agc t aat t t t t gt at t at t a gt agagac gg ggt t t c ac c a t gt ggc c agg c t ggt c t c ga               60840
               ac t gc t gat c t c aagt gat c c at c t ac c t c agt c t c c c aa agt gc t ggga t t ac aggt gt               60900
               gagc c ac c gc gc c t ggc c c c c t t ggc t c ag t c c c t c ac c a c c agc agaag aat ggat aaa               60960
               c t gat c c c ac agt ggc c t gc aat gt gt gt g t gc t gc aat g agaat aac c t gt aac t gc ac                  61020
               ac gac aac c a ggat gaat t t t t t t c ac ggt gc t gac t gaa aaaagc c aga t gc t aaaaag                      61080
               aac at at t t t c agat t gc at t t ac at gaat t c aaaac agg c ac aac c aat c t at gc t gt c                  61140
               agaagt gagg gt gat aat ga c c t t ggaggg agggc aggt g at aagggagc gc c gaggggg                               61200
               c t t c t ggggg gc t ggagat a t t gc t t c t t g ggc t ggt ggc t ggt gac ac a ggt gt gt t c a                61260
               at c ggt gat a at t c c t c c ag c ggt t ac ac t t ac ggt t t gt ac t t t c c t ga at at gggt c t            61320
               ac t t c aagaa ac c ac t gc t g aaaac gagga gc t gc ac c c a c c ac c c agt g t c c c c t c c at             61380
                                                                 Page 38
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                              46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               c c agt t t aag c aac aggac a t t c t c agc c c c c c ggggt c c c t c c c t c c c a at gc aat gt g              61440
               c t t t t at gt c t t c aaggggc c t ggc c ac c a c c t t ggt t gc t t c c c c c agc t t gc t at gc a            61500
               t gt c ac c c c a c gc at gt t c c aggc agc t c c ac agaggt c c c c agagagaa ggc aggc t gt                      61560
               gggt gggagg aagggc aggg gt gggggac g t ggc t t c c c a gc ggagc c c g ggc aggggga                               61620
               ggaaac at t t c t gc aac ac c c c ac ac c aag t c c t gac t t c gggggggc t t t gc agggt ga                      61680
               at t c t aagt g c c c agggc c c c at gt gaagg ggt c aac t gt gt c t c ac t c t gt gt c t gt c t                 61740
 <removed-apn>
               c t c t gt c t gt c t c t c t t c c t gt t t c c t c c c t c c c t c c c ag t c t c t c t c t c c t c aagaaga   61800
               aaaaaac t c a c aac t at t t a c at aac aat t t t at at c aga c t gt aac c c a aaaac c c aag                    61860
               t t c c aac t t c gaat t t t t c a at aaac t t t g aat aaat agt agt gc t at t t t t c t t t c t t t             61920
               t t t t t t t t ag t ac t gt aat g t t t ac t t t t a aat t t aat t t t t ac t ggc ag ac t t t ac gt a          61980
               t at gaggt t c aagaaaagaa aat c t c c ac t gt t t ac at t t c t t t t c t gac t at t aat at t                   62040
               gt t c at t t c a t t t c c t gat t at t ac t ggc a at aat t t t gt c c t at gggga agggaggc gc                  62100
               t t ggc aggc c t c gagt t at c c t t t gagac a t gggggt c t g t ggt c agat t t agaaagt gc                       62160
               t t gt gggt gg c t gggt ggga gt gggt c at g ggagac at aa gggc aggc t g gagt c c aggg                            62220
               aggaggc c gg c c gggc aggg ac c c aggc ag c ggagat gga c agggc c at g gagaat c t gg                             62280
               gaggc gc agg c c c t ggggac t gt ggat t gg ggaaggagat aat t t t at t t t at t at at t t                         62340
               t t t t gagac a gagt t t c agt c t gt c t c c aa gac t gt agt g c aat ggc ac g at c t c t gc t c                62400
               ac t gc aac c t c t gc c t c c c g agt t c aaggg at t t t c c t gc c t c agc c t c c c aagt agc t g             62460
               ggat t ac agg c ac gc ac c c t c ac ac c c agc t aat t t t t aa t at t t t t ggt agagac gggg                    62520
               t t t c ac c at a t t ggc c aggc t ggt c t c at a c t c c t gac c t c aagc gat c c ac c t gc c c c g            62580
               gc c t c c c aaa gt gc t gggat t ac aggc at g agc c ac gac g t c t ggc c t aa t t t t t t gt at                 62640
               t t t t aggaga gac agggt t t t gc c at gt t g gc c aggc t ag t c t t gaac t c c t ggc c t c aa                  62700
               gt gat c c gc a c ac c t c aac c t c c c aaagt g c t gggat t ac aggt gt gagc c ac t ac gc c c                   62760
               c gc c aaggga aggggagaat t t gagt gc t a t t gaaggt ag aaaac ac aga ac at aggc t g                              62820
               ggt gt ggt gg c t c at at c t c t aat c c c agc ac t t t gggag gc c aaagt gg gaggc t ggc t                      62880
               t aat c c c agg agt t c gagat c agc c t gggc aac at agt ga gac c c c t gt c t c t ac aaaaa                      62940
               at t aaaaat t agc c aggc at ggt ggc ac c c ac c t gt ac t c c c aaggc t ac t t aggaggc t                        63000
               gaggt gggag gat c gc t gga t c c c aggaga t c t gaggt ga gc c gt gat c a t gc c ac t gc a                       63060
               c t c c agc c t g ggc agc agag t aagac c c t g t c t c c aaaaa t aaaaaat aa t t t aaaat aa                      63120
               agc gc ggaac ac t gt c aggt t gt c t gt ggg ggagc agc gg gc aggc gac c aggagggc t g                             63180
               gc t gc t c t gt gc agggc t ag t gc c t gggt t gggat gac t c ggc c t c agag c t gt aaat aa                      63240
               agaaggaaga gggc c gggc g c ggt ggt t c a c gc c t gt aat c c c agc ac t t t gggagggc g                          63300
               aggt ggac t a at c ac c t gag gt c gggagt t c gagac aagt c t gac c aac a t agagaaat c                           63360
               c c at c t c t gc t aaaaat ac a aaat t agc c g ggt gt ggt gg c ac at gc c t g t aat c c c agc                   63420
                                                                   Page 39
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                          46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               t ac t c gggag gc t gaggc ag gagaat c gc t t gaac c c ggg aggc agagat c ac agt aagc                    63480
               c gagat c ac a ac ac t gc ac t c t agc c t ggg c agc aagaac aaaac t c c at c t c gaaaaaa               63540
               aaaaaaaaaa agt agaagaa agaaagagc t gc c ac agt t g agagc t t c c t ggat gc c t t t                     63600
               gt t aac t c t t ggggt t t t c a c at ac c c at c t t ac agat gg ggaagc t gag gc t c agagag            63660
               aggaaggc c c aagt ggaaga gc aagc c t gg agc c c aggt c t c c t c c t gc c t aat c c t ggg              63720
               c t t t t gc t gg t ggac t c c c g c c c aat c t t g aat aac t t c a ggc c t t aaac aac c t c c c ac   63780
 <removed-apn>
               gat t gc t t t t c c t c c c at t a gaac aat aaa t gc agat ac a aaaac c aac t at gc t t gt c t         63840
               ac aaagc c c a agagaat t t t t gaagt aat a aaac t gt c at gaat gc agac t gt ggt gat t                  63900
               ac at gac t t a c gaat t t t t c aaaac t c aga at c gagc c ag at gaaat gat c c t gc c t gc a           63960
               at c c c agc ac t t t gggaggc t at ggc agga ggat c at t t g aggc c aggag t t c aagac c a               64020
               gc c t ggc c aa c at ggt gaaa c c c c gt c t c t ac t aaaaat a c aaaaat t ag c t gggt gt gg            64080
               aggc ac at gc c t gt aat c c c agc t at t t c a gc agc t aagg c aagaaaat t gt t t gaac c c             64140
               ggaggc t gag gt t gc agt ga gaaat gat c g t gc c ac t gc a c t gt agac c c t gt c t c aaaa             64200
               ac c aaaac c a aaac c aaaaa aagaaaaaaa aac c c t t aag aat c aggat t at ac ac gagc                     64260
               ac ac gc ac ac t c ac c c at aa at t t t ac c at t t gt agaaaa gaagaagaaa at t c aaaac c               64320
               aaat ac aat g aat gt ac t t t c t c t ggat t c c aat t c ac ac c aaac aac t g t aaaaat c t g           64380
               t t t t t gagac aat t ggggaa c ac aaac t gg c t t t t aggag at at t aagga at t t c ggt t a             64440
               at t at gc t ag ac t t gat aat gc c at t gt gg t t gggt aat g c c c ac at ac c at gc c t t ggc         64500
               t gggc gt ggt gac t c ac ac c t gt agt c c c a gc at t t t ggg aggc c c agat gggaggat t g              64560
               c t t gagc t c a agagt t c gag ac c aac c t aa gc aac at agt gagac c t c at c t c t ac ac aa           64620
               aat t t t aaaa aac at t agc c gagt gt ggt g gggt gc gc c t gt aat c t c ag c t ac t c agga             64680
               ggc t gaggt g ggaggagt ac t t aaac c c ag gagt t t gagg t t gc agt gag c t gagat t gt                  64740
               gt c ac t gc ac t c c agc c t ga gc gac agagc aagac c gt c a aaaaaat aaa gaaagaaaag                    64800
               aaaat gt ac c c t at t c t t c t c t t c aaggt g c t c at t gaag t at t t ac aaa t gaaac aac a         64860
               t aat ac c t c t c ac c t gt aat t t t t t aaaat t t t t at t t at t aat t t t t t a gagat ggggt       64920
               c t c at t c t gt t gc t c aggc t ggagt gc agt ggc at gat c a c agc t c ac t g t aac c t c aaa         64980
               c t t c t aggc t c aagt gat c c gc c c gc c t c a gt c t c c c aaa t agc t gagat t ac aagc ac t        65040
               ggc c ac c at g c t t t gc t aat gt t t t aaaaa t t at t t t t gt agac ac aaga c t at at t gc c        65100
               c aggc t ggt c t c agac t c c t ggc c t c aagt gat c c t c c c a ac t t ggc c t c c c aaagt c c t      65160
               ggaat t ac ag gc c t gagt c a c c gt gc c t gg c c aat t t t t t t t t t t t t t t g aggt ggagt c      65220
               t c gc t c t gt c gc c t aggc t g gagt gc t gt g gc c t gat c t c ggc t c ac t gc aagc t c c gc c      65280
               t c c t gggt t c ac gt c at t c t c c t gc c t c ag c c t c c c gagt agc t gagac t ac aggc c c c c     65340
               ac c ac gc c t g gc t aat t t t t t gt at t t t t a gt agagac gg ggt t t c ac c a t gt t agc c gg      65400
               gat ggt c t c g at c t c c t gac c t t gt gat c t gc c t gc c t c g gc c t c c c aaa gt gc t gggat     65460
                                                                       Page 40
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                           46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               t ac agac gt g agc c ac t gc g t c c t gc c c t g c c t ggc c t at t t t t t at t t t t at gt t t t t t   65520
               ac agac aggg c c t c ac t at g c t gc c c ggac t c gt c t c aaa c t c t gggc t c aagc gat c c t           65580
               t c t gc c t c ag c c t c c t gagt agc t gggac t ac agggt gt g at t t t t t t t c aagt at t c aa          65640
               aaaaat gggg aggggaaaga agat gaaat g gc aaaat at t gat ggt t c t t gaac c t gggt                           65700
               gat gagt at a t gt aagc t t a t t gt c t c t t g ac t t t t t gt g t c t gt t t gaa aat t t t c at g      65760
               at at aagagt t t aaaaac t g aaaat aaaat t t at t gaagg agagt t t ggg c c gggt gc aa                       65820
 <removed-apn>
               t ggc t c gc gt t t at aat c c c agc ac t t t gg gaggc c aagg c aggt ggat c ac c t gaggt c                65880
               agaagt t c aa gat c agc c t g gc c gac at ga c aaaac ac t g t c t c t ac c aa aaat ac aaga                65940
               at c aggc t gg gt gc ggt ggc t c at gc c t gt aat c c c agc a gc ac t t t ggg aggc t gaggt                66000
               gggt ggat c a c aaggt c agg agt t c aagac c agc c t ggc c aagat ggt ga aac c c c gt c t                   66060
               c t ac t aaaaa t ac gaaaat t agc c aggt gt t gt ggt gggc gc c t gt aaat t c c agc aac t                   66120
               t gggaggc t g aggc agagaa t t gc t t gaac c t gggaggc a gaggt t gc ag c gagc c gaga                       66180
               t t gc gc c ac t gc ac t c c aac c t gggggac a gggc gagac t c c t t c t c aaa aaaaaaaaaa                  66240
               agaaaaagaa aaagaaaaat t agc c aagc g t ggt ggc agg c ac c t gt aat c ac agc t ac t                        66300
               c gggagc t ga ggc at gagaa t c gc t t gaac c c gggagac g gaggt t gc ag t gagc c gaga                      66360
               t c gt gc c ac t gc ac t c c agc c t ggggt at a gagc gaggc t c t at c t c aaa aaaaaaaaaa                  66420
               aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aggagagt t t ggc gt t c at c aagc aac at t t ggaaac t ac                            66480
               agagaac t ag c aaggc aaag ac gc c c c t c c c at c c c t aag t c c t gt ac c a c t at ggt t gt            66540
               t gac at t t t g at at at t t c c t t t c agc c t t t t c t at t c t c t gt gagc t t t t t aaat gc gt     66600
               gt gt t gt gt g t gt gc ac gt g t gt gt t t t ac at aac t gt gt gagc aaat t g t t t at ac agc             66660
               c c t gt t t t t t c c c c t c t t aa aat gt aagc t gt t c c c c t gt t aaaac at c t t t ggat aaac        66720
               ac aat c t c t a at gt t t gc ac t at gt t t at t c aaaagggc a gc at t gc c ag aggt t gaagc               66780
               t gt t t c c aat t t c c t c c c at t at aaat aat c c c c t c at gg ac c t c c t t gt gt gt c c c aga     66840
               ggagggat t c t t gggc c aaa gggt gc ggac c c t t t ggc ag agc t c at ggt c aaaaat c t c                   66900
               ggc agagt t t c agc c t gac c c gaagc t aag at gac c t c at ac ggt t aaag t gagat t gga                   66960
               c t gc t at t t a t t t c c t gaac gt t t gat t c a t gac t c aggc t t gt c agggg at c t t t t t t t      67020
               t t t t t t t c t t c t gt at gt gc t t ggt t gc aa gaaac agaaa t c c at t c ac a c t agc t c ac g        67080
               t c aaaagggc aagagaat c g c t t gaac gc g ggaggc ggag gt t gc agt ga gc c gagat c g                       67140
               c gc c ac t gc a c t c c agc c c g ggc gac agt g c gagac t c c g t c t c aat aac aaac aaac aa             67200
               ac aaaaaaag ggc ggggggt gt t gt at c c t t c agc aagt a aagc t c at at t c agc t t gga                    67260
               c t agc t gt c t gc ggagc at g t t gt t ggggt at at c t aggc t at gt t gat t gt t gaaat ac                67320
               t gaat t at t t c c gt at t ggt t ggt aaat c a t t c t gt c t c a agt c gc t c c a at gac gt c c t        67380
               c c ac c aaggc c ac t c t agc t gc c c t ggt c c c t c t c c c agg ac t t c c c aga c c t c t c c ac a    67440
               at gc aggaag t aaagggt c a at at c gggc a c agaagt gaa c c at gc t gc t c ggt c agt gc                    67500
                                                              Page 41
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                             46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               c c aaagt at t ggt t gt gaaa t t c at t t t t t c t t t t c t t t t t t t t t t t t t t ggagac aaat           67560
               t c t c ac t at g gaac t c aagc gat c c t c c t g c c t t ggc c t c c c aat gt ac t gggat t aagg              67620
               t gt gagc c ac t gc ac c t gga c t gc t t gt aa aat at t t gat gat t c gc c t a gat gc aagt a                 67680
               c c agaac agc t gac t c aaat ggc t t aaat t gt aaggggaa t c t gt ggc t g gaaaat c c ac                        67740
               ac t t gt gc t g gc t t c agc c a aagt t gac ac aat ggc t c ag c c at gt c ac c aaggac t t t c                67800
               t t t t ct t t ct t t cct t ct t t ct t t ct t ct t t ct t t t t t t c t t t ct t t t ct ct ct ct t t ct      67860
 <removed-apn>
               t t c t c t c t c t c t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t g ac gt agt c t g gt t c t gt t gc c c aggc t gga   67920
               gt gc agt ggc ac aat c t t gg c t c ac t gc gg c aac c t c c aa t t c c c c ggaa t t c aagt gat               67980
               t c t c c t gc c t t agc c t c c c g agt agc t ggg ac t at aggt a t gt gc c ac c a c gc c c agc t a           68040
               at t t t t gt at t t t t at t t t t t t at t t at t a t t t t t t t aat c at t c t t ggg t gt t t c t c gc    68100
               agagggggat t t ggc agggt c ac aggac aa t agt ggaggg aaggt c agc a gat aaac aag                                68160
               t gaac aaagg t c t c t ggt t t t c c t aggc ag aggac c c t gc ggc c t t c c gc agt gt t t gt g                68220
               t c c c t gggt a c t t gagat t a gggagt ggt g at gac t c t t a ac gagc at gc t gc c t t c aag                 68280
               c at c t gt t t a ac aaagc ac a t c t t gc ac c g c c c t t aat c c at t c aac c c t gagt ggac ac             68340
               agc ac at gt t t c agagagc a c agggt t ggg ggc aaggt c a c agat c aac a ggat c c c aag                        68400
               gc agaagaat t t t t c t t agt ac agaac aaa at gaaaagt c t c c c at gt c t ac c t c t t c c t                  68460
               ac ac agac ac agc aac c at c c gat t t c t c a at c t t t t c t c c ac c t t t c c c c at t t t c t at        68520
               t c c ac aaaac t gc c at t gt c at c at ggc c c gt t c t c aat g agc t gt t gag t ac ac c t c c c             68580
               agac ggggt g gt ggc c gggc agaggggc t c c t c ac t t c c c agt aggggc g gc c gggc aga                         68640
               ggc gc c c c t c ac c t c c c gga c ggggc ggc t ggc c gggc gg ggggc c gac c c c c c c ac c t c                68700
               c c t c c c ggac ggggc ggc t g gc c gggc aga ggggc t c c t c ac t t c c c agt aggggc ggc c                    68760
               gggc agaggc gc c c c t gac c t c c c ggac gg ggc ggc t ggc c gggc ggggg gc c gac c c c c                      68820
               c c ac c t c c c t c c c ggac ggg gc ggc t ggc c gggc agaggg gc t c c t c ac t t c c c agt agg                68880
               ggc ggc c ggg c agaggc gc c c c t c ac c t c c c ggac ggggc ggc t ggc c gg gt ggggggc t                       68940
               gac c c c c c c a c c t c c c t c c c ggac ggggc g gc t ggc c ggg c ggggggc t g ac c c c c c c ac             69000
               c t c c c t c c c g gac ggggc gg c t ggc c gggt ggggggc t ga c c c c c ac c t c c c t c c c ggac              69060
               ggggt ggc t g c c gggc ggag ac gc t c c t c a c t t c c c agac ggggt ggc t g c c gggc aaag                    69120
               gggc t c c t c a c t t c t c agac ggt gt ggc t g c c gggc t gag gggc t c c t c a c t t c t c agac             69180
               ggggc ggt t g c c aggc agag ggt c t c c t c a c t t c t c agac ggggt ggc c g ggc agagac g                     69240
               c t c c t c ac at c c c agac ggg gc ggc agggc agaggc gc t c c c c ac at c t c agat gat ggg                    69300
               c ggc c t ggc a gagat gc t c c t c ac t t c c t a gat gggat gg c ggc c gggc a gagat gc t c c                  69360
               t c ac t t t c c a gac t gggc ag c c aggc agag aggc t c c t c a c at c c c agac gat gggt ggc                  69420
               c c ggc agaga c gc t c c t c ac t t c c c agac g gggt ggc ggc c gggc agagg c t gc aat c t c                   69480
               ggc ac t t t gg ggggc c aagg c aggc agc t g ggaggt ggag gt t gt agc ga gc c gagat c a                         69540
                                                               Page 42
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                            46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               c gc c ac t gc a c t c c agc c t g ggc ac c at t g agc ac t gagt gaac gc aac t c c gt c t gc c a             69600
               t c c c ggc ac c t c gggaggc c gaggc t ggc g gat c ac t c gc ggt t aggagc t ggagac c ag                      69660
               c c c agc c aac ac agc gaaac c c c gt c t c c a c c aaaaaaat ac gaaaac c a gt c aggc gt g                    69720
               gc ggc gc c t g c aat c c c agg t ac t c ggc ag gc t gaggc ag gagaat c agg c agggaggt t                      69780
               gc agt gagc c gagat ggc ag c agt ac agt c c agc t t t ggc t c agc at c ag agggagac c g                       69840
               t ggaaagaga gggagaggga aac c gt gggg agagggagag ggagagc gag agc gc at c ag                                   69900
 <removed-apn>
               agt at t t t aa c agc agaat t gat c aaac ag aagaaagaat t agt gagt t t gaagac aggc                            69960
               t at t t gaaaa t ac ac agt c a ggc c gggc c c agt ggt t c at gc c t at aat c c c agc at t t t                70020
               gggaggc t ga ggt gggc gga t c ac c t gagg t c aggagt t c aagac c agc c t ggc c aac at                        70080
               ggc aaaac c c c gt t t c t agt ac aagt ac aa aaat t agc c a ggaaat ggt g gc at gt ac c t                     70140
               gt agt c c c aa c t ac t c agga ggc t gaggc a c aagaat gac t t gaac c c ag gaggc agagg                       70200
               t t gc aat gag c c gagt t t gt t c c at t gc ac t c c agc c t gg gt gac agagt gaggc t c t t t                70260
               aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaagt c c aggc gc agt ggc t c at gc c t gt aat c c c a gc ac t t t ggg                        70320
               aggc ggaggc gggc aaat c a c c t gagat c g ggagt t c aag ac c agc gt ga c c aac at gga                        70380
               gaaat c c t gt c t c t ac t aaa aat at aaaat t agc c gggc g t ggt ggc aaa t gc c t gt aat                    70440
               c t c agc t ac t c aggaggc t g aggc aggaga at t gc t t gaa c c c aggaggc agaggt t gt g                       70500
               gt gagc c aag at ggt gc c at t gc ac t c c ag c c t gggc aac aagagt gaaa c t c t t gt c t c                  70560
               aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaagat ga aagaaagaaa gagaaagac a c agagac aaa                                        70620
               aaaagaagag aaagaaaaag aaagaggaag aaagaaagag agaaaagaat aaaaaaaaag                                            70680
               aggaagaaag aaaggaaaga aaaaaagaaa agagaaagga gggagggaag gaaggaagaa                                            70740
               aggaaggaac gaac aaac ac agt c ac agga gac aaaagag aaaaagt t t t t t gt at t t t t                            70800
               aat agagac c gggt t t t ac c at gt t ggc c a ggc t ggt c t t gaac t c c t ga c c t c aagt ga                 70860
               t c t gc c t gc c t t ggc c t c c c aaagt gc t gg gat t ac aagc gt gagc c c c c gt gc c c ggc c              70920
               agac c c c at t t c t c c c at t t c t t t t t at c t c t c t gc t t t a t c t t t t c c ag t ggaagc t c c   70980
               c aagat gac t ac c t c c agc c t c t ggc c ac a gggaac c t t c t t c at at c c c ac aagc aaag                71040
               gagagc ac c t t t ggc t c agg t t t c c t gc c a aagt aat gag gc t aac t c t g at t gggc c aa                71100
               c agagggc ac gt gt t c at gc aagagc c aat c ac t gt gat c ggagggac ag aaggaaaaac                             71160
               c at aat ggc c agat t ggc t g agc c aagt c a c at gt t c c t c aaat agt aag gt gagt ggc t                    71220
               c ac ac t aggg c t gc aggagc c ac ac c t ggg t t c aat t t c c at t c c aaac a aat t t c t gt c              71280
               t t c t c t gc c c t gt t t c c c gt c agt aac at a gagat aat ga aggc ac t c at at ggt agagt                 71340
               t c c c gt gagg at t aaat gag t t agt t aat g c aaagc ac t g agaat ggt gc c c at at ac ag                    71400
               aaagc gt t c a aat gt t agc t t c t gt t at c g t c at t ac at g gc c at t c t c a c c t c t t aagg          71460
               c t gc t t t t c t t t gc aagc t c c t t at gc t c c ac ac at t t c c c t c t t t c t ag t t ac t at t gc    71520
               t t ggt aac aa at c ac t c c aa aat at ggt gg c c c aaaac aa c aac agt c at c c t at t at t t                71580
                                                                    Page 43
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                             46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               t t c ac t gt gt c t gt ggt c ag agt t t t ggga aggac c c aac t gggc agt t c t gac t t ggaa                   71640
               t t t c at at gg t t gc agt c ac t t ggc agc t g aaac t ggaac agggaagc ag c t gggggt gg                       71700
               at ggat c t c t c t c t c t c t c t c t t t c t c t t a c t c t c t c c c c ac t c c at gt t gt c t c agggc   71760
               t t c t c aat gt ggt c t c t c c a c gc gaac t gg t t t gggc t c c c t c ac at c at gac agc c t c t           71820
               gggc agt t gg ac t t ac at gg c agc t t c ggc at c c agt ac a agt gt t t t at gaaagt agc a                    71880
               gc c gc gac t g ggt gc ggt t g c t c ac gc c t g t aat c c c aac ac t t t gggag c t t gaggc ag                71940
 <removed-apn>
               gt ggat c ac c t gaggt c ggg agt c c aagac c agc c t ggaa aac at ggt ga aat c c c gt c t                      72000
               c t ac t aaaaa t ac aaaaat t agc t gggc at ggt agc ac gg gc c t gc ggt c c c agc t ac t c                     72060
               aggaggc t ga ggc aggagaa t c gc t t gaac c t gggaggc g gaggt t gc ag t gagc c gaga                            72120
               t c ac gc c ac t gc ac t c c agc c t gggc gac a gagt gagac t c c at c gaaat gaaagaaaga                        72180
               aagagaaaga gagaaagaga gaaagaaaga aggaaggaaa gaaagaaaga gagagaaaga                                             72240
               aagaaaggag ggaaggaggg agggaaggag ggaaggaagg aaggaaggaa ggaaagaagg                                             72300
               aaaggaaggg gc c t t at c t c t t c t gat c t a gc c t t ggaat c at gc agc at t ac t t c t gc c                72360
               ac at agt c t t ggt t ac aagc aagt c ac aaa c t gc c t agat gt aaggggag c t t ac ac aaa                       72420
               t t c c ac t t c c c aat ggaagg ggt at c aaag t t c t agagga at at at gggc t gggaaac at                       72480
               t gt t gc c ac c at c t t t ggaa gt t ac at c t g gc t t t t ac t g gt ac t gat t t aagac c c ac c            72540
               t c t at ac agc c t gt gc c c aa t aac at c c ac c t gggc ac ag c t c c aac t c c c t gt t c t aaa            72600
               c agaaat agt t t at t gagaa at c t c aat c c c t t gggat c a aaaac at gac agt t t c c at t                    72660
               t gt t c t gc ag t gac t gc t c t c t ac c t gc t a t c t at t gt t t t c c aagac t a t gat c c aaaa          72720
               t c ac agc at c c aagac t gt g t c t t t t t t at t t at t t at t g t t t t c gagac agggt c t c ac            72780
               t c t gt c gc c c agac t gt agt gc agt ggc gc aat c t c c ac t c ac c gc aac c t c t gc c t c c c             72840
               aggc t c aaga gat t c t c c t g c c t c agc c t c c t gc gt agc t gggat t ac ag gt gc ac ac c a               72900
               c t ac t gc c t g gc t aat t t t t gaat t t t c ag t agagac agg gt t t c ac c at gt t ggc c agg               72960
               c t ggt c t t ga ac t c c t gac c t c aaat gat c c ac c c ac c t t ggc c t c ac aa agt gc t ggga              73020
               t t ac aggc at gagc c ac c ac agc t ggc c c c aagac t gt gt c t t t at t at t at t at t at t t                73080
               c gagac agag t c t agc t c t g t c t c c t aggc t ggagt gc ag t ggt gc gat c t c agc t c ac t                 73140
               gaaac c t t c a c c t t gc c agt t c aagc c at t c t c gt gc c t c agc c t c c gga gt agc t ggga              73200
               t t ac aggc ac gc ac c ac t ac ac c c ggc t aa t t t t c gt at t t t c agt aggg ac ggggt t t c                73260
               c c c at at t gg c c aggc t ggt c t t gaac t c c t gac c t c aag t gat c c ac c c ac c t c ggc c t            73320
               c c c aaaggt g gc t c ac agaa gt gagc c ac c ac gc c c ggc c t gt c t at t at t t t t at t t t t              73380
               aaaaat aaat gt at t gt t aa t t t c c t t t t t c c t gt t ggat aaaggc t ac a gggaaac t t a                   73440
               at gac aat t t t gc t agagt c t t t aat at t t c t c t c at t t t c at t c at t t a aaaac at agc              73500
               c t t c aggc c a ggc ac ggt gg c t c ac ac c t a t aat c c c agc ac t t t gggag gc c gaggc ag                 73560
               gt ggat c ac t t gaggt c agg agt t c aagac c agc c t ggc c aac at ggt ga aac c c c gt c t                     73620
                                                               Page 44
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                            46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               c t ac t aaaaa t ac aaaaat t t aaaaat t ag c c gggc at ag t ggc at gt gc c t gt agt c c c                  73680
               agc t ac t c ag gaggc t gagg c aggagaat c ac c t gaac c c aggaggt gga ggt t gc agt g                       73740
               agc t gagat c gc ac c ac t gc ac t c c agc c t gagc gac aga gt gagac t c g gt c t c aaac a                 73800
               aac aaat ac a c aaaaaaac c c ac aaagt t c at ggggaggg aaaggt gt ag c c t c t c t t ga                      73860
               gaac t t t c c t c t c t c at t t t c c c c c c aaac aggat gat gc t t c c t t t c t c t t c t c t at c c   73920
               t t t t c t ggac agc c t t gggt c c t c t c agt a ac t t at t t gg gt aagt ggc t ggt t at aat g            73980
 <removed-apn>
               gc agt gac c t c gaac t t agg c t c t ggggt a gt t ggc c ac t t t t gt c c t c a gt t t t gggc a           74040
               gt agt agc aa t t c t ggaagt t c t gggaaaa at c c aat t t g ac at c at agt ac gaac c t ga                  74100
               aggaaaggt c t t gat c c c aa agagc t c t c g gc agc t c at g gc t gt gac t g t c at c c aggg               74160
               c c t gggc c t g gggaaat gt t t ggggat c t g t gggat c c t t t agggac t gt c ac agt gac t                  74220
               c gggaaat gt t gc t at aggc aac t gt t c t g gaac t t t t t g gt c t t aggac t c t t t t ac at             74280
               t c t t aat agt at c aaggac c c c aaac agc t t t t at t t gt g t gggt t at aa c t t t t t t t t t          74340
               t t t t t gagat ggagt t t c at t c t agt c gc c c aggc t ggag t gc aat agt g t gat c t t ggc               74400
               t c ac t gc aac c t c t gc c c c a c aggt t c aag c aat c c t c c c ac c t c agc c t c c c gagt agc        74460
               t gagac t ac a ggt gt gc gc c at c ac gc c t g gc t aat t t t t t t gt at t t t t at t agagac a            74520
               gggt t t c ac c gt gt c ggc c a ggc t ggt c t c c aac t c c t ga c t t c aggt c a t c c at c c gc c        74580
               t c ggc c t t t c aaagt gc t gg gat t ac aggc at gagc c ac t gc gc c c ggc c t gt gt gggt t                74640
               at agc t at t g at at t t ac c a t at t agaac t t aaaac t ggc c at t t aaac a aat t t t t t at             74700
               t at t gat t ga t t t t t gagac agggt c t c ac c c t gt t gc c c agagt ggagt gc agt ggc at                 74760
               gat c ac agc t c ac t gc agc c t c gaac t c c t ggc c t c aagt gat c c t c t c g c t t c agc t t t         74820
               c t gagt ggt t gggac t ac ag gt gt gc ac c a c c ac ac c c aa c t aat t t at t gat t t t t t t g           74880
               t at ac ac agt c t t gc t gt gt t gc c t aggc t aaaac t gac a at at t aaaat c c agc c at c c               74940
               ac aagc ac ac ac t ggc agag c aat t at gt c at c ac at gt c at ggagc c at t gt at gc t c a                 75000
               t aagt gaat g agat t gaaat ac gc aaaaaa agt c c t ggaa t t at t at gaa agt aat t t t g                     75060
               gc c gagc gc g gt ggc t c ac g c c t gt aat c c c agc ac t t t g ggaggc c gag gc gggc ggat                 75120
               c ac gaggt c a ggagat c aag ac c at c c t gg c t aac at ggt gaaac c c c gt c t c t ac t aaa                75180
               at t ac aaaaa aaaat t agc c gggggt ggt g gc gggc gc c t gt agt c c c ag c t ac t c c gga                   75240
               ggc t gaggc a ggagaat c gc ggagc t t gc a gt gagc c gag at t gc gc c at t gc ac t c c ag                   75300
               c t t gggc gac agagc aagac t c c at c t c aa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaagaaa gt aat t t t aa                         75360
               c t t t gt ggac aaagt c t c ag ggac c t c c ag gaaac c c t gg ac c aaac t t t gaaac t t gc t               75420
               c t aaaagc at t t gt aagc c t gggat ggt t a ggt at gt t c a ac gt gc agc c at gt aggaga                    75480
               t agt gc at gt c aaaagggc c c c t t t ggat g ggt t aat at c ac t t t ggt t c agt t at c t gt               75540
               ggc c t ggaag gggt c c c t t g t gt ac aaac a aagc t gggga gt aggaggga agaat t t t t t                     75600
               t t t t t t t t t g agac agagt c t t gc t c t c gt c c c c c aggc t ggt gt gc agg ggt gt gat c t           75660
                                                                         Page 45
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                           46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               t ggc t c ac c g c aac c t c t gc c t c c c aggt t c aagc aat t c t c c t gc c t t a gc c t c c c t ag    75720
               t agc t gggat t ac aggc ac c t gc c ac c ac a c t t ggc t ac g t t t t gt at t t t t agt agaga            75780
               c ggggt t t t g c c at gt t ggc c aggc t ggt c aac c c t gac c t c aggt gat c c ac c c t c c t t          75840
               ggc c t c c c aa agc gc aggga t t t ac aggc g t gagc c ac t g c gc c t ggc c c aggagggagg                 75900
               aat c t t aac c at aat gc t c a t c t t gt ac t a t c t ac t ggaa ac c c t aaaaa t ac agagac c            75960
               c t ggagc c ac t t t c t gggt t c t gc t c c c c t t c at t gc t t t c t agc t gt gt gac t t t gggc       76020
 <removed-apn>
               c aagt t c c t t aac c ac t c t g t ggc t c agt t t c t c t t c t gg aaaat ggaga c aat aat agt            76080
               at c t gc c t c t c agc gt t gt t at aagagt t a c c t t ggc ac a c agt gt t at g t gggt gt t t a          76140
               c gc t gagt at t ac t gt t at t ac agt aat c a t t c aaat c c a agaagc c at c aaaggt aaga                 76200
               t gc at t gt t t t t t at t t t at t t t at t t t at t t t t t at t t t t at t t t gaga c agagt c c t g   76260
               c t c t gt t gc c c aggt gggag t gc agt ggt g c gat c t c agc t c ac t ac gac c t c c ac c t c c          76320
               c aggt t c aaa c aat t c t c c t gc t t c agc c t c c t gagt agc t gggat t ac a ggt gt gc c c t           76380
               ac c ac gc c t a agt t t t gt at t t t t agt aga gat ggggt t t c ac c at gt t g gc c aggc t gg            76440
               t c t c aaac t c c t gac c t c aa gt gat t c ac c c gc c t c agc c t c c c aaaat g c t gggat t ac         76500
               aagggt gagc c ac c ac ac c c agc c aagat g c at t gt c ac t t c aaat c c c c aggggagaaa                   76560
               aaac agc t gc c agt t aaac t at gac ac at a at c at t t at a agac ac at c c t gat t t c c aa              76620
               gt c at t gaaa aggggt gggg aggat aaat a agt c aat t aa aaat ggt t t t at t c ggc c t g                    76680
               gc gt ggt ggc t t ac gt c t gt aat gc c agc a c t t t gggagg c t gaggt ggg t ggat c ac ga                 76740
               ggt c aggaag t t c gagac c a gc c t ggc c aa c gt ggt gaaa c c c c gc c t c t ac t aaaaat a               76800
               c aaaaaat t a gc c at gc c t a gt ggc ac agg c c t gt aat c c c agc t ac t c g ggaggc t gag               76860
               gc aagagaat c t c t t gaac c c agaaggc ag agat t gc agt gagc c aagat c gt gc c at t g                     76920
               c ac t c c agc c t gggt gac ag agc aagac t c c at c t c gaga aaaaaaaaaa aaaagat ggt                       76980
               t t t at t c t gg aat aggagag t at t t aagga aagaaaat aa aaaat aaagg aaaaaaagaa                           77040
               at t t t aaaat t aaaaaaaat gat t t c at gt gt ac agaaga at t t agc aac aaggat gt c c                      77100
               ac c ac agc ac t t gt c at aat ggc aaac c t g c t gaaac c c c aac c at t at g gat t aac t gc              77160
               ac aagt t aag agagagc c ac aaaat at t gt gac t gaaggg gt t t t c aaag at t gt t c c aa                    77220
               aac c c t gggg at c c t c aaaa gt gaat c aat t t c t c t c t t t c at aat c t t t t t c at c t t c a      77280
               c t c t c c t at g agt gc at aaa gc aaaaaat a at aagc aggt gac t t c t aaa aagaaaaaac                     77340
               c t c t ggaaac t at gc c t c aa c c c c at t c t a gagc c t gc t g ggc c ac t gc t c agaaaagga            77400
               aat gt gt gc c c c aggc t gac c c ac t c t t aa gac aac c c at t c t c c ac at g c c t c t gc c t t       77460
               c agt t ac ac a gc t gt ac c c a gagaggggt c t t gt c t t t ac t c agc t gt c c at c c ac c c t c         77520
               c c t gt gt t gc aat gaat ac a t c c c t ggt at c t t c t gt gc c t ggc c c c agc c c ac c c c c t c      77580
               c t c agagc t c c agc c ac ac a t t c c agt gc c t t c gagac t c ac c t gc t t t g aaaggt agat            77640
               c c t t ac at t c aat t t t c t t g t t gaaat ac t t c at gt ggt t t c t t t t t t c t t gac aagc c t     77700
                                                                        Page 46
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                           46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               c t gac c aac a c t t ggt ggt c at t c t t aaac c gt t gat t t t t c c c c t t c ac ac c t at t c c c    77760
               c t c c ac gat c ac aat c t t c c c agt c t c aaa aat gt c t c t a c c t gggac c t c aagc c agaa         77820
               ac c c aggc aa t at ggaggc a c t t c c t c t c c t c at t c c ac a t at gc c ac t c at ggac aat t        77880
               c c t gc t t t c c t c t aaggc ag at gc t t ac c a c ac c c c t ac c c c c ac c c t t c t at t t agaaa   77940
               at t t c t aaac at gc aaaaga at t gc aagaa aagt agaaga t at aat aat a t ac t gt ggat                     78000
               at ggat t c ac t aggt t t t t g c agt t t t t t g t t t gt t t t t g t t t t gagac g gagt c t t gc t     78060
 <removed-apn>
               c t gt c ac c c a ggc t ggagt g c aat ggt gc g at c t c agt gc aagc t c t gc c t c c c aggt t c          78120
               aagc aat t c t c c c t gc t t c a ac c t t c c aag t agc t gggat t ac aggc ac c c ac c ac c at g         78180
               c c c agc t aat t t t t gt at t t t t c agt ggag at agggt t t t gt t ac gt t gg c c agc t ggt c          78240
               t t gac c t c c t gac c t c aggt gat c c gc c t g c c t t ggc c t c c c aaagt gc t ggat t ac agg         78300
               c gt gaac c gt c ac ac c t ggc c t t t t gt gt t t t t gt t t t t g t t t t ggt t t g t gt gt gt gt g    78360
               t t t gt t t gt t t gt t t t t gag at ggggt t t c ac t c t gt t gc c c aggc t gga gt gc agt ggt          78420
               gt gat c ac ag c t c ac t ac ag c c t c aac c t g c t aggc t c aa gc gat c c t c c c t t c t aagc c      78480
               t c t t gagt ag c t gagac t gc aggt gc c c ac c ac c ac ac c c agc t aat t t t t gt at t t t t t         78540
               gt agagac gg gt t t t c ac c a t gt t gc c c ag gc t gt t c t c a aac t c c t ggg c t c aagt gat         78600
               t c c c c c c ac c t t ggc c t c c c aaagt gc t t g gat t ac aaac gt gagc c ac t gt gc t gggc c          78660
               t at t t c t t t g t gt t t t aaga ggc agggt c t t t c t c t gt t g c c c aggt gga gt ac gat gat         78720
               t c gat c at ag c t c ac t gc ag c c t c aaac t c c t aggc ac gg gagac c c t c c t gc at c agc c         78780
               t c c c gagt ag c c c agac t ac aggt gt gt gc c ac t at ac c t agc t aat gaa aagaat t t t t              78840
               t t gt agac at gagt t c t t gc t at gt t gt c t aggc t ggt c t ggaac c t c c a gc c t c aggc g           78900
               at c c c c t t gc t t c agt c t t c c aaagc agt g gggt t ac agg c gt gaac c ac c t ggc c t ggt           78960
               c t c gc t c t t t c t c t t t c gac at c t ac at t g at c t gt agc t at c t ac gt ac t at agat at c     79020
               t aaaagt t at gt aaat gt c t ac t t aagc t t at aggt at ga gc t ac t gt at gc t at c t aag               79080
               c t t at aggt a t gagc t ac aa at t gc t at t g t gt t at gagg ggaat t c aaa aagt t gat gg               79140
               agaat ggaat t aagagat aa aaat t t t aaa aaaat c t t t a t t t c t c ac c a t aaac t c c at               79200
               c aaggt c aaa gt c aagac ac t t t t gt aaac c at t at ac c a gc c at t t agt c t at c c c t aa           79260
               at aac t gagg gt c c c aggaa t t t aat c at g t c agt gc agc c t t t t t ac at t t t c t c t t t c       79320
               t t t t t t t t t t t gat ggaat c t c ac t c t gt t gc t c aggc t g gagt gc agt g gt at gat c t c        79380
               ggc t c ac t gc aac c t c t gc c t c c c gggt t c aagc c at t c t c c t gc c t c ag c c t c c t gagt     79440
               agc t gggac t ac aggc at gt ac c ac c ac at c t ggc t aat t t t t t t t t t t t t agt agagac             79500
               gaggt t t t gc c aagt t ggc c gggc t ggt c t c aaac t c c t a ac t t c aggt g at c t gc c c gc           79560
               c t c ggc c t c c c aaagt gc t a gc at t ac agt t gt gagc c ac t gt gc c aggc c t t t t t t t t t        79620
               t gt t c t t gt t gc c c aggc t g gagt gc agt g gc at gat c t c ggc t c ac t gc aac c t c c ac c         79680
               t c c t gggt t c aagt gat t c t c c t gc c t c ag c c t c c c gac t agc t gggat t ac agt c at ga         79740
                                                                        Page 47
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                           46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               gc c ac c ac ac c t ggc t aat t t t t gt at t t t t t t t t t t agt agagac aggg t t t t gc c at g        79800
               t t ggt c aggc t ggt c t t gaa c t c c c aac c t c aggt gat c c ac c c t c c t t g gc c t c c c aaa      79860
               at gc t aagat t ac aggc gt g agc c ac t c c g c c c agc c c ag t c t t t t t ac a t t c t t aac t g      79920
               aagaaaaat g ggt gc c c t t c aaagat t t t a agat t aggaa ac aaaaagt c agaaggagc c                        79980
               aaat t gggac t gc c aagt gg at gc c t aat a at t t c c c at c aaaac t t gt a aaat t gc t c g             80040
               t t t gat gagg agaat gagc a gaagc gt aga c at gc t ggag aagaac t c t c t ggt gaagc t                     80100
 <removed-apn>
               t c c c aggc t t at t t c t ac t a aagc t t c ggc t aac t t t c t c aaaac ac t c t c at aat aagc         80160
               agat c t t at t at t c t t t gac c c t ac agaaa gt c aac c agc aaaat gc c t t gagc at c c c c            80220
               aaaaac t gt t gc t at gac c t t t gc t c t t ga c c agt gt gc t t c t gc c t t ga c t ggat c ac t        80280
               t c c c c gc t c t t ggc aat c at t c t c t gat t a c gat t t gt c t t t aggat t gc ac c c gt gaaa       80340
               c c at gt at c a t t t c c c gt t a c aat c c t t c a aggaaat gc a t t aggat c t c gat c t c ac t t      80400
               gt t t agc at g t c c at ggaaa gc t c t gc t c t t c t c t gc agc t gat c t gggt gc gac c gt t c         80460
               t ggc ac c c at c gagt ggaaa gt t t gt t t ag c t t t aat t t c agt c agaat t gt gt aagc t g             80520
               aggc c gggt g aggt ggc t c a agc c t gt aat c c c agc agt t c gggagaat g aggc aggagg                     80580
               at c ac t t gt g t c c aggagt t c aagac c agc c t gggaaac c t aat gagac c c c c at c t c t a             80640
               c aaaaaat ac gaaaat t t ag t gt c aggc c t c t gagc c c aa gc t aagc c at c at at c gc c t               80700
               gt gac c t gc a c gt at ac at c c aggt ggc c t gaagc aac t g aagagc c ac a aaagaagt ga                   80760
               aaat agc c t t aac t gat gac at t c c ac c at t gt gat t t gt t t c t gc c c c a c c c t aat gat         80820
               c aat gt ac t t t gt aat c t c c c c c ac c c t t a agaagt t t c t t t gt aat t c t t c c c at c c t t   80880
               gagaat gaac t t t gt gagat c c gc c c c c t g c c c gc aaaac at t gc t c c aa ac t c c ac c gc           80940
               c t at c c c aaa ac c t at aaga at t aat c at a at c c c ac c ac c c t t t gc t ga c t c t c t t t t t   81000
               ggac t c agc c t gc c t gc ac c c aggt gaaat aaac agc c t t gt t gc t c ac a c aaagc c t gt              81060
               t t ggt ggt c t c t t c ac aggg ac gc gt gt ga c ac t t agc t g aac gt gc t gg c ac gc ac c t g          81120
               t agt t c c aac t ac t t c ggag gc t gaggt gg aaggat c gc t t gagc c c agg aggt t gaggc                  81180
               t gc agt gagc c ac aat c t c a c c ac t gt ac t c agc c t gggc gac agt at ga gaac c c t gt c             81240
               t c aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaagaaaaaa gaat t gt gt a agc t gt ac c a at t gagat gt                          81300
               c t at ggt gt t ggc t at t gt t t c t gc t gt t a ac t gt aagt c c t c t t t aat t aaggc at aaa          81360
               c aaat t t aat t t t t t t c t gc aaaaat t gat gt ggat ggt a t gc c ac ggt g ggc t t c at c t            81420
               t c agc at gac c c aggc t gga gt gc agt ggc gc aat c ac gg c t c ac t gc aa c c t c t ac c t c           81480
               c c agac t c aa gt gat c c t c c c ac c t c agc c t c c t gagt ag c t ggaac t ac aagt gt gc ac           81540
               c ac c ac ac c c agc t aat t t a t gt at t t t t t gt ac ggat gg ggt t t c ac c a t gt t ac c c ag       81600
               gc t ggt c t c g aat t c c t gag c t c c aat gat c c gc t ggc c t c agc c t c c c a aagt at t ggg        81660
               at t ac aggc g t gaac c ac c a c gc c c gaac t t gt c c c t t c t t aaaac gagt t at c c at t t g         81720
               t aaat ggc t g at t t c t c t gg ggc ac t gt c a agt t t t t gga aaac at c aat gat t t c at c a          81780
                                                                     Page 48
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                              46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               t t c t t c c ac c c aagc t t c ac c at c aat t t g at gc t t gt t c t t gc t t c aat t t t agaat t c           81840
               gt gt t gc t c t gat aggggc t c t t t t c aat c t gat gt t t t a t t t t agt gt c t c aaac t agg                81900
               t c c t gt t c ag ac aagt t at a ac aagt t agt at gaat t t at t t t ggt gc aa aaaaaaaaaa                        81960
               t t gaac t c c a t gc at agt t t t t t c at aat a c ac at t t t c c at gaat t t t t ggaagac c c t               82020
               t c t t t t t c t c t c t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t c t gt ag agat ggt c t t gt t c t gt c ac   82080
               c c aggc t gga gt gc agt ggc ac aat c at gg c t c ac t gc ag c c t c gac c t c c t gggc t c aa                  82140
 <removed-apn>
               gc aat c c t c c c ac c t c agc t t c c t gt t ac t gggac t at ag gt gt gc ac c a c c ac ac c t t g             82200
               at aat t aaaa aaaaaaat t t t t t t gt agag at c ggggt gg gggggggggt c t c ac t at at                            82260
               t t t c c aggc t ggt c t t gaac t c c t ggc c t c aagt gac c c t c c c c aat c ag c c t c c c aaag              82320
               t gc t gggat t ac aggc ac aa gc c ac agt gc c t ggc c aat a aat gt t t t t t gaat gaat ga                       82380
               agaaat t agt gc at ggac at at t t t c c c at c agc t at t ac aat aac c aga c t c t gagt t c                     82440
               c c t gaaggc a gggc c t gt ga gt t t c at t gt gt ac c c t c ag c c c t c aat ag c t gat aaaaa                  82500
               t aaat at t c a gaaaat gc t t gt aaaat gaa gaagagaat a t gt at gggac agaaagt aga                                82560
               c c agt ggt t g c c t ggggc t g ggac agggaa t agggagc ga c t gc aaat gg gc agaaggga                             82620
               t c t t t t c aga gt gat ggaaa t gt t c t t gaa t t ggc t gt ga t ggc t gc aga ac t gt aaaat                    82680
               c ac c c aaaat c agt aaat c a c t t at aat ag gt gaat t t t a t gac aggt ag at t at ac c t c                    82740
               agt aaagc t g t t aaaac aaa ac c agt gt t g agggaggaaa t aaat gt t ac c t t ggt aat a                           82800
               c t gaggac t c agt agt t at c aagac agc t c t c t t c c c t gc c c t c at gagg t t t t c t gt gc                82860
               agggc gggga c gc c gac c c a t t at agac ag t gac agc c t a gagc c at c ac ggc gggat gg                         82920
               t ggggagggg ac aggc agag gggt gggagg c c aggat ggg ggaagc c c gg gc agagaggt                                    82980
               t gggc t ggaa t ggggggc ac aggc agaggg gt c ggggc gg ggac t ggt ga ggt gc aggc a                                83040
               gagggc aaag gggt c gaggt c c agat ggga gat gt ac agg c agac ggat c c gggc c aggg                                83100
               c ggggaggt a c aggc c c agt t gaggagc at aaggaac c at aggagc c c aa aggaggc gc c                                83160
               c gac c agt c a gggaggac t t c c c agagggg t gaat ggc t g agc c agggc c t gaagt at aa                           83220
               t gt t c at gaa t gc gac agc a at t t t t t t t t t t t t gagac c gagt c t c c c t c t at c ac t gg             83280
               agt gc agt gg c t c gat t t c g gc t c ac t ac a ac c t c c ac c t ac c gggt t c a agc gat t c t c              83340
               c t gc c t c agc c t c c c gggt a gc t gggac t a c aggc gc c c g c c c c c ac gt c c ggc t aat gt               83400
               t t gc at t t t t agt c gagac g gggt t t c gc c at t t t ggc c a ggc t ggt c t t gaac c c c t ga                83460
               c c t c aggt aa t gc ac c t gc c t c ggc c t c c c aaagt gc t gg gat t ac aggc gt gagc c ac c                   83520
               gc gc c c agc a c aat t t t aat t t t t c t t aaa c ac t t t t c c t gc c t t agc aa agt c t t ggag             83580
               gggc ggc c gc c c aggc gc c g c gagc gc aag ac c ac gaggg ggc gc t gc t t c ac c ac gc t a                      83640
               gaggagc gc t c c c ggc aac c ac gt ggc c c c ac aggt gc gg gaggt c ggc g agc gc gc c t g                        83700
               gagggt ggac ggggt aggt t ac ggc c aggc agc c c ggggt ggc gc gt ggc c c t gc gc agg                              83760
               gc agt ggaag c agc gggc c c c agggagc at gagac gc c gc gc t c c gt ggg gc ggt c c c ag                          83820
                                                            Page 49
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                            46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               c gc t gt gc ag c gaggggc c a gggc t gt c c c c ggt c c t gc g c ggc c ggc t c c c ggagaaac                83880
               t gt ggc c t c c t gggggt gga gc t t t aaaaa ac aaaac aaa ac aaaac aaa at c ac c c aac                     83940
               aggaagc ggg gt gggggc gc c c ggc t c t gt c ac c c gt gga at gc at c aaa at agc c t gc g                   84000
               c ggc c ggggg c ggt t c c ggg aaagggggc g gc c gc gaggg gc ggggc t gc aac ggagggc                          84060
               ggagc t t c c c aaagaac ggg agagaggagt gc agaac c gg c c c c aggggg ac gt c c t c c t                      84120
               gt t c c c c c aa aat gac c t c g at aggc gt t t gt gt gggat g gggt t c c t gg gt agggc ggg                84180
 <removed-apn>
               gc t t t c c agt gc gat gt c c c t ggt c t at t c t t agc gggc t gaaac c t gga gaagt gggag                 84240
               t gggc ggt t g at c c gggt t c c agggc c t c t t t ggagc gaa aagc t c c gt g gagagc c aga                  84300
               gt c t c c at c c t gggc gt ggg agggaagat g ggaaat gggc c aagaggagc c t gt gggagg                          84360
               t c c t c c c c gg gac ggc c c c c t t c c at c t gc at c c gc ggga ac c gt t gt gg gggc agc t c t         84420
               gagaaaggc t gc t c t gggc g c aaggaaggg t ggt t gaac g aagagat c ag t c agggac gg                          84480
               ggt gggggt g c c t t gac t gt gt c c c agat t t gc t gc gt gc t t c t gac c t c agt t c c c c at           84540
               c c t t c c agt t gc t c aaat c c t c t c t gt c c c agt c c t aggc c gt t t c t gc c c c t c t c ac t t   84600
               c c t agt ggt t t gc agagggg aaac ac t gag gc t gc c t c t t c t gt gc c t gg c c c t gt gt t g            84660
               gc ac ggggaa gt gac t gaga c gc c c c agac c c c c t t c t c c c t c ac agt c c agt gaggc ag               84720
               ac agac c t gc c ac c agat ag t gac agc c c a gaat gagt c a t t gagaggac gggggaggc a                       84780
               c aggc agat g ggt c agggc t gggat agggg aggagagggg c c t gt aggat c c aaggggag                             84840
               agt gggt gc t gc t gac t c ag t c t ggggggg t t gaagagc c gt c t gaac t t agac c aaaaa                     84900
               ggt aggat gg ggc c gggc gc c t gt t at c c c agc ac t t t gg gaggc agaga c aagaggat c                      84960
               gc t t gaggc c aggagt t c c a gac c agat t g gac aac at ag c gagac c c c c at c t c t ac aa                85020
               aat aat t t aa aaat c agt t g ggc at agt gg t gt ac gc c t a t agt c c c agc t ac t c aggag                85080
               gc t gaggt gg gaagat t ggt t gagc c c agg aat t c aaggc t gc aat gagc t at gat t gc c                      85140
               c c ac t gc agt c c agc c c ggg t gac agc gt g agac c c c t gc c t c c aaaat a at aat agc aa               85200
               aaat ac t ggg c t gggc gc gg c ggc t c ac ac c t gt aat c c c aac ac t t t gg gaagc c gagg                 85260
               t gggc aaat c gc t gaggt c a ggagt t c c ag ac c agc c t gg c c aac at ggt gaaac c c agt                   85320
               c t c t ac t aaa aat ac aaaaa t t agc t aggt gt ggt ggc aa ggc at c t gt a gt t c c agc t a                85380
               c t t gggaggc t gaggc agga gaat c gc t t g agc c c aggag gt ggaggc t g c aat gagat c                       85440
               ac ac c ac t gc ac t c c agc c t gggc gac aga gt gagac t c t gt c t c aaaaa at aaat aaat                   85500
               c c t aat gaaa ggat aggat g gggc t c aggg c c t t ggaaga gggt c ac c t t c t aac aaaag                     85560
               gt at t t gaac ggagt c c t aa agaat gagt a gc at t c t t c t gggaagt gc t gt gt c ac c at                  85620
               gaaggaaagg gt gt t c t agg c agaaagaat gac aaat gc a aaagc t t gga ggt gagagt g                            85680
               t ggc t t at c t c t ggc agggt c c t c t gc t c c c t gc c t ggga c at t c c c c c a ac gt c at ac c       85740
               c c gac agagc t gt c t t aggt c t c c t agt c c t ggagt c c ac aagc aggt t a at gggat gt a                 85800
               at ggaaac gc t at agagggc agac c c c t ag gc t t gt t c c c t c ac agc c t g at gc t t t t t t             85860
                                                               Page 50
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                            46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               gt t t t t gaga c agagt c t c g c t c t gt t gc c c aggc t ggag t gc agt ggc g t gat c t t ggc               85920
               t c ac t gc aac c t t ggc c t c c c aggt t c aag c gat t gt c c t gc c t c agc t t c c c aagt agc            85980
               t gagat t ac a ggc ac c c ac c ac c ac gc c t g gc t aagt t t t gt at t t t t ag t agagac gga                86040
               gt t t c ac c at gt t ggc c agg c t agt c t c ga ac t c c c aac c t c aggt aat c c ac t t gc c t c           86100
               ggc t t c c c aa agt gc t ggga t t aaaggc at gagc c ac c ac gc c c agc c t t t t gt t t t gt c               86160
               t gc t t t t t t a gac agggt c t c ac gc t gt c a c c c t c ac agg c t ggagt gc a gt gac t gc at             86220
 <removed-apn>
               c ac ggac c ac t gc agc c t gg ac c t c c c agg c t c aagc aat c c t c c c ac c t c aac c t c t c c          86280
               agc agc t ggg ac t ac aggc g t at gc c ac c a c gc c c ac c t a at t t t aaaat t at t t t gt ag              86340
               agac agggt c t c at t at gt t gc c c aggc t g gc c t c gaac t c c t gggc t c a agc gat c c t c               86400
               c c ac c t t ggc c t c c c gaagt gc t gggc t t a c aggt gagag c c ac c t c agt gc c c ggc c t c              86460
               agc c t gat gg t t t c ac gac t gc c t t t gac t t t ggc c c ac a c t aat c aaat gt at c ac c gt             86520
               gggc c ac t ga c t c aac t t c c c c at c t at c c agt gggaat a gaat at t gga c t gc ac aaaa                 86580
               t c aac c ac c t c at t t t aaag agc t at aac g aaac aaaat t t at at gt t at at at t t t t aa                86640
               aaat ac at c t t at agat t aa aggac t c aag aaac aat agc aagac t gt aa aac gt t gc c a                       86700
               c at c aggt ga c ac t t t ggc c agagt t at gg aaaat gc t ga c aaaac aaga at t t gc c agc                     86760
               at gggc aaag at at ac t gt t ac c aac c c aa c t t gt t aaaa t at t aat at t gagc t aat t a                  86820
               gaagt agt t t t t t t t t t t t t gt t t t t t t t t t t t gagac ag agt c t c at t c t gt t gc c c ag        86880
               gc aggagt gc aat ggt gt ga c c t c aggt c a c t gc aac c t c t gc t gc c t gg gt t c aagc ga                 86940
               t t c t t gt gc c t c agc c t c c t ggaat t ac ag gc gc c t gc c a c c ac gc c c gg c t aat t t t t g        87000
               aat t t t t ggt agagac t ggg t t t c t c c at g gc ggc c aggc t ggt c t c gaa c t c c t gac c t              87060
               t aagt gat c t gc c t gc c t c g ac c t c c c aaa gt gc t gggat t ac aggc gt g agc c ac t gt g               87120
               c c c agc c agc agt t c at aat at t t gt t t t t t at t c c t t ga t t c t aac t c t gt aaggaat a            87180
               gaaat ggggt gat t aat t t t ggc t c c t t t a at ac c c gc c t ggc aggt gc t gagt c agt gg                   87240
               t ac c t gt t ac c ac gc t at ga c t c agaggt t at c ac t c agg gac at c c t t c t gac t c t gt t            87300
               t c agt c c at g ac t c aggagg aaaggt t c t a gggc c t c ac c agc gc c c t ac ac ac ac c c t c               87360
               gt t t c c c gag gggc ac c at t at at t c t t c c t t t at t ggc t gt c c t t gt at aat ac aaat c            87420
               t t c aagt t t a gat ac aaaaa aaat c t ggaa at aaaagat a gaaaagt ac c c gc c aggc ac                         87480
               c c c t t c c c c t t c t t c c c gga c c c c t c c c c a gc gggc ac c g ac at gaggt a ac t gc gc at c       87540
               t t c t c c t c c t c c t c c c t c c c c gc c t c c t gg gc c c c c aac t t ggc c c t agc c c c c at gaga   87600
               c c t t ggc c c a aggaagac at gggc c c c aaa gt t ggagggt gat ggaggt g agt ac agc at                         87660
               t ggc agt gaa c gc agc gt gt gggc agaggg c agc c c t t ag c t t gt gc t gt gc at gggggg                      87720
               aggagac gac c agat t t ggg gt gggc ac t g gt gt ggggc c c aggagagc c c c t aagc aag                          87780
               t gt c c c c c c t c c at c c t gt c c aac ac t gga aggt gggggt c aac agaaac t gggaaat gg                    87840
               agt gt gaac c aagggc at t c agt gggat t g t ggc c aac c c c t gt gt c t gg ggt t ggggaa                      87900
                                                              Page 51
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                          46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               gggggc at t g c c agc c t aag t c c ggc agt g aaat ggt t c c c t t agc c agg c t gggt c c gt           87960
               c c c t gaat t c c at c c t gt t g c aac c t gggc gt c ac aat gt t ggt t c t gt a gt ggt t gt c g      88020
               gggt ggt t ga gggagggggg t gt t gagagg gt gt t gaggg gc gc agc c c c agggagc agg                       88080
               gt t aggggag aggt t gt gc c t c c ac c c c c a ggc gt ggggc ac c t ggagat gat ggagt gg                 88140
               gt ggggc ggc t c gggc t ac a gt t c aat c t c gaat gt c t t t t gc aggt c gc c agaaaaggg               88200
               gt t ggagggt t t c t c t ac ag t ggc t t t gc c t t c t aat gc c gc c c ac t ggg c c t c aaaggg        88260
 <removed-apn>
               gt c c aac t c t ggagc t gggg c aggc gc t gg c t c agggggc c agggggc c c c at t ggggc g                88320
               agggc gggc c t ggc t c c c ag gggc ac t ggg t at ggc aggg ggc gggaagg c c c c agc t t t                88380
               c c c aagc aga gt ggc aggc t gaggc t ggag c t gggc ggc t gagc agaagg c gt t t gc c ac                  88440
               c at c t gt gag ggt gt gat gc c c ac c ac ggg c ac c c ggggc at c ggt gggt agc c c aagc c              88500
               c gggt aggc g ggc ac aaaag ggggc t gc at gt gt gggggt ggc aggaac a c ggc c ac t t g                    88560
               ggc aggt gc a gc gt c aaagg gc c c c ac ggg ggc ggggaaa ggc t gc aggg c aggaggc at                     88620
               ggt gggc ac t ggggc c ac t g aggc t gc t t g c t gc t gt t gc t gc t gc t gc t gc t gc t gc t g        88680
               t t gc t gt t gc t gc t gc t gc t gc t gc t gggc c t t ggc c ac c t gt gac ac c t c c t c c agc c a    88740
               t c gc t c agc c t c t gaaggt g t c c gc t t gt g c c c aggc t gg aaggc agc t g c agggggc ac           88800
               ggagggc t c a c c c c aggc ag aagt c c c t gg agagaggaga gggac aggt g agggaggggg                       88860
               c aac ggc t t c agc agaagaa c c c c aggc t g ggaac t ggc a t ggt gt gggg at c agagc ac                 88920
               ggac t c t gga gc c agac c gc c t gc c t c t ga at c c c agc t c t gc ac c t c c c gagc t t gc t g     88980
               ac t t c aggc g agt gac t t c a c c at t c t gga c c ac gt aat g gt t c t ggagt gc t aagaac a          89040
               t ac aat t c t g agc t t c t aag gc c c t at gat gagaaagt c t aagt aggac t gac at c c t c c            89100
               t agc c c c ac t ac c c t t c t ga c t ggt c agt g c c aagc c t ag gat t c ac t at t t t gt t t t gt   89160
               t t gt t gt c t g t t c gt t t t ga gagt c t c ac t c t gt t gc c c a gggat gc c c t at c t gggc t c   89220
               ac t gc aac c t c t gc c t c c c a ggt t c aagc a at t c t c gt gc c t c agt c t c c t gagt agc t g    89280
               ggat t ac agg c gc gc ac c at t ac gc c c ggc t gat t t t t t g t at t t t t agt agaggc gagg           89340
               t t t c aac at g t t gc c c aggc t ggac t c gaa c t c c t ac c t c aagt aat c c c c c t gc c t c gg    89400
               c t t c c c aaag t ac t aggat t ac aggc at ga gc c ac c ac ac c c agc t ggt a t t c ac t at t t        89460
               t gaat at c ac c c t t gat t t t c t aat ac c t t c agaat gt at t gt t t t agga gt t aagat t c         89520
               t aagat t gc a t ggat c t t t c t c c ac at gt a t aat agt at c c t aac at agt aaggt t t gac           89580
               agt t t agggt t gggc t t t c t aagat t c t c g agt t c t ac at t t ac agt gt t t gagat t c t a         89640
               aggt gc ac c t gt ggt t c t ag gat aagc c c a t ggc t c t aag at gat ac at g gt t c t c aagg           89700
               at t c c at ggt t c t gaaac ga t c t c t gggc t c t aaggt gat c c c aagat t c t agc at gagc            89760
               ac at gc c t c t gaggt gac c c c gt ggc t c t a c aat gat c c c gt at c t c t aa gat aat t c at        89820
               ggt t c t aaag t gat c ac t t g at t c t c aggt aat c c c ac gg c t c t aagat g at c c t t ggt t       89880
               c t aggat gat c c t c t ggt t c t aagat gat c t gt gt t t c t a aggt gat c c t at ggc t c t aa         89940
                                                                   Page 52
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                          46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               gat gat c c at agt t c t agga t gat c c c at g gt t c t aaggg gat c c c gt gg c t c t aaaat g         90000
               at c aagggc t c t gagat gat c c at ggc t c t aaggt gat c a c at gat t c t c agat aat t c c            90060
               at ggc t c t aa gat gat c c at ggt t c t agga t aat c c c c t g gc t c t aagat gat c c c t ggg        90120
               t c t aaggt ga t c ac at gat t c t t aggt aat c c c at ggc t c t aagat gaac c ac ggat c t a           90180
               ggat gat c c c c t ggc t c t aa gat gat c c at ggc t c t aaga t gat c ac ac g at t c t c agat         90240
               aat c c c at gg t t c t aggc t g at c c c c t ggc t c t aagat ga t c c c t gc t t t t aaggt gat t     90300
 <removed-apn>
               gc at gat t c t c aggt aat c c c gt ggc t c t a agat gat c c a t ggat c t agg at gat c c c c t        90360
               ggc t c t aaga t gat c c at gg t t c t aaagt a at c gc at gat t c t c aggt aa t c c c at ggc t        90420
               c t aagat gat c c at ggt t gt aggat gat c c c c t ggc t c t g aggt gat c c a t ggt t c t aag          90480
               c c t gt aggat c c c aagac c c c t ggagt gt c t gggt agc c c t ggat agagg aggggat ac a                90540
               ggagggac at gc agggt gt c t gc c c agc ag aaagc c t ggc t t t ac c t gt t gt ggc aggt g               90600
               gt ggc c c t gg t gc t ggc gc t c c agc ac t gg c aaaagat ga ac t gat c t gt gt gc ac agag            90660
               c gt t gat gc t gt c ac t gt c g c c ggc ac c ag gaggc t c c at c t c aggc ac t gggaagc agg           90720
               gc aggac aga ggt c agc aaa c aggc c c aga c c c t gc c gc a gc c c c gc c c t c t ac c c c c c g      90780
               c c c t c ggt gg c c c t c t c t t c t gac c t ggat c c t t t c c c ac t gt agt aac t aagt ggc c at   90840
               gac c gc c aaa t aac t gt gc a t at gt gt gt g t c ac at c t ga gc ggc agaac gac t gagt t a           90900
               gt gt gt gac a t t t gac ggc t gac agt aac a gggac c c c aa ac c aaggac c t c aagat t t g             90960
               t gt gt ggc c a c aaac c agaa gagt t gt c t a aaac ac t t ag c aac at at at t agt t t aaaa            91020
               at at gc c c aa c c ac gt gc at ggc aaggac a t gggc c c agt c t gaat gggc t gt ggc at gg              91080
               c c gc t c ac t g gc t ggggat c at t t gt c c ag c t t t gggc ag agaagt gggg t c c t gt c c ac        91140
               c c c ac c c agg c t gat c t at g gc aaac at c a t gagagc aga gat ac ac c t g t gc c agc aag          91200
               gc aggagac a c t gagc aggc at ggc ggc c c c gt gagggc t t gt gat gagc aaaggt ac c a                   91260
               t c c aaat aaa c aat t aagga c t c c c at gt g t ggt gt gt ga c ac at gt c t g t gat gt t t t a       91320
               gc c aat ggc t gt c t c c aagg gac c at gt ag at gc t c c agt gaac at c aga ac t ggc c gt a           91380
               ggagt c t gc a ggt gt gc t gc gggggc gc c c gggt gggac a gc c aat gt c g ac aat gat t g               91440
               t gc at gt t c g t c c aaac agg aat gc agc t t c t gagagt gt gac t ggggt c c gggt gt gt g             91500
               gc gt c c t gat gc gt gac t c c c aggt gt gag t gc at c t gc c gt gt gat gt a t gagt gt gt t          91560
               t gc aggt gt g c at ggat c t g c ac at gt ggc t t t ggagt t t gc at aaat c t gggt gt gt gg            91620
               t c t gt gaagg t gt gt aaat c t gagt gt gt t t c t t t t t t aa aaat at t t at t t at t t at t t      91680
               t t gac ac agg gt c t c gc t c t gt t gc c c agg c t ggagt gt a gt ggc ac aat c t t agt t c ac        91740
               t gc aac c t c c gc c t c c c agg c t c aagc aat c t t c c t gagt agc t gggac t ac aggt gc at         91800
               gc c ac t gc ac c t ggt t aac a at aaaggt t a at t t t t aaaa t t t t t t t gt g gagat gagat          91860
               c t t gc t gt gg t gc c c aggc t ggt c t c aaac t c c t gagc t c aagt gat c c t c c t gc c t c ag     91920
               c c t c c c aaag t gc t gggat t ac aggt gt ga gc c ac c ac gt c t ggc c at gt gt gac t t c t g        91980
                                                                   Page 53
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                            46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               ac t c t gt gat t t t ggagt gt gt gt gac t t g agagt at ac c t gac t gt gag t t t gt gac t t                92040
               c t gagc at gt gt gac at gt g t gt ggggggg t gc aat gt c t at gt gagt at gt gaaat t t c                     92100
               t gt gt ggc aa gt c ac at c c a aat aagc gt g c agc t ggc c a c aggagt gt g aggc t t c c aa                 92160
               at aaagc c t g gagc t c c t gc c ac c t c t c ag gagc ac gt gt gac agc c t gg ggagt gt gc c                 92220
               t gat gt c agg c t gc gt t aag gac agc aaat gt gagggt gt gt gat ggc c c aggaat gc t g                       92280
               c aggc at gga gggagc gt gc gt c ac t c t c a ac aagggt t g gc at c t gc t c ac c ggt t ac c                 92340
 <removed-apn>
               t t t t ggagc a gc c c agc c t c c t ggat ac ag c t c aac ac c c t c c c ac at c a at c c c c gagg          92400
               ac at aac ggg t aggc gat gc agat t t ggc a t c c aggagc a agagagt ggg c c agac c ac a                       92460
               t gggt t c ac t ggc t gc t ggt ggggaagac a gc c c t t c t gc c t gc c t c c c t c aggc aaaaa                92520
               c t c agt agc g t gc c ac c t c t at c t t c c t t c c c t at ggc ag agat t gc t c t t aat t t t t t t      92580
               t t t t t t gaga c aggt t c t c a c t c t gt t gc c c aggc t ggag t gaagt ggc g c aat c t t agc             92640
               t c ac t gc agc t gggc t gaag c aat t c t c c t t c c t c agc c t c c t gagt agc t gagac t ac a             92700
               ggc at gc gc c ac c ac ac c ag gc t agt t t t t gt at t t t t t t gt agagac ag ggt t t agc c a              92760
               agt gat c t gc c t c aagggat c c t t gagc c c c t c t t gggc t c aagt gat c t gc c t gc c t t g             92820
               gc c t c c c aaa gt gc t gagac c ac aggc at g agc c ac t gc a c t t ggc t aga c at c ac t t t t             92880
               agat c at gat gt ac ac c ac c t gt c t c c t t t c c c t ggc c c a t ggc agac at t agt aat c aa             92940
               ac ac aat gc t t t t t t c c c c c ac ggagc t c t t t gc t c ac c t t ac c c gt c ac c t gt c c agac        93000
               c t c at ggc t c c c c t ggc c aa gt gc t agaag aaac agat c c t t gt aac t c c at c t t c c c t c           93060
               c aagt aaaac aggac c t t t a t at c t c c t c t c t c t t ac c ac c agc c at ggc agac aat gc c              93120
               aat c aat t at gat gt gc t gc t c c t t t t c gt gat gggt ac t gc c t c t gc t c aac t c t gt gc            93180
               c t ac aac aaa t gt t c c t gat c c at c ac t at gc c c c t gac c c c t gggat c t c t gagc t c ac           93240
               t ggt gc c c t g c at gt c at gt t t c t ac t gac c aaat t c t gg gagt c t c c c c t t t gggt aaa           93300
               aac at aac ac t c t t gc t ac t c t t t c t t c t c c c t t gc c c at gac ac ac ac t gc at ggagat           93360
               c at gac t gc t aac c gat c at gat gt gt gc c at c t t t c t c g t t t c c c t t aa c c ac agc aga          93420
               c at t gc t aat t gat c at gac t t gt gat gc c t t t t t t gc c a t c c c t t gat g c t c c c t gc c c      93480
               t aggc agac a t t t c t aat c c at c ac aat c c t c c t t t c c t c agagc c t gag gaat ac c t gt            93540
               at c c t t c ac c t agc c agat c t c at aggt ga at gc t t ggag ggagggagc a t t aac c t gt a                 93600
               gt gc t t c agt c t ac t c c t ga gc aaaaac ag gc c aat ggt g t t gc t t c t c t t c t t t c c c t g        93660
               gc c c at ggc a aac t t c c t t a t c c at gc c c g ac t t c t t t gt c c at agc c ga c t t t gc t aac      93720
               t aat c at gat gt gt gt c at c t t t c t c c t t t t c c t t aac c a c ac c agac at t gc t aac t ga         93780
               t c at aac t t g t gat gc c t t t c t ac t at c c c t t ac t c agag c agac ac ggc t t at c aat c c          93840
               t gat t t gt gc t at c t c t t t c c t c t c c c t t g c c c ac t gc t a at c gat c at g ac at gt t c c c   93900
               ac t c t c t c t c c t t t gc c c at ggc agac agt gc aaat c aat c ac agt gt ga ac c at c t c gc             93960
               c t c c at c c c t t gc c c ac at c agat agt gc c aat t gat t c c aac gc c gt t t c c c ac t gggc           94020
                                                                      Page 54
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                               46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               c c agggc t c a c c t gt gc c c t t c ac c t ggaa gt c agt gc gg c gc t gc agc g t ggat ggc ag                    94080
               c t c at t c agc c gt aggc t c a gc t gc c gt t t gaaaggc gag t t c t t c t ggc t gagt gc t gg                    94140
               gaac c c ac gg aaggagc c c t ggc gaac c ag c t gc t c c agg ggt gc at ggc gc c gggggat                            94200
               ggc ggc c gc a gt ggt gc c t g c agc c ac agg ggt gc c t gc c t c ac c c t t c t c ac c agggga                    94260
               t gt ggt ggc t ggt gt c gggg ac ac gt gc c c aggc t gggc a gggc c aggag c c ac agt ggg                            94320
               ggc agc t gc t gc c t c t gc t g gagac at ggg ggagat ggat ggt t agat at c t c ac c at gg                          94380
 <removed-apn>
               c at gc aaggc c t c t c c c ac c t ggt t c t c t t gat c at t c t c c aaggc t gc c t t c c t t gc c c             94440
               agt gagt c c t gc c c t t aaga c aagc t agt c aaagc c c t ga gat at c c c t c ac c c c c ac c c                   94500
               aagt c at gat c c c c t t c c c c aggaggc t c t t ggaaaac c g t c c c c c aggc t c ac c c t c t g                 94560
               t gt c t c t c c a gc t t c c t gc c c c t t t c t gt c t t gc c c t gc t gc t c t c ac c a t t c t t c c c t c   94620
               t aagac c c t c t at c t c c c t t t t t gat c ac t t aac aaac ac t gat t t ggt g c t ggaac aac                   94680
               gt at c aggc a t t gt t c c aga t gc t t t t c aa gt at t c ac t c at t c aat c c a c ac gac t ac c               94740
               c at ggggt t g at at gat t c t c at t t t ac ag at gt ggaaac t gagac c c ag c aaaggc c c a                        94800
               gt gt gat gt g c c c aagt c c t ac t gc t agga aggggc aggc t gac t c t gga c c c c at gc t c                      94860
               c aaat gac t g c c c gc c c t gt c t c c c t c t ga c c t gt c t c t c c at at c at gt t gt c t t t c t c         94920
               t gt c ac t gt c t gt t c c c c t c t gt c t c c c ac c t c c c agc c t t c t t c c c ac c t c aagt agc t         94980
               c c t c c c t t c c t c c agt c at t c t agac at gg c t t ggat gc t t c at c c t c t g agaagc t t t c             95040
               c agat t gt t c c aggc t c t c a gc c t ggc t c c c t c c ac t c t g agac t gt t c t c t gt ac t c t g            95100
               ggaggaaac c t gac c t c c c c ac t c agc agg agaggc aggc t c t t c aaggg c agggc t gc c                           95160
               c t c ac c c c t g c c aaac c ac a aac ac ac at c t ac c c t c c t a c c agggc c t c c c c gagc t gc              95220
               agc c t gaat g c c at ggagat t aaac t c agg c c c agagaga c c c t c c c at a aggat gt c gc                        95280
               c c agt gc t gc t t c t c c c at c gt gac ac aat ggggc ac c c a t gc aggc c t g gc c c aaggc a                    95340
               gt ggaaac ag c c c aggac ag gt t ggaac c a ggaaac c t c c t c t gc c t c c a c t c ac t gt gt                     95400
               gac c t c agga agt c c c c t c c c c t c t c t ggg c t c c agt t t g c c aac t agaa ac c t gggat a                95460
               aac at c t c ag t gc t ac c t c c c aagc c t c t g agagggt c ag t t t aggt agt gaat gt t aaa                      95520
               t gt t t t ggaa t c c aac aaaa gc at gc c t gg ac ac agt ggt t c ac gc c t gt aat c c c agc a                     95580
               c t t t gagagg c c aaggt ggg gggat c agt t gaagc c agga gt t c aagac c agc c t t gc c a                           95640
               ac at ggt gaa ac ac c at c t c t ac t aaaaat ac aaaaaaag at t agc t ggg t gt ggt ggc a                            95700
               c ac gc c t ggg at t c c agc t a c t c t ggaggc t gaggc agga gaat c gc t t g aac c c gggag                        95760
               gc agaggt t g c agt gagc c g agat c gc ac c at t gc ac t c c agc c t gggc a ac agagc aag                          95820
               ac t c t gt c t c aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaac t t agc t ggac g t ggt ggc ggg                                  95880
               c ac c t gt aat c c c agc t ac t c aggaggc t g aggc ac at aa at gt c t t gaa ac c aggaggc                         95940
               agaggt t gc a gt gagc t gag at ggc ac t ac t gc at t c c ag c c t gggt gac ggagagagac                             96000
               t c t gt c t c aa aaaaaagat g t t c t t t t t t t t c c c c t t ac a at c c aggat c t aat t c agga                96060
                                                                        Page 55
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                           46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               t c ac at c t c g c at c t at t aa t ac c t gt t aa ac c t c at t ag t c t c c c t t aa t c aggat c ag   96120
               t t c c c aat gg t aaat t c t t t gt aaat t c t a agt agt gt t t t c c c aaagaa c t t aaat t c a         96180
               c agt aaaat a aat aaat aaa t t aat t aat t aat aaat aaa t t aat t at at ggt gac t c ag                   96240
               gac at ac at a c aat t at at t t t aaac ac ac ac ac ac ac ac ac ac ac ac ac ac ac ac ac ac               96300
               ac agagt t t t agaac t t ac a aagt at t t aa c c at t t ac c t agaaagt t ag t t t t ac c aag             96360
               t at gt t t c aa ac t t t c t t ga t ggc aat c c a gagt t aagag at at c t t t t a t at ggt agc c         96420
 <removed-apn>
               t c t t ac ac ac gc gt gc ac ac ac ac ac ac ac t c t c t c t c t c aaat aaaagt at c at t aaat            96480
               t at at t t aac c c t t at gc c a t t c aat at ac t c t gat at t t t c t at gat t c t c t at t t c at    96540
               t gt t t t t aaa t t aat t t t t t t t t t t t t gag ac agggt c t c ac t c t gt c t g t c ac c c aggt    96600
               t ggagt gt gg t ggt gc aat c gc agc t c t c t gc agc c t c t a c c t c c t gggc c c aggt gat c           96660
               c t c c t gc c t c agc c t c c t ga ggagc t ggga c c ac aggt t g c ac c ac c ac g c c t ggc t aat        96720
               t t t t t aat ga t t t gt agaga c agggt t t c c c t at gt t gc c c aggt t gat t t c at t t t t t t       96780
               aaat gt c agc c ac at gggc t gggc c c agt t gt c c ac ac c t at aat ac c ag t gc t t t ggga              96840
               ggc t gaggt g ggaggat c gt t t gaggc c ag gagt t t gaga c c agc c t ggg aaac ac agc a                    96900
               agat c c c agt t c t ac aaaat at aaaaat aa aat t agc c ag at gc t gt ggc t t gt gc c t at                96960
               at t c c c agc t ac at ggaggc t gaggc agga ggat t ac t t g agc c c agc ag t t t gaggc t g                97020
               c agggagc t g t gat c gc ac c ac t gc ac t c c agc c t gggc a ac agaat t ag ac c t c aac t c             97080
               agac aac aaa ac aaaac aaa aaat gc c agc c ac agt ac ag c aaat t ggc t t c c c aggt c t                   97140
               t aat ac ac ag gt t gaaaagc c c t gagaagg c c aggc gc gg t ggc t c ac c t gaggt c agga                   97200
               gt t gaggc c a ac at ggt gaa ac c c c at c t c t ac t aaaaat ac aaaaat t a gc c at gc c t g              97260
               t aat c c t aac t ac t c gggag gc t gaggc ag aat t gc t t ga ac c c gggagg t ggaggt t gc                 97320
               agt gagc c t a gat c ac ac c a t t gc ac t c c a gc c t ggt t ga c agagc gaga c t c c gt c t c a         97380
               aaaaaaaaaa aaaac aaac a aaaaaagaaa agc c t c gaaa agc c c c gaat t ggt ggat ag                           97440
               t aaac c ac t t ggt gc gc c c t t agaat at t g c c c agagaac t c t t t c c at g gaagt t gc t t           97500
               t at t t at t t a t t t at t t t t t gagac agagt c t c ac t c t at t gc c c aggc t ggagt gc agt          97560
               ggc gt gat c t c ggc t c ac t g c aac c t c t gc c t c c agggt t c c agc gat c c t c c t gc c t c a      97620
               gc c t c c c aag t agt t gggat t ac aggc gt a ggc c ac c at g c c c agt t aat t t t t gt at t t          97680
               t agt agagac gaggt t t t ac c at gt c gc gc aggc t ggt c t c aaac t t c t g ac c t c aagc g              97740
               at c c gc c c at c t c ggc c t c t c aaagt gc t g ggat t ac agg t gt gaac c at ggc gc t t ggc            97800
               c t gaagc at c c c c t ac t t t g t aaac t gt t g agt c t c t gc a c c t c t gc agc t c c c t gc c c c   97860
               c t gat ac t gg gt ac c c t gt g c c c ac t c t gt gc t c t gc t gg c gc t t ggggc aac ac c c ac c       97920
               t t t c t t c t t g t c c ggggc c t c t c gc t c agc aggc c gc c c a c c c c c agac a ggc ggaagga        97980
               gc c c t c gc gg gc gaagc t gg t gc ggc t ggc at c gaaggc g gc c gt gac c c c ac at t c c t t            98040
               c t c c c gt c gc t gt t t t c gc t c c aggc aggc ggc aaaagc a c agc c c ac ag c gt ggc t c ag           98100
                                                                      Page 56
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                         46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               c c t c t c gc c c t at ggggaga ggat gggc gg gggggt t aga ggc gc t gggc agt gc ggac a                 98160
               ggggc c aggg gc ac t gggt t at agc c gc t a ggt ac t gggt t gc c c c ggat gagt c t c t gc             98220
               ac t t c t c t gg gc c t c agt gc t c at c t gc ac c ac aaggaag ggc t ggaaat gac agc t c c a          98280
               agt gagagaa gc c agaaac c aat gagc c t g t t gt gt ggc t c c ac t t ac t g gaaat t c c ag             98340
               aagaggc aaa ac t aat c t at ggt t c t at gg t gaaaaaaag t c agaac agg c c aggagt gg                   98400
               t ggc t c t c gc c t gt aat c c t agc ac t t t gg gaggc t gagg c gggaggt t c c c t t gagc c c         98460
 <removed-apn>
               aggaggt c aa ggc t gc aagc agc t at gat g gggc aac t gc ac t c c agc t t gggt gac aga                 98520
               gt gagat t c t gt c t aaaaaa aagt c agaat agt ggt agt t t c c t at gggg t ggggaat ga                  98580
               c t ggaaagt g t at gagggga t gac c gggt g gt ggc aat gt t c t agat at t gat aggggt t                  98640
               t c gt t ac at g ggt gt at gc a gt t gt c gaaa t t c gt t gac t gt ac ac c aaa ggc t t gt gc a        98700
               t t gc t at aga c t aaac gt gt gt gt c t c t c t c agt t c t aac gc t gaagc c c t c at c c ac aa      98760
               t gt gc t ggt a t t t ggaggt g ggc c t t t gag agac aat aaa agt t at gt t a gat c at gagg             98820
               t ggggt c c t c at gat ggaat t aat gc c c t t at t t at t t at t t t t t t t c t g ggac agggt c       98880
               t t ac t c t gat gc t at gc t gg agt gc agc gg c at gac c t c a gc t c ac t gc a ac c t c c ac c t    98940
               c c c ggc t t c a agc gat t c t c c t gc c t c agc c t c t c aagt a gc t gggat t a t aggc at gc g     99000
               c c ac c ac ac c t ggt t aat t t gt gt at t t t t agt agagat g ggat t t c at g at gt t ggt ga         99060
               ggc t ggac t c gaac t c c t ga c c t c gagt ga t c t gc c c ac c t gggc c t c c c aaagt gt t gg       99120
               ggt t ac aggc gt gagc c ac c at gc c c ggc c gggat t aat g c c c t t aaaaa ggaaaaagag                 99180
               ac aagagat c t c c c c t c c ac c t t gagaggt gaagat ac ag aaagc aggc a t c c at c t gc a             99240
               aac c aggaaa agagc c c t c a c c aagaaat g agc c at t t ga c ac c c t gac c t c aggt at c c           99300
               agc c t c t aga ac t gc ggc aa ac aaat gt t t gt c at t t aag c c ac ac agt c t ac ac t at c t        99360
               ggt t at agc a gc c t gaac t a agac aat c at at c t t t c gc t t t gaagaaaa aaaaaat c t g             99420
               gaaac aaat a c gaat t c t ac t t aat ggt gt gc at gc t gaa gt agt c c aat gc c t ac aaat              99480
               t t gac at ac a aaaagaat c a gac ggt gt ga c t gc agt c gc t c ac ac c t gt aat c c c agga            99540
               ggc c gaggc a ggc aaat c ac t t gaggc c ag gagt t c gaga c c agc c t ggc c aac at ggt g               99600
               aaac c c c at c t c t ac t aaaa at ac aaaaat c t gc c aggt g t ggt ggc gt g c ac c t gt aat           99660
               c c c agc t ac t agggaggc t g t ggc aggaga at c ac t t gaa ggt t ggaggc ggaggt t t c a                99720
               gt gagc c aag at c gt gc c ac t gt ac t c c ag c c t ggggc aa c agagc gaga c t c c gt c t c a         99780
               aaaaaaggaa t gaac c ac t g at ac aagc ag c t c ac gc c t g t aat c c gagc ac t t t gggag              99840
               gc c aaggt ga c t ggat c gc t t gagt c c agg agt t c gagac c agc c t gggc aac at ggc ga               99900
               aat c c c at c t c t ac aaaaaa t t agc c aggc at ggt ggc gt gt gc c t gt ag t c c t agc t ac          99960
               t c aggaagc t gaggt gggag aat c gc t t ga ac c c aggt t g c agt gaggc g agat t gc ac c               100020
               ac t gc ac ac c agc c t t gat g ac agagagag ac gc t gt gt c at t aaat aaa t t aat t aaaa             100080
               ac at t gc c gg gc agggt ggc t c ac ac c t at aat c c c agc a c t t t gggagg c agaggc agg            100140
                                                                  Page 57
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                           46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               c ggat c ac c t gaggt c ggga gt t c aagac c aac c t gac c t gc at ggagaa ac c c c at c t c                100200
               t ac t aaaaat at aaaat t ag c c agc t gt ga t ggt gc at gt c t gt aat c c c agc t ac t t gg               100260
               gagac t gaga c aggagaat t gc t t gaac c c gggaggc aga ggt t gc agt g agc t gagat t                        100320
               gc t c c at t gc ac t c c agc c t gggt aac aag agc gaaac t c t gt t t c aaaa ac aaac aaaa                 100380
               ac ac aac at t ac ac t aagt a aagaagc c ag ac ac at at t a t at gat t c c a t t aaat gaaa                 100440
               t at c c agaat aggt aaat c c ac agagagac aaagc agat t agt ggt t gc c agggggc t gg                         100500
 <removed-apn>
               ggt agt gggg agac ggggt g aat t gat gaa t ggagat ggg gt c t c c t t t a gc ggt gat ga                     100560
               aaat gt t t c a ggac t gc t aa agt c aat ggt t aaac aac ac t gaaaat gt a t t aaat gc c a                  100620
               t t gaat t gt a c ac t t t t aaa t gat t aat t t t at gt gaat t t c ac c t c aag aaaaaaaaaa               100680
               agt t gaac t t ggggaat t c t ac t gc t t aat ggt t aaaac t t c c t t c agaa gt aggaagga                   100740
               at t c at c c aa c at c ac at t c t t t ac c c ac a ggagat ggt c c t gc t c t t t t c t ggc t t t c a     100800
               t t c t c at c c c c aaat agt t t t t t t t t t t t g t t t t c t t gag ac agagt c t c gc t c t gt c ac   100860
               c c aggc t gga gt gc agt ggt gc agt c t t gg c t c ac t gc aa c c t c c gt c t c c agggt t c at           100920
               gt gat t c t c c c c ac at gt ga t t c t c c t ac c t c agc c t c t g gagt agc t gg gat c ac aggc         100980
               gc c t gc c ac c at gc c t gt c t ac t t t t t t t g t at t t t t agt agagat gggg t t t t ac c agg        101040
               t t ggc c aggc t ggt c t c aaa t t c c t gac c t c aggt gat c t gc c t gc c t t g gc c t c c c aaa        101100
               gt gt t gggat t ac aggc gt g agc c ac c ac g c c t ggc c aat ac t c t t t t t t t t t t gagat g           101160
               gagt c t c ac t c t gt c t c c c a ggc t ggagt g c agt ggt gc a at t t t ggc t c ac t gc aac c t          101220
               c c ac c t c c c g ggc t c aagt g at t c t c c t gc c t c agc c t c c c aagt agc t g ggac t ac agg        101280
               t gt gc ac c ac c ac ac c t agc t aat t t t t t g t at t t c agt a gagat ggggt t t t ac c at gt           101340
               t gt c c agggt ggt c t t gaac t c c t gagc t c aggc aat c c c c c c gc c c c ag c at c c c aaag           101400
               t gc t gggat t ac aggt gt ga gc c ac t gc ac c c ggc c c t c a c gt gaat ac t c t aaat t ggg              101460
               aac c gt gagt at ac t t t c t t c t c c agat ga ggaaac t ggg c ac ac agagg t t agt gat gt                 101520
               gc c t gaat gc aggaagc t t g t aggggt ggg gc t gggat gc c agggc at gg gagggaagag                          101580
               t t ggc c agc t gt ggc aat ac t c ac ggagt c c t t c agt gc c agaaaac agt ggc agat c c a                  101640
               gc ggc gggt a gt c c c gt c ac gac agat at a ggagaaagc c t t gt c c aggt t gc ggt c agg                   101700
               agc ac aaaag gagac c t t t t c gat ggt c t g gt c gac c aga agat c c t agg aggggc c ggg                   101760
               gaggc c agga gaagagt gt g aac t c t c t t t c aagt gt t c a c t c aac at t c t c t c t gt gt c            101820
               t gc t gaaat c c agt c c t gaa c agggt gggg ac c c agc agt c ac t gagac a c c c t gt gc c t               101880
               t gc c t gc aga gggc t c c c ag gt c agc ggga agat c agac c c at c ac gaga t gggc agc c c                 101940
               agagt c at ag c c aggat gt g at gaaggagg c c c aggc aga ggggt c aggg c c aggac c at                       102000
               ggaggc ac ag gc agaggggt c agggc c agc at ggc agaag c c agc t t ggg gt c agt c agg                        102060
               c aaggc t t c c t ggagc aggt ac t aac t aag aaaaaaagt c aaggaac agt at t t t gggc t                       102120
               gagggaac t g c c t t gc aaag gt ggt gat c t t gt t c t gt t a t t aac c c aac t c t c agc at g            102180
                                                                 Page 58
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                           46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               t c c t gggc ac c t c c t agggc agt c t c t ggg c t gggggc ag c agat t c aag gt gagc aaac                102240
               agat ac c t ag at t gt ggc c t c at agt gc t t c c t t c t gac t gggc agggt g ac aat aaac a              102300
               c t t aat ggc t aac at t c at t gat c t gagc a gt t ac gat gt ac t agac c c c at t t aaat at             102360
               at at at at at t t t t t t c c c a gaaggagt c t t gc t c t gt c a c c c aggc t ag agt gc agt gg          102420
               c at gat c t t g gc t t ac t gaa ac c t c t gc c t c c t gggt t c a agt gat t c t c c t ac c t aagc      102480
               c t c c c aagt a gc t gggat t a c aggc ac gc a c c ac c ac gt c t ggc t aat t t t t gt at t t t t        102540
 <removed-apn>
               agt agaggt g gggt t t c ac c at c t t ggc c a ggc t agt c t c gaac t c gt ga c c t c aggt ga             102600
               t c c aac t gc c c t ggc c t c c c aaagt gc t gg gat t ac aggc gt gagc c ac c gt gc c c agc c            102660
               c ac at t t aaa t t t t t t t aaa aat t at t t t g t at agat gga gc c t t gc t at gt t t c ac agg        102720
               c t gat c t t ga ac t c c t ggc t t c aaggggc c c t c c c agc c a ggc ac c at t t c aaat aac t t         102780
               gc at at gc t t t c t c ac t t aa t ggt agggt c t at t at aat c c c t gt t t t t c t gc gat ggag         102840
               t t t agc t c t t gt t gc c c agg c t ggagt gc a at ggc at gat c t c c gc t c ac c gc aac c t c c        102900
               aagt c t c ggg t t c aagagat t c t c c t gc c t c agc c t c c c a agt agc t agg at t ac aggt a           102960
               c ac ac c ac c a t gt c c agc t a at t t t t gt at t t t t agt gag at gaggt t t c ac c at at t gc        103020
               c aggc t ggt c t c gaac t c c t gac c t c aggt aat c t ac c c t c c t t ggc c t c c c aaagt ac t         103080
               gggat t ac ag gc gt gagc c a c c ac t c c c gg c c t at aat c t gc at t t t t c a gat gac ac aa          103140
               c t gagac t c a gagaggt t aa at c t c at gc c c agggt c c c t aagc t gggat c ggagc t gag                 103200
               gc agc t gc t c c agt c t c t c t c ac c c ac agc c t at gc c agt t c c c aaat aa t c ac agc at t        103260
               t at t c c t gag t t at gac gac agagggagc a c ac ggc at c g t c t agaaggt c c c t gaggga                 103320
               gggat gt gc a gaggaggc gg gaaggt gt c c t c c gc c c t ga t t c c agc agg gt gagc agac                   103380
               aggc c c c c t g gc gt c c ac c c c c ac aggc c t c c t ac c t t gg t t t t gt c gt c c ac c ac t c gg   103440
               agc c c at c gg c t gac ac c c a c aggac agac t t c ac ggac t t t c ggc c c at c t ggagggag              103500
               gc aaggggac aaaggagc c g ggt c agggt g c c t c t c c c t g t c t gac c t t g c c c c c t c c c t         103560
               c at ggc agc c c c c t c ac t c a c c gc c t t c ag c t t c t t c ac c gc at c t t c ac ac ac gt gc at   103620
               t c c c c gggac t c c t c t ac c t c c ac gt gac c c aggt ac t t g ggt t ggaggg aat ggggggg              103680
               gggac at gaa ac agc ac agt aat c ac t c at t c t c agt gt c c ac t gagc at c t gc c at gc a              103740
               gt agac aat a t t t t aagc ac at gat gt gt a t gc aat c at t t at t c t gc at c t c aac t c t a          103800
               c aaggt ggag ac c c c at t c c t ggt c t agac at gc agat gg ggaaac t gaa gc ac agc ac g                  103860
               t agt agt gat t c c agt c t ag c t at ac c c c t gggc c c t aac c c ggc ac c gt ggt c c t c c c g        103920
               agagc t agt a t t t gc at c t c t gt gc gt gag gac t ggc c ac aggc c at gc a aagc t gc t t t             103980
               gc c t ac c c t a aagc agc t ag aaagagc c t g ggc c agt c c c c ac aat gac t gaagggagt t                 104040
               agggt ac c t g agc c c c agc t c c c t c at c t g c aggt gggat gac t gt t gc c t c gagt t t c c          104100
               c aggggaaag c t c agt t gc a c ac t gc t gc a gt t t t aat aa c ac ac c c t t t ac t ggc t gc c          104160
               t t ac t t t c c t c ac t c c c aac ac c at t t c c t gc ac c t c c c a aat gaagc c g t c ac at t c aa   104220
                                                                          Page 59
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                           46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               agt c t gc t t c c agggaaggg aac gt aaggt ggt ggagggg c t gt gac c at ggt c agt c at                      104280
               c ac c c agc c a ggaaggggc t gagc t c c ac a gt c c ac gc c g t gaat c c t gc t c t c c c c c t c         104340
               ac aggaat gt aaaagc gt ag ggt at ggc t a aac c agaac g t c c t t at c gg t agagc gc t t                   104400
               t gc aaat gc t ac ac c ac at g ac ggc t t c c a ggt aat agt t t gc t ggt ac a aaaaaat gt g                104460
               t t c t ggt t t t t t gt t t gt t t t c aagat t gg gt at c ac t c t gt t gc c t agg c t ggagt gc a        104520
               at ggc ac aat t aaggc t c ac t gc agc c t c g ac c t t c c t gg ac t c gagt ga gc c t c c c ac c          104580
 <removed-apn>
               t c agc c t t gt gagt agc t gg gac t ac aggt gc gt gc c ac t gt gc c t at t t t t t gt agaga              104640
               c agggt c t c c c t gt gt t t gc c c aggc t ggt c t t gaac t c c t t gac t c aag c aat c c t c c c        104700
               ac c ac agc c t c c c agt gt gc t ggaat t ac a ggt gt t agc c ac c ac t ac gc t t c aagt t t t            104760
               t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t gaaac agagt c t gc t c t gt c gc c c a ggc t ggagt g c aat ggc gc t         104820
               at c t c ggc t c ac t gc aat c t c c gc c t c c c g ggt t c aagc g at t c t c c t gt c t c agc c t c c    104880
               c c agt agc t g ggac t ac agg c gc c c gc c ac c ac gc gaggc t aat t t gt t g t at t t c t agt            104940
               agagc c gggg t t t c ac c gt g at agc c agga c t gc c ggc c t c ac gc t t t t t aac ac c aac t            105000
               t c aaac gac t t gggc t ggt g t c c c agc c ag gc c gc gc ac c c gc ac agc ac agc ac agc gg               105060
               c c c c c gt c c c c c t c gc c c c g c c gc ac c c t g c c gc gc c c ac t c ac c c t gac c gggaagc t g   105120
               c ac gt gc c c t t c c gc ac c gc gt c c t c gt c t gc c t gc c ac t ggt gc gggc g c gac gc c t c g       105180
               ggc ac gt agg c t ggc t t c c t c c gc c gc agg c t c t gc c gt a ac t t gt t c at ggt gc c c gc c        105240
               c c gt c t ggt g ac ac aggac a gt gat gt ggg t c aagggt gg gggt c agaag gt at ggagc t                     105300
               c aac ggggag ggac c agt gc t c agggagc a t ggggt c aga t aac aagat a ac t ggaagc g                        105360
               gggt t ac agg gt c agt t ggc agc gc ac at g ggat c agc ag c t c aagt c ag gggac agt ga                    105420
               ggaaaggagc c aac agaagc c aggggagt g c gaaagt t gg gc ac t gggga t t c agaac c a                          105480
               t ggggc t aag gggc t ggagg t c t ggggt gg ggggt at ggg gc ac aggc t t c agggc at t g                      105540
               gagggc t t c t t gt c c at gt g gt ggat gc t t c c t c at t c c c agggc c gt ga ggac ac aaag              105600
               ggt gggaaat c agac gt agg agggc at ggg ggc t agaggg c at agaagt c aggggc c gc a                           105660
               c ggt c agggg t t t t aggggt at gagagt c a ggc agt gggg t gat c agagg gc agc agagg                        105720
               agt t gggaat t gc at gggt c aggggt gc ag gagt c aggt g c at ggggt at gggggat ggt                          105780
               ggc t t gt c t c t ggaac t c t g agac ac agc c at t c t gt gac aac t gt gt c t agt c c c c agg            105840
               c aaggc t t c t ggggc c t t gc ac t gat gac t gt c agaggc a gggc t gt ggg t gt gt ggagt                   105900
               gggt gt ggag gt ggc c agc c ac t aggac ag t c t t c ac t ga t c agc c at c c t gac agt c c c              105960
               aggac t ggga gc ac c aac ag c agaggggga t gt gt gt gt g t gt gt gt gt g t aagc aagt g                     106020
               t gc aat ggt a t gt t c t ggaa c gc t gt c t at gaggggc t c t at at c t gagc aggc aagt aa                 106080
               t gt c t gt gag t gt gt t t c t g aaggc t gt c t ggaagaac gc at gt c t gaga at ggt gt agg                 106140
               at agt gt gc a t c t gt gaat g c t gt c c gt ga gggat gc at c c aaaagt gt g gt t gt t gt c t              106200
               gt gagt c t ga ggc c c t gaag gt t gt t gc t g aagggc at c g at gt c t gaga gt ggt t gt ga                106260
                                                                  Page 60
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                          46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               gt gt gt gt c t gc t gt c t at a t c c gagagt g c c gt t gt t gt c t at gagaac t t gt ggc t c a       106320
               gt gc c t gt t g c c t gt gaggg t gt gt c t gt g t t t gagat ga ggc t gt c gt c t t t c aaaggg        106380
               t gt gt c c at g gc t gt t at c c at gt agc t at gt c t c t gt gt gaaggt gt gg c t at t gt c t g      106440
               t gat gac at t gc c t c ggaga gt gc at c t ga gggat c t ac a agac t gt c t g t gt c c aagag           106500
               t gc agc t gt t ggc ggt gagc c t gt gt gac t gt ggc t gt t g c c t t agagt g t gggt gt gt g           106560
               ggt at t gc ac agagggt gt a t c t gt gt gc a gt ggt gc at c c gt t agggt g t gt gggaac a              106620
 <removed-apn>
               t gaggt t gt c t t t gagagt g t t t t c at gag ggt t at t t gt aagggt gt ga c t gt t gc c t g         106680
               agagagt gc t gggt gt t c t t t gt gagac t g t gt gc at gt t t gt ac ac aac c gt agc t c c c           106740
               t gt gagagc c t gggc c c gc g ggt gc t gt c t gt gaaagt gt ggc t gt c gt c t gt agaaat g              106800
               t gggt c t gt g t gt gt t gt c a gac t gt gc aa gagt gt gt c t c t t t t t t t t t t t t t t gagac    106860
               gaaat t t t gc t c t t gt t gc g aat gaaggc t ggagt gc aat ggc at gat c t c agc t c ac ag             106920
               c aac c t c t gc c t c c c aggt t c aagc gat t c t c c t gc c t c a gc c t c c c aag t agc t gggat    106980
               t ac aggc at g t gc c ac c ac c c c t ggc t aat t t t gt at t t t t agt ac agac agagt t t c t c       107040
               c at gt t ggt c aggc t ggt c t c gaac t c c t g ac c t c c t gac c t c aggt gat c c t c c c gc c t    107100
               c agc c t c c c a aagt gc t ggg at t at aggc a t t gagc c ac c ac gc c c ggc c aagagt gt gt           107160
               c t c t t gagag t gt gt at c t c agagt c t gt a t c c agc gagc gt c t gt ggt c ac c t gt gaat         107220
               c t gggt gt t g t c t aggaat g t gt gt gt gt g t at at at gt g t gt ac at t ag t gt gat gaac          107280
               at c t ac t t c a gc at gt gt t c aagt gt gt c a c t gc at t agc aagt gt gt gt gat c t gaaag          107340
               agat c t gt gt gt gt gt gt gt gt c t c t aac c gt at at c t ac agat gt gagt gt t t gt gac t           107400
               c t gc ac t t ga ggc t gt aagg gt gt c agggt gt gggt c t gt gc at gagt gg ggc t c t gac a             107460
               gt c gc t gagg aagat gc c t g agggt gt c c a c t c at gagt g t gat t aagc c t gt gt gac c g           107520
               c agggac agc t c c t c t ggt c gt gt t aggc a agac c ac at a c c c at t c agc c c t gc c c t gt       107580
               c c c aggc t gg t c gc t c ac c t ggc t c c gt c c t gc aggt t t c t gggggc c c c ggggc c c c ac      107640
               agggggc t gg gggc aggt gc c gc t c aggc c t c c ggggt c c gc c c t gc c c g agt aggggag               107700
               gagaaggt ga gaagt t t gt c t gggt t gggg c t c agt c t ga t ac t t c ac c c c gac t t t gga           107760
               c t t c ggc c ag c c c c c t c c at c t t gggc t c c c t gat gagag t c c t agt t gt c c t agc aac t   107820
               gt t ac c aggg agat c agc c a c c t ggt t c c a agggc c c agg aaggagt agg t at gt t t ggg             107880
               gggc at at gt t ggggat gt g c t ggc c t c ag gagagc c t c a c t gc c c aagg ggat gc t gt g            107940
               agagt ggc c t t gc c c t c c ag at gc at gt gc agggc t ac ac ac at ac gc ag c c aac t c at a          108000
               t c t ac aggt g t c c c t agc at c t ggc c ac ag c t t t ac ac ac t t ggt t ac ac at agac gc aa       108060
               t c ac agc t ac ac ac c t c aga t c gc agat ac ac agaaac ag t c c c aaac c c agaaagc t gc             108120
               c ac t gt aaac at c t ggc c gc at at t c at gt t c ggac ac ac ac agt c t c t a c t ac agac at         108180
               t t gt c c ac at ac at gc agc a t gt c c t ggc c c ac t c agt t c c c ac c gc aga c ac c t ggt c a    108240
               c ac c ac c c ac t gaaat t t gg t c ac t t c c ac at t c t c agc c ac at ac aaag aac ggggc c c        108300
                                                                       Page 61
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                           46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               agac aac c c a c t agagc c gc ac at gc gt gg c c ac ac c c ag t gac agc t at gt t t c c t c ag           108360
               gc ac c c gc c c aagat ac t ga c gt c ac aggc c c ac c c agat agaat c ac ac c c agagt t c a              108420
               c c c at t t gc t gac c c agt c c c ac ac gac ac aat c gc agc t at at ac ac t t gt t ac ac gt a          108480
               t c t c c ac t gc t gc ac ac t ga c at c t ggt c a c agat gc ac a c ggac agac a c ac at t t ggt          108540
               c c c ac ggaga c c ac at gc ag c c t c aac c ag ac c agt c ac a c c aac ac ac t gt t t t t ggc c         108600
               ac ac ac t gt c ac gt ggt c ac ac at ac t c ag t c at aggt gc t c aaat c t gg t c ac agc at c            108660
 <removed-apn>
               agt c ac ac ag t c t at t gt ga c agc c ac ac t c at agggac a gt c c t c t at a c ac aac c ac a          108720
               t ac agaggt a c t gat ggc c a c agc at gc aa c c ac c c ac aa ac aac t gt c c c c aaggat gg              108780
               c c t c c c t c aa gac ac agc c a t ggt ggt c c t at aggc at gg c c ac agc at c aat gt c c at g          108840
               t gac c c agc c ac c t at c at g gt c at aat c c c gt c ac c c ag t gt c c at ac a c agc t gt ac c       108900
               at gt c ac t c c aat gc agc ga aac at at agc c t t t c t t c at gc aggc ac ac aagt c ac ac a             108960
               gac aagt at g t ggc c at at a gaat c ac agc c c c gt gt gga c aggt gc ac a aagt c ac aag                 109020
               c c c c ac c t ac ac ac at at c t c ac ac at aga gac at aagc a c ac agt t t t a gt t t c c c at g        109080
               t c ac aagt ac ac agt c c agt gt at gc ac at aaat gc agt g ac c aggat gt ggc at t t at a                 109140
               gc t gggt t t a c ac agaagac ac aggt c c t g ac ggagc c at gt gc ac agt c aggggc c aat                   109200
               c t c at c ac c a aat c ac ac at t c t aac ac ag gt agt c c agc ac at ac ac ac agagac aaaa               109260
               ac aggc ac ac agc t ac agac c c c ac ac t c t c ac agat gat gac at agac a c agac at c t a                109320
               t agt c ac c c a gggt c agac a t gc aggt c aa ac ac aat aat at ggaagc c a t aat c at at a                109380
               c ac ac c c c t a c aaac at aat t t c c t ggc ac c agc ac ggag ac ac at c c ac agc t t t agt c           109440
               ac ac ac aaat aat c c c t c t a aat agc c agg gt t t c agac a c c aagt c aaa t ac at aac c c             109500
               aaat c ac ac a t gc aaggc t a gaaat ac ac a c aat c ac t c g t t at c ac ac a c ac t gc t aga            109560
               t ac agt c at t t at at t aat a c aac c t c agt c ac ac ac t c a gac at ggt t c t gc at ac gc a          109620
               ac c ac t gt c a t ac ac aat ac t gt c ac ac aa c c c c agt c ac ac agat ac aa t gt gac t t c a          109680
               gac ac aat gg c agt c ac ac a ggc agagt t g c ac agac agg t gt gt gt c ac t c ac gt at at                109740
               aaaat c aggt agagac ac aa c t at aaac at t gt c agt c ac t gggagggt c ac ac at gc ac                     109800
               at ggagc c at agac aac t c c ac t c ac ac ac agt c ac aac t c c ac c c ac gt c c t gt c agt c            109860
               ac ac gc at gc c c ac c c c c ag ac t c aac ac a t ac t gt c ac a t ac c c agt t a t agt t ac c ga       109920
               ggc at ac aaa c ac agggt c a c aaaagac ac aat c ac agac aac c ac agt c ac aac c at gc                    109980
               ac ac c t c c aa ac ac agac ag ac t aaaaagt ac aggat t c t gc ac agt gag c agc t gt c ac                 110040
               ac ac ac at ac ac agt c ac ac agat ac t agg gt c ac agac a c aat c at aga c ac c ac c ac a               110100
               agc ac ac ac a c ac gac ac ag gat t c c t c ag t c ac c agc t g c agc gt ac gc gt gc ac ac ac            110160
               ac ac ac ac at ac ac agc c ac agt c ac ac aa ac ac agggc a c ac t c c t agc c ac c t c c c c a           110220
               t c gc t t gc t t c c c c c c t t c c c c c c aggt ac c ac ac ac aaa gc c gc c gt c a c c gt c ac c gc   110280
               agac ac t gc a gac agac agg gc t gc ac c c g gt c c c t gggg agc c gc c c c c agc c c agc c t            110340
                                                                  Page 62
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                           46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               gt at c c t gga gc c t gagggc c aggt c c agg agggggaagc ggt gc at t gt c t gc gggt gg                    110400
               ggc c ac t c t t ggac agc t gg gc agc c c t gg ggac aaaggg ggt ggc c t ag ggat c c t gt g                110460
               c c c t gggac c c at gac c aag c c agggggt g gagggat t gg gggt t gc c t g aaat t gt c c t                110520
               t at t t t at t c aggc t ggggt ggggt ggagt c c c aggc ac a gggac c t t gt t t t gagaagt                  110580
               ggc t gt gc c t gggac t c c gc c c aaggat t g gggggat gc t gt gc c c aggg t gc c t c t gag               110640
               ac c t gggggc aggc t gt gc t t ggagt c c c c c t aggc c t t g gc gt ggt ggg aac gc t gt ac               110700
 <removed-apn>
               c c agt gac c c c at c c t c gag ac c gt ac c t a ggc agt t gt t gt gc t gagac c c c c t t aggc          110760
               agggagaggt agggat t gt g t c t ggaat c g c gt c c t ggag gc c t t ggt t t gat ac ggggg                   110820
               c t gt gt c c c c gac c c c at c t c c at c c c c at c t agt t c t ag gagt t gt ac c t agaat c t c t     110880
               gt ac c c c t gt c c t t ggt t t t gt ggggggt c t gt gt c c agg at c c c t at t t c c agggc c t t        110940
               ggc aagagat ggc c c agggg t c t gt gc c c a agac c c c ggt c t c c t gggc t t t ggc t t gt t             111000
               gggc c t gt t c c t ggac c c c c ac c c gggac c ac c c t c t c c a gc c t t ggc ac c c t c t c t c c a   111060
               t c c gggc gc c gc ggc c gc c t c c c ac c c t c c gc c ac at c ag c agc ggc gc c gc c c c c gac c       111120
               c gagc c c c c c t c t c c c gc c c t t c t c ac gc t ggc c gc c gc g c t gc gggac a t c c agggc c c     111180
               gggc gc c c c c gc c t c c c gc g gc c c t ggc t g ggc c t ggc t c c c c gac t gc t gc t gc t gc gg      111240
               t ggt ggc ggc ggc agc t c gg t c t gac gc c g gc c agggc c c ggggc c gggg gat ggt gc gg                  111300
               gat gc ac gc g c gc gagc c t c c t c ggc t c c c gggaggat t c c gt t c c gggg gc gggggagc                111360
               gt c c c t c ggc c t c ggc t c c c c gc c c c gac c c c gc c c at t g gc c c gc c gc c t gc c gt at at   111420
               gc agaaaggt c c c gc c c c gc c c c gc c c c t t ggc c t gaaga c c c c gc c c ac ac gc agac ac           111480
               c at c c c gc c t t c c c c ggc gc ggc c ac c gc c c c gc c ac gc c c at t ggc c ag t c c c gagc t g     111540
               agc at gc c t a t gaac at c gc c gagt c c t t t c c c c c ggt c c gt c c t ggc c t gggc t c c c t t      111600
               t c c c t c c gt g ac ac c t gac c t c agat c c c c t c c agc t c c g c gt c c gaaag agt t gc t t c t    111660
               agaggc gc c t t gc c gc c c c a c ac c c c c aaa t c t t c c c gc t aac c c c at gg t t c c c c agc c    111720
               c ggc gggggc gggc aggagc ggt gac gagg c ac t t t t t gc aaggaagggg agggggt gt g                          111780
               aac agac c aa ggc gt c c t ga t gc gc gat c g gt t c ggc t t t gggaac gggg gc gc c ggggt                 111840
               gggac c aggg c gc ggt t c t g gc c gc t ac gg c gc c c c c gc c gc c c c c t ac g c c aat c c t gt       111900
               gggt t t ggc a aagc agc t gg c agggac at t agagc c c at t agt aaaggc g aggt t gc c ag                    111960
               gagt gagggg agggagc c c g c agc c aagag gc ac t gt gt g t gt gggaggc c t c agc t gc c                    112020
               ac agc c c t t a gagc aggt gg t c agc ac gt g ggggggggt g gggaaggc ga gaaggaggt t                        112080
               c c c ggc aac a gat ggc ac ag gc agggc t ga ggc t t t c aga c aagggggt g c aggggggc t                    112140
               ggc c at c t gc ac c t ggaggc c gc t ggc gag c t c c t c c c c c t c t c c c c c c a ac c c t agc gc     112200
               agagaaaaga gc t gggggaa ggggagggc t gc t t t t at t c c gat t gaaga t t c agc t c c c                    112260
               c c c c ac c c c g c ac c c c t ac c t c t c c aac ac ac t gagaggc t ggaac c c gg gagaaggc ag            112320
               c t gt t ggagg agc gagggag gc agaggt ga ggac t gc c t c c aggac c at c t c gc c t t c c a                112380
                                                           Page 63
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                             46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               c gggaggc t t gaggc agagg t gagggc t c c c c c t gat gag t c t gat c t gc at aac gac at                      112440
               gc agc ggc c c aaggc t c c c t c aaat gt t gg c aaagat aag t t aac c gc t t c c c t ggc t t a                112500
               gt t t t c ggat ac c c ac t t t c gagt ggggag gt gc aggat c t agggc ac ga agt t gggagt                       112560
               t c c c c agc c c c agggat c c t gagc t c c t gg gc c aaggagg agagc c aggc aagac t ggga                      112620
               agc c c aaggg ggc t c c t c t g ac c c agggc a gac ggggaag ggat aagagg c ac t ac agc a                       112680
               gggt ac ggc c t gc t c t gggg ac t gaat c c c c c at ggaggc t gt c at gagg gat c c ac c c a                  112740
 <removed-apn>
               ggagt c c c c t t t ggt gggga ggc t gc c ggc agt ggc t gc g t c t ggc t ggc gac t ggc c c a                  112800
               gt agc ggt gg t aggt gt c c t ggaagaggt c c c t gc aggc g at gt gggc t c ggaggt gggc                         112860
               ac aggc c agg aaagc c c c t g c c agc t t gc g gt gc agggc a t aggt c t c c t c gggt ggggg                   112920
               ac ac agc c gg t gc c gc agc a gc ac c gggat gaggt c c t gt at gc ggc ggg c c gt t t c c c c                 112980
               c gac c c aaag t c at aagggc c c t gggt ggc gaaaggc t c c c c c aggat c a t c ac t gc c t c                  113040
               c ac gt gggc g t c ggagaat g c c t gggagt g ggggt ggggg gagagc aaag gc agc c agt g                           113100
               t ggac at aga gc c c t c t gc a t aac c c agaa ac aac gt gt a gc c t c c ac t c c c t c c agt c t            113160
               c c ac c at c aa c ac aagc c c c gac t c c c c c a agagt gagc a gc t t c c ac t c c t t c c agagc            113220
               c t ggac t aga c aagc agc t g c c t at t c c c c gagt aagc ac c c c t t ac t t c c c t gc agagc              113280
               c t c c aac aga c aagt agc c c t c t ac t c t c t c t ac aac aga gaagc ggc c t t c gc c c c t c c            113340
               t gaac agat c c ac ggt gc c c at gt t c c c ag ggt t c c t gag aagt c aggc a gc c ac c t c c c               113400
               c c c ac t c c t c c c c aaagc c c c c agc at gga t aagc at c c c t c c t agagt c ac c c ac t c c c          113460
               c aggt at aga c ac ac agc c t c c at t c t c c c t agt ggagac aagc c c c t c c t agagt c c c c               113520
               c agt c c c c gg gt at c gac at gc c c c at c ac c t ac t c gagt t c c t c agt gg agat aagc ag               113580
               c c c c c c ac t g c ac c c c ac c a ac agac ac c a gc c c c t t t c t c c c c c agt gt c t c c c c ac c t   113640
               t ggt t t c aaa gc c t gt gagg aat t t gaggt c c c t ggac t t c t gc aggac a c agt c t c t gt                113700
               c t c c at c agc t gc agc c t t c ac c ac c t ggg gagac gggt g ggagt t agag ggac aaaggc                      113760
               c ggggc t c aa gggggc t c t g gagaagagga gc t ggaagc c t gggc c t c c c at gt ac c c ac                      113820
               c t c c at t c t c at c t gc c t gg gc c c t c c c t c ac c t ggaagc t t c c t gc t c c c aac t t t gc c     113880
               t gt c t gt gac t c c c t t aaag ac t c t t c c ag agc c t gggag t ggaggt ggt t agggat c c t                 113940
               gc c c ac c t ag agggc aat gt ggggc c t gc c c gggaac t gc c ac agt gaaa c agt gc aaga                       114000
               aac aagt gt c agggc t gc t g gt gagt c c aa ac ac t c aac t ggac gggt at gagc gt gac c                       114060
               c agaac t gc a t c c aaagt t g c c aggggc c a t c t c t c t gt c t c c c ac ac t g gac t t t gagc            114120
               c c c gt gagag c aaggat c c c agt t gggt t t agt c gc ac gg ggc ac agggt c t ggt gc t ga                     114180
               ggaggc c c t g ggt gaac c t t gc t t t agc aa at gagc gt gt ggagc agagc agc t c t c c ag                     114240
               c c at gagc t c ac ac ac ac ag ggc aggagt t gt gggc at gg agagat gc c c agc t ggggc c                        114300
               agc t ggc t ag ggt t c c gt c c c agc t c t gc c ac c t gc c ggc c t gt t gggc c t c c ac t t t c t          114360
               c at c t gt gaa gt ggggat gc c aaaagt gc c t t c c t c at gg ggc t gt t ggg aggat aaaga                      114420
                                                                 Page 64
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                            46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               aggt gat gc c t gt ggc c t gc c t ggc gc t gt gt c t c at gc a ggaagc ac c g t aaat ac t at                  114480
               aat c t ac c at t at t aagagg t gggc ac ggg ggt c c c t at t t c ac agaagg ggaagc agac                       114540
               c c ggagt agg gagt ggaac c gggt c ac ac c ac t c ac t ac t gggt t gc c c t t t t t t gt gag                  114600
               gagggggat t c gggat t aat t c c at t c c c t c t c t gc t c c c c c t gc c c gag c at gt c t ggc             114660
               c at c t gt c ag gc c t gt ggt c c t c agaagc c agggc t t t t a t aaagt ggc a aaggc t gc ag                  114720
               gc c t gggt gg gaggggaggg t gt c agt ggg gagaagaagg gt c t c agc t t t gt gc c t c ag                        114780
 <removed-apn>
               t ggc c ggc ag agagggc c c c aaggggc c t g t gt gt aaggg gt t at c ac c t c c t c t t c c t g                114840
               t t c c t gt c t c agaggt ggc c c c ac c agt c c c c agac c aga c c c c t agac a c c t c t gt c c c          114900
               c aac t t c t ag c c c gt c t gc t c c c at ggac t gc c agc t ggg c at c t c c c ag c c ac c c c t c t       114960
               gc c c c t c t c c ac agc t gc c c t gagc t c c c a c c c c c aggc t t agagac c ac t t c t t at t c a        115020
               gagggagt t t t c aaat t c t g ac t gc at c c c t t c c c t gc t c aaat c t t t t c c ac ggc t c c g          115080
               c agggc ac c t ggat ac agt a c gagc t gt ag agc gc agc c t c t aaaat c c g c agt gat t t g                   115140
               c t gc agc c t c gt c ac t gt gc t gc c c c c c ga c c t gc c c t c c c ac t c agaat gggagc t t c c          115200
               t t t gggt gc t c t agggc c t t ac t ac t ac c a gt gt ggt c c c c at ac gggt a gc c c t ggc c t             115260
               c ac at gggt g c gt gt c agaa c at agc at c t t ac ac c c ac c t c c agac c ag aat c t gc ac t               115320
               t gc ac aggat c ac c aggc t t c ac at gc ac a t c c aagt c t g agaaat gc t g c t c t aat ggg                 115380
               ac t gt c c c t t at c ac t gc c t c gt c t t ggc a c at gt t gt c t at c t gaaat a c c c t c c gagc         115440
               c t t t t c c c ag t t ggc c c c c c t c at c c c t c a ggt c t c aat g c t gac ac t c c c t c c t c c ggg   115500
               aagc c c t c c t t ggc t c c c c a ggc t ggc t c a ggc t c c t c c t c t gggc t c ac agt gc c c t gc         115560
               gc t t c c c c c a t c c c agc c c t gt c c at gc t a ggt c c t c ac t gt c gc c t c ac t gac t at gag       115620
               t t c t gt gagg aggggc c t ag gc t gggc c c a ggt c ac t gc t gt gt c t c c ag c t t t gc c t ag             115680
               aat agagc t g ggc ac agagg aggggt c aga aaac at t t ag at t ggc t ggg c aggagggc t                           115740
               c at gc c t gt a at c c c agc ac t t t gggaggc c aaggc agga ggat c ac c t g aggt c agc ag                    115800
               t t c gagac c a gc c t gggc aa c at ggt gaaa c c c c at c t c t ac t aaaaat a c aaaaat t ag                  115860
               c c gggc gt gg t ggc ac at gc c t gt aat c c c agc t ac t c ga gaagc t gagg c aggagaat c                     115920
               gc t t gaac c c aggaggt gga ggt t gt ggt g agc c aagat c gagc c ac t gc ac t c c agc c t                     115980
               gggc gac aga gc aagac t c t gt c t c aat t a aaaaaaaaaa aaagaaaaga aaaaaaagga                                116040
               aaagaaaac g t t t agat t ga t ggc t ac at g at t agaggac c c agggc aaa t gt c c aat c t                      116100
               c aac aac gaa t gaaat ggt a t t c t c t gc ag c c t c t aagac aaac t gac c c c agt gggt gg                   116160
               gagagac gag c c aagt ac gt gaggaaac ac c t c c t gt aga c agagt t gc c c c c agggac a                        116220
               c ac ac c t ggg c t ggac ac c a gggc c c t gga c agc at gggg t c t ggagagg t gac aagat g                     116280
               gt c ac t gt gg gc c t t t c t c t t aggagggag c t gggc agt g gt t ggaagc t t gggc t c t gg                  116340
               ac c t ggac c a c c t gaat t t g aat c c c aagt c t gc t gt gat c t t gggc ac g t gac t t aac c              116400
               c c t c c aggac c c agt t ac t t c at c t ggc c t aaaac gggc c t aaaaac ggt c c t t t t c gc a               116460
                                                                     Page 65
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                            46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               t t gt gt t gc t gt gt ggt t t a t at c ggt t c c t at ac gt aag c ac t aaagat ggagc c t gac               116520
               at at t aagt g c t t ggt gt gt gc t agt t gc t ac gagt at t a c t at t at t t a t t at t t c t t a         116580
               at t c c agaaa c t gc at t t c g c c t t c t t ac t c c t c t gc c t c agt at at ggc t t gagc c t c a      116640
               gc c t t t c aga ggc c c t gggg t c t gggggag ac t c ac c t c g at gt aat ggt c t gt gaac t c              116700
               t gt c c c aaac t c c c ggc t t g c ac c aaagt c c agc agggt c ac c t ggaagc aaggaat ggt                   116760
               gaaaggaat g c t gggat c c c at t c ac ac c c t c ac t gt c t a t t ggggc agc c aggat c t gt                116820
 <removed-apn>
               c t c c c t c c c c at gac c c t gc c t gc t c c t gc c agagt c c c t gc c t ggc t gc c t c ac t gggc      116880
               t c c t ggc c t c at c t c c c gt t t c c aac c gac c c c c t agc t g aaggc t t t t t t t t c t t t t ag   116940
               t t c t aat t gt t t at gc aat a ac aaat t t t a gac c c agaaa aaaaat c c ag agaat aat aa                  117000
               aagat at aga aaagt aaaat gaat ac t c ac aaat c c t gc c ac c c agc c t a aaat at aaaa                      117060
               t ac t c c c c at c c ggc c ac ac gt ggt ggc t c ac ac c t c t aa c c c t agc ac t t t gggaggc c           117120
               aaggt gggt g gat c at gagg t c aggagt t t gagac c agc c t ggc c at c at ggt gaaat c c                      117180
               c gt c t c t ac t aaaaat ac aa aaat t agc c a ggt gc ggt gg t gc gt gc c t g t aat c c c agc               117240
               t ac t t gggag gc t gaggc ag gagaat ggc t t gaac c t ggg aggt ggaggt t gc agt gagc                         117300
               c gagat t gt g c t at t gt ac t c c agc c t ggg c aac agagt g agac t c c gt c t c aaaaaaaa                 117360
               aaaaaaat ac t c c c c at c c a c gt ggagc c t c c t gt gt at c c c gc c c t gat c ac ac c t c c c          117420
               c c aggt c c c c agggt c ac c t c t t t c c t ac a at c at t at t a aat t at t t c c t gaaat t c t c       117480
               at t t at gc at t t c t at at t t t c t at gt at g t gt ac agc t g t aaac aat c t agagt aat gg             117540
               t gt gc at at t t t c aaac t t c ac agaagt gg t at t t ac t gt c gt t c t c c t g c aac t t gt gc          117600
               t t t t t gc c c a gc at ggt t t t gc gat t t at c c c t gt t gc c a t gt gt c gc t c c agc t c agt c      117660
               ac t c at t t c a c ac t gc t gt g t aaggac t t c gt t gc gt gaa t c t at c ac ag t gc at t t at c         117720
               t ggc t gagga at ac t gt ggt t gt t t c t gat t t t t t t t c c t t c t t t t t aaa t at gt t t at t       117780
               agt t at aaac t c t gt t c t ga c at t t t t t t t t t t t t t t gag ac agggt c t t gat c t gt t gc        117840
               c c aggc t gga gt gc agt ggc ac gac c at gg c t t ac t ac ag c c t c aaac t c c c ac gc t c aa             117900
               gt gat c c t c c c gc c t c agc c t c c t gggt ag c t gggac c ac aggt gc ac c c c ac c ac ac c t           117960
               ggc t aagt t t gaaac at t t t t t gt agagat agggt t t c ac t ac gt t gc c c agac t ggt c t                 118020
               c gaac t ac t g ggc t c c agt g at c c t c c c ac c t c agc c t c c c aaagt gc ag agat t ac at t           118080
               agt gagt c at c t c ac c t ggc c t gt t t c t aa t t t t t gt gc t c aat gaac ac c t gt aagaat             118140
               gt t t c t aggg c agt agagt t t gaac t gac c ac aac c c ac a gt aagaaat t gt t t c t ac t g                118200
               gt ggc t gggc gt gat ggc t c ac ac c t gt aa t c c c agc at t t t gggaggc t gaggggggc g                    118260
               gat c ac c t ga ggt c aggagt t c aagat c ag ac t ggc c aac at ggt gaaac c c c ac c t at a                  118320
               c t aaaaat ac aaaat t agc t gggt gt ggt g gc gc ac gc c t gt agt c c c ag c t agt t ggga                   118380
               ggc t gaggc a ggagaat c ac t t gaac c c ag gaggt ggagg t t gc agt gag t c gagat t gt                       118440
               gc c ac t gc ac t c c agc c t c c at t c t c aac a agagc aaaac t c t at c t c t a aac aaac aaa             118500
                                                                      Page 66
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                              46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               t aaat aaaat t at at at at a t at at at at a t at at at at a gagagagaga gagagagaga                              118560
               gagagt t t c t ac t gggc gt t c at gc aaat g c ac ac aaaaa c gt c aaac aa aagt gt c c c a                       118620
               aggc c aggc g c aat ggc t c a t ggc t gt aat c c c agc ac t t c gggaggc c a aggc aggc gg                        118680
               at c ac c t gag gt c aggagt t c gagac c agc c t ggc c aac a t ggt gaaac c c c at c t c t ac                     118740
               t aaaaat ac a aaaat t agc t gggc gt ggt g gc aggc ac c t gt aat c c c ag c t ac t t ggga                        118800
               ggc t gaggc a ggagaat t gc t t gaac c t gg gaggc ggagg gt gc agt gag c c gagat c ac                             118860
 <removed-apn>
               ac c at t gc ac t c c agc c t gg gt gac aagag c gagac t t c a t c t c ggggaa aaaaaagaaa                         118920
               agt gt c c c aa aat aat at gg at c c c t c c c a t c t gt gac at ac t gac at c a t c t at t c c at              118980
               aaaaaaaaaa aaagt gc t gg t ggat c at ga ggt c aggagt t c aagac t ag c c t ggc c aaa                             119040
               at ggt gaaac c t c at c t c t a c t aaagat ac aaaaaat t ag c c aggt gt gg t ggc gggc ac                         119100
               c t gt aat c c c agc t ac t t gg gaggc t gagg t gggagaat t t c t c gaac c c c agaggc aga                        119160
               ggc t t c agt g agc t gagat c gt gc c at t gc ac t c c agc c t gggc aac aag agc aaaac t c                       119220
               t gt c t c aaaa aaaaaaaaaa gt c c t gt t gg aaac c aat aa at t gat gt c a ggac t c c t at                       119280
               c ac t t ggagt t gggt aaac a t at c c c t ggg gt at gaac c t aggaggggac ac agggt gt a                           119340
               t gc ac at t gt ggagaaagaa gaggc aaggg ac t agggc t g gagac t c c gt ggggc c ac ag                              119400
               gat gc t c agc aaagggt t c a gac t t gat t c t gagggggc t gt gaagc t gt aggagggat a                             119460
               t c t t gac c ag at t t gt gc t t t agaaagac c c c t c t gggga c aaaat gggg at agac c ac t                      119520
               t t ggaaaac a gt t ggc aac c c c t gat aaag gt aat gat gt at c c ac c aac ac t c aagt c t                       119580
               gc aggt c c aa ac c t t c ac t a c aggt c t t t g t ac ac c c c c t gc c c t c t gc t gggaac ac t c             119640
               t gc t c t c t gg at ggt t gt c t c c t t t t c c c c t gt c c c at c t c agc c t t t t t t t t t t t t t t a   119700
               aat agagc c c aggc t ggt t t t aaat t c c t g gc c t c aaggg at c c t c c t gc c t c agc at c c                 119760
               c aaagt gc t g gaat t ac agg c at gagc c ac c at gc t c agc c t c t ggt c t c agc t t t t t t t                 119820
               t t t t t t c t t t ggt gagac ag agt c t c gc c c t gt c ac c c ag gt t ggagt gc agt ggc at ga                  119880
               t c t t ggt t c g c t gc agc c t c gac c t c c t gg gc t c aagc c a t c c t c c c ac c t c agc c t c t c        119940
               agt ggc c t c a gc t t t aat gg c ac t t gc t t t aagaagc c t c c c t t aat c c c t gc t c ac c c c             120000
               ac agt gagt c aggc ac t t t c c c t gggat c c c at aac t t c c t gt gc c t c c c c c aac t c c ag               120060
               c c c c c ac c c c t c t gc c t gt g c c t c c c c c at c c c ggt c c t g ac c c at c t gg c c t gt gc t c c    120120
               t c at t gt ggt t ggt ac gaac c ac t c t aggt c at c gc t gt g t ggt gc c agg t c c c c c c ac t                120180
               ggac t gggc a c t c t gagaag gc aagggt c a gggat gt c t t t t t at t gc t g t c aagaggc a                       120240
               agggc aggt g at ggt gt gt t c t gt at ggat gac gagt gt g gt agt gat gg c t aac t gc c t                         120300
               t c c aaaagc t gt ac t t c c c c t c t gt gc t gt c ac at t gc c a c c aggaac c a c t gc c t agc c              120360
               agggac t c c a t t t t c c agc a t gc c t t gc ac c t aggc aggc t at gt c ac t a gc t c t c ac t g              120420
               at ggaat ggc aac ggaagt g c t at gt c c at t gc c c c agga t gagc t t agt gt at t t agc c                       120480
               t gggc at t ac t t t t t c c ac t t c t ggc c aaa gc agt t aggc agggggc t ac c c t c aac c t c                  120540
                                                                      Page 67
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                           46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               t c t t ac c c t t t c c t t gggaa gc agagc gt t gc aaggc c c c agggat ggc a aaac c ac aaa               120600
               agggaaggag c t gggt c c c t gaat c c c ac t t ggaaaaggg c c ac c c c t gc c t at t gt ggg                120660
               ggt aat c aac t gc t at t t t g t t gagc t ac c gaaat at c aa ggaat at t t g t t ac aac agc              120720
               aaat gt ac c c agac ac ac at c ac t aggaac c aac c t ggt g gc t ggaggc a t c at ac agga                  120780
               agt t ggc c c a gt t ggggt c a gt c t gc at ga at c ggaac t c aaac agc t c c c gc agac ac a              120840
               gc gt c aggag c t ggaagc aa at c t ggggt g gggagaat t a ac aggc at c t c agt gt gat c                    120900
 <removed-apn>
               t c c c t t gt gg t gc c ac t gc t ggc c t ggaga gagac c at ga gc c t ggc c c a c c c gc c c t gg        120960
               ggc c at gc c c t t c c c ac t gt gc c ac c agac agc at ac c t g gt t c c gc agg t c c t ggc t t a       121020
               ggc c c t ggc a c t ggt c c agg gggac c c c t c c agc c agc t c c at gc c c agc ac c c gt gt c g         121080
               t gc ac agc t c c t t aac c ac g gc t gggac c c ggaagaaggg gt c at t t gc c agc agc t gc c               121140
               t ggggc agaa ggaaagggag gaaggggac t t c gt gc t t c a ggc t t gt gac c c agc t t gag                     121200
               ac c t c c t c c t t gt gc t c t c a gaagt c c t c c at gaac agt c t gc gc c at gc c c t c c c t c c t   121260
               gc c c at c t c t t gc t gc t gt c t gc c c t gggt gat gac c aac ac c t ggc t gg ac t gagat t t          121320
               aac aagt at c t c c aaggt gc c t ac t c t gc a c c t gc c t c t c aac t gggt gc t gc t ggaaac            121380
               c c agt c ac c a c t t c c c t ac c c gaaac c c t t c t at gac t t c t ggt t gc c c c agaaggat ga        121440
               gt t c aggt gt at t t c agc c t t t gc at t ac t t t t t c at t aa t t t at t aat t c at t c at c c c    121500
               aaaagt agt c ac t ggt at c a aaat c t gt ga agt c t at agt gat ac c c at g ggt c agt c c t               121560
               t gc aat c ac t ac t c t gaac a c aggt aaat a gc gggaaaga at c t t c t gt g t c c at c c t t g           121620
               t gc t aaat ga t gc t ggggac agagc agt ga at gaac c agt c c c t ggac c t ggc c c c c aac                 121680
               c c c gagac c a c ac t c t c ac a aac agac gga t t at agat t g aggt aagt gt gt t ggc t ggg               121740
               t gc agt ggc t t ac ac c t gt a at c c c agc ag t t t gagac ac c gaggt ggga gaat c gc t t g              121800
               agc c c aggag t t c aagac c a gc c t gggc aa c at ggt gaaa c c t c gt c t t t at gaaaaac t               121860
               ac aaaaat t a gc t gggc gt g gt ggc c t gc g c c t at gt t c c c agc t ac t c a ggaggc t gag             121920
               gt gggaaaat c ac t t gagc c t gggaggt c g aggc t ggagt gagc t gt gat c t c ac c ac t g                   121980
               t at t c c agc c t ggaaaac ag agc gagac c c t gt c t c aaaa aaat aaaaga agt at gt c t a                  122040
               t gt aagat t t gggaggc aga gaat at gagc aaggt c t c t g gt t gaggat c c gt gggat gg                      122100
               c t ggaggaga gt gagggaga ac aggagggt ggt gt ggggt t t t at c c t aa gggc ac c c gg                       122160
               gaat c c t gt g ggggac gggg gggt c t c t gg c c c at c ac c c c ac t t c ac ac t c t c t t c c t t       122220
               gagc t c c t c c t t t ggggt t t gt at t t t t gt c c t t gt t gat aaaaat c t c t gat gt t t gaa         122280
               c t gc t c c t c a t gaac c ggag c c at gt gggg c at t t aat c g gc ac ac t c c c c t t t c at c c t     122340
               c ac t c c ac ag t gaggggat g c t c t c t ggag gc c ac t gt ac agat t gt at g gat gc aggc c              122400
               ac gt aac c t g t t aagggc t g ac c c aggat t t c at c c c gc a t c t gagt c t a gggt gt gt gc           122460
               c t c t aac c ac t gc c t t c t ac t gagc t t t c a c t c t c t gt c t ac agagc t t g gc ac gt t t t a   122520
               ggc t gt c aat aaat gt gt ga gc c ac ac t gt ggaggac c c c ac t gaggt gc c at t aat t gc                 122580
                                                                Page 68
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                              46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               t ac ac at c ag gat gc t t c c a agat at aac c ac at t gt t c c ac gt agc c at agt t c at gc a                  122640
               t t t t c ac t gc t ac gt aat at t c c ac agat g aat at ac c gt t gc t t at t t g t c c ac c c t gc             122700
               t ggat aaac t t gat ggat at gggt t gt t t c c agt t t gggg c t gt t gc aga c aagc gt t c t                      122760
               agaac agt c t gat gat ggat ac t ggc aaaa gggt c c c t ag agt gt t c agc agggagggc a                             122820
               at c gt t ggc t t gc agagt t c t t gaat at aa gggc t t at gt gat gat gc c a ac c t gt t c t c                   122880
               aaaat gc t t c t ac c ac c t t c t c c c ac aac c t gc agt gc ag aagggat gc t gt ggagc c c a                    122940
 <removed-apn>
               c t c t c t c t ac c t c c c agt gc t gt gggc t c c t t gc t c t c c g t c agt c c agc agaggt aaga              123000
               gt gt gt c at t gt gt aat t aa t t aagt gc c t gt gt c ggac c ac agt ggat a t gc ggc c c at                     123060
               c t gac ac agg agaagac t gc c gc t t gggaa gt gac c t gc c c aagc t c ac a gaggac aaag                          123120
               ggggt aagc g aagt gat gga t gagt ggaag gat ggat gaa c aat gat t ga aagaaagaga                                   123180
               gagt t t gc c c t ac c c c ac ag c t c c agc t gc c agaagc t ga gggggc agc t ac t t c c c ac c                  123240
               c agc c t ggga gggagggaag gagggaagc t c agggc ac t c agc t c ac c t g aaat t c t ggg                            123300
               c ac aagc c gc c t c ac gac gg t agt c ac ac t c c c aagc c ag c t c c t gc t gc aaggc c t gc a                 123360
               ggc t c t gc t c ggc aaac agg c c t gt ggggg aggt gt gt c a gc c agggaag ggc c c c gagc                         123420
               gc c c ac t ggt ggat gc c t t c t c c t gc c aac c c t c t c t c t c c t gt c t c c c g c gc t gt c c c t       123480
               c ac agc t c c t ac t c t aggc c t gt gac c c ac at c t gt c c c t c t c c t gt c t c c c ac gc agc t           123540
               c c t gc t c c t g c c t c t gac c t gc at c t gt c c c t c t c c t gt c t c c c c c gc t g c c c c t t gc ag   123600
               c t c c t gc t c c aggc c t c t ga c c t gc at c gt at c at c t gt c t ac ac at t t c c c t c gt c c t t        123660
               c at agc ac c a c agggt t c c c c ggggt c t t c c gaagc c t t t t c t gggc t c t gt c t c t t gc a              123720
               c at gc c t gc a c c c c agt c c c t ggc agc t c t t t c agagt c a c gc c t gc c t c t at t c t gt c t          123780
               c c t t t t c at a c t gac t c t c a c gt t gc t c ac t gc at c t gaa t c t c ac t t c t gggc c t ggc t         123840
               t t c c c t c t c c c t c t c c gt c t c t t ac ac aaa c ac aac c c ac c c t c c t t t c t c t aggc gc c t      123900
               c c t c ac gt gc c at c c c c agg ac t gt c c t t t t c t gc t c t gc c gc ac c t ac a at c c c gc t c c        123960
               c t gc at gc ac ac c c t c t gag agt c t gc t gc t gt at c t t gg c c c t gggc t c c c gt c t c t c t           124020
               aaggc t c t gt t aaaat c c at aaggc t t t t c c c ac ac c t gc t c at gc t c c c t gggc t c t c c               124080
               c c gc c t t ggt gt c c t t t c t g t c t c t gac ac t c c c gc t c ac aac gc c agc a c ac c c t gc c c         124140
               gt gc t c t c c t c t gggc t c c c c c t c c t gc t t t c t c t c t c t g ggc at agc c c c t t t gggagg         124200
               t c agc agagg agt gggt ggg c gc c t c ac c c gc gggc aggg c c gc gc t c at c t t gagt ac c                      124260
               gc c agc aggt t c t ggac at c gc t c t gaat g c t c t gggc t a t gc c ggggt a c t gt aaaggg                     124320
               agaagggagg gagagaaggt gggagt c ac t t c t c t gggc t agc agggt gc c c gc c c c t ac                             124380
               c c t gc c c agc c t c c c c t c t c ac c t ggat c t t c ac ggc c ac c t c c gt c c c g t c c c t c agc a       124440
               ggc c c t ggt g c ac c t gc c c a at t gaggc ag c ggc aaaggg c ac c t c c t c c aaggaggc c a                    124500
               c c t t ggc c t g c c agt c c c t g c c gagc t c c t c t t c aagaac t c t c t gc ggg gagt ggt c ac              124560
               agc c at c at c at t gt ggc ag agt t c at t c c c c aggc t gag t gc t t t ac gt gt t gat aac c                  124620
                                                                     Page 69
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                           46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               c c agc ac t c a c c ac at gc ag ggc c c t gggc t aagc t c t t g gc t gc c ac c c c c t t t gc aga       124680
               t gaggaaac t gaggc t c aga gagagc t c c c t t gt gc aagt gac t agc c ag gc ac t ggc ag                   124740
               ac t gt gaggc t c agc c t agc c t gt gt c c c c t gaac c t gga c t c c c t gggc t gt t gt gggg           124800
               at t gc t at t a t t t at agt t a agac t c at aa c aat c c t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t gagac   124860
               agggt c t t gt t c t gt agc c c aggc t ggagt gt agt ggc ac t c t c ac ggc t c ac t gc agc a              124920
               t c aac c t c c c gagc t c aagc c at c c t c c t g c c t c c t gaat agc t gggac t ac agat at gt          124980
 <removed-apn>
               gc c ac t gt gc c c agc t aat t at t ac t gt t a t t at gt t t ag t agagac aag gt c t c ac t at          125040
               gt t gc c c agg gt ggt c t gga agt c c t gagc t c aaat gat c c t c c c ac c gc agc c t c c c aa          125100
               agt gc t ggga t t ac aggc at gagc c at t ac ac gt ggc c aa c c at c c t t t a t t at gc t c t t          125160
               at at gt t at t at t aac t c ac agt t ac t gt g at c aagaaga gc t aaaat t t ac aat gggc t                125220
               t c c t gt gggc c aggt c c t at t c agagt ggc c c agagagag gc agt ac c t g c c t ggggc c g               125280
               c at ggc gaat aagc agaac a gggat gggag agc aggt ggg t ggc ggaat c c t ggat t c c a                       125340
               t gc c t t ac c c agt t at t aga ac agc t c at g t c c t gggc ac t t ac t t ggt g c c aggc gc c g        125400
               t gc c aac c t a t t ac agac ac gat c t c c t t t aat t aaaaaa ac agt aat aa t c ac agc t aa             125460
               c ac c t gc at g t t gc t c ac ag t gaat c aggg gc c gt t c t c a gt gc t c agt g t aaac t gat t         125520
               t at gt gac c c t at gat gt gg gt gt ggc t gt c ac t at c gc c at t t c c c agg gaagggaac t              125580
               gaagc ac aga gaggt c aggc t gc t gt t c c c t gt t t t aat c ac c ac agc aa t gc t aggagg                125640
               t gt gt ac t c t ggt gat t c c c at t t t ac aga t ggggaaagt gaggc t c aga ggc agggagt                   125700
               ggggc agt ga agc c aggaag gt c aggc agg t c agaggaga t ggagc c t gc c t c c c t c ac c                   125760
               gc c c t c c c c c ac t gggc ac t c ac c agc at c t gc c agc ggg gc at gaagt c ggc gc t c t gg           125820
               c ggac c c gc t c aaagat gt g c t gc agc t ga gggc t gat ga agc t gt t gt c t t gggagac a                125880
               gt ggaac c ag gggggaagt a agc gaagagg t gaggaggga c c c c gt gt ga gt at c t gaag                        125940
               t t ggggc c t g t t ggt gggt a gggc t ggggt agaagggagg t c aggggt c a ggagt c gagg                       126000
               gt c at gc t gt ac c c t ggat g c t gagc at c t ggc c aac c t t gagggc ggc c c c t c gaac t g            126060
               t ac at aaggt c t gc ac aat c c gc t c ggc at t ggc c t c c ga c aggaagggg c t ggagt c c a               126120
               gc c c agaac c ac c c t c t ggg gagagaac aa c c at t agaat t at aac c ac a aat at c at c a               126180
               c t gc ggc c ag gc c c ggc ggc c c ac gc c t gt aat c c c agc a c t t t gggaga c c c aggc ggg            126240
               at gaac ac ag gagt c t gaga c c agt c t ggg c aac agt gac at c c t t t c t c t at t aaaaaa               126300
               aat at at at c at c t gc ac ac c aac aggaat ggc t aaaac g aaat ac ggag gc c aggc t t g                   126360
               t t ggc t c gc g c c t at aat c c c aac ac t ggg aggt c aat gc aggaggat gg c t t gagt c aa               126420
               ggagt t c c ag ac c agc c t gg at aac aaagc aagac c c t gt c t c t aat t ag c t gggt gt at               126480
               ggt ggc at gt gc c t gt agt c c c agc t ac t c aggaggc t ga ggc aggagga t t gc t t gagc                  126540
               c c t ggaggt t gaggc t gc aa t gaac t gt ga t c gc ac c at t gc ac t c c agc c t gggc aac c              126600
               aagc aat ac c c t gt c t c ggg aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaagaaa agaaagaaag aaaaat aaac                              126660
                                                             Page 70
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                          46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               at aagt t aaa ac aaat t gc a ggagagt c aa agagt aac t a c t ac agt at t gaat agat ga                    126720
               gc t at c ac t a c ac ac aac ag c c c aggt ggg t c t c aaaaat gt aat gc t ga gt gaaagc ag               126780
               c c gggt gc at gaaat c at c a c c c agt t ac a c t gat at aaa gagc aaaac a aggc c aaac a                126840
               aat c c agggt c c aggagc c a agac agaggt c ac c c t t ggt gaggggagt g ac c aggt ggg                     126900
               gac at gagaa gggc aac gat t c t c gaaat g t gggc c aggg ac c c c t gagg gt c c c t gaga                 126960
               c c at t c agag gggt c t gaga gat c aaac t a t t t t t at c gt aac at t aaga t gt t at t t t c          127020
 <removed-apn>
               c c c t t t c t gc t c t c at gc gt c t aagaac at t c ac t ggagt t c t c c agagg c t c c aggac a        127080
               t gt gaggac a c c at c agac t gac agc t gat ggaat gt gt a c gt gt gt ac t c t t gt gt t t t             127140
               aaaaat at c t c t gt at t t t t gt t gt gt t t t t gagac agt g t c t c ac t c t a t c ac c c aggc       127200
               t ggagt gc ag c ggc ac aat c at ggc t c ac t gc aac c t c c t gggc c c aagt gat c c t c c t g           127260
               c c t t aac c t c c t gagt agc t gggac t ac ag gt at gc ac c a c c at gc t t gg c t aat at t t t        127320
               t ac t t t c t gt aaaaat gggg c c t c gc t at g t c ac t c agac t ggt c t c aaa t t c c t gac c t       127380
               c aagggat c c t c c c gc c c c a gc t t c c c aaa gt gt t gggat t ac aggc gt a agc c ac c gc a          127440
               c c t ggc c t aa aaat t t c t c a gt t t t aat t t c t aat at ggt agac at t gat aac t at aat c          127500
               c ac at aaat a agc t c t t t gg aggc t c at t c t aac agt t t t at t gagaaat aat t c ac at a            127560
               c t gt t at aat t c ac c at t t a agt t at at aa t t c aat gat t at t agt at at t c ac agagt t          127620
               gt gc aagc at c ac c agaat c aat t t t agga c agt t ac ac c ac gc aaaaaa gaaac c t ggc                  127680
               t gggagt gc t ggc t c at gc c t gt aat c c c a gc ac t t t ggg ac gt c ggggc gggat c ac t t             127740
               gagt t c at ga gt t t gagac c agc c t gggc a at at ggt aaa ac c c t gt t t c t ac aaaaaat               127800
               ac aaaaat t a gc t gggc at g gt ggt gc at g c c t at agt c c c agc t ac t c a ggaggc t gag              127860
               gc aggaagat c ac t t ggac c c aggaggt ag aggt t ac agt gagc c gt gat c c c gc c ac c g                  127920
               c ac t c c agc c t gggt gac ag agt gagac c t t gt c t c aaaa aaagaaaaaa aaaaaagaaa                      127980
               c c c t at ac c c at t agc agt c ac t c t t c at t t c c c c c aat c t c c c c aggc c t t gac aac c a   128040
               c t aat c t ac t t t at gt c c c t ac agat t t t c c t at t t t gt a c at t t c at at t aat ggaat c     128100
               at t c aat at g t ggt t t t t c a gt gt gt ggt t gc t t t t ac t t agt gt t t t t t t t t t t t gaaa    128160
               c agt gt c t c g c t c t gt c t c c aaggc t ggag t ac aat ggc a t gat c t t ggt t c ac t gc aac         128220
               c t c c gc c t c c c c ggt t c aag c aat t c t c c t gc c t t ac c c c c c ac c c aagt agc t ggggt t    128280
               ac aggc ac c c ac c ac c ac at c c agc t aat t t t t t gt at t t t t agt agaat c aggat t t c g          128340
               c c at at t gga c aggc t ggt c t t gaac t c c t c ac c t c aggt gat c c ac c t g c c t c ggc c t g      128400
               c c aaagt gc t gggat t ac ag gc gt gagc c a c c gc aac c gg c c t c ac t t ag t gt t t t c aag          128460
               at t c at c t ac at t gc agc at gt gt c agc c c t t c at t c c t t t t t at ggc t g gat aat at t c      128520
               c at t gt at gc c t at c ac at t t t at t c at c c at t c at c agt t t t aaaggt g t gc agggat c         128580
               c t gagac c aa gaagt t t gag agc agc t at t c t agggt t t c t t ac t c t ggg t ac ggac aaa              128640
               t gt ac t t t gt gaaaac gc ac c aagc c at ac ac t t ac aggt at gt gt ac c t gggt t t at at              128700
                                                                  Page 71
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                           46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               gc aaat t ac a t t t c agc t t t ggc aaaac at t t at t t t t c t t t t t t t aat a t gaac ac t t t       128760
               at gaat t t at gt gt c at c t t t gc ac agagg c c gt gc t aat t t t c t c t gt c t c at t c c aat        128820
               t t t t at t t at at gt gat gc t gaagc aagc a c agc ac aac a aagc aat t c t t aagc c t t t a             128880
               t t aat t t t ga aggc c agt t g t ggt ggc t c a c agc t gt aat c c c agc ac t t t aggaggc c a            128940
               gggt aagagg at c t c t t gag c c c agaagt t c aaagc t gc a gt gagc c at g ac t c ac c ac t               129000
               gc ac t c t agc c t gggt gac a gc aagac t c t at c t c t t aaa at aaaat t t a aaat aaaat a               129060
 <removed-apn>
               aaat gt t at t gagc t c at t a t t gagc t gt t c c aggc agaa t c c t aagt gt c t t t gt ggat             129120
               t c t c t ggc t g aat gc c c ac a at c ac ac c t g gaagt aagaa t t at c aat c c t t t aat t t t c        129180
               aaggt gagaa agc aagagac t c aaagaggt gc agc ac c t a t c c c t gggt c ac at agc at g                     129240
               gaagt ggc ag agt ggggt gt agac t c aggc t ggt c at ac c c aaac c c t aa t c c t c c ac c t               129300
               ac c c t c aac t t t t t at t t t g aaaaaaat at c c aggc t ggg t gt ggt ggc t c at gc c t gt a           129360
               at c c c agc ac t t t gggaggc t gagc aggga ggat c ac t t g aggc t aggag t t c c agac c g                 129420
               gc c t gggc aa c at ggc aaaa c c t t c t c t c t ac aaaaaat a c aaaaaat t a gc c aggc gt g               129480
               gt ggc ac gt g t c t at aat c c c agc t at gc a ggaggc t gag gt gggaggat c ac c t gagc c                 129540
               t ggggaagt c aaggc t gc ag t gagc c at ga t c gt ac c at t gc at t c c agc c t gggt gac a                129600
               c agc aagac c c t gt c t c c aa aaaaaaaaag ac agaaaaaa at c c aaac ag aaaagt t gc a                      129660
               t gc at aat at c gt gaac ac c t gc ac ac c c g c ac ac c c t c c ac c t c gat t c aac at ggt ac          129720
               c at t c t gc t t c gt c t gc t t t at c t gt gc gt gt ac c c ac ac ac t t ac t at t at t at t t t t t   129780
               gc t gac c c ac t t gc at gt ag t t gc ac t t aa gc t t t gc t aa gaat aaggat at t c c c c t ac          129840
               ac aat c ac ag t ac c at aat c ac at gt aaga aaat t aac ac c aat t c c t t a ac at c t gc c a            129900
               t gc agt c c at at t c agat t t t c c at t t gt c t c c aaaaagt c t t t c at ggc t gt t t t t t c c      129960
               aaac t gat at gc aat c at gg t t c agat gc t c c at t t gt c a aat aat gt c t c t t t c at c t g         130020
               t t t t t aat c t ggaat at c c a c c c c c ac t t g t t t c aagac a t t gac t t gt t gagggaac c t        130080
               c c ac c t ac c c t c aac t t t t t at t t t at t t t t t at aac ggc aaat gc t ac a c at c t aat t c     130140
               c at c t c t gat gt ac ac agac c c t c gc t ggc ac t t c t at t t t c agc t t t c t gc t c c t gc t c    130200
               c aagt t agga ac t c c c aat g gc t t aaat gt t t t c t c agat aat c t aat at gt ggc t gggc              130260
               ac agt ggc t c at gc t at aat c c c agc ac t t t gggaggc c a aggc gggt gg at c at gaggt                  130320
               c aggagt t ga agac c agc c t ggc c aac at g gt gaaac c gt c t c t ac t aaa aat ac aaaaa                  130380
               t t aac c aagc gt ggt ggc at gt gc c t at aa t c c c agc t ac t t gggaggc t gaggc aggag                  130440
               aat t gc t t aa ac c t gggagg t ggaggt t gc agt gagc c aa gac t gc gc c a t t gt ac t c c a              130500
               gc c t gagc ga c agagt gaga c t c c at c t c a aat t aaaaaa aaaaaat c t a at at gc t t c t               130560
               c t t aat c at g ac c c t gat ag t ggt t t aggc c t gt t c aaag c ac t t c ac aa t gac t c t aag         130620
               aggt gggt aa at t at c ac c a c c t c c at c t t c c gc at gagg aaac t ggagc t c agaggggt                130680
               gaagt c ac t t gc c c c aggt c ac ac agc aaa gc c aggat c t gaac c c aggc agt gt ggc t c                 130740
                                                                  Page 72
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                               46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               ac t c ac c t ga c t gc agac ga c c t c c t ggc a t ggac t t c t t agc c at c t c g gc c agt ac t c               130800
               c t agc c c c aa gc c c ac agc c agt c c t ggag t gc aagagaa gaac at gagt gc c c gt t t gc                        130860
               c t ggggt gc c c c c agc c t aa c c c ac t c t c c t t t c t c agt t t t t c t c c aag aat gc t t gt c            130920
               t c c c aac t c t t t t t at t t t t t c t t t t gt t t gagat ggagt c t c gc t c t gt t gc c c aggc t             130980
               ggagt gt ggt ggc ac aat c t t ggt t c ac t g c aac c t c c ac c t c c c gggt t c aagc gat t c                     131040
               t c c t gc c t c a gc c t c c c gag t agc t gggat t ac aggc ac g c gc c c ac c ac gc c t ggc t aa                 131100
 <removed-apn>
               at t t t t t t t g t at t t t t agt agagac gggg t t t c ac c gt g t t ggc c aggc t ggt c t c gaa                  131160
               c t c c t gac c t c aggt gat c c t c c c gc c t c g gc c t c c c aaa gt gc t gggat t at aggc at g                 131220
               agac ac c gc a c t c agt c t t g t c t c c c aat t c t t t gt at c t c t gt t t c c aa at c agt c t c t           131280
               gac t c t gt t c c t gc at gggg c t c c c t t t aa ggt gc agc t t c c t c t t t c t t t aac c c t t t c           131340
               t c c at gt c t c t gt c t c c c t c c c agc agt t c t c agc c c t gg c t gc ac at t c c agt t ac c ag            131400
               aggagc t c c g gt aaat at aa t gc c c agac t c c ac t c c c c a aat t c t gat t aaat t ggc c t                    131460
               gagac at ggg aat t t gt gt t t t gt t aaaaa gc ac c t c aga t aat t c t aat gt gc gat c aa                        131520
               ggt t aagaag gc c c c t c ggc c gggc ac agt ggc t c at gc c t at gat c c c a gc ac t t t ggg                      131580
               aggc c gaggt gggc agat c a t c t gaagt c a ggaggt c gag ac c agc c t gg c c aac gt gga                            131640
               gaaac c c t gt c t c t ac t aaa aat ac aaaat c agc c gggc g t ggt ggt gc a t gc c t gt aat                        131700
               c c c agc t ac t c aagaggc t g aggc aggaga at c gc t t gaa c c t gggagac agaggt t gc g                            131760
               gt gagc c gag at c ac ac c at t gc ac t c c ag c c t gggaaac aagagagaaa c t c c gt c t c a                        131820
               aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaagaag gc c c c gaaac aat t gt c c t a ggt c c c t c t g t c t t c t ggt g                         131880
               ac t c t t c t t t c t c t gt c c ac ac c t c c t c t t c t t t at gc t t at c t c t t t t t c t t t t t agag     131940
               ac agggt c t c ac t c t gt c gc c c aggc t gga gt gc aat ggc ac c at c at aa c t c ac t gc ag                     132000
               c c t c aaat t c c t gagc t c aa gt gat c c t c t t c c c t c agc c t c c t gagt ag c t gagac c ac                132060
               ac gt gc at ac c ac c ac gc t c ac c t aat t t t t t at t gagac agggt c t c ac t at gt t gc c c                   132120
               aggc t ggt c t ggaac t c c ag aac t c ac gt g at c c t c c t gc c t c ggc c t c c c aaagt gc t g                  132180
               ggat t ac agg t gt gggc t ac c aggc t t gac c t c t c c c t t t c t aagc c agt t at t t c t gc a                  132240
               t c t c t t gc c t t c t c c c c at t t gt c c t at c t at c t agat c t c t t t c t c t c t t t t c c t c c c t   132300
               t t gat gt t at c t c t c c at c t c t gat t t c c t c t gc t ac c t c t c c t c t t gt c c c t aaagac g          132360
               t c t c gggt c t c t c t c c t t c t t t t gt t gt c a c c at c t c t gt c aat t ac c at at c t ggc at t          132420
               t t c t gt gt c c t t t c t ac at g t c aggggc t g t t c c c agt gc c t t c t gt gc a c t t ac t aat t            132480
               t t t gt c c t t a c at gaggt c t c c ac c t t c at aaaat gt at t t t ac agaaaa c t t c c at t t t                132540
               ac agaaaagg aaat t gaggt t c agagaagt gaagt aat t t gc c c agagt c ac gt c ac aaa                                 132600
               gc gaggac ac agc agagt c a t c c c t t aat c c c t gggc agc c t ggt gc c aa agc t c t aac c                       132660
               agt gc c t t t g ac t gc c t c t g c agac t gt ga at c t at c t at gt at at at at at agat t t t t                 132720
               t t t t t t t gag ac agagt t t c ac t c t t gc t g c c c aggc t gg agt gc aat gg t gc gat c t t g                 132780
                                                                         Page 73
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                              46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               gt t c ac t gc a at c t c t ac c t c c t gggt ac a agc aagt gaa t c t at at t t t t aaaac t t ga                 132840
               ac c aggc ggg gc at ggt agc t c ac gc c t at aat c c c agc a c t t t gggagg c t gaggc agg                        132900
               t ggat c ac ga ggt gaggagt t c gagat c ag c t t gac c aac at ggt gaaac c c c at c t c t a                        132960
               c t aaaaat ac agaaat t agc ggt c aggc ac agt ggc t c ac gt c t gt aat c c t ggc ac t t t                         133020
               aggaggc c aa ggc aggc gga t c at gaggt c aggagat c ga gac c at c c t g gc c aac at gg                            133080
               t gaaac c c t g t c t c c c t aag aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaac aa c aaaaaat ag t t ggac gt gg                             133140
 <removed-apn>
               t ggc gt gc at c t gt aac c c c c gc t ac t c ag gaggc t gagg c aggagaat t gc t t gaac c t                       133200
               gggaggt gga ggt t gc agt g agc t gagat c at gc c ac t gc ac t c c agt c t gggt gac aga                           133260
               gc aagac t c c at c t c aaaaa c aaaaac aaa aac aaaac t t gaac c at gat c agc aat aag                             133320
               aagac at t t a c gt t at aac c agt gc agac c aaggt at at g t t t c ac gaaa c aagac t t t c                       133380
               c c t t gc t c t a c aggt gc at g c at at t t t c t gt c c t at t c t t c t t t t t aaa t gc t ggt t gc          133440
               aac c c ac t aa at t at t t c at gt gac t t gc a c gac at c c gg c t gt gt aac c c aaagt c aag                   133500
               t gac c t c c c c t t t gt t agc c t c aat gt c c t c at gt ac gga at agaac ac t c at t gat t c a                133560
               gt gc agc at g t gt gt at at g ggac ac t gc a c at t ac aggt t c t c agt aaa t gt t at t at g                    133620
               gc c aggagc a gt ggc t c at g c c t agaac c c c agc ac t t c g ggaggc c gag gc aggaggat                          133680
               c gc t t gagac c aac t t gagc aac at aggga gac c c t at c t c t ac aaaaaa at at t t t t t a                      133740
               aat t ac c c ag gc c aggc ac a gt ggc t t c c c gggc ac c gt g gc t c ac at c t gt aaat c c c a                  133800
               ac ac t t t ggg aggc c gaagt gggt ggat c a c t t gaggt c a ggagt t c aag ac c agc c t gg                         133860
               c c aac at ggt gaaat t c t gt c t c t ac t aaa agt ac aaaaa t t agc c aggc ggc c aggt gt                         133920
               ggt ggc t c ac gc c t gt aat c c c agc ac t t g ggaaggc t ga ggc aggc gga t c ac aaagc g                         133980
               aggac at agc agagt c at c c c t t gaac c c t gggc agc c t g gt gc c aaagc t c t ac c ac t g                      134040
               c c t gac aaac at ggt gaaac c c c gt c t c t a c t aaaaat ac aaaaat t agc c gggt gt ggt                          134100
               ggat gc at gc c t gt aat c c c agc t ac t t gg gagt gt gagg c aggagaat c ggc t t gaac c                          134160
               c gggaggt gg aggt t gc agt gagc c aagat ggc gc c ac t g c ac t c c agc c t gggt gac ag                           134220
               agggat ac t c c gt c t c aaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaat agc c aggc at agt g gc aggc ac c t                               134280
               gt aat c c c ag c t ac t c agga ggc t gt ggc a ggagaat t gc t t gaat gt ag gaggc agagg                           134340
               t t gc aat gag c c aagac ggt gc c ac t gc ac t c c agc c t gg gc aac agagc gagac t c t gt                        134400
               c t c aaaggaa aaaaaaaaaa aaat t ac c c g ggc ggat ggt gc ac aac t gt ggt c c c agc t                             134460
               ac t c aggagg c t gaggc gag agaat t gc t t gagc c c agaa gt t t gaggc t gc agt gat c g                           134520
               c gc c ac t gc a c t c c agc c t g ggt gac aaag t gagac t c t g t c t c aaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa                        134580
               at t at c at t t at gt t c c t c t t gat t t c t c t t ggc c t t gc a ggc c c t t gc c t t t gt c t c t c        134640
               t t t t t t t gt c t c t c t c t c t t t c c t gt c t c t gat t c at c c t c t c c c t t gc t t c aat c t gt a   134700
               aat gt t gc c c t t t c t aat t g aggt c ac ac c aagat c c c c c aaagt c ac ac c t ac c c c c aa                 134760
               agt t ggc c aa gc ggc t gat g c gggaggc ag gc ac c t t gc g t t c t c gagag c ggt c ac t c a                     134820
                                                               Page 74
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                             46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               gc t gggaaat ggggac aagg t c t gagggt g ggaaagt ggg c at c gt ggc c agagagt gc a                              134880
               gc c ac t c t gc c ac c ac ac c c t t c c c c aagc t c agggggc c agc agt at t c gt ggggt gt t                 134940
               gc t gggt ggg t gggggt aat gat ac c t ggg gc c ggggt gt c t t c c t ggga c gggc c t c c c                     135000
               gt gc c c t gc g aat gt c c t c c t c ac c c aggc c t c t c c c agg c c c at c c t gg t aaaac t t t t         135060
               gggc c c aaga ac c t c c ac at ggt c c c t gc a agagat at ac t t t gat aagg aggggaggac                        135120
               at gggat c ac c t ggc c c t t c t ggac c c c t c c t gt c c t t t t ac c c t c t gaa gt c t c c c t c a       135180
 <removed-apn>
               gc c t c t t c c c c t t ggggac c t gc t c c c t ag c c t c t t ac c c agc ggt gggg c c c aggc c c c          135240
               agggc c c c ac aaggc c aac c aac agt c t gg c c c agc t gt c c ac c ggt c c c c c gaagt agg                   135300
               c c c c c c ac c t t c agc c ac at t gc c t ggagg agaagaggag ggat t at t c a ggt gggagt t                     135360
               gc c t ggc t t c t t ggc c aggc c c c c at gt t c c t c t gt gt c c ac c c t c t c t c at t c c c ac c c      135420
               ac t aaat ac t t c c t c c ac t a t t aat agat t c c c ac agt t t c t c c t ggt t c t c c c c t ggt t         135480
               gc t aggaac c c t t agc t c t t c c t gc aggc c t c c c aaaac c c ac t t t c c c c c c t c t c c c aa         135540
               c c c t c gc c gt t gc t agggt c c gc c c c c gt t ac t agac ac c c ac agt t c c t c aggggc t ac              135600
               c t c t c c ac t t c t c t gaaac c c c c c t c gt t g c t at gc ac c g c c t t c c c c t c t gt t ggc c c t   135660
               gt aggc ac c c gc aat t c c t c c ggt gt c c c c c c gc c c gat c c c c ac c c c gt t ac t gagc ac            135720
               c t c c c c c c gt t gc t aagc ac c c ac t gc t c t c agc c t c c ga gt c c gc aac c t gc t ggggc c           135780
               c t c c t gt gc t t c c gggagc c t c t gt at gc c c gc c c c c t t c ggc c agc c aa c c aat ggc gc            135840
               ggc agc aac t c gc t gac t gg c ac ggagt t t c t c c at c t gt gc gc ggggga aggggc c aga                      135900
               gagaggc c c t agc gat ggag c c t ggaat t a aggt gggc at c gggggc c c a t c t gggggga                          135960
               t t gc t gaggc at c gc gggag c gc aagc gt g c c c t gt c t gc c c t t c c ac t c ac c t c aaagt               136020
               gc c t t gt ac g c gac agac c c t t c t gt t c c c t ac ac t t t c t t gc aaagt c t c c c t t ac aaa          136080
               c c t gac gc c t c t c t t c t gc a c gaat at c t t gc c aac c c c c c t t c t t at t t t t ac c c c t gg     136140
               c aggc t c aac ac aat t c c t t t gaat ac ac a t t c t t c c c ag c aaac at t t c c c t t gc ac at            136200
               ggagc c c c t c c ac t t t gc ac aaac ac c c ac at t c t ggc ac c c aac c t c c t t c c t t gt gc a           136260
               t at aaat c c c t t gc c t t gc t t gc c aac t gt t t c c c gc t c a c gc c t t c aac t c t c t c gt gt       136320
               ac at ac c c t c c c c c c c ac t t gc ac ac t gag t c t c t gt t c c c t c ac ac ac c c t gt t c t c t c     136380
               c gc t c c c c gc c c ac c t gc gg aat ggt gc ga c t gggagc c c t c t gc t t c c t gt aggc c t ga             136440
               c at t t c c c ag aac ac ac t c a gc c aagat t c c c agt gc t ga gt c aggaac c t t ggc at c c c               136500
               agaaaac c ac c t c c c at c c t at c t t t c t t t c t c t gt gt gt gt gt gt gt gt gt gt gt gt gc             136560
               gc gc gc gc gt t ggaaagc c t gc t c t c c c c a c aac aggc t g ac t c ac c c ac t t c t c ac agt              136620
               c t ggaat aga ggc at c t ggt t ggggc at c t t t c c c ac c ac t gggagaggg agggat gc c g                       136680
               at gc t t c c c c c ac agaac c c c gc t gc c c c a ac c c c t c t t g t c gggaat c a ggc c t c t t t g        136740
               t c t c t at t c c c gt ac t gt gt gac c t c agaa aagc c c t c at c c c t c t c t gg ac t t c t c c t t       136800
               c c c aac c t gt at gaggt ac t aggt gggc t c c t gc c t t c ga t t t c t c t c at t ggt c t gt ga             136860
                                                                  Page 75
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                          46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               aaaggt gac t c at t t t agag c c t t ggac c t gt gc c c aat g t c t c c c c c ag t t gac t c aat      136920
               t t c aagac aa ac c ac c t c c t c t c c c c c t t c agaggt gaac ggc t gac t c a ggagc t gggt         136980
               ggc agc t c ag c c t t gggggc aaaat at at c aaaat c ac c t aggac aat aa at aat c c t ac               137040
               t gggc t ac aa c t gac agt gc c aggc c c ggg gc c ac at gc t t c ac at ac at gagat c at gt            137100
               c agat agc c c c gt agc t gc a agc aaagggt agaggc c ggc agat c t c t ga gc c t c t gt t c             137160
               t c ac gt gt aa aat ggagc c c t ggc at c c c t at t gt t c agc c t t ggagaat gaac t gaaat             137220
 <removed-apn>
               c gt gt c aggg t c t gat ac ag aac aagt ac t c t at ac at ga c agagat t t c t t ac ggaaaa             137280
               t c c aat ggag c gt aagt c at t t gc t c aggg t agc ggagc t gggaac t ggc agaggaaggt                   137340
               c t c gaac c c a c ac c c gt ggg aac t c c aagt c t t t gaaagt c c gt c c c gc c c c t gc gt gaa      137400
               gaat gggc gc gc ggc t ggac t c gt c ac c gg gggt t t t agg gaaggt t gaa c t t gt c at t c             137460
               aac c gt gt ag ggagggt ggt t t agt c ac ag gggt ggaggg agggggc c c a c t ggc gc gc c                  137520
               ac c aggac c c c ggt gc c c t a gat gc at ac c t ggc c gc gc t t c ggat gc t c agaggc aaac            137580
               c c c c t c c c c t t gggaggc gg agt c ggac aa ggc t c c gt c t c gt t c c gt t c c gt c ac gt c c    137640
               ggt ggggc gg ggc t t c gggg c t t t c c c c t t t gaggggagt at c ggt t aac c c t t gc gc gg           137700
               c ggggc gggc t ggagc t c c g c gggc c ggaa c c c gggagt c ggggc t c c c c agc c ac ac c c             137760
               c t c gc gggat t t aaagggat aggaggggc c gggt c ggc c g aagc c c gaac c gaaggagc g                     137820
               ggc at gaggc gc t gc c c gt g c c gt gggagc c t gaac gagg c ggaggc c gg ggc gc t gc c c               137880
               gc ggc ggc c c gc at gggac t ggaggc gc c g c gaggagggc ggc ggc ggc a gc c gggac ag                    137940
               c agc gac c t g ggc c c ggc gc aggggc c c c g gc ggggc ggc c ggagggggg c gggc c c t gg                138000
               gc c c ggac ag aggggt c c ag c c t c c ac agc gagc c t gaga gggc c ggc c t c gggc c t gc g            138060
               c c ggggac ag agagt c c gc a ggc agaat t c t ggac agac g gac agac t ga gc c c gc ggc a                138120
               gc t ggc c t t g gagt agagac c gagaggc c c aagc aaaaga c ggagc c aga c aggt c c agc                   138180
               c t c c ggac gc at c t agaat g gagc t ggt c a gagc t ggaga c gac t t gt c t t t ggac ggag             138240
               ac c gggac ag at ggc c t t t g gac t gat c c g c ac aggt c c g ac c t c c agt t t c agc c c gag       138300
               gaggc c agc c c c t ggac ac a gc c aggggt t c at gggc c c t ggac agagc t ggaaac gc at                 138360
               gggt c ac aga c t c agc c aga gagggt c aag t c c t gggc t g at aac c t c t g gac c c ac c ag          138420
               aac agt t c c a gc c t c c agac t c ac c c agaa ggagc c t gt c c c t c aaaaga gc c aagt gc t          138480
               gat ggc t c c t ggaaagaat t gt at ac t gat ggc t c c agga c ac aac agga t at t gaaggt                 138540
               c c c t ggac ag agc c at at ac t gat ggc t c c c agaaaaaac aggat ac t ga agc agc c agg                138600
               aaac agc c t g gc ac t ggt gg t t t c c aaat a c aac aggat a c t gat ggc t c c t ggac ac aa           138660
               c c t agc ac t g ac ggt t c c c a gac agc ac c t gggac agac t gc c t c t t ggg agagc c t gag          138720
               gat ggc c c at t agaggaac c agagc c t gga gaat t gc t ga c t c ac c t gt a c t c t c ac c t g         138780
               aagt gt agc c c c c t gt gc c c t gt gc c c c gc c t c at c at t a c c c c t gagac c c c t gagc c t   138840
               gaggc c c agc c agt gggac c c c c c t c c c gg gt t gaggggg gc agc ggc gg c t t c t c c t c t         138900
                                                                    Page 76
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                              46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               gc c t c t t c t t t c gac gagt c t gaggat gac gt ggt ggc c g ggggc ggagg t gc c agc gat                       138960
               c c c gaggac a ggt c t ggggt gagt gggac c c at c c t gc c c t t gagc c ac a t c ac gc aaaa                     139020
               c t c c t t at t c c t c c gc c t t t gc t t aggaag t t c t c t ac c c at t t ac t gt t agt t gc c c ac        139080
               c agc aat t t c at c t c c ggga ac c t c t t c c a t c c ac t gac c t c c t c c c t c t gac agc c agg          139140
               t t ac t aat t c ac t c c aggc a c c c c t t c t t a at t c t c t c c t t t c c c c t t c c t gc ac t gt c t   139200
               c c ac t c c t gg gggt c t ac aa t ggagggc c a c t gac c gac t t t at ggggc c c aggaac c c c                   139260
 <removed-apn>
               t gaaat t gt a ggac t aagga gc c t gc c gt g c gt gt t c ac a t ac at t gt t g c agc gac ggt                   139320
               c t gac at c t g t c t aat c c t c t ggaat c t ga agaac ac t gg gat agggaga c aggc agggt                       139380
               gc ac t t t c t a c c c c ac at t t c t t aat c t gg ggc c t gt ggc t gt c t t aaag ggt c ac aaac              139440
               c t t c ac c ac c c c t t agc c t a t t t gt at gt a c at t t t t c t a gggagc aaag c gat t c c c c c          139500
               agc t t gc at c agat t c gc aa aagggc t gt g t gac c c c aaa c gc c aaagga t c c t t ggc c t                   139560
               agc c gggagc c c ac c t ggt c t c c c c t gt ga c c c c t ac at c c c c aaggagc c c c c t gaac a               139620
               c t c t t gt t t a c t t t gt c c ac c gt c ac c c c c agc t t gggt g t ggc t c t c c c c t ggt gaat c         139680
               aggaggac c g gc c gggc agg t t c agggagg gc gggac aga gc agaggc c g gt gt gaaac t                              139740
               ggagagc c t c ac gt ggggc t gggagc c gt g gggc t gggag c c gagt c c gg agt c c at c ag                         139800
               c t t gc c agc t t gc c t gc t ga ggc c t c t t t t t gc t c t gggg c c c c t ggc t g gagt c t gc c c          139860
               t gagc c c c gc t t c ac c c c ac at gc c t t c c t t ggggac gt g t t c ac ac at g t ggc c c t agc             139920
               t gt gagagac agac c t gc c t t gac gt gc c t gt gc c t gt gt gc aggggc t g ac c c t c c t gg                   139980
               gc c c c at t gc t t t t t t c t c t c t gc c t gc c c t c t c ac t t c c t t ggc at c t c agaac agc t g       140040
               agc t ggaagt gggt gaat aa t aat aat aat aat aat aat a at aac aac aa c aat t agc ac                             140100
               t c ac t c at gt t t agc c c t gt gc t aagt gc t gt gc t t t t at t aac t c ac t c ac t c c t c gc a           140160
               gc aac c c t aa t gaggt agat ac t t t t t t t t t t t t t c t gag ac agt c t c gc t c t gt t gc c c            140220
               aggc t ggagt gc agt ggt gc c at c t c ggc t c ac t gc agc c t t c ac t t c c t gggt t c aagt                   140280
               gat t gt c c t g c c t c agc c t c c t gagt aggt gagac ac c ag gt gc c c gc c a c c ac ac c t gg               140340
               c t c at t t c t g t at t t t gagt agagac aggg t t t c at c at g t t ggc c aggc t gac c t c aag                140400
               ac t c c t gac c t c aagt gat c c ac c c gc c t c agc c t c c c ga agt gc t ggaa t t ac c agc at               140460
               gagc c ac t gc ac c c ggc t ga ggt agat ac t at t at t at c c c c t t t t ac ag at gaggaaac                    140520
               t gaggc ac ag agaat t c aag t c ac t t gt c c aaggat at c a c c t t gc aaga t gc agat c aa                     140580
               at aat t c t aa t c c t t ac t gt ac ac c agac a c t gt t t t aag t t t t t t c t t c t t t t t t t t t t      140640
               t t agt c t t t t t t gt c aat t t t t t t c t gt c a t t t t t t at c t t aaaat agc a t c t at c t t aa       140700
               t t aagggc t t t gt at gt gt t aac t c t gagt c c t t at gac a gc ac t gagat t gt c t c c at t                 140760
               c aac agat gg gggc c aggc t c agt ggc c c a agc c t gt aat c c c agc ac t t t gggaggc c g                      140820
               aggc aggggg at c ac c t aag gt c aggagt t c aagac c agc c t ggc c aac a t gat gaaac c                          140880
               c t gt c t c t ac t aaaat ac aa aaat t agc c a ggc gt gt gat ggc gggc ac c t gt aat c c c a                    140940
                                                                   Page 77
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                              46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               gc t ac t t ggg aggc t gaggc aggagaat c g c t t gaat gt g ggaggc ggag gt t gc agt ga                           141000
               gc c gagat t g c ac c ac t gc a c t c c agc c t g ggt gac agag c aagac t c gg t c t c aaaaaa                   141060
               aaaaaaac aa aaac aac aga t ggggaagc t gaggc at aga gaggt gagag at t c t t t gc t                               141120
               t agggt t ggc c ac gt c aagt c agagc c agg at t c t aac t c agt t c t ggc t gagt t t c aaa                     141180
               c c c at c gt t t aaac c c t c c a gt gt gt agat c t gt t c c t aa c t t gt c t c c c t c c c aggc c t         141240
               c c c t at c t c c agt t t t t t t c t c at c c t t c c agaat c t gc c t c c at ggc c c agc t t t gt c t       141300
 <removed-apn>
               gc t c aggt gc c c t c t c t gag agc agt c agg ggc t c agt gc t gc gt t t gga gc c t c c ggt c                 141360
               t c c aggc gc c t t c c c agaat c gac t t c c t t c c c t c c t c c t gac c c c c t c t gc t gt aac t a        141420
               ggc c t gagt a c ac ac t gt t c c t t gaac ac t c t t c t gt t gt c c t gc c t c c a c gc at t gc t c          141480
               aagc c gt t c c c ac t gc c c ag c at ac c c gt g c t t c c t t c t c c c t t aat t t t gaaat c c t c t        141540
               c t gac c gt aa aggc t c agc t t c c t t t c t c c c t t t c c t c c t t c c t t c c t t c t c ac c at c c t   141600
               gt c c t t t t t t t aaaat t gt g t t c t c t t t c t t t t t c t t t t t t t ggt aggga t ggggt c t t g        141660
               c t at c t t gc c c aggc t ggt c t t gaac t c c t gggc t c aagt gat c c t c c t g c c t c agc c t c            141720
               c c aaagt gc t gggat t ac ag gt gt gc t at c c t at t c t t c t aat gagac aa aaat c ac t c c                   141780
               c t aagc c c c t ac c at gt at t t ggt c c t at g t t agc t t t gc t ggggaaac a gc agt gac c a                 141840
               agac ac t c at ggagc t c c c a ggc c c at gaa agagac agac c aat c agc c g ac agt c ac ag                       141900
               t t c agagt gg t c aggaggat gt gt gagc c c agaaggaggt c ac t ggc c ag ac ac agggt a                            141960
               t c agagaggg c t t c c t ggag gaaggggc at at aagc t gag ac c at t gt ga aaaaaat c c g                          142020
               agaaagc c c a gat aaac c at t ggat c t aac t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t ggagg gc gt gc agt g                  142080
               c ggagt t t c a c t c t gt t gc c t aggc t gaag t gc agt ggc g agat c t c agt t c ac t gc aac                  142140
               c t c agc c t c c c gggt t c aag t gat t c t c c t gc c t c ggc c t c c c aagt agc t gggac t ac a              142200
               agc gc ac gc c ac c ac gc c c g gc t aat t t t t t t t t t t agt a gagagt gggt t t c ac t at gt                142260
               t ggc c aggc t ggt t c t gagc t c c t gac c t c aggt gat c c a c c c ac c t c ag c c t c c c aaag              142320
               t gc t gggat t ac aagc at ga gc c ac t gt gc c c ggc c c gga t c t aac at aa aac agagaga                       142380
               gaagat at t a t gt t t at gat t aaggggc c a ggt gt ggt gg c t t at gc c t a t aat c c c agc                    142440
               ac t t t gggag gc t gaggt gg gaggat t gc c t gagc c c aga aat t t gagac c ac c c t gggc                        142500
               aac ac agt ga gac c t c at c t c t ac t aaaag gaaaaaagaa c t agc t agat gt ggt ggt at                          142560
               at gc c t gt t t t c c agc t at t c gggaggc t a aagc aggagg at t gc t t gag c c t gggaggc                      142620
               agaggt t gc a gt gagc c aag at c ac ac c t c t gc ac t c c ag c c t gggc aac agagt gagat                       142680
               c c t gt c t c aa aaaaaaaaaa aat t ac t at t aaaaaaat c c c aac t aac at t c t t c agt c c                     142740
               aagc at c aaa gaat gt t t c t ggagc gt c t g t c gt gt gc c a ggc c at gt gc t ggggac at a                     142800
               at c at aac c a t gac aac c c c agt c t c t gc c at c at gagc t t gt agt c c ag c aagt gt gt a                 142860
               ggggat aagc c c c aaggc ac t gggat c c aa c c agagc t ag aac c c c agc g c t gt gt gggg                        142920
               t gat gt t agg t aagt ggc t t c ac c t c t c ag ac c c t c t gt t t c c t c c t t t g t aac ac c gag           142980
                                                                     Page 78
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                              46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               ac gat aat c t c c c t ggggt t gt gt t t t t ag aaat t aagt a ggt t gt ggc a c ac t gagt c t                   143040
               t t gt c at t gt gt c t ggaat g t t c c aggt ac t t agt aaac a ggaac c t t t a t t aat c at c t                143100
               c t t c c c c agg gc c ggc agc t ggat t gggga gggac t agc c c t t c c c gaac c c t gac t c c c                 143160
               t c t t aac c t t c c c ac t gt c a aagagat gt c t gt gaggt ag c t gggc t c t g agggggc ggg                    143220
               agagat gaac ac gt c c c t ga t c c t ggggt a ggagagggat gagc c at ac a gt t t c c t t c t                      143280
               c t ggaggt ga c c c ac t c t t c c agt ac t t gc t aagggac t t gac at gc t t g t ggggt gc ag                   143340
 <removed-apn>
               aat gt at t c c t gt gt gt gt a t gt gt t c at g aat c agac ac t aac c c t gt c t c aaaaagc t                  143400
               c at agt t t ag t c ggc at gat ac aac gaaaa c c c t gt t t t c t at t t gc t t c t c t ggt t t t c             143460
               t t t c t t t c t t t c t t at t t t t t t gagt c agg gt c t c ac t gg gt c ac c c agt c t ggagt gc a          143520
               gt ggc ac aat c ac t gc t c ac t gc agc c t c a c c c t c c aggg c t c aagt gat c c t c c c ac c t             143580
               t agc c t c c t g agt agc t ggg ac t ac aggt g c ac ac c ac c a c gc c t agc t g at t c t t aat t              143640
               t t t t at t t at t t at t t at t t at t t t t t gag at ggagt c t c gc t t t c t c gc c c aggc t gga           143700
               gt gc agt ggc ac aat c t c gg c t c ac t gc aa c c t c t gc c t c t c aggt t c ac ac c at t c t c c            143760
               t gc c t c agc c t c c c gagt ag c t gggac t gc aggt gc c c gc c ac c at gc c c agc t aat t t t                143820
               t t gt at t t t t agt agagac g gggt t t c ac t gt gt t agc c a ggat ggt c t c aat c t c c t ga                 143880
               c c t c at gat c c gc c t gc c t c agc c t c c c aa agt gc t ggga t t ac aggc at gagc c ac t gc                143940
               gc c c ggc c t a at t t t t aaac at t t t gt aga gat ggggt c t t gc t at at t g c c c aggc t gg                144000
               c c t c aat c t c c t gggc t c ag t ggt c c t c c c ac c t t ggt t t c c c agt gt t g agat t ac agg            144060
               c gt aagc c at c gt ac c c gc t gc t t t t gt gg t t t c c t t t gt t c t c t c t c t c t t t gt c t ac t      144120
               t c t gt t c at c t t t t t c t t t t c at c at t ac t t t gt at c t c t c t c t t t t agt c t t c c t at at   144180
               t t gt t t t gt t t t t t t t t t gt t t t t gagac a gt c t t gc t c t gt c gc c c agg c t ggagt gc a          144240
               gt ggc gt gt t c t t ggc t c ac c gc aac c t c t gc c t c t c ggg t t c aaac gac t c t c at gc c t             144300
               c agc c t c c t g agt agc t ggg ac t ac aggt g t gt at c ac c a c gc c c ggc t a at t t t t gt at              144360
               t t t t agt aga ggt ggggt t t c ac c at gt t g gc c aggc t gg t c t c aaac t c c t gac c t c ag                144420
               gt gat c t gc c c ac c t c ac c c t c c c gaaat g c t gggat t ac aggt gagagc c ac c ac ac c c                  144480
               ggc c t at t t c t t t at c t t t t agc aat t c t a t ac c t gt c t c t gt at t agt c agggt aggt c             144540
               aggat t t t c t gc agt aac aa agagc c c c c a aat c t t agt g ac t t agaac a ac aaaggat t                      144600
               at t t t gc t t t at ac t ac ac a t t ggt c ac ag gt c agt ggt g ggt c aagggc t c t gc t t c at                144660
               gc t gt c t t c a c t c agggt c c c aggc t gagg gagc t t c c at t t c t t t t c t t ac t c c c t c c c         144720
               c c ac t gggga ac aaac gt gg c gagt c at aa ac t ggc t c t t aaggc t c c t a c c c gaaagt g                    144780
               ac ac t t c t gc t c c c agt t aa t t ggc c aaag c aaggc c agg t gt ggt ggc t c ac ac c t at a                 144840
               at c c c agc ac t t t ggagac c aagat gggag gat t gc at ga ggc c aggagt t c aagac c ag                          144900
               c c t gggc aac at agc aagat gc c at aaagt agc t gggc at ggt ggc ac ac gc c t gt agt c                          144960
               c t gac t ac t c aggaggc t gg gat gggagc a t c gc t t gagt c c aggagt t g gaggt t gc ag                        145020
                                                                Page 79
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                              46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               t gagc t at ga t ggt gc c at t gt ac t gc agt c t ggc t gac g gagt gagac c c ggt c t c t aa                    145080
               aac aaaac aa aac aaac aaa aaac aac aat c c c c agt t c a ggagggc agg gac at c c c t g                          145140
               aac t aat agc t ggagc t at g t ggt gaac ag c t gt c at gac t gc c ac ggt c t c t gt c gc t g                   145200
               t c t c t gt c t c t c t gt c at c a c t at gt c at c t gc c t c t c t g t t t c t gt c t c t c t c t gt ggt   145260
               c c at c t c c at c c at c aac t c c t gc c t c t at aat t t t c c c c aaaaggt c t g ac c t ggt t t a          145320
               gggac agaga t ggggc t t c c aat at t t gac ac t ggt c c c t ac at aat ggc t t at gc c t ga                     145380
 <removed-apn>
               aac c c c aac a c t t t gggaga c t gaggc agg t ggac t gc t t gaggt c agga gc t c aagac c                       145440
               agc t t gggc a ac at ggt gaa ac c c c at c t c t ac t aaaaat ac aaaaat t a gc c agac at g                      145500
               gt ggc at gc a c c t gt agt c c c agc t ac t c g gagggt gagg c aggaggat c ac t t gaac c t                      145560
               c ggaggc aga ggt t gc agt g agc c aagat c at ac c ac t gc ac t c t ggac t aggt gac aga                         145620
               gac c c t gt c t c aat t aaaaa aaaaaaaaaa agaagat t t g gaac t gt gt a t gt gc agt gg                          145680
               aagat gt aag ggt t gt t t gt t aaac c ac aa c aaaac c t ag c c t gt c c t t a c t c at aagat                   145740
               c c t t ac t c at aagagaagga c agagagac a t agat ac aaa gaaagt gat g ac agagggga                               145800
               gaaat gggc a aagaat t t c c c c t at c t t gc t gagggc t t t gggc gat c at gt gat t gc c g                     145860
               aac t aagt gg ggc t c ac t c a c c c c aac aag c c t gggaac a gt gat c c c ag gaagc c c c t g                  145920
               gc c c t ggaaa gac t gc aggt c c c c t t t c gt t c c c t c t c at ggc agc ac c t c t agc c c c t g            145980
               c c t t c c c t gg c c t t ggc c c t gac c c c ac c c t gc t c t gc t c c c t ac agagc aaac c c t gga          146040
               agaagc t gaa gac agt t c t g aagt at t c ac c c t t t gt ggt c t c c t t c c ga aaac ac t ac c                 146100
               c t t gggt c c a gc t t t c t gga c at gc t ggt a agt ggggt gg t ggt ggac ag agc t gggc ag                     146160
               agt c t c c t gg gc c agggaaa gggat gt t c t c t gt agt t t a gt t c c c c c ac c t agt gat gg                 146220
               gc t t ggt gac agt c c c c ac c t t at gggac t gt t at gggc a gt gc t t aggc c t gggc c t gg                   146280
               c c c t t c gt at gt c agggc ag agggc t at t c c t t gt t at t c t ggt ggagag agggagc t t c                    146340
               agac ggac c t gagc t c aaac c c t agt t c t g c t c t gt at t c at gggt gac c t t gggc aagt                    146400
               t ac t t t c c t t t ac t gggc c t c agc t gc c c c at c t gt t aat gt ggagat aa c c t t ac c t c c            146460
               c t t gc aggat t aac c gaaga gt t aaaat c a aaat gt at at aaagat t gag gc c aggc ac g                          146520
               gt ggc t t ac a t c t gt aat c c t agc ac t t t g gc aggc c aaa ac aggaggat c gc t t gagc c                    146580
               c aggagt t t a agac c aac c t aggc aat at a gt gagac c c c gt t t c aat t a aaaaaaaaaa                         146640
               aagat t ggc t gggc gc agt g gc t c at gc c t gt aat c c c ag gc c t t t ggga ggc c gaggt g                     146700
               ggt ggat c c c c t gaggt c ag gagt t t aaga c c agc c t ggc c aat gt ggt g aaat c c c t t c                    146760
               t c t ac t aaaa at aaaaaaat t agc c aggc a t ggt ggc ggg t gc c t gt aat c c c agc t ac t                      146820
               c aggaggc t g aggc aggaga at c ac t t gaa c c c gggaggt gaaggt t gc a gt gagc c aag                            146880
               at c gc agc at t gc ac t gc ag c c t gagt gac aagagc gaaa c t t c gt c t c a aaaaaaaaaa                        146940
               agac t gaggc ac aggac t c t t at gaat gga aat gat c ac t c c t t gc c t t c t c c gc gt gt t                   147000
               c agagc at ag c aggc c t t c a gt aagt agc a gc t gt aac at t t t gc c c c c a ggac c t t gc a                 147060
                                                                  Page 80
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                          46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               aat gc c t gc a gc ac agagt a gc ac aat ggt ggc at at agt gc t c t t t t ga aaggc t aggc              147120
               c at aaat at c t t aggt t t t g t gggc c t at g gt c t c t gt c g c aac t ac t c a gc t c t gc t gt   147180
               t ac agc agga aagc t gc c at agac ac t at g t aaac at at g agt gt gt c t g t at t c c aat a           147240
               aaac t t t at t t gc aaaaac c agc agc aggc t ggac t agaa aagt gt gc c c at t ggc aaat                 147300
               ggc gac agt a agagaat t t g t c t gc c t t gt t t gt c t t t ag at c t gac c t g gaaat aaggc          147360
               aagac c c c c t aaaac t gt gt c aac ac aagt t t gc c at c t a t at gt gt t c t ggt t ac t at t        147420
 <removed-apn>
               gc t gagt t t a t t aaaaaaac aaaac t c agc agagc ac agc ggc t c at ggc t gt agt t c t a               147480
               gc ac t t t ggg aggc t gaggt gggaggat c a c t t gagc c c a ggagt t t gag ac c agc c t gg              147540
               gt gac at agt gagac c t t gt c t c t ac gaaa aat aaagaaa t t aac t gggc at ggt ggc at                 147600
               gc ac c t gt gg t c c c aggt ac t t gggagc t g agggt gggaa gat c ac t t ga gt c c aggagg              147660
               t c t gggat gc agt gagc c t t gat c gc ac c a c agt ac t c t a gc c t agat ga c c gagt gaga           147720
               c c c t gt c t c a aaaat aaat a c gc c aggggc ggt ggc t c ac gc c t gt aat c c c agc ac t t t         147780
               gggaggc c aa ggc aggc gga t c ac gaggt c aggagat c ga gac c at c c t g gc t aac aaag                  147840
               t gaaac c c c g t c t c t ac t aa aaat ac aaaa aat t agc c gg gc at ggt ggc gggc gc c t gt            147900
               aat c c c agc t ac t c gggagg c t gaggc agg agaat ggc gt gaac c c ggga ggc ggaggt t                   147960
               gc agt gagc c gagat agc ac c ac t gc ac t c c agc c t gggt gac agagc ga gac t c t gt c t              148020
               c aaaaat aaa t aaat aaat a aaat aaaat a aaat aaat ac aaaac aaaac c c aaaaac c c                       148080
               c aagac t t ag t gat ggt t aa aaaaaat aac t t agt agaat aaaac aat c a t t t t at t gac                148140
               c t c agaagt t t t gggt c agc aat t c agac a ggat ggc agg gat ggc t t t t c ac t gc t c c a           148200
               c aat at c t gg gaac t c agc t agggac ac c t ggaggc t ac a agc t gaaaac t t t t ggaggt                148260
               t c at t c ac t t gc at gc gt gg t gat t gat gc t ggc t at t gg c t ggggt c t c agat ggggc t          148320
               gc c ac gt ggc t t t gc c at gt agc t c c t t ga gc t t c c t c ac agt at ggt gg c c t c agagt a      148380
               c t c agat t t c t aac aagac a gc t c aggac t ac c t t gaagg t aagt gt c t c t gc c aac aga           148440
               agt c at gc ag t agc ac t t c t gc c at aaac c gt c c c at at t t aat gggaga gc aat c t at t          148500
               t t t t at t t at t c at t t aat t t t gagat agg at c t c agt gt t gc c c aggc g ggagt gc agt         148560
               ggt gc agt c a t agc t c at t g c agc c t t gaa c t c c t ggc c t t aaaggat c c t c c t gc c t c a    148620
               ac c t c c c aga gt gt t gggat t at aggc at g agc c ac t gc a c c c agc t t gg gagagc aat t           148680
               aagagt at ac t c c t t gat gg gaaaat t c t a t aagagc agg at c aggaat g ggt c t gagac                 148740
               c c ac t gt gat c aggagat ac t gt t gt agc c aac t t t ggaa aat gt aat c c aggc t ggac a              148800
               t aat c ac agc ac t t t gggag gc t gagat gg gaggat c at t t gaggc c agg agt t c gagac                 148860
               c agc c t gggc at c at agc aa c ac t ac c c c a ac c c gac at t ac ac at t t t t t t t t t t t aga    148920
               t t agc t ggga gt ggt ggggg t gc ac ac c t g t agt c c t agc t ac t c t ggt g gt t gaggt gg           148980
               gaggat c ac c t gaat c t agg agc t t gaggc t gc agt gagc t at gat t at a c c ac t c aat t             149040
               t c agc c t ggg t gac agagt g agat c c t c t c aaat aaaaaa agaaaaagaa aat at aat c t                  149100
                                                                  Page 81
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                          46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               gaaaat ac ag c t ggc c ac t a gaagaaat t a gaat t at t at aat c t at ac a c t c t gc gt gg             149160
               t c c aggaaat gc t t gat c t a t aaat t aac t t aaat aggc c c t ggt t gt t a gc ac c t t ggg           149220
               at t c c aggc a gc agc aaaag c aaat c c ac t c t ggagagt g ac gc t c t gga c t t agat c t c            149280
               ac agaat t c c c ac agat gat c ac at gt gt a c aat c aaaaa t t ac aaaac a aat t aggat a                149340
               t c c t gt gc t g ggaac aggac t t ggt t t aag c aac agagaa c agaaat t c g c c c t t t c c t t          149400
               ac c aac c c c t gggc aagac t t t t aagagt t gc ggc c t ggg c ac agt ggc t c ac gc t t gt a            149460
 <removed-apn>
               at c c c agc ac t t t gggaggc c aaggc gggt ggat c at c t g aggt c aggag t t c aagac c a                149520
               gc c t gac c aa c aaggt gaaa c c c t gt c t c t ac t aaaaat a c aaaaat t ag c t gggc t t gg            149580
               t ggt gt gc ac c t gt aat c c c agc t ac t t ga gaggc t gaag c aggagaat t gc t t gaac c c              149640
               gggaggc gga ggt t gc agt g agc c gagat c gc ac c at t gc ac t c c agc c t gggc aac aga                 149700
               gt gggac t c c at c t c aaaaa aat aaaat aa aat c t t aaaa t c at t aaaaa aaaagt t gc a                 149760
               gggagagaaa gc at t gc agg agggt c gggc aagat aat gg t ggc c aggat c t gat gc aaa                       149820
               c aggc agc t g c ggagaggt t c t c t t c c t ga t c c agt t c c t gat c c t c t c a t t t at t c t ac   149880
               c ac c t t t agg gaac t t c c ag gc aggagagg at ggt c ggat t c t gaaac gt t t c t gt c agt             149940
               gt gagc agc g c agc c t ggag c agc t gat ga aagac c c gc t gc gac c t t t c gt gc c t gc c t           150000
               ac t at ggc at ggt gc t gc ag gat ggc c aga c c t t c aac c a gat ggaagac c t c c t ggc t g            150060
               ac t t t gaggg c c c c t c c at t at ggac t gc a agat gggc ag c aggt ggggc t ggggc agc c               150120
               c t ggggc agg gat ggagggc agggggt ggg c at t at t gaa aat at t ggc c t ggc c aggc g                    150180
               c ggt ggc t c a c gc c t gt aat c c c agc ac t t t gggaggc c g aggc t ggt gg at c ac c t gag           150240
               gt t gggagt t c c aaac c agc c t gac c aac g t ggt gaagc c c t gt c t c t ac t aaaaat ac a             150300
               aaaaat t agc c aggc gt ggt ggt gc at gc c t gt aat c c c a gc t ac t c agg aggc t gaggc                150360
               aggagaat t g c c t gaac c t g ggaggt ggag gt t gc ggt ga gc t gagat t g agc c at t gc a                150420
               c t c c agc c t g ggc aac aaga gt ggaac c c t gt c t c aaaaa aaagaaaaga aaagaaaaga                     150480
               aaat agc gc c aagt c c at t t t c aaagt ggt t gt ac c agt g t ac c t t c c c a c c ac c at gt a        150540
               t gagt gt t ac agt c gt c c c a gat t c t c ac c ggt gc t t ggt ac t gt c t gt t t t at t aac t t      150600
               aaac c at t c c gat gggt t t g gaat aggat c c c t t t t t t t c c t c t t t gaga c agagt c t t a       150660
               c t c t at c gc c c aggc t ggag t gc agt ggc a c gat c t c ggc t c ac t gc aat c t c c ac c t c c      150720
               t gggt t t aag t gat t c t c c t gt gt aaac c a agt agc t agg at t ac aagc g c c c gc c ac c a         150780
               c ac c t ggc t a at t t t t gt at t at t agt aga gat ggggt t t c ac c at gt t g gc c aggc t gg         150840
               t c t ggaac t c c t gac c t c ag at gat c c ac c c ac t ac ggc c t c c c agaat g c t gggat t at        150900
               aggc gt gagc c ac c ac gc c t agt c t gc aag aagt gaac t c t aat t gc t t t c t c c agc t gg           150960
               gt t c agt ggc t c t c ac c t at aat c c c aac a c t c t gggagg c t gt at ac ac ac ac ac ac ac         151020
               agac ac ac ac ac ac agac ac ac ac at agt c t t c aac t c t c c c at t t c at t c t t t t agt ag        151080
               t c t t t t gat a aac at at t t t t at aaac aaa at agt at t t g t at t at t ac t c t t t t t t gag     151140
                                                                    Page 82
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                           46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               ac agagt c t c at t c t gt t gc c c c gac t gaa gt gaaggagc at gat t at ag c t c ac agt ag               151200
               c c t t gaac t c c t gggc t c ag gc ggt c c t t t c ac c t t agc c t c c agagt ag c t gggac t at         151260
               aggt at gt c c c ac c aggc t t ggc t at at t t t at t t t t t at agagac at gg t c t c c c t gt a         151320
               c t gc c c aggc t ggt c t t gaa c c c c t gagc t c aagt gat c c t c c t t c t t c t gc c c c c t gag     151380
               t agc t gggac t gt aggt gc a t ac t at c ac a c c t agc t aat t t t c aat t t t t t gt agagac            151440
               aggc t at t t a ggaaaagc t c t gaat c c at g c t t t t c c gt t c t c ac ac c ac t gc c ac aac a         151500
 <removed-apn>
               at gagagc ac agaagac t t c t gt gac c aaa t gt t t aggt t t t t t aac c c c ac ac ac c aag               151560
               c aac ggac ac c agc t ggat g t c c t c c aat t c aagt c t aaa ac c at c t ac c t ggaaat agt              151620
               gt c agat c c c ac aggt t ggg gac t c agt c c c c aagac t gc c c c c c agt t a c agac ac c ag            151680
               t c at aagt t c aggc c t t c ga aac t t c t gac t gat t ggc t c c aagt t ggag t t c c c at gt c          151740
               c t c c t c t t t g ggt t c aaat a at t t gc t gga gt ggc t c aaa t aac t c aggg ggat ac t t ac          151800
               t t ac c t t t ac t ggt t t aat a t aaagc aggg gt c c c c aac c c c t gggc c gc agac c agt ac            151860
               c ggt c c at gg c c t c t t agga ac ggggc c c c ac c gt aggag gc c agc gagc at t ac c gc t t             151920
               gaac t c c ac c t c c t gt c aga c t agc gggc a ggagat t c t c t ggagggc ga ac c c t at t gt             151980
               gaac t gt gc c t gc aagggat c t agat t gt a t gc t c c t at g agaat c t aat t gat ac t t ga              152040
               t gac c t gagg t agaagagt t t c at c c agaa ac c at c c c c c t c ac agt c t g t gggaaaaat               152100
               t at c t t c t ac aaaac c agt c c c t ggt t ggg t ac t gc t ac a aaggat ac t g c aaaagat ga              152160
               agagaagt gt agggc aaggt at gggggaag gggt ac ggag c t t c c at gc c c t c c c t gggc                      152220
               gc ac c ac gc t c c aggaac c t c c ac agggt c agc t at c t gg aagc t c c t ga gc c c aat c c t           152280
               t ggt t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t ga gagggagt c t t gc t c t gt gt c c c aggc t gg   152340
               aat gc agt gg c c t gat c c gc c c gc c t t ggc c t c c c aaagt gc t gggat t a gagat gt gag              152400
               c c ac c at gc c c agc c t aat c c t t gggt t t t t at ggaggc t t t aagac ac c agc at t c c t t          152460
               c c c c c agagt at agggt ggg at c c t c t c t g gggagggt c c t aagac c c ac agt c aggaag                 152520
               gt ggggaaag at t agagt c c t gc c t t gggg c aggt gaaag gagggc agga ggaggt c aga                         152580
               gat t t t ggt t t c t t gagc c a gc t t c t gaga t c t aac ac ac c t aaaat t at aac aaaagat              152640
               t gt ggc t ggg c gc agt ggc t c at gc c t gt a at c c c agc ac t t t gggaggc c aaggc aggc                152700
               agat c ac t t g aggc c agt t c aagac aagc c t gggc aac at ggt gaaac t c t gac t c t ac t                 152760
               aaaaaaat ac aaaaat gt gc c aggt gt ggt ggt at ac t c t t gt aat t c c a gc t ac t c agg                  152820
               aggc t gaggt gggaggat c a c t t gaac c c g ggaggt c c t a gaagt t gc ag t gagc c aaga                    152880
               t c ac gc c ac t gt ac t c c agc c t t ggt gac a gagc aagac t c c at c t c aaa aaaaaaaaaa                152940
               aaaaaaggc t gggc gt agt g gc t c ac ac t t gt aaat ggga ggc agaggc a ggc c gat c ac                      153000
               gaggt c agga gt t c gagac c agc c t ggc c a ac at c gt gaa ac c c c at c t c t ac t aaaaat               153060
               ac aaaaaat t at c c gggt gt ggt ggc gggc ac c t gt aat c c c agc t ac t c aggaggc t ga                   153120
               ggc aggagaa t c gc t t gaat c c gc gaggc a gaggt t gc ag t gac c c gaga t c ac c ac c at                 153180
                                                              Page 83
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

                                                              46577A_Seq_Li s t i ng_3. TXT
 <removed-date>
               t c c at t gc ac t c t agc t c gg gc gggc gt c a aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaagat t g                             153240
               t aac aagggc t at gagagt t ac c agc c agg aac c at agag ggaaac c aat at ac at t gt a                            153300
               ac t aac ac c g ggt c t c gc t a t gt t gc c gag gc t gat c t t g ac t t t c t ggg c t c aagt gaa               153360
               c c t c c t gc c t t ggc c t c c c a aagt gt t ggg gt t ac agat g t gaac ac t gc ac c t ggc c c t               153420
               ac c t t t aat t t agt c c agt t t gt c agt t t t t t t c at t gt g t t t aagaaat c t t t t c c t ac            153480
               t c c aagat c a t gc aaat at t at gt t t t c t t c t ac aagc t t t at t gt t t t a gc t t t c at at             153540
 <removed-apn>
               t t agac c t ac at t c c agat a gaat t aat gt t t c t gt gt gt gggaggt agg gat c aggt t c                       153600
               at t t t t t t c c at at ggat t g t t gac c c agc ac t gt t t at t gaaaagac t t c c c t t t c c c c             153660
               ac t gaat t gc agt gc c t agt c at aac t gc a c aac t c t ac g t gt gt gt c t t t gt ggac t c t                 153720
               gt t gt at t c t gt gc at t gat t t gc c c at t c t t gt gc c ac a c t gt ggc t t t at gt c t t aat             153780
               at c aggaagg gt aagc c c t c c agt t t gt t c t ac at aat t t c c t t t gt c ac at c c t c t gt g               153840
               t gc t c aggac c t at c t ggaa gaggagc t ag t gaaggc ac g ggaac gt c c c c gt c c c c gga                       153900
               aggac at gt a t gagaagat g gt ggc t gt gg ac c c t ggggc c c c t ac c c c t gaggagc at g                        153960
               c c c agggt gc agt c ac c aag c c c c gc t ac a t gc agt ggag ggaaac c at g agc t c c ac c t                    154020
               c t ac c c t ggg c t t c c ggat c gagggc at c a aggt gaggac c aggaac c gc c t ggc c t gt c                      154080
               c c gggaaggc c t at agc c ag at c c c aggc a gggc t t c t t g gggaaagc c a c gagagagt g                         154140
               c aggagac gg c gt gggat ga aaggc t gggg c t ggggaagc c c agc c t c t t t c t t ac c t c c                       154200
               at ac c c at c a gagc c c aggt t c t gt t t at c c gt c t gc c t g agc at c t c c t gagt c c at c t             154260
               t t t c c t c c t c t c c t t c t c c a t ggt c at gt c c t agt c c agc c c c at c t t c t c c t gc c t c t g   154320
               t c t c c c t ggg c at c c t ggc c c t ggt c t c c c t gc agc ac aa gagc t ggagg gat c c c t t t c              154380
               c c c c agc t at ggagaaggt t t c t c t t t t t c t t t c t t gc at t c c t t t t t c t t t gt c aaat t          154440
               aaat at aat t gt at gaat ag gc c aggc at g gt ggc t c at g c c t gt aat c c c agc ac t t t g                    154500
               ggaggc c aag gc aggaggat t gc t t gaggc c aggagt agt t c aggac t aa gc t ggc c aac                              154560
               at agggagc t t c t gt t t c t a gaagaaaaaa aaat t gt t t g aat agc t agt c ac ac agt t c                        154620
               aaaagt c aaa at aat at t at aaaagggt aa at gt ggagaa at t t c t c t c c c aac t c t gc t                        154680
               gc t gt c c t t c c c at t c t gt c c c t c t at c c c t c t ac c t gc t c at ggggaac c ac t t t gt c a         154740
               gt t t c t t gt a t t t c t t c c t g t t agt gc c ag t aaat ggagt t gt agat c c g aaat gt t c c t              154800
               c agt ac gc at ac t gat t ggt ac t t t gc t at t t t c ac t t aa t agt aac ac c c t gc agagt t                  154860
               t t c c ac at c a t t c c at agaa agc t t c c t c t t t c t gt t t t t t t t t c c c c c a c agc t at gt a      154920
               ac ac t gt t t t t gt gac t gt g c c t ggt c c c c t at agac aga c ac c t gggt t gt t t c c at t t              154980
               t t t gc c at t a gc aggc c t c a aagaat c ac t t t gt at at aa gac at t t t gc aagt at gc ag                   155040
               at t gagc t gt agat t t c c ag aagc aggac t c c t gggt c aa agc t t                                             155085
                                                                            Page 84
This data, for application number 2013313282, is current as of 2018-01-02 21:00 AEST

