                                          ABSTRACT
         Methods are provided for determining the level of perturbation of a phenotype in
an organism using a multivariate statistical analysis. The method comprises a first step of
collecting at least one measurement from at least one control group of organisms and at
least one experimental group of organisms to produce a set of data. The method further
comprises a second step of using a processor to conduct a multivariate statistical analysis
on the set of data to determine the level of perturbation of a phenotype or trait of interest in
the experimental group of organisms. Such a multivariate statistical analysis comprises the
steps of arranging the set of data into a matrix, expressing the matrix into a set of new
basis functions and projecting the set of data onto the set of new basis functions to
calculate a set of scores for each of the two groups of organisms. The multivariate
statistical analysis further comprises the steps of determining a score space by calculating a
distance between the set of scores generated for the control group of organisms and for the
experimental group of organisms, and using the score space to determine the level of
perturbation of the phenotype of interest in the experimental group of organisms. Methods
are further provided for selecting a group of organisms based on the distance in the score
space between the control group of organisms and the experimental group of organisms.

                        1/6
                     Figure 1
E Well watered
E Restricted watered
 T hres hold

                                                                                       P/00/011
                                                                                  Regulation 3.2
                                       AUSTRALIA
                                     Patents Act 1990
                   COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                         FOR A DIVISIONAL PATENT
                                       ORIGINAL
Name of Applicant:        PIONEER HI-BRED INTERNATIONAL, INC.
Actual Inventor(s):       JANNI, James
                          HAZEBROEK, Jan
                          WRIGHT, Stephen L
Address for Service:      Houlihan 2, Level     1, 70 Doncaster Road, Balwyn North,
                         Victoria 3104, Australia
Invention Title:          PRECISION PHENOTYPING USING SCORE SPACE
                          PROXIMITY ANALYSIS
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
performing it known to the Applicant:-

        PRECISION PHENOTYPING USING SCORE SPACE PROXIMITY ANALYSIS
            The present Application is a Divisional Application from Australian Patent
   Application No. 2012323405. The entire disclosures of Australian Patent Application No.
 5 2012323405 and its corresponding International Patent Application No.
   PCT/US2012/059290, are incorporated herein by reference.
                                    FIELD OF THE INVENTION
            The invention relates to the field of plant biology and, more particularly, the use of
10 statistical analyses to accurately determine changes in plant phenotypes.
                                           BACKGROUND
            The agricultural industry continuously develops new plant varieties that are
   designed to produce high yields under a variety of environmental and adverse conditions.
15 At the same time, the industry also seeks to decrease the costs and potential risks
   associated with traditional approaches such as fertilizers, herbicides and pesticides. In
   order to meet these demands, plant breeding techniques have been developed and used to
   produce plants with desirable phenotypes. Such phenotypes may include, for example,
   increased crop quality and yield, increased crop tolerance to environmental conditions
20 (e.g., drought, extreme temperatures), increased crop tolerance to viruses, fungi, bacteria,
   and pests, increased crop tolerance to herbicides, and altering the composition of the
   resulting crop (e.g., increased sugar, starch, protein, or oil).
            To breed plants which exhibit a desirable phenotype, a wide variety of techniques
   (e.g., cross-breeding, hybridization, recombinant DNA technology) can be employed. A
25 crucial step in any of these methodologies is the assessment of phenotypes and traits in
   new plant varieties. Although strategies have been developed to reduce the time and
   expense required for making such assessments, significant time and cost are still necessary
   to evaluate crops under different stresses, seasons and environmental conditions. As a
   result, much effort has been made to increase throughput, lower cost and increase the
30 accuracy and precision of evaluating new plant breeds.
            One approach is to determine the degree to which a phenotype or trait is altered in
   an experimental or altered plant. In this manner, plants that exhibit the largest degree of
   change in a beneficial phenotype or trait can be selected for production or further
   development. By accurately selecting those plants that exhibit the most desirable
                                                  -2-

   properties, the agricultural industry can save both the time and cost associated with the
   development of new plant species that do not exhibit the most advantageous
   characteristics. Therefore, quantitative methods to determine the level of perturbation of a
   phenotype or a trait in plants would be extremely beneficial in the art.
 5
                                              SUMMARY
            Methods are provided for determining the level of perturbation of a phenotype or
   trait of interest in an organism. The organisms encompassed by the methods include, but
   are not limited to, plants, mammals, insects, fungi, viruses and bacteria. In one
10 embodiment, the method comprises a first step of collecting at least one measurement from
   at least one control group of organisms and at least one experimental group of organisms
   to produce a set of data.
            The method further comprises using a processor to conduct a multivariate statistical
   analysis of the set of data in order to determine the level of perturbation of the phenotype
15 of interest in the experimental group of organisms. In one embodiment, the statistical
   analysis comprises arranging the set of data into a matrix, expressing the matrix into a set
   of new basis functions and projecting the set of data onto the set of new basis functions to
   calculate a set of scores for each group of organisms. In some examples, such new basis
   functions are eigenvectors.
20          The statistical analysis of the method further comprises the steps of determining a
   score space by calculating a distance between the set of scores generated for the control
   group of organisms and the set of scores generated for the experimental group of
   organisms. The score space is then used to determine the level of perturbation of the
   phenotype or trait of interest in the experimental group of organisms relative to the control
25 group of organisms. Methods are further provided for selecting organisms based on the
   distance in the score space between the control group of organisms and the experimental
   group of organisms.
            The following embodiments are encompassed by the present invention:
            1.      A method for determining the level of perturbation of a phenotype of
30 interest in an organism, said method comprising:
                     (a)    collecting at least one measurement from at least one control group
   of organisms and at least one experimental group of organisms to produce a set of data;
   and
                                                   -3-

                    (b)     using a processor to conduct a multivariate statistical analysis on
   said set of data to determine said level of perturbation of said phenotype of interest in said
   at least one experimental group of organisms relative to said at least one control group of
   organisms.
 5
            2.     The method of embodiment 1, wherein said collecting at least one
   measurement is performed using an analytical method.
            3.     The method of embodiment 2, wherein said analytical method comprises
10 spectral analysis, gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis, liquid chromatography
   mass spectrometry analysis, direct infusion mass spectrometry analysis, or any
   combination thereof.
            4.     The method of any one of the preceding embodiments, wherein said
15 multivariate statistical analysis comprises:
                    (a)     arranging said set of data into a matrix;
                    (b)     expressing said matrix into a set of new basis functions;
                    (c)     projecting said set of data onto said set of new basis functions to
   calculate a set of scores for said at least one control group of organisms and said at least
20 one experimental group of organisms;
                    (d)     determining a score space by calculating a distance between said set
   of scores of said at least one control group of organisms and said set of scores of said at
   least one experimental group of organisms; and,
                    (e)     using said score space to determine said level of perturbation of said
25 phenotype of interest in said at least one experimental group of organisms.
            5.     The method of embodiment 4, wherein said expressing said matrix into a
   set of new basis functions comprises using principle component analysis, partial least
   squares discriminant analysis, support vector machines, or any combination thereof.
30
            6.     The method of embodiment 4 or embodiment 5, wherein a larger distance in
   said score space is indicative of a larger perturbation of said phenotype of interest in said
   at least one experimental group of organisms, and wherein a smaller distance in said score
                                                  -4-

   space is indicative of a smaller perturbation of said phenotype of interest in said at least
   one experimental group of organisms.
           7.      The method of embodiment 6, further comprising the step of selecting said
 5 organisms based on said distance of said score space.
           8.      The method of any one of the preceding embodiments, wherein said at least
   one experimental group of organisms expresses at least one transgene.
10         9.      The method of any one of the preceding embodiments, wherein said
   organism is a plant, a mammal, an insect, a fungus, a virus or a bacterium.
           10.     The method of embodiment 9, wherein said plant is a monocot or a dicot.
15         11.     The method of embodiment 10, wherein said plant is maize, wheat, barley,
   sorghum, rye, rice, millet, soybean, alfalfa, Brassica, cotton, sunflower, potato, sugarcane,
   tobacco, Arabidopsis or tomato.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
20         Figure 1 sets forth modeling of the metabolic changes produced by drought stress
   across a range of genotypes and environments.
           Figure 2 sets forth the predicted class of transgene events that were statistically
   separated from null-segregants in the direction predicted using the well-watered
   metabolome.
25         Figure 3 is a plot of the cross validation predictions of the perturbation in the
   plants produced by different events and constructs for a transgene. A single construct
   with many events is contrasted with the wild type. Discrimination analysis indicates
   clearly modeled changes in the plants' hyperspectral images for the transgenic plants
   compared to the wild type plants.
30         Figure 4 is a plot of the cross validation predictions of the perturbation in
   different genotypes produced by a single transgenic event. Discrimination analysis
   indicates clearly modeled changes in the plants' hyperspectral images from the
   transgenic event.
                                                  -5-

            Figure 5 is a plot of attempted cross validation for a second genotype. Separation
   between the wild-type and transgenic classes is not possible based on the hyperspectral
   images of the plants.
            Figure 6 is a bar chart of the distance between two classes modeled with synthetic
 5 metabolomic data. Each model going to the right is built with data generated with
   increasing noise. As the signal to noise ratio decreases, the separation between the classes
   diminishes in the PLSDA score space.
                                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION
10          The present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference
   to the accompanying drawings, in which some, but not all embodiments of the invention
   are shown. Indeed, the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should
   not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein; rather, these embodiments
   are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements.
15          Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention set forth herein will
   come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of
   the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings.
   Although specific terms are employed herein, they are used in a generic and descriptive
   sense only and not for purposes of limitation.
20          A crucial step in the development of new plant varieties is the assessment of their
   phenotypes and traits. Although methods have been developed to improve such
   assessments, significant time and cost are still necessary to determine which plants exhibit
   the most desirable characteristics under different environmental conditions. Accordingly,
   methods are provided for determining the level of perturbation of a phenotype in an
25 organism. Such methods find use in the accurate identification of those organisms having
   particularly advantageous phenotypes and traits.
            The organisms encompassed by the methods include, but are not limited to, plants,
   mammals, insects, fungi, viruses, and bacteria. In one example, the method comprises a
   first step of collecting at least one measurement from at least one control group of
30 organisms and at least one experimental group of organisms to produce a set of data. The
   collection of such measurements can be performed by an analytical method, as described
   elsewhere herein.
            The method further comprises a second step of using a processor to conduct a
   multivariate statistical analysis to determine the level of perturbation of a phenotype or
                                                  -6-

   trait of interest in the experimental group of organisms. The method can further comprise
   a step of providing an output of the multivariate statistical analysis to a user.
            In one example, the multivariate statistical analysis comprises arranging the set of
   data into a matrix, expressing the matrix into a set of new basis functions, and projecting
 5 the set of data onto the set of new basis functions to calculate a set of scores for each of
   said at least two groups of organisms. In particular examples, principle component
   analysis (PCA), partial least squares discriminant analysis (PLSDA), support vector
   machines, or any combination thereof, are used to re-express the matrix. In other
   examples, the set of new basis functions produced by the method are eigenvectors.
10          The multivariate statistical analysis further comprises the steps of determining a
   score space by calculating a distance between the set of scores generated for the control
   group of organisms and the set of scores generated for the experimental group of
   organisms, and using the score space to determine the level of perturbation of the
   phenotype of interest in the experimental organisms relative to the control group of
15 organisms. A larger distance in the score space is indicative of a larger perturbation of the
   phenotype or trait of interest in the experimental group of organisms relative to the control
   group of organisms. Accordingly, a smaller distance in the score space is indicative of a
   smaller perturbation of the phenotype or trait of interest in the experimental group of
   organisms.
20          Methods are further provided for selecting organisms based on the distance in the
   score space between the control group of organisms and the experimental group of
   organisms.
            The methods encompass a multivariate statistical analysis of a set of data collected
   from at least one control group of organisms and at least one experimental group of
25 organisms.
            As used herein, a "control group of organisms" is one or more organisms that
   provide a reference point for measuring changes in a phenotype of interest in an
   experimental group of organisms. A control group of organisms may comprise, for
   example: (a) one or more wild-type organisms, i.e., of the same genotype as the starting
30 material for the genetic alteration which resulted in the experimental organism; (b) one or
   more organisms of the same genotype as the starting material but which has been
   transformed with, or bred to comprise, a null construct (i.e. with a construct which has no
   known effect on the phenotype of interest, such as a construct comprising a marker gene);
   (c) one or more organisms that are non-transformed segregants among progeny of an
                                                  -7-

   experimental organism; (d) one or more organisms that are genetically identical to the
   experimental organisms but which are not exposed to conditions or stimuli that would
   induce expression of a phenotype of interest; or (e) the experimental organism itself under
   conditions in which the phenotype of interest is not expressed (e.g., altered environmental
 5 conditions, chemical treatment and the like).
            A "genetic alteration" as described above can include both transgenic and non
   transgenic means of genetically altering an organism. Genetic alterations can include the
   introduction of genetic material by recombinant DNA techniques. Alternatively, genetic
   alterations may result from classical breeding, crossing, introgression, mutagenesis, or
10 hybridization techniques.
            As used herein, an "experimental group of organisms" is a group of one or more
   organisms that have been treated or altered by some means, such that the organism(s)
   exhibit a phenotype of interest that is different as compared to the same phenotype of
   interest in a control group of organisms. Where the organism of the method is a plant,
15 experimental plants may be treated or altered, for example, to regulate stress tolerance,
   pest tolerance, disease tolerance, chemical or herbicide resistance, crop yield or crop
   quality.
            Methods for altering the organisms include, but are not limited to, any of the
   standard genetic engineering or breeding techniques that are used in the art to alter a
20 phenotype or trait of an organism. Experimental organisms may be altered by one or more
   recombinant DNA techniques (e.g., transformation) to affect a gene that regulates a
   phenotype or trait of interest. In particular examples where the organism is a plant, genetic
   modification can be accomplished using one or more recombinant DNA techniques that
   are known in the art. Transformation protocols, as well as protocols for introducing
25 polypeptides or polynucleotide sequences into plants, can be utilized to introduce
   recombinant DNA constructs, polypeptides or polynucleotides into a plant or plant cell for
   the purpose of altering a phenotype or trait of interest. Such recombinant DNA constructs
   may encode polypeptides or polynucleotides that, when expressed, regulate the expression
   of one or more genes in the plant that contribute to a phenotype or trait of interest.
30          Where the experimental organisms are plants, such plants may be altered by
   traditional plant breeding techniques, such as hybridization, cross-breeding, back-crossing
   and other techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art in order to generate
   experimental plants that exhibit an altered phenotype or trait.
                                                  -8-

            In particular examples, the organisms encompassed by the method include plants,
   mammals, insects, fungi, viruses and bacteria.
            The term "plant" includes plant cells, plant protoplasts, plant cell tissue cultures
   from which plants can be regenerated, plant calli, plant clumps, and plant cells that are
 5 intact in plants or parts of plants such as embryos, pollen, ovules, seeds, leaves, flowers,
   branches, fruit, kernels, ears, cobs, husks, stalks, roots, root tips, anthers, and the like.
   Progeny, variants, and mutants of the plants are also included.
            Plants that can be utilized include, but are not limited to, monocots and dicots.
   Examples of plant species of interest include, but are not limited to, corn (Zea mays),
10 Brassica sp. (e.g., B. napus, B. rapa,B. juncea), alfalfa (Medicagosativa), rice (Oryza
   sativa), rye (Secale cereale), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor, Sorghum vulgare), millet (e.g.,
   pearl millet (Pennisetumglaucum), proso millet (Panicum miliaceum), foxtail millet
   (Setariaitalica), finger millet (Eleusine coracana)),barley (Hordeum vulgare), oats
   (Avena sativa), sunflower (Helianthusannuus), safflower (Carthamustinctorius), wheat
15 (Triticum aestivum), soybean (Glycine max, Glycine soja), tobacco (Nicotianatabacum,
   Nicotiana rustica,Nicotiana benthamiana), potato (Solanum tuberosum), peanuts (Arachis
   hypogaea), cotton (Gossypium barbadense, Gossypium hirsutum), sweet potato (Iponoea
   batatus), cassava (Manihotesculenta), coffee (Coffea spp.), coconut (Cocos nucifera),
   pineapple (Ananas comosus), citrus trees (Citrus spp.), cocoa (Theobroma cacao), tea
20 (Camellia sinensis), banana (Musa spp.), avocado (Perseaamericana),fig (Ficus casica),
   guava (Psidium guajava), mango (Mangifera indica), olive (Olea europaea), papaya
   (Caricapapaya), cashew (Anacardiunioccidentale), macadamia (Macadamia
   integrifolia), almond (Prunusamygdalus), sugar beets (Beta vulgaris), sugarcane
   (Saccharumspp.), vegetables, ornamentals, and conifers.
25          Vegetables of interest include tomatoes (Lycopersicon esculentum), lettuce (e.g.,
   Lactuca sativa), green beans (Phaseolusvulgaris), lima beans (Phaseolus limensis), peas
   (Lathyrus spp.), and members of the genus Cucumis such as cucumber (C. sativus),
   cantaloupe (C. cantalupensis),and musk melon (C. inelo). Ornamentals include azalea
   (Rhododendron spp.), hydrangea (Macrophyllahydrangea), hibiscus (Hibiscus
30 rosasanensis),roses (Rosa spp.), tulips (Tulipa spp.), daffodils (Narcissus spp.), petunias
   (Petuniahybrida), carnation(Dianthuscaryophyllus), poinsettia (Euphorbiapulcherrima),
   and chrysanthemum.
            Conifers of interest include, for example, pines such as loblolly pine (Pinus taeda),
   slash pine (Pinuselliotii), ponderosa pine (Pinusponderosa), lodgepole pine (Pinus
                                                  -9-

   contorta), and Monterey pine (Pinus radiata); Douglas-fir(Pseudotsuga nenziesii);
   Western hemlock (Tsuga canadensis); Sitka spruce (Picea glauca); redwood (Sequoia
   sempervirens); true firs such as silver fir (Abies amabilis) and balsam fir (Abies balsanea);
   and cedars such as Western red cedar (Thuja plicata) and Alaska yellow-cedar
 5 (Chainaecyparisnootkatensis). Hardwood trees can also be employed including ash,
   aspen, beech, basswood, birch, black cherry, black walnut, buckeye, American chestnut,
   cottonwood, dogwood, elm, hackberry, hickory, holly, locust, magnolia, maple, oak,
   poplar, red alder, redbud, royal paulownia, sassafras, sweetgum, sycamore, tupelo, willow,
   yellow-poplar.
10         In specific examples, plants of interest are crop plants (for example, corn, alfalfa,
   sunflower, Brassica, soybean, cotton, safflower, peanut, sorghum, wheat, millet, tobacco,
   etc.). In some examples, corn and soybean and sugarcane plants are of interest. Other
   plants of interest include grain plants that provide seeds of interest, oil-seed plants, and
   leguminous plants. Seeds of interest include grain seeds, such as corn, wheat, barley, rice,
15 sorghum, rye, etc. Oil-seed plants include cotton, soybean, safflower, sunflower, Brassica,
   maize, alfalfa, palm, coconut, etc. Leguminous plants include beans and peas. Beans
   include guar, locust bean, fenugreek, soybean, garden beans, cowpea, mungbean, lima
   bean, fava bean, lentils, chickpea, etc.
           Other plants of interest including Turfgrasses such as, for example, turfgrasses
20 from the genus Poa, Agrostis, Festuca, Lolium, and Zoysia. Additional turfgrasses can
   come from the subfamily Panicoideae. Turfgrasses can further include, but are not limited
   to, Blue gramma (Bouteloua gracilis (H.B.K.) Lag. Ex Griffiths); Buffalograss (Buchloe
   dactyloids (Nutt.) Engelm.); Slender creeping red fescue ( Festuca rubra ssp. Litoralis);
   Red fescue (Festucarubra); Colonial bentgrass (Agrostis tenuis Sibth.); Creeping
25 bentgrass (AgrostispalustrisHuds.); Fairway wheatgrass (Agropyron cristatum (L.)
   Gaertn.); Hard fescue (Festuca longifolia Thuill.); Kentucky bluegrass (PoapratensisL.);
   Perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.); Rough bluegrass (Poa trivialisL.); Sideoats
   grama (Bouteloua curtipendulaMichx. Torr.); Smooth bromegrass (Bromus inermis
   Leyss.); Tall fescue (Festuca arundinaceaSchreb.); Annual bluegrass (Poa annua L.);
30 Annual ryegrass (Loliun multiflorum Lam.); Redtop (Agrostisalba L.); Japanese lawn
   grass (Zoysiajaponica);bermudagrass (Cynodon dactylon; Cynodon spp. L.C. Rich;
   Cynodon transvaalensis);Seashore paspalum (Paspalumvaginatum Swartz); Zoysiagrass
   (Zoysia spp. Wild; Zoysia japonica and Z. matrellavar. matrella); Bahiagrass (Paspalum
   notatum Flugge); Carpetgrass (Axonopus affinis Chase); Centipedegrass (Erenochloa
                                                 - 10 -

   ophiuroidesMunro Hack.); Kikuyugrass (Pennisetum clandesinum Hochst Ex Chiov);
   Browntop bent ( Agrostis tenuis also known as A. capillaris);Velvet bent (Agrostis
   canina ); Perennial ryegrass ( Lolium perenne ); and, St. Augustinegrass (Stenotaphrum
   secundatum Walt. Kuntze). Additional grasses of interest include switchgrass (Panicum
 5 virgatum).
            The methods find use in measuring the perturbation of a phenotype of interest
   between groups of organisms. In this manner. the method can also be used to measure the
   perturbation of a trait of interest between groups of organisms, wherein the trait
   contributes to a phenotype of interest.
10          As used herein, a "phenotype of interest" is defined as a measurable characteristic
   of an organism. The phenotypes of interest encompassed can result from an alteration in
   one or more traits of interest in the organism that contribute to the phenotype. The term
   "trait of interest" is intended to mean the measurable characteristics of an organism that
   contribute to a particular phenotype of interest.
15          Where the organism of the method is a plant, phenotypes of interest include, but
   are not limited to, plant architecture, plant morphology, plant health, leaf texture
   phenotype, plant growth, total plant area, biomass, standability, dry shoot weight, yield,
   yield drag, physical grain quality, nitrogen utilization efficiency, water use efficiency, pest
   resistance, disease resistance, transgene effects, response to chemical treatment, abiotic
20 stress tolerance, biotic stress tolerance, energy conversion efficiency, photosynthetic
   capacity, harvest index, source/sink partitioning, carbon/nitrogen partitioning, cold
   tolerance, freezing tolerance and heat tolerance.
            Where the organism is a plant, traits of interest that contribute to a phenotype of
   interest include, but are not limited to, gas exchange parameters, days to silk (GDUSLK),
25 days to pollen shed (GDUSHD), germination rate, relative maturity, lodging, ear height,
   flowering time, stress emergence rate, leaf senescence rate, canopy photosynthesis rate,
   silk emergence rate, anthesis to silking interval, percent recurrent parent, leaf angle,
   canopy width, leaf width, ear fill, scattergrain, root mass, stalk strength, seed moisture,
   seedling vigor, greensnap, shattering, visual pigment accumulation, kernels per ear, ears
30 per plant, kernel size, kernel density, seed size, seed color, leaf blade length, leaf color,
   leaf rolling, leaf lesions, leaf temperature, leaf number, leaf area, leaf extension rate,
   midrib color, stalk diameter, leaf discolorations, number of internodes, internode length,
   kernel density, leaf nitrogen content, leaf shape, leaf serration, leaf petiole angle, plant
   growth habit, hypocotyl length, hypocotyl color, pubescence color, pod color, pods per
                                                  - 11 -

   plant, seeds per pod, flower color, silk color, cob color, plant height, chlorosis, albino,
   plant color, anthocyanin production, altered tassels, ears or roots, chlorophyll content, stay
   green, stalk lodging, brace roots, tillers, barrenness/prolificacy, glume length, glume width,
   glume color, glume shoulder, glume angle, head density, head color, head shape, head
 5 angle, head size, head length, panicle length, panicle width, panicle size, panicle shape,
   panicle color, panicle type, panicle branching, panicles per plant, culm angle, culm length,
   ligule color, ligule shape, spike shape, grain nitrogen content and plant or grain chemical
   composition (i.e., moisture, protein, oil, starch or fatty acid content, fatty acid composition,
   carbohydrate, sugar or amino acid content, amino acid composition and the like).
10          The methods encompass the collecting of at least one measurement from at least
   one control group of organisms and at least one experimental group of organisms to
   generate a set of data that can be used in a subsequent multivariate statistical analysis. A
   "set of data" means a collection of measurements, observations or readings obtained by
   any method of analysis used. As used herein, to "detect a change" means to identify or
15 measure a quantitative or qualitative difference in a phenotype or trait of interest in an
   experimental group of organisms when compared to one or more control groups of
   organisms.
            The analysis of the method can be accomplished using any analytical method
   capable of detecting a change in a phenotype or trait of interest. In particular examples,
20 the analytical methods used include but are not limited to spectral analysis, gas
   chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis, liquid chromatography-mass
   spectrometry (LC-MS) analysis, or direct infusion mass spectrometry (DI-MS) analysis.
            As used herein, "spectral analysis" means a method for characterizing a phenotype
   of interest in an organism using spectral, multispectral or hyperspectral methods. Any
25 method for collecting such measurements is encompassed, including manual methods and
   automated methods.
            As used herein, the terms "mass spectrometry" or "MS" generally refer to methods
   of filtering, detecting and measuring ions based on their mass-to-charge ratio, or "m/z." In
   MS techniques, one or more molecules of interest are ionized, and the ions are
30 subsequently introduced into a mass spectrographic instrument (i.e., a mass spectrometer)
   where, due to a combination of magnetic and electric fields, the ions follow a path in space
   that is dependent upon their mass ("in") and charge ("z"). See, e.g., U.S. Patent No.
   6,107,623, entitled "Methods and Apparatus for Tandem Mass Spectrometry," which is
   hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
                                                  - 12 -

            In particular examples, mass spectrometry is used along with with a
   chromatographic method to separate analytes prior to MS analysis. As used herein, a
   "chromatographic method" employs an "analytical column" or a "chromatography
   column" having sufficient chromatographic plates to effect a separation of the components
 5 of a test sample matrix. In some examples, the components eluted from an analytical
   column are separated in such a way to allow the presence and/or amount of an analyte(s)
   of interest to be determined. As used herein, "gas chromatography-mass spectrometry" or
   "GC-MS" first utilizes a gas chromatograph (GC) and a GC column that can sufficiently
   resolve analytes of interest and allow for their detection and/or quantification by MS
10 analysis. Alternatively, the method may utilize "liquid chromatography-mass
   spectrometry" or "LC-MS", wherein a high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)
   column is utilized to resolve analytes of interest for detection by MS analysis. The method
   may further utilize "direct infusion mass spectrometry" or "DI-MS", wherein a sample
   does not undergo separation prior to analysis by mass spectrometry.
15          The methods encompass the use of a processor to conduct a multivariate statistical
   analysis in order to determine the level of perturbation of a phenotype or trait of interest in
   at least one experimental group of organisms.
            As used herein, a "multivariate statistical analysis" is intended to mean the use of
   any one of a number of statistical analyses that are known in the art for analyzing data
20 arising from more than one variable. Such techniques find use in determining the level of
   perturbation of a phenotype or trait of interest between two or more groups. "Level of
   perturbation" is defined as the degree to which a phenotype or trait is altered in an
   organism when compared to a control organism or a control group of organisms.
            In one example, the multivariate statistical analysis comprises the steps of
25 arranging the set of data into a matrix, expressing the matrix as a set of new basis functions
   and projecting the set of data onto the set of new basis functions to calculate a set of scores
   for each of the groups of organisms.
            Standard methods for arranging a set of data into a matrix are well known to those
   of ordinary skill in the art, as are methods for optimizing a matrix for use in a specific
30 algorithm. As used herein, "expressing" a matrix means the use of any mathematical
   method that renders one or more matrices into a set of new basis functions. Methods for
   expressing matrices as a set of new basis functions are well known in the art and include
   LU decomposition, Gaussian elimination, singular value decomposition,
   eigendecomposition, Jordan decomposition and Schur decomposition. As used herein, a
                                                 - 13 -

   "set of new basis functions" means a set of linearly independent vectors that, in a linear
   combination, can represent every vector in a given vector space or free module, or,
   alternatively, define a "coordinate system." The set of new basis functions produced by
   the method can, in some examples, be a set of eigenvectors. "Eigenvectors" are well
 5 known in the art and can be defined as the non-zero vectors of a matrix which, after being
   multiplied by the matrix, remain proportional to the original vector.
            In particular examples, principle component analysis (PCA), partial least squares
   discriminant analysis (PLSDA), support vector machines, or any combination thereof, are
   used to express the matrix as a set of new basis functions. Methods of expressing one or
10 more matrices as a set of new basis functions using PCA, PLSDA, support vector
   machines, or a combination thereof, are known to those of ordinary skill in the art. As
   used herein, "principle component analysis" or "PCA" means any mathematical procedure
   that uses an orthogonal transformation to convert a set of observations of possibly
   correlated variables into a set of values of uncorrelated variables called principal
15 components. By "partial least squares discriminant analysis" or "PLSDA" is meant the
   use of statistical analyses that discriminate between two or more groups. PLSDA is also
   known to those of ordinary skill in the art and may be utilized in certain examples where
   qualitative predictions might be expected. As used herein, "support vector machines"
   describe statistical analyses that are classifier algorithms which determine a boundary (i.e.,
20 an n-dimensional hyperplane) which distinguishes between class members.
            The set of data obtained by the method is then projected or measured for onto the
   set of new basis functions in order to calculate a set of scores for the control group of
   organisms and a set of scores for the experimental group of organisms. As used herein, to
   "calculate a set of scores" means to transform the original data set into the set of new basis
25 functions. The scores are the weights in the new basis functions and are equivalent to the
   original data. The scores are optimized to more readily interpret for selection or
   classification of a trait or phenotype.
            When scores have been calculated for the control group of organisms and the
   experimental group of organisms, a score space is determined by the method. As used
30 herein, a "score space" defines where the distance between the scores generated for each
   group of organisms is calculated. A larger distance in the score space is indicative of a
   larger perturbation of the phenotype or trait of interest in the experimental group of
   organisms. Accordingly, a smaller distance in the score space is indicative of a smaller
   perturbation of the phenotype or trait of interest in the experimental group of organisms.
                                                  - 14 -

   In one example, score space values that can be used for quantitative selection of an
   experimental group of organisms range from about 0.3-5.0, from about 0.3-1.0, or from
   about 0.3-0.5.
            Methods are further provided for selecting a group of organisms based on the
 5 distance in the score space between the control group of organisms and the experimental
   group of organisms. In a particular example, an experimental group of organisms may be
   selected quantitatively, wherein the score of one group is determined to be greater than the
   score of another group. In this manner, the degree of perturbation of a phenotype or trait
   of interest would be greater in the selected group of organisms. In another example, a
10 group of organisms may be selected qualitatively when the score space between the
   experimental group and the control group is greater than a pre-defined value.
            As used herein, a "processor" provides a means to conduct the multivariate
   statistical analysis of the method. The processor of the method can also provide an output
   of the method to a user, such that the output comprises the result(s) of the multivariate
15 statistical analysis of the method.
            The processor of the method may be embodied in a number of different ways. For
   example, the processor may be embodied as one or more of various hardware processing
   means such as a coprocessor, a microprocessor, a controller, a digital signal processor
   (DSP), a processing element with or without an accompanying DSP, or various other
20 processing circuitry including integrated circuits such as, for example, an ASIC
   (application specific integrated circuit), an FPGA (field programmable gate array), a
   microcontroller unit (MCU), a hardware accelerator, a special-purpose computer chip, or
   the like. As such, in some embodiments, the processor may include one or more
   processing cores configured to perform independently. A multi-core processor may enable
25 multiprocessing within a single physical package. Additionally or alternatively, the
   processor may include one or more processors configured in tandem via the bus to enable
   independent execution of instructions, pipelining and/or multithreading.
            In an example embodiment, the processor may be configured to execute
   instructions stored in a memory device or otherwise accessible to the processor.
30 Alternatively or additionally, the processor may be configured to execute hard coded
   functionality. As such, whether configured by hardware or software methods, or by a
   combination thereof, the processor may represent an entity (e.g., physically embodied in
   circuitry) capable of performing operations according to an embodiment of the present
   invention while configured accordingly. Thus, for example, when the processor is
                                                 - 15 -

   embodied as an ASIC, FPGA or the like, the processor may be specifically configured
   hardware for conducting the operations described herein. Alternatively, as another
   example, when the processor is embodied as an executor of software instructions, the
   instructions may specifically configure the processor to perform the algorithms and/or
 5 operations described herein when the instructions are executed. However, in some cases,
   the processor may be a processor of a specific device (e.g., a mobile terminal or network
   device) adapted for employing an embodiment of the present invention by further
   configuration of the processor by instructions for performing the algorithms and/or
   operations described herein. The processor may include, among other things, a clock, an
10 arithmetic logic unit (ALU) and logic gates configured to support operation of the
   processor.
            As used herein, the term "circuitry" refers to (a) hardware-only circuit
   implementations (e.g., implementations in analog circuitry and/or digital circuitry); (b)
   combinations of circuits and computer program product(s) comprising software and/or
15 firmware instructions stored on one or more computer readable memories that work
   together to cause an apparatus to perform one or more functions described herein; and (c)
   circuits, such as, for example, a microprocessor(s) or a portion of a microprocessor(s), that
   require software or firmware for operation even if the software or firmware is not
   physically present. This definition of "circuitry" applies to all uses of this term herein,
20 including in any claims. As a further example, as used herein, the term "circuitry" also
   includes an implementation comprising one or more processors and/or portion(s) thereof
   and accompanying software and/or firmware. As another example, the term "circuitry" as
   used herein also includes, for example, a baseband integrated circuit or applications
   processor integrated circuit for a mobile phone or a similar integrated circuit in a server, a
25 cellular network device, other network device, and/or other computing device.
            As defined herein, a "computer-readable storage medium," which refers to a
   physical storage medium (e.g., volatile or non-volatile memory device), can be
   differentiated from a "computer-readable transmission medium," which refers to an
   electromagnetic signal.
30          The article "a" and "an" are used herein to refer to one or more than one (i.e., to at
   least one) of the grammatical object of the article. By way of example, "an element"
   means one or more element.
            Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are used
   in this specification, they are to be interpreted as specifying the presence of the stated
                                                  - 16 -

   features, integers, steps or components referred to, but not to preclude the presence or
   addition of one or more other feature, integer, step, component or group thereof.
            All publications and patent applications mentioned in the specification are
   indicative of the level of those skilled in the art to which this invention pertains. All
 5 publications and patent applications are herein incorporated by reference to the same
   extent as if each individual publication or patent application was specifically and
   individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.
            Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of
   illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding, it will be obvious that
10 certain changes and modifications may be practiced within the scope of the appended
   claims.
                                             EXAMPLES
                                              Example 1
15 Qualitative Class Prediction For Ranking Transgenes in Response to Drought
              A PLSDA classification model was built between unmodified stressed and
   unstressed plants that weight each metabolite according to its ability to separate the
   treatments. The model was then used to predict the modified plants' response to stress
   according to the methods. The score space in this case was defined by metabolomic data
20 derived from the stressed and unstressed plants. Proximity to the unstressed class while
   undergoing stress treatment was used for selection of a favorable genotype.
   Gas chromatograph and time of flight mass spectrometersettings and methods
            Metabolites were extracted from three lyophilized leaf discs of approximately 3 mg
25 combined dry weight. Five hundred microliters of a chloroform:methanol:water solution
   (2:5:2, v/v/v) containing 0.015 mg ribitol internal standard were added to each sample in a
   1.1 mL polypropylene microtube containing two 5/32" stainless steel ball bearings.
   Samples were homogenized in a 2000 Geno/Grinder ball mill at setting 1,650 for 1 min.
   and then rotated at 4'C for 30 min. Samples were then centrifuged at 1,454xg for 15 min,
30 4'C. Next, 300 tL aliquots were transferred to 1.8 mL high recovery GC vials and
   subsequently evaporated to dryness in a speed vac. The dried residues were re-dissolved
   in 50 gL of 20 mg/mL methoxyamine hydrochloride in pyridine, capped, and agitated with
   a vortex mixer. The samples were incubated in an orbital shaker at 30'C for 90 min to
                                                 - 17  -

   form methoxyamine derivatives. Eighty microliters N-methyl-N
   (trimethylsilyl)trifluoroacetamide (MSTFA) were added to each sample to form
   trimethylsilyl derivatives. The MSTFA delivery to individual samples was performed by
   the gas chromatograph autosampler 30 min prior to injection, minimizing greatly among
 5 sample variability due to differences in the state of derivatization.
            Trimethylsilyl derivatives were separated by gas chromatography on a Restek 30 m
   x 0.25 mm id x 0.25 p.m film thickness Rtx @-5Sil MS column with 10 in integra guard
   column. One microliter injections were made with a 1:10 split ratio using a CTC Combi
   PAL autosampler. The Agilent 6890N gas chromatograph was programmed for an initial
10 temperature of 80'C for 5 min, increased to 350'C at 18'/min where it was held for 2 min
   before being cooled rapidly to 80'C in preparation for the next run. The injector and
   transfer line temperatures were 230'C and 250'C, respectively, and the source temperature
   was 200'C. Helium was used as the carrier gas with a constant flow rate of 1 mL/min
   maintained by electronic pressure control. Data acquisition was performed on a LECO
15 Pegasus III time-of-flight mass spectrometer with an acquisition rate of 10 spectra/sec in
   the mass range of m/z 45-600. An electron beam of 70eV was used to generate spectra.
   Detector voltage was approximately 1550-1800 V depending on the detector age. An
   instrument auto tune for mass calibration using PFTBA (perfluorotributylamine) was
   performed prior to each GC sequence.
20
   Preprocessingraw GC/ToFMS
            Genedata Expressionist Refiner was used to assemble and align the sample gas
   chromatograph coupled with a time of flight mass spectrometer data with feature selection
   and noise reduction. The first step was to generate and fit all of the data to a common time
25 grid. Noise reduction was then performed using smoothing, statistical analysis and
   thresholding. The retention times were then aligned using a correlation based alignment
   function. The first chromatogram was used as a retention time alignment reference. The
   output of this workflow was a table of intensities associated with retention times and
   charge to mass ratios representing a molecular fragment from the electron impact collected
30 on the mass spectrometer.
            The data was then loaded into the Matlab (MathWorks, Natick, MA) workspace for
   further processing. Starting with the latest retention time the correlation between all of the
   m/z data points within a retention time window of 0.5 seconds was determined. Within
   this retention time window a Pierson correlation coefficient matrix was calculated across
                                                - 18 -

   all samples. The in/z channels were assembled into clusters using the K nearest neighbor
   agglomerative method. Clusters were made when the calculated neighboring distance was
   less than 1. A cluster further required more than five mass fragment channels to be
   included in the modeling data. If a mass fragment signal channel was not within the
 5 minimum distance of a five member cluster it was eliminated from the table of data. This
   process was repeated until all data channels were clustered or eliminated on a single basis.
   Once all of the correlated clusters within a retention time window had been calculated, the
   mass fragment channel with the highest frequency of being the maximum within each
   sample cluster was selected as the intensity for this cluster across all samples.
10
   Modeling
           In modeling, all of the data was preprocessed by autoscaling, or by dividing each
   data channel by its standard deviation in the data set followed by mean centering. In each
   case, partial least squares (PLS) multivariate calibrations were built to predict a
15 quantitative outcome from the metabolome. In the cases of where qualitative predictions
   were expected, these states were digitally represented as ones and zeros as a result of using
   PLSDA. In each case, cross validation or validation were used to select the number of
   latent variables. In no case did the number of latent variables exceed five and in most it
   was only two. Outliers were identified using principal component analysis and cross
20 validation. All modeling was performed using the PLSToolbox from Eigenvector
   Research Inc. (Wenatchee, WA).
   Qualitative class prediction for ranking transgenes in response to drought
           Two drought tolerant constructs and their controls were tested in a greenhouse
25 drought assay with independent planting dates for each of the constructs. The seeds were
   from the first segregating ear of seed generated from transformation. Fifteen of each of the
   null and the positive segregants were grown with sufficient water (control treatment) and
   reduced water (experimental treatment) in a controlled environment. Metabolomic data
   was collected on plantlets as described above. The PLSDA was built across both projects
30 for the treatment using just the control plants and the top 20 predictive weight ranking
   metabolite signals determined by the variable importance projection calculated from an all
   variable model.
           This model captures the metabolic changes produced by drought stress across a
   range of genotypes and environments as shown in Figure 1. The model was then applied
                                                - 19 -

   to the transgene positive segregants. For the drought-stressed transgene positive
   segregants, the predicted class of these transgene events was statistically separated from
   the null segregants in the direction predicted by the unstressed metabolome. In the
   prediction that follows in Figure 2, the left half figure shows the predictions for the null
 5 segregants used to make the model. The right half of the figure contains the predictions of
   the positive segregants. The mean numerical represented class prediction for each of the
   seven events ranked with the PLSDA model are given in Table 1. Metabolomes
   significantly altered away from the drought stress metabolome are highlighted shown in
   bold & italicized font. The events that are bolded/italicized also had significantly different
10 phenotypes including but not limited to increased plant biomass.
   Table 1. The numerical-represented class predictions are given for seven events shown
   graphically in Figure 2.
     Event      Null
               mean       Event
                          mean         Null
                                      Event    Sd Dev.
                                               Std.       Null
                                                       e.Nl    Std.
                                                                t.DvDev. Event
                                                                           vn     P-value
                                                                                   -au
       1      0.1366     0.0191      0.1175        0.2379           0.2393       5.49E-02
       2      0.1366     0.3857      -0.2492       0.2379           0.0209       1.07E-04
       3      0.1366     0.2049      -0.0683       0.2379           0.3022       1.61E-01
       4      0.1366     0.0858      0.0508        0.2379           0.2218       2.27E-01
       5      0.1366     0.2671      -0.1305       0.2379           0.2867       3.64E-02
       6      0.1366     0.2830      -0.1465       0.2379           0.3557       2.08E-02
       7      0.1366     0.5034      -0.3668       0.2379           0.1977       2.93E-07
15                                            Example 2
                     Qualitative Prediction of Genotypes Response to Transgenes
            In wide scale testing of transgenic corn hybrids, an unstable phenotype was
   observed in some genotypes. Twenty two hybrids with the trait were planted in Chile in a
   field experiment. Hybrids from the same genotype with different trait stacks were also
20 included to provide metabolic contrasts. Based on the extensive product testing, hybrids
   were classified according to the observation of the phenotypic effects. The score space in
   this case is defined by the changes in the metabolome produced by the transgene(s)
   overlapped with expected yield performance of the genotypes. Distances relative to the
   perturbation and performance classes were calculated and used to select high yielding
25 genotypes.
            A PLSDA model was calculated using a single hybrid genotype with the trait
   incorporated into the hybrid from each of the parents. In the Chile experiment, one of
   these common parents' hybrids exhibited the negative phenotype, while the other did not.
                                                 -  20 -

   The other had a phenotype statistically equivalent to the based hybrid without traits. The
   classes in this PLSDA model were negative phenotypic effect and no effect. The model
   was improved through variable selection using a genetic algorithm (PLS Toolbox,
   Eigenvector Research, Wenatchee, WA) and the other hybrids as a validation set. Using
 5 the predictions from the replicates, a probability of unstable phenotype for each hybrid
   genotype was estimated from the distribution of predictions compared to the calibration
   hybrid predictions. Table 2 contains the metabolome-estimated probability of negative
   phenotype. Positive phenotypes observed in large scale testing are indicated with plus (+)
   signs. All of the observed negative phenotypes were predicted by the model. The
10 bolded/italicized rows indicate an agreement between the predicted and observed
   phenotypes.
   Table 2.
       Hybrid       Probability of High Yield  Observed high yield
          1                   0.997
          2                   0.972
          3                   0.938
          4                   0.935
          5                   0.767                     +
          6                   0.737                     +
          7                   0.578
          8                   0.538
          9                   0.488                     +
         10                   0.411                     +
         11                    0.34
         12                   0.209
         13                   0.197
         14                   0.184
         15                   0.128
         16                   0.115
         17                   0.053
         18                    0.05
         19                   0.039
         20                   0.029
         21                   0.026
         22                   0.024
15                                            Example 3
             Prediction of Perturbation of Plants with Different Constructs and Events
           A model was created to predict whether a maize plant would be expected to have an
   off-type phenotype when comprising transgenic constructs or events. The characteristic
                                                - 21 -

   that was modeled and predicted was whether a maize plant perturbation results from the
   transgene. This model was used to predict the degree to which a common genotype was
   perturbed by different transgenic events and constructs. The modeling classifies plants
   into more classes. The score space was defined by the transgene produced changes in the
 5 plants' average reflectance spectra calculated from a hyperspectral image. Proximity in
   this space to the wild type was used for selection.
           For the experiment, maize hybrids from the same base genetics comprising
   different constructs and different events for a transgene were planted and grown along
   with a control wild type genotype. Multi- or hyper-spectral data was collected for the
10 plots by remote sensing imaging from which X-block calibration data can be extracted.
           Existing techniques were used to directly evaluate the genotypes and phenotypes
   of the plants and classify them as transgenic or wild type. The Y-block (classification in
   the PLSDA model) was the wild type and transgenic classes. An inverse modeling
   approach was used to develop a model using commercially available software (PLS
15 Toolbox, Eigenvector Research).
           In this example, PLSDA was used. The method produces a PLS-based
   calibration model, but creates distinct classes using sample classes in the X-block
   calibration data. Other types of classification methods are known. Examples include,
   but are not limited to, SIMCA and k nearest neighbor.
20         Figure 3 shows a discriminant analysis plot based on the cross validation predictions
   showing a sample/score plot for a plurality of samples. In this case, the wild type plants
   were assigned a Y-block reference value of 1, while the transgenic plants were assigned a
   Y-block reference value of 0. The model minimizes the least squares error between the
   predicted classes and the assigned reference. The model-defined threshold was
25 approximately 0.5. Predicted values above this line were expected at the 95% confidence
   level to be wild type. Below this threshold, the samples were predicted to be transgenic.
           The black diamonds in Figure 3 show good separation of scores from a set of
   samples indicating the perturbation by the transgene. Such perturbation may, in some
   examples, include an effect (negative) of the transgene insertion on the agronomics of the
30 plant background. The perturbation may also mean that the transgene itself is perturbed,
   corrupted, or altered in the insertion event. The perturbation may also mean that
   expression of the transgene impacts the overall phenotype in this plant background.
   Perturbation also includes situations where the transgene results in a more effective or
   desirable plant outcome. The perturbation may also occur in a pre-transcription or post
                                                - 22 -

   transcription stage. The plot shows other samples (star symbols) that do not fall within
   this diamond class and are the control plants.
                                                Example 4
 5    Prediction of Perturbation of Plants from Multiple Genotypes with the Same Transgene
           A model was created to predict whether a constituent or characteristic of a
   maize plant was perturbed by a transgene, thus affecting its hyperspectral image. The
   degree and direction of the perturbation defined the score space and could be used to
   select constructs and events in transgene analysis. The models built in this example
10 were suitably used to predict the response of genotypes to a transgene. Perturbations in
   the hyperspectral image consistent with a desired transgenic phenotype were used to
   select genotypes for transformation.
           For the experiment, maize inbreds with and without a trait transgene were
   grown in a controlled environment. Multi- or hyper-spectral data was collected for
15 the plots by remote sensing imaging from which X-block calibration data could be
   extracted. Techniques known in the art were used to directly assign the genotype
   and phenotype. In this case, genotype and phenotype were assigned from data
   collected in field size strip-testing trials over wide ranges of environments and
   management practice. The Y-block reference values were wild type and transgenic.
20         An inverse modeling approach was used to develop a model using commercially
   available software. In this example, PLSDA was used as in Example 3 above.
           Figure 4 shows a discriminant analysis plot based on the cross-validation
   predictions showing a sample/score plot for a plurality of samples. In this case the
   transgenic plants were assigned a Y-block reference value of 1, while the wild type plants
25 were assigned a Y-block reference value of 0. The model minimizes the least squares error
   between the predicted classes and the assigned reference. The model-defined threshold
   was approximately 0.5. Predicted values above this line were expected at the 95%
   confidence level to be transgenic. Below this threshold the samples were predicted to be
   wild type. The transgenic data points (stars) show good separation of scores from a set of
30 samples, indicating the perturbation of the transgene in one genotype. The plot shows other
   samples, triangles, that do not fall within this star class and, thus, are the control plants.
   Figure 5 is for a different genotype where the perturbation to the hyperspectral image is
   not sufficient for discriminant analysis modeling.
                                                  - 23 -

                                               Example 5
    Adding Noise to Model Data to Reduce/Eliminate the Score Space Between Two Groups
            A model was calculated using a synthetic data set of metabolomic data. The first
   model was built for a set of 30 samples divided between two classes represented by
 5 different metabolomes.      The metabolome was represented by seven variables. For each of
   the two classes there were two metabolome variables that could be used in univariate
   statistical analysis to separate the classes. As a synthetic set of data, there was no noise
   and so the PLSDA model was perfect in classification of the samples. Further the distance
   in the score space between the two classes was calculated to be exactly one. Increasing
10 noise was added to the synthetic metabolome.        As the noise increased (X-axis) the
   distance measured in the PLSDA space between the two classes steadily decreased (Y
   axis) along with its statistical significance. Figure 6 records the change in distance
   between the classes in score space as the noise is increased.
                                                  - 24 -

   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.   A method for determining the level of perturbation of a phenotype of interest in an
        experimental group of organisms, said method comprising:
 5      (a)   collecting data from a physical sample of metabolites from each of at least
              one control group of organisms and at least one experimental group of
              organisms to produce a set of metabolomic data; and
        (b)   using a processor to conduct a multivariate statistical analysis on said set of
              metabolomic data to determine said level of perturbation of said phenotype of
10            interest in said at least one experimental group of organisms relative to said at
              least one control group of organisms.
   2.   The method of claim 1, wherein said collecting data is performed using an
        analytical method.
15
   3.   The method of claim 2, wherein said analytical method comprises spectral analysis,
        gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis, liquid chromatography-mass
        spectrometry analysis, direct infusion mass spectrometry analysis, or any
        combination thereof.
20
   4.   The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein said multivariate statistical
        analysis comprises:
        (a)   arranging said set of data into a matrix;
        (b)   expressing said matrix into a set of new basis functions;
25      (c)   projecting said set of data onto said set of new basis functions to calculate a
              set of scores for said at least one control group of organisms and said at least
              one experimental group of organisms;
        (d)   determining a score space by calculating a distance between said set of scores
              of said at least one control group of organisms and said set of scores of said at
30            least one experimental group of organisms; and,
        (e)   using said score space to determine said level of perturbation of said
              phenotype of interest in said at least one experimental group of organisms.
                                               - 25 -

   5.  The method of claim 4, wherein said expressing said matrix into a set of new basis
       functions comprises using principle component analysis, partial least squares
       discriminant analysis, support vector machines, or any combination thereof.
 5 6.  The method of claim 4 or claim 5, wherein a larger distance in said score space is
       indicative of a larger perturbation of said phenotype of interest in said at least one
       experimental group of organisms, and wherein a smaller distance in said score
       space is indicative of a smaller perturbation of said phenotype of interest in said at
       least one experimental group of organisms.
10
   7.  The method of claim 6, further comprising the step of selecting said organisms
       based on said distance of said score space.
   8.  The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein said at least one
15     experimental group of organisms expresses at least one transgene.
   9.  The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein said organism is a plant, a
       mammal, an insect, a fungus, a virus or a bacterium.
20 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said plant is a monocot or a dicot.
   11. The method of claim 10, wherein said plant is maize, wheat, barley, sorghum, rye,
       rice, millet, soybean, alfalfa, Brassica, cotton, sunflower, potato, sugarcane,
       tobacco, Arabidopsis or tomato.
25
   12. A method for determining the level of perturbation of a phenotype of interest in an
       experimental group of plants, said method comprising:
       (a)    collecting data from a physical sample of metabolites from each of at least
              one control group of plants and at least one experimental group of plants to
30            produce a set of metabolomic data, wherein said step of collecting is
              performed using an analytical method; and,
       (b)    using a processor to conduct a multivariate statistical analysis on said set of
              metabolomic data to determine said level of perturbation of said phenotype of
              interest in said at least one experimental group of plants relative to said at
                                              - 26 -

   least one control group of plants, wherein said multivariate statistical analysis
   comprises:
   (i)    arranging said set of data into a matrix;
   (ii)   expressing said matrix into a set of new basis functions, wherein said
 5        expressing is performed using principle component analysis, partial
          least squares discriminant analysis, or a combination thereof;
   (iii) projecting said set of data onto said set of new basis functions to
          calculate a set of scores for said at least one control group of plants and
          said at least one experimental group of plants;
10 (iv)   determining a score space by calculating a distance between said set of
          scores of said at least one control group of plants and said set of scores
          of said at least one experimental group of plants;
   (v)    using said score space to determine said level of perturbation of said
          phenotype of interest in said at least one experimental group of plants,
15        wherein a larger distance in said score space is indicative of a larger
          perturbation of said phenotype of interest in said at least one
          experimental group of plants, and wherein a smaller distance in said
          score space is indicative of a smaller perturbation of said phenotype of
          interest in said at least one experimental group of plants; and
20 (vi)   selecting said experimental group of plants based on said distance of
          said score space.
                                     - 27 -

<removed-date>
                                                                              <U+2736><U+2734><U+273B>
                                                                         <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+2736>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                           <U+274D><U+270D><U+270E><U+2720><U+2721><U+275E>
                               <U+2772><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D> <U+2707><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2720><U+2706><U+275E>
                               |<U+2706>s<U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271F><U+2706><U+275E> <U+2707><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2720><U+2706><U+275E>
                                                                                                                                           <U+274D><U+270D><U+270E><U+2720><U+2721><U+275E>
                                                                                                                           <U+274D><U+270D><U+270E><U+2720><U+2721><U+275E>
                              <U+275A><U+2764><U+2720><U+2706>s<U+2764><U+270C><U+271D><U+275E>
                    <U+2735><U+273C>       <U+2732><U+2735>
                                <U+273C>      <U+2735><U+273C>     <U+2735><U+273C>      <U+2735><U+273D>     <U+2735><U+273D>     <U+2732><U+2735>
                                                                       <U+273D>
                                                                             <U+2732><U+2735>
                                                                                <U+273D>      <U+2735><U+273D>       <U+2735><U+273D>   <U+2767><U+2732><U+2735>
                                                                                                         <U+273D>      <U+2735><U+273D>     <U+2735><U+273D>        <U+273D>      <U+2735><U+273D>     <U+2735><U+273D>
                  <U+2663><U+2732>       <U+275D>t        <U+2708><U+2732>     <U+275D><U+2732>      <U+2665><U+2732>     <U+275C><U+2732>    <U+275B><U+2702>       <U+2663><U+2702>         <U+2461><U+2732>       <U+2665><U+2732>    <U+2704>         <U+260E><U+2732>     <U+2663><U+2732>    <U+275D> t<U+2732><U+2735>      <U+2708><U+2732>     <U+275D><U+2732>
                         <U+2756>          <U+2666>            <U+274F><U+275B>                      <U+2746>         <U+275B>      <U+274F> <U+2704>      <U+274F>         <U+2704>            <U+2756>          <U+2666>
              <U+2759>                   <U+25C6>       <U+2749>              <U+2701>      <U+25BC>                 <U+25BC>                        <U+2746>       <U+2759>               <U+25C6>       <U+2749>
                    <U+2772><U+276F><U+274A> <U+261E>                             <U+2772><U+276F><U+274A> <U+2738>
                                    <U+2772><U+276F><U+274A> <U+2737>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
               <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761>   <U+2737><U+2734><U+273B>
               <U+2737>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
               <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761>   <U+2738><U+2734><U+273B>
               <U+2738>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
               <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761>   <U+2739><U+2734><U+273B>
               <U+2739>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
               <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761>   <U+273A><U+2734><U+273B>
               <U+273A>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                          <U+273B><U+2734><U+273B>
               <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+273B>

