   ABSTRACT
                             A Hose for Connection to a Gas Cylinder
 5
   A hose for gas supply to gas consuming equipment from a cylinder The hose has a first
   end connectable directly or indirectly to the gas cylinder, and an opposite end connectable
   to a gas inlet of the gas consuming equipment. The hose comprises a screw threaded nut
   at the first end for making a connection to a complimentary screw thread on the cylinder. A
10 motion sensor is located adjacent to the first end of the hose to detect a movement of the
   first end and/or the nut. A transmitter receives a signal from the motion sensor and
   transmits the signal to a remote location.
   Figure 1

      1/2
20~
              (4176
    Vd~r~c4-0

                                                  -1
                               A Hose for Connection to a Gas Cylinder
   The present invention relates to a hose for connection to a gas cylinder.
 5 Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be considered
   as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common general
   knowledge in the field.
   Gas cylinders are portable freestanding devices which are delivered to various sites for the
10 supply of, for example, industrial and medical gases to locations where no mains gas
   supply is available. Because of the nature of these cylinders, they are often supplied in
   advance to the end user who may have little or no experience in fitting the cylinders to the
   gas consuming equipment.
15 In some cases, multiple gas hoses are connected to a gas manifold which receives gas
   supplies from more than one cylinder. If a hose has not been connected to one port of the
   manifold, this can provide a vent path for cylinders connected to other ports of the manifold.
   This is at best wasteful and at worst dangerous if there is an uncontrolled leak of gas.
20 In the case of a single cylinder, the connectors are designed such that they will not
   dispense gas until the connection is properly made. However, it is still useful to know that
   the hose is correctly connected to ensure continuity of gas supply to the gas consuming
   equipment.
25 According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a hose for gas supply
   to gas consuming equipment from a gas cylinder, the hose having a first end connectable
   directly or indirectly to the gas cylinder and an opposite second end connectable to a gas
   inlet for supplying gas to the gas consuming equipment, the hose comprising a screw
   threaded nut of the first end for making a screw threaded connection to a complimentary
30 screw thread on the cylinder; a motion sensor adjacent to the first end to detect a
   movement of the first end and/or the nut; a transmitter to receive a signal from the motion
   sensor and transmit the signal to a remote location.
   Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the claims,
35 the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense

                                                  -2
   as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of "including,
   but not limited to".
   The motion sensor which detects movement of the first end and/or the nut allows the
 5 detection of an event associated with connecting and/or disconnecting the hose providing
   useful information on the state of connection of the hose to the cylinder.
   The motion sensor may be an accelerometer. This may be set up to sense, for example, a
   change of angle of the first end of the hose. Sensing the change of angle is characteristic
10 of disconnection of the hose from the cylinder resulting in an abrupt drop. The subsequent
   angle of the end indicates that the end has been reconnected. Alternatively or additionally
   the sensor may be configured to sense vibrations caused by rotation of the nut. This
   demonstrates that the nut has been unscrewed or screwed.
15 Alternatively or additionally the sensor may be a detectable tag provided on the nut. The
   detectable tag may, for example, be a hall sensor to detect a passing magnetic field.
   Alternatively it may be a light sensor to sense a passing pattern. In either case, the sensor
   may be on the nut with the component to be sensed being on the hose, or these two
   components may be arranged the other way around. The motion sensor is configured to
20 detect the passing of the tag as the nut is rotated. This provides direct sensing of the
   rotation of the nut and therefore determines that the nut has been screwed or unscrewed.
   The tag may not need to be capable of detecting the direction of rotation. It can be
   assumed that if one set of signals indicating rotation is relatively quickly followed by a
   second set of signals, that the first represents unscrewing of the nut and the second
25 represents screwing up of the nut. Alternatively, the tag may be configured to sense the
   direction of rotation. For example, if the tag is made up of two or more elements
   generating different electronic signals, the order of receipt of these signals at the sensor
   provides an indication of the direction of rotation.
30 The hose may be connected directly to the cylinder. Alternatively, the hose may be
   connected to the cylinder via a regulator. As a further option, the hose may additionally or
   alternatively be connected to the cylinder via a manifold to which a number of other hoses
   are connected. In this instance, preferably, the manifold has a plurality of inlet ports via
   one of which the hose is connected to the cylinder.
35

                                                 -3
   The invention also extends to a system comprising a hose according to the first aspect of
   the present invention together with a remote unit, the remote unit having a receiver to
   receive signals from the transmitter, the remote unit being programmed with at least one
   predetermined signal characteristic of a particular movement of the first end of the hose
 5 and/or nut and a controller to compare the received signal against the predetermined signal
   characteristic to detect a particular movement condition. In this case, preferably, the
   receiver is configured to receive signals from the transmitters of more than one of the
   hoses.
10 An example of the present invention will now be described with reference to the
   accompanying drawings in whichFig. 1 is a schematic cross-section through the hose
   connected to a cylinder and remote unit;
   Fig. 2 is a schematic view of a first sensor configuration;
   Figs. 3A to 3C are schematic views of a second sensor configuration;
15 Fig. 4 is a schematic cross-section through a first end of the hose connected to the nut 10
   showing a further sensor configuration;
   Figs. 4A and 4B are schematic views of the first end of the hose shown in Fig. 4 in different
   orientations; and
   Fig. 5 is a schematic view of the remote unit.
20
   The cylinder 1 is a standard gas cylinder provided with a gas outlet 2 with a screw threaded
   connection 3. The invention is specifically designed to connect to standard cylinders
   without modification so that no further description of the cylinder will be provided here. It
   should be noted, however, that the invention could also be applied to a cylinder with a
25 female screw thread.
   The hose 5 is again a standard component with a flexible connection between the cylinder
    1 and a first end 6 and gas consuming equipment 7 at a second end 8.
30 The connector at the first end 6 is made up of two main components, namely an insert 9
   and a screw threaded nut 10. The insert 9 is inserted into the first end 6 of the hose 5 and
   has a number of ridges 11 to enhance the interference fit with the hose. A crimp
   connection ensures a gas tight seal between the hose 5 and insert 9. The end of the insert
   9 which protrudes from the tube 5 has a flange 13 which is sealed to the end of the outlet 2
35 by metal to metal seal. The connection is secured by the nut 10 which has a screw thread

                                                  -4
   15 which mates with the screw thread 3 on the outlet 2. The opposite end of the nut 10
   bears against the flange 13 to tighten the flange onto the outlet 2.
   As described so far, this is a conventional way of attaching a hose to a cylinder.
 5
   The improvement provided by the present invention is the provision of the sensor 20. The
   sensor may be attached to any part of the connection in the vicinity of the first end 6. As
   shown here, it is attached to the hose 5 but could also be attached to the insert 9 or the nut
   10.
10
   As shown in Fig. 1, the nut 10 is provided with an electronically detectable tag 21 such as a
   magnet, RFID tag, distinctive marking or the like and the sensor 20 is configured to detect
   the passing of the tag 21 as the nut 10 is rotated. For example, Fig. 2 depicts the tag 21 as
   a distinctive marking on the back of the nut which is detected by an optical sensor 23 on
15 the nut 10 (shown schematically in Fig. 2) as the nut 10 rotates past the markings. As
   shown in Fig. 2, there are two distinctive markings spaced in close proximity around the nut
   so that rotation in one directed can be distinguished from rotation in the opposite direction
   depending on the order of sensing of the two tags 21.
20 An alternative is shown in Fig. 3A to 3C. In this case, the tag 21 is a magnet and there are
   a pair of hall sensors 24 providing the sensor 20. As the nut 10 is rotated in the clockwise
   direction shown in Fig. 3A, the sensor 24B will pass the magnet 21 shortly before the
   sensor 24A. Rotation in the opposite direction shown in Fig. 3B will cause the opposite
   effect in that the sensor 24A will pass the magnet 21 shortly before the sensor 24B allowing
25 a controller to determine the direction of rotation.
   A further alternative is shown in Fig. 4. In this case, the sensor 20 is provided by an
   accelerometer 31. In the normally connected configuration depicted in Fig. 4A, the
   accelerometer 31 is in a horizontal configuration. When the nut 10 is disconnected,
30 because the hose 5 is unsupported, it will move to a generally vertical configuration as
   shown in Fig. 4B and the accelerometer is able to detect the movement to the new
   orientation.
   As a further alternative, the accelerometer 31 shown in Fig. 4 may be replaced by a
35 vibration sensor. In this case, as the nut 10 is vibrated, the effect of this is transmitted to

                                                 -5
   the hose 5 and this is detected by the sensor. Alternatively the vibration sensor may be
   directly on the nut 10 so as to sense the motion of the nut 10 directly.
   The information detected by the sensor 20 is transmitted via a transmitter 25 using any
 5 known form of data transmission to a remote unit 40 comprising a receiver 41 and a
   controller 42. The remote unit 40 may be a bespoke unit, or may be a smart phone, tablet
   or remote computer terminal. The receiver 41 receives the signal from the sensor 20 and
   the controller 42 compares the received signal with a database containing information
   regarding characteristic signals indicative of various conditions concerning the attachment
10 and reattachment of the nut 10 as set out above. The controller 42 can therefore
   determine whether the nut 10 has been detached and/or reattached. This information can
   simply be logged for later diagnostic access. Alternatively or additionally it can be used to
   sound an alarm to a user or activate some form of safety procedure which will not allow a
   user to use the gas supply until the correct attachment of the nut 10 can be verified.
15

                                                  -6
   CLAIMS:
   1.      A hose for gas supply to gas consuming equipment from a gas cylinder, the hose
   having a first end connectable directly or indirectly to the gas cylinder and an opposite
 5 second end connectable to a gas inlet for supplying gas to the gas consuming equipment,
   the hose comprising a screw threaded nut of the first end for making a screw threaded
   connection to a complimentary screw thread on the cylinder;
           a motion sensor adjacent to the first end to detect a movement of the first end
   and/or the nut;
10         a transmitter to receive a signal from the motion sensor and transmit the signal to a
   remote location.
   2.      A hose according to claim 1, wherein the sensor is an accelerometer.
15 3.      A hose according to claim 2, wherein the accelerometer is configured to detect a
   change of angle of the first end of the hose.
   4.      A hose according to claim 2 or claim 3, wherein the accelerometer is configured to
   sense vibrations caused by rotation of the nut.
20
   5.      A hose according to any one of the preceding claims wherein a detectable tag is
   provided on the nut, and wherein the motion sensor is configured to detect the passing of
   the tag as the nut is rotated.
25 6.      A hose according to claim 5, wherein the tag is a magnet.
   7.      A hose according to any one of the preceding claims in combination with a manifold
   having a plurality of inlet ports via one of which the hose is connected to the cylinder.
30 8.      A system comprising a hose according to any one of the preceding claims and a
   remote unit, the remote unit having a receiver to receive signals from the transmitter, the
   remote unit being programmed with at least one predetermined signal characteristic of a
   particular movement of the first end of the hose and/or nut and a controller to compare the
   received signal against the predetermined signal characteristic to detect a particular
35 movement condition.

                                             -7
9.      A system according to claim 8 comprising a plurality of hoses according to any one
of the preceding claims, the receiver being configured to receive signals from the
transmitters of more than one of the hoses.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/2

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/2

