                                            ABSTRACT
  A disposable gel pad for cushioning the plate of an operating table's patient support apparatus
  is a block of gel with one face of the block adapted to locate the pad on the plate. Usually the
5 pad will be enclosed in a film envelope. A pocket in the envelope allows the pad to engage
  the plate.    Stick on patches which provide a pocket and sacroiliac pads are variants.
  Sacroiliac pads can be cast with a soft gel front for patient contact joined to a hard gel rear for
  screw or bayonet fixing to the patient support apparatus.

   114
          12
FIGU RE 1
FIGURE 2

                                                    I
   TITLE:             PATIENT PAD FOR OPERATING THEATRE
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   This invention concerns disposable pads for patient positioning devices in operating theatres.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
 5 In our co-pending application for Patent No. PCT/AU2005/000732, we describe a set of
   clamps for fixing to the side rail of an operating table. The clamps lock in different angular
   positions and have at one end a plate which is adjusted to lie next to the torso of the patient
   on the operating table. When the clamps are paired and both left and right hand side of the
   patient's body are confined by plates, the theatre staff can arrange the patient in a suitable
 0 position for the operation in hand knowing firstly that the patient will not fall from the table
   even when there is rapid repositioning as a result of cardiac arrest, and secondly that the
   surgeon has good access to the operating site.
   The prior art devices for contacting the patient are steel or aluminium plates either circular
   and rectangular about the size of a human hand but more usually they are a vinyl covered,
 5 upholstered pad fixed to a metal plate which is in turn mounted on an arm for bringing it
   close to the patient's body. While metal apparatus is easy to sterilise, the pads described
   above and clothing and drapes are more difficult. The vinyl surface of the pad is gathered,
   tucked or pleated to be a close fit on the convex curves of the pad. Laundering deals with
   reusable items while masks, gloves and dressings are disposable, but surface application of
20 antiseptic to the vinyl pads may be effective, but sometimes it is not.
   The previously known pads are an integral part of the patient support system and present a
   sterilisation problem for the theatre staff.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   One apparatus aspect of the invention provides a disposable gel pad for cushioning the plate
25 of an operating tables patient support apparatus, comprising a block of gel with means on one
   face to locate the pad on the plate. The means may be a pocket, cavity in the block itself.
   The block may be contained in an impervious film envelope. When the block has such an
   envelope, the envelope may have an extra wall of film over one face so the space between
   can act as a pocket for the plate.

                                                    2
   Alternatively the pocket may be a stick on patch with an aperture for admission of the plate
   or part thereof. The patch may be made of plastic film with pressure activated adhesive on
   one face and given a partially adhesive area by folding.
   Preferably the block is sufficiently large to protect the sacroiliac crest. The envelope may be
 5 made of PVC, neoprene and equivalents already in the literature.
   When the pad has a pocket for admission of a plate the pocket may have an aperture for
   passage of the pad mount. This is because the mount may be in the central area of the pad
   which can be circular, rectangular, etc. Consequently sliding the pocket of the gel pad on to
   the metal plate can only be partial until the mount impedes further entry.
 0 In Patent Application No. PCT/AU2005/000732 there is such a fitting. A clamping nut
   screws on to a threaded spigot and the spigot projects from an 100mm x 160mm plate. The
   pads will commonly be circular or rectangular in profile but may be kidney shaped, capstan
   shaped or elliptical.
   The gel block itself may be 15-40mm thick having the consistency of female breast tissue.
 5 This is useful for exerting a comfortable restraining pressure on a patient's torso. The gel
   may be made of water and polyurethane foam. Alternatively cellulose derivatives may be
   used as a thickening agent for an aqueous base. Suitable gel mixes are described in US
   5,531,786. If the pads end up in landfill and the envelope is pierced, the gels undergo
   biodegradation.
20 Some users may prefer to balance single use only by utilising the soft gel content for patient
   consumption. Accordingly, the soft gel may be sterile edible gels like custard already
   manufactured with a long shelf life.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   One embodiment of the invention is now described with reference to the accompanying
25 drawings, in which:
   Figure 1 is a side view of a pad alongside a vertical patient support plate.
   Figure 2 is a side view of the pad of Figure 1 in position on the support plate.
   Figures 3a-3c are an assembly sequence for a variant pad.

                                                    3
   Figure 4 is a side view of the pad of Figure 3 slid on to a circular plate.
   Figure 5 is a perspective view of a pad in position on a plate with a threaded spigot projecting
   from one face thereof.
   Figure 6 is a side section of a pad with the film envelope ready to be trimmed.
 5 Figure 7 is a side section of a pad suitable for contact with the sacroiliac crest.
   Figure 8 is a side section of a push fit pad variant.
   Figure 9 is a sectional perspective of a bayonet fit variant.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION WITH RESPECT TO THE DRAWINGS
   In Figure 1, the circular envelope 2 is made of a pair of sheet plastic discs heat sealed around
 0 a gel disc 4 using an RF press. The envelope is 86mm in diameter and 18mm thick. The
   discs are polyurethane. The circular support plate 6 is a disc of stainless steel from which
   threaded splined spigot 8 extends.
   In Figure 2, the annular sealing flange 10 is visible and a circular pocket 12 extending 3000
   around the face of the envelope in an annular fashion broken by pocket entrance 14 which is
 5 substantially diamond shaped. The pocket is sealed to one face of the envelope around its
   outer edge 16. The pad is offered up to the plate and the PVC envelope is stretched to allow
   the plate through the entrance 14.
   The pad then retains its position and cushions the patient when the patient's body presses
   against the plate.
20 In the variant of Figure 3, a pocket 12 is cut from plastic sheet rendered adhesive on one face.
   The perimeter has a step 20 giving two diameters. When the pocket is folded across the step,
   portion 22 overlies part of the pocket leaving an arcuate border 24. When this is applied to
   rectangular envelope 26, a pocket is formed capable of admitting half of circular plate 6. The
   engagement of pocket and plate is seen in Figure 4.
25 If the plate 6 is rectangular with a mount 8 as in Figure 5, the pocket 12 is rectangular and a
   triangular aperture 30 is excised from the pocket to allow the mount to protrude. The mount
   is screwed to the arm of a patient support linkage fixed to the operating table.

                                                     4
   In Figure 6, the block 30 is cast with a cavity 32 in one face using a collapsing core. The
   annular rim 34 is readily deformable by stretching up to 250% of the cast diameter. The
   mould is lined with PVC film prior to casting and the film is trimmed from the rim 34 after
   casting. This provides the block with an envelope just like the embodiments of Figures 1-5.
 5 When surgeons conduct hip surgery the patient is supported on the operating table on his/her
   side with a clamp urging a pair of ventral pads contacting the sacroiliac crests while a dorsal
   pad contacts the patients back. In this position one hip is suitably accessible to the surgeon,
   however the upper pad must of necessity lie close to the site of the incision and the
   operational site. Although the area is draped the possibility of brushing the pad and the
 0 operational site is ever present. Consequently aseptic procedure must be reliable and the pads
   must cover the mounts which hold them in place and be sterile.
   The highest reliability occurs if the pads are sterile when unpacked and applied to the mounts
   and then discarded at the end of each operation so that fresh patients are supported with fresh
   pads. It is customary to use pads similar to those shown in Figure 6 except that the pad is
 5 planoconvex instead of cylindrical. In Figure 7 the pad is made of a planoconvex head 40,
   98mm in diameter and 28mm thick, is attached to a disc shaped tail 42 with a threaded cavity
   44 about 10mm deep with a diameter of 57mm. The thread is coarse so that a 3/4 turn causes
   the end 46 of the cavity to abut the end face 48 of threaded steel mount 50.
   Mount 50 is fixed to the end of 16mm dia. stem 52 of a sacroiliac clamp (not shown). When
 0 the operation ends, the drapes are removed, the pads are unscrewed and collected with the flat
   pads for disposal. The metal parts are sterilised by the application of liquid antiseptic.
   Employing this procedure reduces cross-infections in the operating theatre.
   The pads in Figure 7 are manufactured by a two stage casting process. Initially the
   planoconvex head is cast by sending polyurethane into a concave mould, whereafter a mould
25 cap with a threaded spigot is located above the cast head and hard polyurethane mix is sent
   through sprues in the cap to lie on top of the cast head so that the hard and soft gels mutually
   adhere. When the cap is unscrewed, the casting is released from the mould.
   In Figure 8, the pad is made of soft and hard gels as described above but the cylindrical
   cavity 54 in the hard gel tail is a push fit onto the mount 56. The head of the mount has
30 circumferential ridges 58 to arrest the tail once it is impaled. A partial vacuum is created
   which assists in pad retention.

                                                    5
  In Figure 9, the mount has a spline 60 which fits axially into a cutout 62 in the tail. This
  permits the spline 60 to rotate into cavity 64 in the tail of the pad and to be retained until the
  reverse rotation releases it from the mount. Again the moulds of Figures 7, 8 and 9 are lined
  with PVC film as with Figure 6 so that the blocks emerge from casting with an envelope
5 which is trimmed after casting.
  We have found the advantages of the above embodiment to be:
  1.        The pads are easily applied and removed from the metal supports.
  2.        The pads are sterilisable.
  3.        The pads are disposable and therefore each operation utilises fresh pads.
0 It is to be understood that the word "comprising" as used throughout the specification is to be
  interpreted in its inclusive form, ie. use of the word "comprising" does not exclude the
  addition of other elements.
  It is to be understood that various modifications of and/or additions to the invention can be
  made without departing from the basic nature of the invention. It is feasible to omit the
5 envelope in some of the above embodiments, for example when the pad is not for use in the
  vicinity of the sterile area around the incision or in other circumstances where the risk is
  reduced. These modifications and/or additions are therefore considered to fall within the
  scope of the invention.

                                                1
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.   A gel pad for cushioning the plate or mount of an operating table's patient support
        apparatus, comprising a block of gel with means on one face to locate the pad on the
 5      plate or mount.
   2.   A gel pad as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the means to locate is a pocket or cavity in
        the block.
 0 3.   A gel pad as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, wherein the block is contained in an impervious
        sheet envelope.
   4.   A gel pad as claimed in Claim 3, wherein the envelope has extra sheet wall over one
        face so space between wall and the envelope can act as a pocket for the plate.
 5
   5.   A gel pad as claimed in Claim 4, wherein the pocket is a stick-on patch with an
        aperture for admission of the plate or part thereof.
   6.   A gel pad as claimed in Claim 5, wherein the patch is made of sheet plastic with
20      contact adhesive on one face and a partially non-adhesive area erected by folding.
   7.   A gel pad as claimed in any one of Claims 3-6, wherein the block is circular with a
        flat face and a convex face for contacting the sacroiliac crest.
25 8.   A gel pad as claimed in Claim 7, wherein the flat face is secured to a threaded tubular
        part for coupling to a mount on the wall of an adjustable arm forming part of a patient
        support system.

                                              2
  9.  A gel pad as claimed in Claim 1, wherein means is a block of hard gel with a threaded
      cavity for reception of a threaded mount.
  10. A gel pad as claimed in Claim 9, wherein the patient contacting portion of the pad is
5     made of soft gel and the mount contacting portion is made of hard gel.
  11. A gel pad as claimed in any one of Claims 1-7, wherein the means is a block of hard
      gel with an undercut cavity and a cutout to admit the spline of a pad mount in order to
      allow a bayonet type engagement.
0
  12. A gel pad as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the pad profile is modified from rectangular
      and circular to suit the support job which the pad must perform.
  13. A gel pad as claimed in any one of Claims 1-7, wherein the soft gel is edible and is a
5     patient nourishing food.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
