ABSTRACT
Techniques described herein provide for a live advertising processing engine service to act as
an intermediary between client applications and advertising networks. The live advertising
processing engine service can provide an interface with which the client can interact, via an
application programming interface (API) or directly through the use of a standardized language,
thereby allowing client applications to receive advertisement data without the need to be
customized to communicate with specific advertising networks. The live advertising
processing engine service can further track where, in playback the live content, a client
currently is, to indicate to the client-or other application-when advertisement breaks are and/or
provide supplemental advertisement information to enable the client to provide a rich user
experience.
Fig 3

WO 2014/176014                             PCT/US2O1-4/032850
                         3/6
                                    CI            C
                         a)              0
                      >1                                      co
                      a)                                      U
 CI                              COI
                                 Cwnn  a)0
               C)
                  (C)
                            C),
                             c~r
                                  0

        WO 2014/176014                                                         PCT/US2014/032850
                           LIVE AD PROCESSING ENGINE SERVICE
                                   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
    [0001]     The delivery of media over data networks such as the Internet is in high demand. This is
    due, in large part, to much of the media being ad supported. Advertising ("ad") networks can
 5  provide the advertisements needed to support the playback of the media. Ad insertion for on
    demand video is relatively straightforward, because the length of the entire on-demand video is
    known ahead of time. Thus, the entire play session can be planned and the advertising determined
    at the time the video is requested, resulting in a single response.
    [0002]     Ad insertion for live content can be more complex. Live content, by its very nature, is of
 0  unknown duration and the designated times for advertising may arise at any point in the stream
    with little warning. Thus, mediating requests for advertising and providing a single response (in,
    for example, the Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB) Digital Video Multiple Ad Playlist
    (VMAP) format) can be challenging.
                                  BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 5  [0003]     Techniques described herein provide for a live advertising processing engine service to
    act as an intermediary between client applications and advertising networks. The live advertising
    processing engine service can provide an interface with which the client can interact, via an
    application programming interface (API) or directly through the use of a standardized language,
    thereby allowing client applications to receive advertisement data without the need to be
 '0 customized to communicate with specific advertising networks. The live advertising processing
    engine service can further track where, in playback the live content, a client currently is, to
    indicate to the client-or other application-when advertisement breaks are and/or provide
    supplemental advertisement information to enable the client to provide a rich user experience.
    [0004]     An example method of providing advertising data related to live media content via a data
25  communications network, according to the disclosure, includes receiving a stream of data
    representing the live media content, receiving an indication of a period of time in the live media
    content designated for advertising, and providing an application programming interface (API)
    accessible, via the data communications network, to a client device. The method further includes
    determining, with a processing unit, a time at which the client device began receiving the live
30  media content, based on a request from the client device for an encoded segment of the live media
    content, and sending, via a communication interface, an indication of the period of time in the live
    media content during which one or more of a set of predetermined behaviors described by the API
                                                        1

        WO 2014/176014                                                          PCT/US2014/032850
    can be implemented by the client device. The indication of the period of time can be based on the
    determined time at which the client device began consuming the live media content.
    [0005]    The example method of providing advertising data related to live media content via a
    data communications can include one or more of the following features. The set of predetermined
 5  behaviors can include at least one of displaying an interstitial banner, displaying overlay
    advertisements, blocking fast forward controls, enabling interactive content, and providing
    tracking beacons to monitor a corresponding playback experience of a user. The method can
    include providing the indication of the period of time in Digital Video Multiple Ad Playlist
    (VMAP) format. The method can include determining one or more advertising networks based on
 0  one or more business rules. The one or more business rules can be determined based on a request
    from the client device for advertisement information. The method can further include receiving,
    from the one or more advertising networks, advertising information, and sending, via the
    communication interface, an indication to the client device of which of the set of predetermined
    behaviors described by the API to implement, where the indication of the predetermined behaviors
 5  to implement can be based on the advertising information. The indication of the predetermined
    behaviors to implement can include the advertising information. A non-transitory computer
    readable medium can have instructions embedded thereon which, when executed by the
    processing unit, cause one or more machines to perform the example method.
    [0006]    An example server configured to provide advertising data related to live media content
 '0 via a data communications network, according to the disclosure, includes a communication
    interface, a processing unit communicatively coupled with the communication interface, and a
    memory communicatively coupled with the processing. The memory has instructions embedded
    thereon which, when executed by the processing unit, cause the server to perform functions
    including receiving a stream of data representing the live media content, receiving an indication of
25  a period of time in the live media content designated for advertising, and providing an application
    programming interface (API) accessible, via the data communications network, to a client device.
    The instructions further cause the server to perform functions including determining, with the
    processing unit, a time at which the client device began receiving the live media content, based on
    a request from the client device for an encoded segment of the live media content, and sending, via
30  the communication interface, an indication of the period of time in the live media content during
    which one or more of a set of predetermined behaviors described by the API can be implemented
    by the client device. The indication of the period of time can be based on the determined time at
    which the client device began consuming the live media content.
                                                       2

        WO 2014/176014                                                           PCT/US2014/032850
    [0007]    The example server configured to provide advertising data related to live media content
    via a data communications network can include one or more of the following features. The
    memory can further include instructions for defining the set of predetermined behaviors to include
    at least one of displaying an interstitial banner, displaying overlay advertisements, blocking fast
 5  forward controls, enabling interactive content, and providing tracking beacons to monitor a
    corresponding playback experience of a user. The memory can further include instructions for
    providing the indication of the period of time in Digital Video Multiple Ad Playlist (VMAP)
    format. The memory can further include instructions for determining one or more advertising
    networks based on one or more business rules. The memory can further include instructions for
 0  determining the one or more business rules based on a request from the client device for
    advertisement information. The memory can further include instructions for receiving, from the
    one or more advertising networks, advertising information, and sending, via the communication
    interface, an indication to the client device of which of the set of predetermined behaviors to
    implement described by the API to implement, where the indication of the predetermined
 5  behaviors to implement is based on the advertising information. The memory can further include
    instructions for including, in the indication of the predetermined behaviors to implement, the
    advertising information.
    [0008]    Another example method of providing advertising data related to live media content via a
    data communications network, according to the disclosure, can include receiving a stream of data
 '0 representing the live media content, receiving an indication of a period of time in the live media
    content designated for advertising, determining, with a processing unit, a time at which a client
    device began receiving the live media content, based on a request from the client device for an
    encoded segment of the live media content; and sending, via a communication interface, a
    manifest file having an indication of the period of time in the live media content during which one
25  or more of a set of predetermined behaviors can be implemented by the client device. The
    indication of the period of time can be based on the determined time at which the client device
    began consuming the live media content.
    [0009]    The example method of providing advertising data related to live media content via a
    data communications network can include one or more of the following features. The set of
30  predetermined behaviors can include at least one of displaying an interstitial banner, displaying
    overlay advertisements, blocking fast forward controls, enabling interactive content, and providing
    tracking beacons to monitor a corresponding playback experience of a user. The method can
    include determining one or more advertising networks based on one or more business rules. The
    one or more business rules can be determined based on a request from the client device for
                                                        3

       WO 2014/176014                                                             PCT/US2014/032850
   advertisement information. The method can include receiving, from the one or more advertising
   networks, advertising information, and including, in the manifest file, an indication of which of
   the set of predetermined behaviors to implement, based on the advertising information.
                               BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 5 [0010]     The present disclosure is described in conjunction with the appended figures:
   [0011]     FIG. 1 is a block diagram illustrating a media servicing system, according to one
   embodiment of the present invention.
   [0012]     FIG. 2 is simplified block diagrams illustrating embodiments of systems utilizing an
   advertising processing engine service (APES).
 0 [0013]     FIG. 3 is a simplified block diagram illustrating a configuration in which the APES (Live
   APES) is adapted to provide supplementary information to a client in a live streaming
   environment, according to one embodiment.
   [0014]     FIG. 4 is a timeline graph illustrating an example of how an ad break can occur at
   different points in playback, relative to different clients.
 5 [0015]     FIG. 5 is a simplified flow chart illustrating a process of providing advertising data
   related to live media content via a data communications network, according to one embodiment.
   [0016]     FIG. 6 is a block diagram of an embodiment of a computer system.
   [0017]     In the appended figures, similar components and/or features may have the same
   reference label. Further, various components of the same type may be distinguished by following
20 the reference label by a dash and a second label that distinguishes among the similar components.
   If only the first reference label is used in the specification, the description is applicable to any one
   of the similar components having the same first reference label irrespective of the second
   reference label.
                             DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
25 [0018]     The ensuing description provides preferred exemplary embodiment(s) only, and is not
   intended to limit the scope, applicability or configuration of the disclosure. Rather, the ensuing
   description of the preferred exemplary embodiment(s) will provide those skilled in the art with an
   enabling description for implementing various embodiments of the invention. It is understood that
   various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from
30 the spirit and scope as set forth in the appended claims.
                                                        4

        WO 2014/176014                                                           PCT/US2014/032850
    [0019]     The terms "ad" and "advertisement," including alternate forms thereof, refer to
    marketing content distinct from user-requested media content. Although the techniques described
    herein discuss obtaining and providing advertising data, they also can be applied to data for
    content other than advertising. Furthermore, although techniques described herein are often
 5  provided in the context of video streaming, they can be applied to other forms of media content
    (e.g., audio streaming) as well. A person of ordinary skill in the art will recognize many alternate
    applications.
    [0020]     It can be noted that, although embodiments disclosed herein describe techniques as
    implemented by a cloud-hosted integrated multi-node pipelining system (CHIMPS), embodiments
 0  are not so limited. Other systems may be configured to implement the techniques disclosed.
    [0021]     The increased availability of media content over data communications networks such as
    the Internet has mirrored the increased bandwidth for these networks. Because media has recently
    taken a more prominent role in data communications, the distribution of media and the data
    associated with such distribution has become increasingly important, particularly to media content
 5  providers. Much of this media is ad-supported, allowing media content providers to receive
    advertising revenue from media content, while often allowing end users to consume the media
    content free of charge.
    [0022]     Advertisements are often stored and maintained separate from the primary media
    content. The distribution of ad-supported media via the Internet can therefore involve a variety of
 '0 entities. FIG. 1 is a block diagram illustrating a media servicing system 100, according to some
    embodiments of the present invention. The system may deliver media content to a client 145,
    executed by an end user device 140 providing media playback to an end user. The client 145 can
    be, for example, a media player, browser, or other application adapted to request and/or play
    media files. The media content can be provided via a network such as the Internet 170 and/or
25  other data communications networks, such as a distribution network for television content. The
    end user device 140 can be one of any number of devices configured to receive media over the
    Internet 170, such as a mobile phone, tablet, personal computer, portable media device, set-top
    box, video game system, etc. Although only one client 145 and one end user device 140 are
    shown in FIG. 1, it will be understood that the media servicing system 100 can provide media to
30  many (hundreds, thousands, millions, etc.) of clients 145 on many (hundreds, thousands, millions,
    etc.) of end user devices 140.
    [0023]     For on-demand content (e.g., requested media that is stored in its entirety), a media file
    provided by one or more media providers 130 can be processed and indexed by cloud-hosted
                                                       5

        WO 2014/176014                                                           PCT/US2014/032850
    integrated multi-node pipelining system (CHIMPS) 110. The media file may be stored on media
    file delivery service provider (MFDSP) 150, such as a content delivery network, media streaming
    service provider, cloud data services provider, or other third-party media file delivery service
    provider. Additionally or alternatively, the CHIMPS 110 may also be adapted to store the media
 5  file. On-demand content can be provided to the client 145 via progressive downloading and/or
    streaming.
    [0024]     For live content (e.g., requested content that is sent to one or more end user devices 140
    as it is received from media provider(s) 130, that is, in real time or near-real time, depending on
    processing times and/or other buffer times), a similar process can take place. For example, media
 0  provider(s) 130 can provide a media stream (e.g., live video), which is processed and indexed by
    the CHIMPS 110. Encoded segments of the media stream can be stored as files (i.e., "chunks"),
    on the media file delivery service provider (MFDSP) 150 and/or the CHIMPS 110. Embodiments
    may have a delay from the time the media stream is received from the time the associated content
    is stored and available for streaming to the one or more end user devices 140. The delay can be
 5  due to transcoding and/or other types of processing for making the received media stream
    available for downloading. This delay can create a buffer period of time in which one or more of
    the techniques described herein can take place, such as processing cue tones and/or placing ads in
    the content. (These techniques are described in greater detail below.)
    [0025]     Both on-demand and live content can utilize any of a variety of forms of streaming
 '0 media. One such method is chunk-based media streaming in which a media file or live stream is
    processed into smaller segments, or "chunks," and stored (e.g., in a server of the CHIMPS 110 or
    Media File Delivery Service Provider 150) for serving to a client 145. The client 145 can make a
    URL request to the CHIMPS 110, which can provide a manifest file (also known as an index file)
    indicating the locations of each of the chunks of media using, for example, Uniform Resource
25  Indicators (URIs) (e.g., Universal Resource Locators (URLs)) or other indicators. The client 145
    can then use the information in the manifest file to stream the media content, following one
    location after the other to download each chunk of media. Additional detail regarding such
    chunking and indexing, as well as techniques for dynamically creating chunks and manifest files,
    can be found in in U.S. Patent Nos. 8,327,013 entitled "Dynamic Index File Creation for Media
30  Streaming" and 8,145,782, entitled "Dynamic Chunking For Media Streaming," both of which are
    incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
    [0026]     The CHIMPS 110 can further manage the processing and syndication of media (live or
    on-demand) received from the media provider(s) 130. For example, the CHIMPS 110 can provide
                                                        6

        WO 2014/176014                                                           PCT/US2014/032850
    transcoding and other services to enable media provided by the media provider(s) to be distributed
    in a variety of formats to a variety of different device types in a variety of locations. Furthermore,
    the CHIMPS 110 provide feedback to the media provider(s) 130 regarding the media's
    syndication, including user behavior during media playback. For example, the CHIMPS 110 can
 5  provide a media provider 130 with information indicating that end users tend to stop watching a
    video at a certain point in playback, or that users tended to follow links associated with certain
    advertisements displayed during playback. With this data, media provider(s) 130 can adjust
    factors such as media content, advertisement placement and content, etc., to increase revenue
    associated with the media content and provide the end user device 140 with a more desirable
 0  playback experience. Additionally or alternatively, the CHIMPS 110 can dynamically provide a
    customized playback experience on the end user device 140 according to aspects of the context
    associated with the content at the time of the request, aspects of the content request itself, or both.
    It can be noted that although embodiments herein may utilize media files and live streams
    explicitly, other embodiments may utilized other forms of media assets, such as dynamic web
 5  pages, and may incorporate multiple media elements, including players, user interface
    components, user controls and control components, images, and other media content, objects, or
    types. Additionally, it can be noted that various functions, operations, processes, or other aspects
    that are described in this example, and other examples, as being performed by or attributable to the
    CHIMPS 110 can be performed by another system operating in conjunction with the CHIMPS
 '0 110, loosely or tightly synchronized with the CHIMPS 110, or independently; for example,
    collecting data from other digital services to be combined and reported with data collected by the
    CHIMPS 110 can, in some implementations, be performed by a system other than the CHIMPS
    110. Additional detail regarding the functionality of the CHIMPS 110 can be found in in U.S.
    Patent No. 8,301,733, entitled "Dynamic Chunking for Delivery Instances," which is incorporated
25  by reference herein in its entirety.
    [0027]    A content owner 120 can utilize one or more media provider(s) 130 to distribute media
    content owned by the content owner 120. For example, a content owner 120 could be a movie
    studio that licenses distribution of certain media through various content providers 130 such as
    television networks, Internet media streaming websites and other on-demand media providers,
30  media conglomerates, and the like. In some configurations, the content owner 120 also can
    operate as a media provider 130.
    [0028]    The content owner 120 and/or media provider(s) 130 can enter into an agreement with
    one or more ad network(s) 160 to provide advertisements to numerous clients 145 on numerous
    end user devices 140. In this manner, the ad network(s) 160 allow companies to show
                                                        7

        WO 2014/176014                                                           PCT/US2014/032850
    advertisements to end users viewing the media content from the media provider(s) 130. Because
    ad network(s) 160 can maintain advertisements and/or advertisement data separate from media
    content, the advertisements can be updated and subject to business rules such that, two users
    viewing the same media content at different times and/or in different locations may see different
 5  advertisements.
    [0029]     Different ad networks 160 often provide advertisement data to a client 145 in a
    proprietary language and/or format. Because it can be costly and time consuming to develop a
    client 145 using an SDK of a particular ad network 160, media provider(s) 130 and/or other
    entities that create clients 145 for media playback find it difficult to access advertisements from
 0  other ad networks 160. Furthermore, clients 145 may need to be updated whenever the ad
    network 160 for which the client was programmed makes any adjustments in its proprietary
    language and/or format. Some clients may allow for plugins to be utilized by an existing client
    145 to communicate with different ad networks 160. However, it can still be time consuming and
    costly to separately integrate each of these plugins into a client 145. Problematically, many ad
 5  networks 160 are unable to fulfill the needs of a media provider 130 on their own. Thus, many
    media provider(s) and/or other entities that create clients 145 for media playback are forced to
    adapt their clients 145 to communicate with multiple ad networks 160 to fill up the allotted time
    slots for advertisements.
    [0030]     Furthermore, advertisements may be inserted directly into content consumed by the
 '0 client, in which case the client may not be able to differentiate between media content and
    advertising content. In such instances, the client may not be able to provide a user with any
    additional features associated with an advertisement, such as a click-through hyperlink, banner, or
    other features.
    [0031]     Techniques provided herein can be utilized in conjunction with a Live Advertising
25  Processing Engine Service (APES) to avoid problems at arise from advertising during the
    consumption of live content by a client.
    [0032]     FIG. 2 is a simplified block diagram illustrating a system 200 utilizing an APES 220,
    according one embodiment. In this context, the APES may be used for both live and on-demand
    media content. The system 200 can comprise a client 145, application programming interface
30  (API) 210, APES 220, and one or more ad servers 260. As shown, these components can be
    incorporated into larger systems, such as the end user device 140, CHIMPS 110, and/or
    advertising network(s) 160 as shown in FIG. 1. In other embodiments, however, the APES 220,
    API 210, and/or other components may be incorporated differently into a larger system and/or
                                                       8

        WO 2014/176014                                                             PCT/US2014/032850
    may be stand-alone components. Furthermore, other embodiments may combine, separate, add,
    omit, substitute, and/or modify components of the system 200, while providing the same overall
    functionality as described herein.
    [0033]     The client 145 can interface with the API 210 to retrieve media and/or advertisement
 5  data, as well as access any other services of the CHIMPS 110. Accordingly, the client 145 need
    only be programmed for the routines, data structures, object classes, variables, etc. of the API 210,
    without being specially tailored to accommodate interaction with a particular ad network 160.
    [0034]     The API 210, in turn, can determine whether advertisements are needed in response to a
    request from the client 145. If so, the API 210 can determine the number of advertisements
 0  needed (ad count), duration of each, and other data to provide in a call to the APES 220, such as
    metadata for the requested media item, information from the client, custom parameters for client
    configuration, and the like. The API can make a call to the APES 220 with the request.
    [0035]     The APES 220 can act as an intermediary between the client 145 and the advertising
    network(s) 160 by providing an interface with which the client 145 can interact, via the API 210
 5  (and/or, in some embodiments, directly through the use of a standardized language), thereby
    allowing the client 145 to receive advertisement data without the need to be customized to
    communicate with specific advertising network(s) 160. On the other hand, the APES 220 can
    receive requests from clients and communicate these requests to advertising network(s) 160 in the
    corresponding language and/or format they require. The APES 220 can make corresponding
 '0 call(s) to the ad network(s) 160 using the format required by each of the ad network(s) 160,
    passing along information that the ad network(s) 160 might need to provide the proper
    advertisements (for example, in accordance with agreements between the ad network(s) 160 and
    media provider(s) 130). Such information could include, for example, geographical data related to
    the location of the client 145, data (title, duration, genre, etc.) regarding the media content
25  requested by the client, and the like.
     [0036]    In response to the request from the APES 220, the ad server(s) 260 can provide
    advertisement data for use in the playback of the media content. The advertisement data can
    include information enabling the advertisements to be incorporated into the playback of the media
    content, such as a URL of the advertisement, one or more accompanying tracking URLs, and other
30  information. In addition to providing advertisement data for playing video advertisements, an ad
    network 160 can provide supplemental information to a client 145 to enable the client 145 to add
    or alter interactive features. For example, additional information, such as a URL, can be passed to
    a client 145 to provide a "click through" URL that allows a user to click or otherwise select the
                                                         9

        WO 2014/176014                                                               PCT/US2014/032850
    video advertisement to evoke web content related to the advertisement (e.g., a web page of the
    advertiser and/or advertised product). In another example, information can be provided to the
    client 145 causing the client 145 to hide or inactivate some or all of controls of media player
    application during playback of an advertisement.
 5  [0037]    The system 200 further overcomes issues that can arise when an ad network 160 redirects
    a request to a different ad network 160. In general, ad networks 160 have an inventory of
    advertisements. Due to different business rules that may apply to different advertisements (e.g.,
    geographical constraints, time constraints, etc.), this inventory may run out in certain
    circumstances. For example, a particular company or advertising company may, as part of an
 0  advertising campaign, pay a first ad network for one million impressions for a given month. Once
    the million impressions are made, the first ad network is no longer permitted to show ads from that
    advertising campaign. If the first network 160 is otherwise unable to fulfill a request for
    advertisement data (e.g., provide an advertisement for a particular time slot), it may redirect the
    request to a second ad network 160 in accordance with an agreement between the first and second
 5  ad networks (typically sharing profits from fulfilling the request). If the second ad network 160 is
    also unable to fulfill the request, it may also redirect the request. This process can continue until
    the request is fulfilled or ultimately fails. If the request is finally fulfilled, the response can
    include data from each of the ad networks involved. And because each ad network may respond
    to advertisement requests in a proprietary manner, parsing the final response can involve complex
 '0 and difficult logic. Unlike systems that would require a client 145 to execute this difficult logic,
    the system 200 parses the response before it ever reaches the client. Thus, the system 200 allows
    for server-side functionality to handle difficult issues arising from redirects, providing advertising
    data in a standardized format. Depending on desired functionality, advertising data can include,
    an advertisement and/or a URL of an advertisement, one or more tracking URLs, information
25  regarding interactive content (discussed in more detail below), and/or other information.
    [0038]    It can be noted that each of the components of the system 200 can implement different
    business rules to provide advertisement data that comports with the requests of media provider(s)
    130, content owners 120, and/or other stakeholders. Moreover, the API 210 can pass along
    information, provided in a request from the client 145, to the APES 220 that may include
30  contextual and/or other data to inform business rules executed by the APES 220. Similarly, the
    APES 220 may pass along information that may inform business rules executed by the ad
    network(s) 160. Such information can include information provided in the original request from
    the client 145, and/or subsequently added by another component. In some embodiments, the
    request from the client 145 can not only inform business rules, but also provide new business rules
                                                          10

        WO 2014/176014                                                          PCT/US2014/032850
    to be implemented by the API 210, APES 220, and/or ad network(s) 160. Furthermore,
    information may be passed to the ad network(s) 160 that is not utilized by the API 210 or APES
    220.
    [0039]    Additional detail regarding the functionality of the APES 220 for on-demand media
 5  streaming can be found in in U.S. Patent Application No. 13/748,79 1, entitled "Advertising
    Processing Engine Service," which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
    [0040]    FIG. 3 illustrates a configuration 300 in which the APES-shown here as Live APES
    310-is adapted to provide supplementary information to a client in a live streaming environment,
    according to one embodiment. This functionality can be in addition or an alternative to providing
 0  the intermediary functionality described in regards to the APES 220 system of FIG. 2. It will be
    understood that other embodiments may include more or fewer components, may omit and/or add
    components, and/or situate components differently. The source 320 (e.g., a system that maintains
    and/or serves the live content) and Live APES 310 can, for example, be separately maintained
    (rather than part of a single CHIMPS 110). Other embodiments, however, may integrate the two
 5  into a single functional component. As illustrated in FIG. 1, the client 145 can be
    communicatively coupled with the other illustrated components via the Internet 170 (not shown in
    FIG. 3) and/or other data communication networks.
    [0041]    The configuration 300 provides server architecture that can implement a methodology
    whereby requests for advertising content to be delivered during a media streaming experience to
 '0 the client 145 can be mediated via the Live APES 310. Similar to the APES 220 of FIG. 2, the
    Live APES can employ an API (not shown), such as a RESTful API, that can intelligently apply
    business rules to determine the ideal advertisements to serve on a per-session basis. In some
    embodiments, a standardized language may be used instead of or in addition to an API. The Live
    APES 310 can then create a response that allows the client 145 to provide a rich user experience
25  that otherwise may not be available.
    [0042]    Here, the term "rich user experience" can include any of a variety of functionality in
    addition to the delivery of the media content. For example, the Live APES 310 can provide client
    145 with a response that provides the client 145 the ability to display interstitial banner and/or
    overlay advertisements, the ability to keep the user from skipping through a linear video
30  advertisement (e.g., by blocking and/or hiding user controls), the ability to follow hyperlinks to
    gain more information about the subject of an advertisement, the ability to provide tracking
    beacons to monitor the playback experience of the user, and the like. To provide this
    functionality, the information provided by the Live APES 310 can include, for example, a time
                                                      11

        WO 2014/176014                                                          PCT/US2014/032850
    and duration of an advertisement, an advertisement and/or supplementary advertisement (e.g., a
    picture, banner, etc.), a hyperlink (e.g., URL) to an advertiser's website, a tracking URL, and the
    like, which can be obtained from the ad server(s) 260 and/or other sources.
    [0043]     Without the supplemental information provided by the Live APES 310, the client 145
 5  may not be able to provide any functionality other than play advertising content. Many types of
    clients, for example, are unable to determine any information regarding live content other than a
    duration that the content is played. The client 145 can provide this to a browser and/or operating
    system. But without any additional information regarding the content of the advertisement, the
    browser and/or operating system can do little to provide a rich user experience without
 0  information regarding the advertisements or any indication of when the advertisements are played.
    Techniques disclosed herein address this issue by providing, with the Live APES 310,
    supplementary data (e.g., the "API data" indicated in FIG. 3) in addition to the live content,
    enabling a client 145 (and/or other software on the end-user device 140, such as a browser,
    operating system, etc.) to know when ad playback occurs and provide a rich user experience
 5  during that time. To this end, some embodiments allow for live content to be provided to the
    client 145, while the API data is provided to a browser, operating system, and/or other software
    running on the end-user device 140.
    [0044]     A typical live "stream," obtained from media provider(s) 130, can include continuous
    data being created from recording and primary encoding equipment. It can include a first set of
 '0 one or more "content" segments (e.g. a sporting event, a news report, etc.), followed by a first
    advertising "break" during which advertising is intended to be shown. After the first advertising
    break, there can be a second set of one or more content segments, a second advertising break, and
    so forth. Advertising breaks can be determined by the media provider(s) 130 and indicated by
    "cue tones," which are analog or digital signals which indicate in a first form that a break is about
25  to begin. Cue tones can also indicate in a second form that the break is about to end. These cue
    tones can occur at any point in the stream, and in many circumstances the timing of the breaks is
    not known before the live stream is initiated. Furthermore, the overall duration of a live stream is
    often not known. In some circumstances, for instance, live streams are continuous for hours, or
    days, or weeks or longer. Additionally, the time at which a client 145 begins to consume live
30  content can be at any point during its duration, not solely at the beginning of the content.
    [0045]     Because of these factors, live streams can present unique challenges to a mediating ad
    processing engine, namely indeterminate content length and unknown advertising break timing
                                                       12

        WO 2014/176014                                                            PCT/US2014/032850
    and duration and indeterminate start time in the stream. As such, Live APES 310 can be
    configured to adapt in a manner that may be different from other systems.
    [0046]     First, the client behavior may change. Unlike mediating ad processing engines for on
    demand content, in which the client can make a single request at the start of a play session and
 5  receives a single response (e.g., IAB Digital Video Multiple Ad Playlist (VMAP) response)
    describing the advertising entities pertinent to that play session, the Live APES 310 can receive
    multiple requests from the client 145 during the consumption of the live content. The Live APES
    310 can respond to each request by providing supplemental information containing the advertising
    information pertinent to an impending play session segment. In some embodiments a single
 0  content delivery URI can be provided to the client 145, which can be consumed to deliver the live
    streaming content for that play session incorporating any linear media advertisements described by
    the Live APES 310 response.
    [0047]     Second, the Live APES 310 can perform just-in-time ad placement and mediation as the
    play session evolves. This is complicated by the fact that the advertising breaks are of unknown
 5  timing and duration. Thus, a global time offset is implemented whereby a user is artificially
    placed at an earlier point in the timeline of the live stream in order that the Live APES 310 can
    make use of a look-ahead buffer to process cue tones and place ads appropriately. This buffer is a
    result of the fact that live streaming segments are processed by the processing component(s) 330,
    which can cut, encode and deliver segments to the source 320, and thus the live content cannot be
 '0 consumed by a client device until such time as the segment is complete. Moreover, such a time
    buffer is often a requirement of streaming live content. The Live APES 310 can take advantage of
    this buffer to perform its advertising mediation function. When an advertising break occurs (as
    indicated by cue tones in and/or associated with the live stream) the Live APES 310 can send a
    request for advertising to fill the time of the break across a plurality of advertising networks 160
25  based upon a first plurality of business rules that can be defined on a per live stream basis.
    Mediated requests can further be influenced by a second plurality of business rules that operate
    upon a plurality of client state metadata provided in the request itself.
    [0048]     The third feature that the Live APES 310 can incorporate to resolve the problems
    presented by live streams is the creation of a play session token for use in coordinating all
30  responses to a particular client 145. Each client 145 that consumes live content may join that live
    stream at any point throughout its duration. Thus, the "beginning" of each play session (e.g., the
    live content first consumed by a client 145) can be different for each client 145. As such, the
                                                        13

        WO 2014/176014                                                               PCT/US2014/032850
    elapsed time in the play session to the beginning of an advertising break is directly related on a
    per-client basis to their start time in the stream.
    [0049]     FIG. 4 is a timeline graph 400 provided to help illustrate this point. Live content
    consumed is represented as a line 410, and time elapsed during consumption is represented in
 5  space from left to right. Here, a first client joins at a first point in the live content 420, and begins
    consuming the live content. At a second point in the live content 430, a second client joints and
    begins consuming the live content. At a third point in the live content 440, an ad break begins.
    For the first client, the ad break begins after 20 seconds of live content consumption. For the
    second client, however, the ad break begins after 15 seconds of live consumption. Thus, to
 0  accommodate each client, ad information, including timing information, can be customized on a
    per-client basis. It can be noted that, due to various factors such as traffic shaping, load balancing,
    and the like, the first and second clients may be consuming the live content at different points in
    time. That is, clients can have different "session times," as described in further detail below. For
    example, they may be offset by a few seconds such that the first client reaches the ad break at
 5  10:20:00 AM and the second client reaches the ad break a few seconds later, at 10:20:03 AM.
    [0050]     Referring again to FIG. 3, the Live APES 310 can receive information from the source
    320. Because the source 320 can determine which encoded media segment (chunk) the client
    requests first, it can pass this information to the Live APES 310 which can keep track of when, in
    the live content, the client began streaming. Thus, there is the timeline of the live stream
 '0 (hereinafter referred to as "real time") and a dependent timeline of the client play session
    (hereinafter referred to as "session time") which is offset from real time by a constant amount.
    The play session token can store, among other items, the constant amount by which session time is
    offset from real time by examining the embedded timestamps (e.g., presentation time stamp
    (PTS)) in the live stream at the time the play session initiates and noting their difference from the
25  start of a client's consumption of live content. This token is then utilized on all subsequent
    requests in the play session to correctly set the session time at which an ad break begins and its
    dependent advertising entities are displayed so that the client 145 can provide a rich user
    experience. It can further be noted that, although a "token" is disclosed, embodiments may employ
    any of a variety of techniques for tracking session time of a client 145.
30  [0051]     It can be noted that, although examples described herein are specific to VMAP,
    embodiments are not so limited. Embodiments can include any XML response (or any API call
    response). VMAP is used only as an example. Furthermore, techniques described herein not only
    work the case of ads being delivered in-stream but also as a signaling mechanism for the client to
                                                        14

        WO 2014/176014                                                            PCT/US2014/032850
    load something that is not in stream (like an overlay, for example). Embodiments may,
    additionally or alternatively, allow a client to utilize a single URI (e.g., a URL or other location
    indicator) for delivery of live content that will incorporate any linear video advertising described
    in the response of the Live APES 310.
 5  [0052]     Some embodiments may embed a response from the Live APES 310 directly into a
    manifest file. In such embodiments, the CHIMPS 110 and/or other system can provide chunk
    based media streaming by providing a manifest file (e.g., in M3U8 format), in the manner
    previously described, indicating the location of media chunks to download for streaming the live
    content. Such embodiments can incorporate manifest file creation into the Live APES 310 and/or
 0  utilize another component (not shown in FIG. 3) to generate the manifest files. Rather than
    delivering API data in response to a separate API call, these embodiments can simply include
    supplementary information (advertisement information) in the manifest file itself, resulting in
    similar functionality as described above.
    [0053]     Embodiments embedding supplemental information in a manifest file can do so using
 5  any of a variety of techniques. For example, the Live APES 310 may provide an indicator in
    URLs of chunks of advertising content, flagging to the client 145 which chunks are related to
    advertising. Additionally or alternatively, the Live APES 310 can embed supplemental
    information as comments in a top-level manifest file. For instance, HTTP Live Streaming (HLS),
    utilizes the "#" character to indicate comments, which are typically ignored by the client 145.
 '0 However, embodiments may exploit this feature by providing advertisement information in the
    manifest file by embedding a directive such as "#adtiming," followed by specific timing of an ad,
    to indicate a time during which the client 145 will be consuming advertising content.
    Correspondingly, clients 145 can be adapted to seek such embedded directives in the comments
    portion of the manifest file. Additional information may be similarly embedded to provide
25  additional functionality (e.g., click-thru hyperlinks, control blocking, etc.) as described above. In
    some embodiments, protocols other than HLS can be utilized.
    [0054]     FIG. 5 is a simplified flow chart illustrating a process 500 of providing advertising data
    related to live media content via a data communications network, according to one embodiment.
    The process 500 can be implemented, for example, by the Live APES 310 described herein above,
30  and/or another networked system. As with all other figures provided herein, FIG. 5 is provided as
    an example and is not limiting. Various blocks may be combined, separated, and/or otherwise
    modified, depending on desired functionality. Furthermore, different blocks may be executed by
                                                         15

        WO 2014/176014                                                         PCT/US2014/032850
    different components of a system and/or different systems. Such systems can include the
    computer system described herein below with regard to FIG. 6.
    [0055]     At block 505, a stream of data representing live media content is received. The stream of
    data can be a live stream as previously described with regard to FIG. 3, which can be provided by
 5  one or more media and/or content providers. The stream of data can be received via a data
    communication network, including the Internet and/or private and/or public data communication
    networks. As previously indicated, the stream of data may include embedded PTS data, which
    may be utilized by the Live APES (or other system) to help track "session time" of a client in
    relation to "real time" kept by the Live APES and/or other system. In some embodiments, the
 0  stream of data may not be received directly, but instead, a system can receive an indication that the
    stream of data is received (and is, for example, being processed for live streaming to a client).
    [0056]     An indication of a period of time in the live media content designated for advertising is
    received at block 515. As indicated above, this can comprise cue tones, which can be analog or
    digital signals embedded in the stream of data itself and/or received separately in conjunction with
 5  the stream of data. Also as previously described, separate cue tones can separately denote the
    beginning of a period of time in which ad content is to be played and the ending of that period of
    time.
    [0057]     At block 525, an API is provided. The API can interface with clients (e.g., media
    streaming applications) executed by any of a variety of end-user devices, such as personal
 '0 computers, tablets, smart phones, televisions, set-top boxes, and the like. The API can include a
    series of instructions defining one or more predetermined behaviors to execute during the period
    of time in which advertising is being consumed (i.e., played) on the client. Furthermore, separate
    APIs may be utilized to stream data and provide such instructions. These APIs may interface with
    separate applications executed by the end-user device. For example, one or more APIs for
25  streaming media content (e.g., providing manifest files and/or receiving beaconing information
    from a client) can interface with the client, while the API including the series of instructions
    defining the one or more predetermined behaviors may interface with an operating system and/or
    browser. Some embodiments may not utilize an API at all, depending on desired functionality.
    [0058]     At block 535 a time at which the client device began receiving the live media content is
30  determined. As indicated previously, the system providing supplemental information regarding
    advertising (e.g., the Live APES) can be in communication with the system serving chunks of live
    media to a client.(e.g., the source). It can therefore be determined what chunk of the live media
    content is requested by the client and when, which can allow a system to determine both what
                                                        16

        WO 2014/176014                                                             PCT/US2014/032850
    portion of the live media content the client is consuming, and an elapsed time that the client has
    been consuming the live media content.
    [0059]    The functionality at block 545 involves sending an indication of the period of time in the
    live media content during which one or more of a set or predetermined behaviors described by the
 5  API can be implemented by the client device. That is, a system can flag to the client (and/or other
    software executed by an end-user device) when an advertisement will be played. The system can
    receive cue tones in the live media stream and, because of processing and/or deliberate buffering
    delays, provide an indication of when, in the live media content consumed by a client, an
    advertisement will be played. Furthermore, because the system knows an elapsed time that the
 0  client has been consuming live media content, it can provide this indication in terms understood
    by the client (which typically does not know anything regarding the live media content other than
    the elapsed time that the live media content has been consumed). For example, the indication can
    indicate that an advertisement will be shown when the elapsed time of consumption reaches 45
    seconds. The indication may also indicate an end time and/or duration of the ad break. As
 5  previously discussed, some embodiments may provide the indication in a VMAP format. Some
    embodiments may provide the indication in a manifest file.
    [0060]    Predetermined behaviors can include any of a variety of behaviors, enabling the client to
    provide a rich user experience. Such behaviors can include, for example, displaying an interstitial
    banner, displaying overlay advertisements, blocking fast forward controls, enabling interactive
 '0 content (e.g., click-through hyperlinks), and providing tracking beacons to monitor the playback
    experience of the user. In addition to the indication of when an advertisement will be played, on
    or more of these behaviors can be provided to a client.
    [0061]    A system configured to perform the functionality shown in FIG. 5 can be configured to
    perform additional features. For example, a system may determine one or more advertising
25  networks based on business rules. The business rules can be determined based on a request from
    the client device. For example, a request from a client may include a client identifier, geographic
    location, and/or other information that can be used to determine which advertising networks to
    utilize. Depending on related business rules, different requests from different clients for the same
    video content may result in different advertisements. This can be due to, for example, differences
30  in the time of the requests, location of the clients, client identifier, and the like. In addition to ad
    content, the ad networks can provide advertising information (e.g., URLs, banners, etc.) that can
    be provided by the Live APES (or other system) as supplemental information that can be used to
                                                        17

        WO 2014/176014                                                          PCT/US2014/032850
    provide a rich user experience. This supplemental information related to an advertisement can be
    included in and/or otherwise accompany the indication of when the advertisement will be played.
    [0062]     FIG. 6 illustrates an embodiment of a computer system 600, which may be configured to
    execute various components described herein using any combination of hardware and/or software.
 5  For example, the computer system 600 can be configured to execute the Live APES 310, API 210,
    client 145, and/or other components of the CHIMPS 110 and/or media servicing system 100, as
    described herein. FIG. 6 provides a schematic illustration of one embodiment of a computer
    system 600 that can perform the methods provided by various other embodiments, such as the
    method described in relation to FIG. 5. It should be noted that FIG. 6 is meant only to provide a
 0  generalized illustration of various components, any or all of which may be utilized as appropriate.
    FIG. 6, therefore, broadly illustrates how individual system elements may be implemented in a
    relatively separated or relatively more integrated manner. In addition, it can be noted that
    components illustrated by FIG. 6 can be localized to a single device and/or distributed among
    various networked devices, which may be disposed at different physical locations.
 5  [0063]     The computer system 600 is shown comprising hardware elements that can be
    electrically coupled via a bus 605 (or may otherwise be in communication, as appropriate). The
    hardware elements may include processing unit(s) 610, which can include without limitation one
    or more general-purpose processors, one or more special-purpose processors (such as digital signal
    processing chips, graphics acceleration processors, and/or the like), and/or other processing
 '0 structure, which can be configured to perform one or more of the methods described herein,
    including the method illustrated in FIG. 5, by, for example, executing commands stored in a
    memory. The computer system 600 also can include one or more input devices 615, which can
    include without limitation a mouse, a keyboard, and/or the like; and one or more output devices
    620, which can include without limitation a display device, a printer, and/or the like.
25  [0064]     The computer system 600 may further include (and/or be in communication with) one or
    more non-transitory storage devices 625, which can comprise, without limitation, local and/or
    network accessible storage, and/or can include, without limitation, a disk drive, a drive array, an
    optical storage device, a solid-state storage device, such as a random access memory ("RAM"),
    and/or a read-only memory ("ROM"), which can be programmable, flash-updateable, and/or the
30  like. Such storage devices may be configured to implement any appropriate data stores, including
    without limitation, various file systems, database structures, and/or the like.
    [0065]     The computer system 600 can also include a communications interface 630, which can
    include wireless and wired communication technologies. Accordingly, the communications
                                                       18

        WO 2014/176014                                                               PCT/US2014/032850
    interface can include a modem, a network card (wireless or wired), an infrared communication
    device, a wireless communication device, and/or a chipset (such as a BluetoothTM device, an IEEE
    602.11 device, an IEEE 602.15.4 device, a WiFi device, a WiMax device, cellular communication
    facilities, UWB interface, etc.), and/or the like. The communications interface 630 can therefore
 5  permit the computer system 600 to be exchanged with other devices and components of a network.
    [0066]      In many embodiments, the computer system 600 will further comprise a working
    memory 635, which can include a RAM or ROM device, as described above. Software elements,
    shown as being located within the working memory 635, can include an operating system 640,
    device drivers, executable libraries, and/or other code, such as one or more application programs
 0  645, which may comprise computer programs provided by various embodiments, and/or may be
    designed to implement methods, and/or configure systems, provided by other embodiments, as
    described herein. Merely by way of example, one or more procedures described with respect to
    the method(s) discussed above, such as the method described in relation to FIG. 5, might be
    implemented as code and/or instructions executable by a computer (and/or a processing unit
 5  within a computer); in an aspect, then, such code and/or instructions can be used to configure
    and/or adapt a general purpose computer (or other device) to perform one or more operations in
    accordance with the described methods.
    [0067]      A set of these instructions and/or code might be stored on a non-transitory computer
    readable storage medium, such as the storage device(s) 625 described above. In some cases, the
 '0 storage medium might be incorporated within a computer system, such as computer system 600.
    In other embodiments, the storage medium might be separate from a computer system (e.g., a
    removable medium, such as an optical disc), and/or provided in an installation package, such that
    the storage medium can be used to program, configure, and/or adapt a general purpose computer
    with the instructions/code stored thereon. These instructions might take the form of executable
25  code, which is executable by the computer system 600 and/or might take the form of source and/or
    installable code, which, upon compilation and/or installation on the computer system 600 (e.g.,
    using any of a variety of generally available compilers, installation programs,
    compression/decompression utilities, etc.), then takes the form of executable code.
    [0068]      It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that substantial variations may be made in
30  accordance with specific requirements. For example, customized hardware might also be used,
    and/or particular elements might be implemented in hardware, software (including portable
    software, such as applets, etc.), or both. Further, connection to other computing devices such as
    network input/output devices may be employed.
                                                          19

        WO 2014/176014                                                          PCT/US2014/032850
    [0069]    As mentioned above, in one aspect, some embodiments may employ a computer system
    (such as the computer system 600) to perform methods in accordance with various embodiments
    of the invention. According to a set of embodiments, some or all of the procedures of such
    methods are performed by the computer system 600 in response to processor 610 executing one or
 5  more sequences of one or more instructions (which might be incorporated into the operating
    system 640 and/or other code, such as an application program 645) contained in the working
    memory 635. Such instructions may be read into the working memory 635 from another
    computer-readable medium, such as one or more of the storage device(s) 625. Merely by way of
    example, execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the working memory 635 might
 0  cause the processor(s) 610 to perform one or more procedures of the methods described herein.
    Additionally or alternatively, portions of the methods described herein may be executed through
    specialized hardware.
    [0070]    With reference to the appended figures, components that can include memory can
    include non-transitory machine-readable media. The term "machine-readable medium" and
 5  "computer-readable medium" as used herein, refer to any storage medium that participates in
    providing data that causes a machine to operate in a specific fashion. In embodiments provided
    hereinabove, various machine-readable media might be involved in providing instructions/code to
    processing units and/or other device(s) for execution. Additionally or alternatively, the machine
    readable media might be used to store and/or carry such instructions/code. In many
 '0 implementations, a computer-readable medium is a physical and/or tangible storage medium.
    Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile
    media, and transmission media. Common forms of computer-readable media include, for
    example, magnetic and/or optical media, a RAM, a PROM, EPROM, a FLASH-EPROM, any
    other memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave as described hereinafter, or any other medium from
25  which a computer can read instructions and/or code.
    [0071]    It has proven convenient at times, principally for reasons of common usage, to refer to
    such signals as bits, information, values, elements, symbols, characters, variables, terms, numbers,
    numerals, or the like. It should be understood, however, that all of these or similar terms are to be
    associated with appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels. Unless
30  specifically stated otherwise, as is apparent from the discussion above, it is appreciated that
    throughout this specification discussions utilizing terms such as "processing," "computing,"
    "calculating," "determining," "ascertaining," "identifying," "associating," "measuring,"
    "performing," or the like refer to actions or processes of a specific apparatus, such as a special
    purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device. In the context of this
                                                      20

        WO 2014/176014                                                           PCT/US2014/032850
    specification, therefore, a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic
    computing device is capable of manipulating or transforming signals, typically represented as
    physical electronic, electrical, or magnetic quantities within memories, registers, or other
    information storage devices, transmission devices, or display devices of the special purpose
 5  computer or similar special purpose electronic computing device.
    [0072]    It should be noted that the methods, systems, and devices discussed above are intended
    merely to be examples. It must be stressed that various embodiments may omit, substitute, or add
    various procedures or components as appropriate. For instance, it should be appreciated that, in
    alternative embodiments, the methods may be performed in an order different from that described,
 0  and that various steps may be added, omitted, or combined. Also, features described with respect
    to certain embodiments may be combined in various other embodiments. Different aspects and
    elements of the embodiments may be combined in a similar manner. Also, it should be
    emphasized that technology evolves and, thus, many of the elements are examples and should not
    be interpreted to limit the scope of the invention.
 5  [0073]    Specific details are given in the description to provide a thorough understanding of the
    embodiments. However, it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the
    embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example, well-known circuits,
    processes, algorithms, structures, and techniques have been shown without unnecessary detail in
    order to avoid obscuring the embodiments. This description provides example embodiments only,
 '0 and is not intended to limit the scope, applicability, or configuration of the invention. Rather, the
    preceding description of the embodiments will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling
    description for implementing embodiments of the invention. Various changes may be made in the
    function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.
    [0074]    Also, it is noted that the embodiments may be described as a process which is depicted as
25  a flow diagram or block diagram. Although each may describe the operations as a sequential
    process, many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition, the
    order of the operations may be rearranged. A process may have additional steps not included in
    the figure. Furthermore, embodiments of the methods may be implemented by hardware,
    software, firmware, middleware, microcode, hardware description languages, or any combination
30  thereof. When implemented in software, firmware, middleware, or microcode, the program code
    or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a non-volatile computer
    readable medium such as a storage medium. Processors may perform the necessary tasks.
                                                       21

      WO 2014/176014                                                           PCT/US2014/032850
  [0075]    Terms, "and" and "or" as used herein, may include a variety of meanings that also is
  expected to depend at least in part upon the context in which such terms are used. Typically, "or"
  if used to associate a list, such as A, B, or C, is intended to mean A, B, and C, here used in the
  inclusive sense, as well as A, B, or C, here used in the exclusive sense. In addition, the term "one
5 or more" as used herein may be used to describe any feature, structure, or characteristic in the
  singular or may be used to describe some combination of features, structures, or characteristics.
  However, it should be noted that this is merely an illustrative example and claimed subject matter
  is not limited to this example. Furthermore, the term "at least one of' if used to associate a list,
  such as A, B, or C, can be interpreted to mean any combination of A, B, and/or C, such as A, AB,
0 AA, AAB, AABBCCC, etc.
  [0076]    Having described several embodiments, it will be recognized by those of skill in the art
  that various modifications, alternative constructions, and equivalents may be used without
  departing from the spirit of the invention. For example, the above elements may merely be a
  component of a larger system, wherein other rules may take precedence over or otherwise modify
5 the application of the invention. Also, a number of steps may be undertaken before, during, or
  after the above elements are considered. Accordingly, the above description should not be taken
  as limiting the scope of the invention.
                                                       22

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
                1.      A method of providing advertising data related to live media content via a
data communications network, the method comprising:
                receiving, at one or more servers, a stream of data representing the live media
content;
                receiving, at the one or more servers, an indication of a period of time in the live
media content designated for advertising;
                providing, with the one or more servers, an application programming interface
(API) accessible, via the data communications network, to a client device;
                determining, with the one or more servers, a time at which the client device began
receiving the live media content, based on an encoded segment of the live media content first
requested from a server by the client device; and
                sending, from the one or more servers to the client device via a communication
interface, an indication of the period of time in the live media content during which one or more
of a set of predetermined behaviors described by the API can be implemented by the client
device, wherein the indication of the period of time is based on the determined time at which the
client device began consuming the live media content and the indication of the period of time in
the live media content designated for advertising.
                2.      The method of providing advertising data related to live media content via
a data communications network as recited in claim 1, wherein the set of predetermined behaviors
includes at least one of:
                displaying an interstitial banner,
                displaying overlay advertisements,
                blocking fast forward controls,
                enabling interactive content, and
                providing tracking beacons to monitor a corresponding playback experience of a
user.
                                                   23

                3.      The method for providing advertising data via the data communications
network as recited in claim 1, further comprising providing the indication of the period of time in
Digital Video Multiple Ad Playlist (VMAP) format.
                4.      The method for providing advertising data via the data communications
network as recited in claim 1, further comprising determining one or more advertising networks
based on one or more business rules.
                5.      The method for providing advertising data via the data communications
network as recited in claim 4 wherein the one or more business rules are determined based on a
request from the client device for advertisement information.
                6.      The method for providing advertising data via the data communications
network as recited in claim 4 further comprising:
                receiving, from the one or more advertising networks, advertising information;
and
                sending, via the communication interface, an indication to the client device of
which of the set of predetermined behaviors described by the API to implement, wherein the
indication of the predetermined behaviors to implement is based on the advertising information.
                7.      The method for providing advertising data via the data communications
network as recited in claim 6, wherein the indication of the predetermined behaviors to
implement includes the advertising information.
                8.      A non-transitory computer-readable medium having instructions
embedded thereon which, when executed by the one or more servers, cause one or more
machines to perform the method recited in claim 1.
                9.      A server configured to provide advertising data related to live media
content via a data communications network, the server comprising:
                a communication interface;
                a processing unit communicatively coupled with the communication interface;
and
                                                 24

                a memory communicatively coupled with the processing unit and having
instructions embedded thereon which, when executed by the processing unit, cause the server to
perform functions including:
                receiving a stream of data representing the live media content;
                receiving an indication of a period of time in the live media content designated for
advertising;
                providing an application programming interface (API) accessible, via the data
communications network, to a client device;
                determining, with the processing unit, a time at which the client device began
receiving the live media content, based on an encoded segment of the live media content first
requested from a server by the client device; and
                sending, via the communication interface to the client device, an indication of the
period of time in the live media content during which one or more of a set of predetermined
behaviors described by the API can be implemented by the client device, wherein the indication
of the period of time is based on the determined time at which the client device began consuming
the live media content and the indication of the period of time in the live media content
designated for advertising.
                10.     The server configured to provide advertising data related to live media
content via a data communications network as recited in claim 9, wherein the memory further
includes instructions for defining the set of predetermined behaviors to include at least one of:
                displaying an interstitial banner,
                displaying overlay advertisements,
                blocking fast forward controls,
                enabling interactive content, and
                providing tracking beacons to monitor a corresponding playback experience of a
user.
                11.     The server configured to provide advertising data related to live media
content via a data communications network as recited in claim 9, wherein the memory further
includes instructions for providing the indication of the period of time in Digital Video Multiple
Ad Playlist (VMAP) format.
                                                   25

                12.     The server configured to provide advertising data related to live media
content via a data communications network as recited in claim 9, wherein the memory further
includes instructions for determining one or more advertising networks based on one or more
business rules.
                13.     The server configured to provide advertising data related to live media
content via a data communications network as recited in claim 12, wherein the memory further
includes instructions for determining the one or more business rules based on a request from the
client device for advertisement information.
                14.     The server configured to provide advertising data related to live media
content via a data communications network as recited in claim 12, wherein the memory further
includes instructions for:
                receiving, from the one or more advertising networks, advertising information;
and
                sending, via the communication interface, an indication to the client device of
which of the set of predetermined behaviors to implement described by the API to implement,
wherein the indication of the predetermined behaviors to implement is based on the advertising
information.
                15.     The server configured to provide advertising data related to live media
content via a data communications network as recited in claim 14, wherein the memory further
includes instructions for including, in the indication of the predetermined behaviors to
implement, the advertising information.
                16.     A method of providing advertising data related to live media content via a
data communications network, the method comprising:
                receiving a stream of data representing the live media content;
                receiving an indication of a period of time in the live media content designated for
advertising;
                determining, with one or more servers, a time at which a client device began
receiving the live media content, based on an encoded segment of the live media content first
requested from a server by the client device; and
                                                  26

               sending, from the one or more servers to the client device via a communication
interface, a manifest file having an indication of the period of time in the live media content
during which one or more of a set of predetermined behaviors can be implemented by the client
device, wherein the indication of the period of time is based on the determined time at which the
client device began consuming the live media content and the indication of the period of time in
the live media content designated for advertising.
                17.     The method of providing advertising data related to live media content via
a data communications network as recited in claim 16, wherein the set of predetermined
behaviors includes at least one of:
               displaying an interstitial banner,
               displaying overlay advertisements,
               blocking fast forward controls,
               enabling interactive content, and
               providing tracking beacons to monitor a corresponding playback experience of a
user.
                18.     The method for providing advertising data via the data communications
network as recited in claim 16, further comprising determining one or more advertising networks
based on one or more business rules.
                19.     The method for providing advertising data via the data communications
network as recited in claim 18 wherein the one or more business rules are determined based on a
request from the client device for advertisement information.
               20.      The method for providing advertising data via the data communications
network as recited in claim 18 further comprising:
               receiving, from the one or more advertising networks, advertising information;
and
               including, in the manifest file, an indication of which of the set of predetermined
behaviors to implement, based on the advertising information.
69557537V.1
                                                  27

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
