          TOPICAL FORMULATIONS HAVING ENHANCED
                                  BIOAVAILABILITY
                                              Abstract
5
  The present disclosure provides compositions suitable for delivering lipophilic bioactive
  agents. The compositions may be utilized to treat numerous diseases and conditions that
  would benefit from the application of a lipophilic bioactive agent.

                                 1/1
 Figure 1: Mean * SD CoQjo Epidermal Concentration vs Dose (Male Pig):
                              (n=6/skin section)
                  700-                             Lof Side
                                               -q- R1 ide (14)sy DOdng)
                  600
                  3500.
              800
              C.          /
            -      200
               P100
                                       Dose (mg)
Figure 2: Mean * SD CoQjo Epidermal Concentration vs Dose (Female Pig):
                               (n=6/skin section)
                   700
                                                -   L-t~oSIM(7-DayOdang)
                   600
                   500
                   400
                 800
                   01
                        0   1        2          3          4       5
                                       Dose (mg)

                                        AUSTRALIA
                                     Patents Act 1990
                              Standard Patent Specification
  Title:   TOPICAL FORMULATIONS HAVING ENHANCED BIOAVAILABILITY
              Applicant(s):            Berg LLC
              Inventor(s):             John Patrick McCOOK
                                       Niven Rajin NARAIN
                                       Indushekhar PERSAUD
              Agent:                   © COTTERS
                                       Patent & Trade Mark Attorneys
The following is a full description of the invention which sets forth the best method known to
the applicant of performing it.

                                                       -2
                   TOPICAL FORMULATIONS HAVING ENHANCED
                                           BIOAVAILABILITY
   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
   [0001]        This application is related to U.S. Provisional Application Serial No. 60/919,554, filed
 5 March 22, 2007, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein. This application is
   also related to International Patent Application No. PCT/US2008/057786, filed 21 March, 2008 and
   entitled "Topical Formulations Having Enhanced Bioavailability", the entire disclosure of which is
   incorporated by reference herein. This application is also related to Australian Patent Application No.
   2008228764, filed 21 March, 2008 and entitled "Topical Formulations Having Enhanced
10 Bioavailability", the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein. This application is
   also related to Australian Patent Application No. 2014202278, filed 28 April, 2014 and entitled "Topical
   Formulations Having Enhanced Bioavailability", the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by
   reference herein.
   BACKGROUND
is [0002]        Cancer is presently one of the leading causes of death in developed nations. Although
   recent research has vastly increased our understanding of many of the molecular mechanisms of
   tumorigenesis and has provided numerous new avenues for the treatment of cancer, standard
   treatments for most malignancies remain gross resection, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy. While
   increasingly successful, each of these treatments may cause numerous undesired side effects. For
20 example, surgery may result in pain, traumatic injury to healthy tissue, and scarring. Radiotherapy
   and chemotherapy may cause nausea, immune suppression, gastric ulceration and secondary
   tumorigenesis.
   [0003]        Improved methods for the treatment of diseases, including cancer, and compositions
   capable of delivering bioactive agents to aid in the treatment of diseases and other conditions remain
25 desirable.
   SUMMARY
   [0004]        The present disclosure provides compositions suitable for administering lipophilic
   bioactive agents to a subject. The lipophilic bioactive agents may be

                                           -3
delivered by any route of administration. In embodiments, the lipophilic bioactive
agent may be contained in liposomes.
[0005]      Methods for forming compositions containing liposomes possessing
lipophilic bioactive agents are also provided. In embodiments the lipophilic bioactive
agent may be prepared as a first phase, optionally in combination with a solubilizer,
while a second phase may be prepared containing at least one phospholipid. The
two phases may be combined, thereby forming liposomes possessing lipophilic
bioactive agent.
[0006]      In embodiments, liposomes possessing lipophilic bioactive agent may be
combined with additional carriers for administration to a subject. Such carriers may
include, in embodiments, oil phases, water phases, neutralizing or buffer phases,
pigments, combinations thereof, and the like.
[0007]      Compositions of the present disclosure including liposomes possessing
lipophilic bioactive agents may also include permeation enhancers to enhance
delivery of the bioactive agent.
[0008]      In embodiments, compositions of the present disclosure may include a
liposomal concentrate including a phospholipid such as lecithin, lysolecithin,
phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylinositol,
phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidic acid, phosphatidylserine,
lysophosphatidylcholine, lysophosphatidylethanolamine, lysophosphatidylglycerol,
lysophosphatidic acid, lysophosphatidylserine, PEG-phosphatidylethanolamine,
PVP-phosphatidylethanolamine, and combinations thereof, at least one lipophilic
bioactive agent, and at least one solubilizer. The liposomal concentrate may be in
combination with at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier possessing at
least one permeation enhancer in an amount from about 0.5% by weight to about

                                           -4
20% by weight of the composition. The phospholipid may present in the composition
in an amount from about 2% to about 20% by weight of the composition and the
bioactive agent may be present in an amount from about 0.5% to about 20% by
weight of the composition.
[0009]      In other embodiments, a composition of the present disclosure may
include an oil phase, a water phase, a neutralization phase, a pigment phase, and a
liposomal concentrate. The oil phase may include C12-15 alkyl benzoates, cetyl
alcohol, stearyl alcohol, glyceryl stearate, and polyethylene glycol 100 stearate, and
may be present in an amount of from about 5% to about 20% by weight of the
composition. The water phase may include glycerin, propylene glycol,
ethoxydiglycol, phenoxyethanol, water, and a crosslinked acrylic acid polymer
dispersion including phenoxyethanol, propylene glycol, water, and a crosslinked
acrylic acid polymer, and may be present in an amount of from about 60 to about
80% by weight of the composition. The neutralization phase may include water,
triethanolamine, sodium lactate, and lactic acid, and may be present in an amount of
from about 0.1% to about 15% by weight of the composition. The pigment may
include titanium dioxide present in an amount of from about 0.2% to about 2% by
weight of the composition. The liposomal concentrate may include a polyethoxylated
fatty acid ester of sorbitan, coenzyme Q10, a phosphatidycholine lecithin,
phenoxyethanol, propylene glycol, and water, and may be present in an amount of
from about 0.1% to about 30% by weight of the composition. In embodiments, the
propylene glycol and ethoxydiglycol from the water phase may act as permeation
enhancers and may be present in a combined amount of from 3% by weight to about
 15% by weight of the composition, and the coenzyme Q10 may be present in an
amount of from about 0.75% by weight to about 10% by weight of the composition.

                                           -5
[0010]      Any disease or condition that would benefit from the administration of a
lipophilic bioactive agent may be treated with liposomes possessing lipophilic
bioactive agents as described herein, including compositions containing such
liposomes possessing lipophilic bioactive agents optionally in combination with a
permeation enhancer.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[0011]      Various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described herein
below with reference to the Figures wherein:
[0012]      Figure 1 is a graph depicting the epidermal CoQ1O concentration in a male
pig after treatment with a composition of the present disclosure having a permeation
enhancer; and
[0013]      Figure 2 is a graph depicting the epidermal CoQ10 concentration in a
female pig after treatment with a control composition.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0014]      In accordance with the present disclosure, a formulation is provided for
improved administration of lipophilic bioactive agents, which may also be referred to
herein as hydrophobic bioactive agents. As used herein, a lipophilic bioactive agent
includes an agent that is insoluble in water. Specifically, lipophilic bioactive agents,
as used herein, will have a solubility in water that is less than about 1 part of
bioactive drug in about 1000 parts of water.
[0015]      In embodiments the lipophilic bioactive agents may be placed in liposomes
and administered to a patient. In accordance with the present disclosure, any
phospholipid and/or phospholipid derivative such as a lysophospholipid may be

                                          -6
utilized to form a liposome for encapsulating the lipophilic bioactive agent. Suitable
phospholipids and/or phospholipid derivatives include, but are not limited to, lecithin,
lysolecithin, phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylinositol,
phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidic acid, phosphatidylserine,
 lysophosphatidylcholine, lysophosphatidylethanolamine, lysophosphatidylglycerol,
lysophosphatidic acid, lysophosphatidylserine, PEG-phosphatidylethanolamine,
PVP-phosphatidylethanolamine, combinations thereof, and the like.
[0016]      In some embodiments, a lecithin derived from egg or soybean may be
utilized as the phospholipid. Such lecithins include those commercially available as
PHOSPHOLIPON® 85G, PHOSPHOLIPON® 90G, and PHOSPHOLIPON® 90H
(the fully hydrogenated version of PHOSPHOLIPON® 90G) from American Lecithin
Company, Oxford, CT. Other suitable lecithins include LECINOL S-10@ lecithin from
 Nikko Chemicals.
[0017]      The above phospholipids or derivatives thereof may be utilized to form
liposomes containing the bioactive agent. In embodiments, a lecithin having a high
phosphatidylcholine content may be utilized to form a liposome. In some
embodiments a high phosphatidylcholine lecithin which may be utilized includes
 PHOSPHOLIPON® 85G, a soy-derived lecithin containing a minimum of about 85%
of a linoleic acid based-phosphatidylcholine. This lecithin is easy to use and is able
to produce submicron liposomes at low process temperatures (from about 20 0 C to
about 550 C) without the addition of any other special additives. PHOSPHOLIPON®
85G contains, in addition to phosphatidylcholine, approximately 5-7% phosphatidic
acid. The phosphatidic acid confers a negative surface charge to the resulting
liposome vesicles, reduces processing time and process energy, and aids in the
formation of stable liposomes.

                                            -7
[0018]      Suitable lipophilic bioactive agents which may be enclosed in liposomes
herein include, but are not limited to, analgesics, anti-inflammatory agents,
anthelmintics, anti-arrhythmic agents, anti-bacterial agents, anti-viral agents, anti
coagulants, anti-depressants, anti-diabetics, anti-epileptics, anti-fungal agents, anti
gout agents, anti-hypertensive agents, anti-malarials, anti-migraine agents, anti
muscarinic agents, anti-neoplastic agents, erectile dysfunction improvement agents,
immunosuppressants, anti-protozoal agents, anti-thyroid agents, anxiolytic agents,
sedatives, hypnotics, neuroleptics, p-Blockers, cardiac inotropic agents,
corticosteroids, diuretics, anti-parkinsonian agents, gastro-intestinal agents,
histamine receptor antagonists, keratolytics, lipid regulating agents, anti-anginal
agents, cox-2 inhibitors, leucotriene inhibitors, macrolides, muscle relaxants,
nutritional agents, opioid analgesics, protease inhibitors, sex hormones, stimulants,
muscle relaxants, anti-osteoporosis agents, anti-obesity agents, cognition
enhancers, anti-urinary incontinence agents, nutritional oils, anti-benign prostate
hypertrophy agents, essential fatty acids, non-essential fatty acids, external
analgesics (for example aspirin, nonsteroidal antiinflammatories and the like),
steroidal antiinflammatory drugs (such as hydrocortisone and the like), skin
bleaching agents (such as hydroquinone, kojic acid, sodium metabisulfite, and the
like), skin protectants, and combinations thereof.
[0019]      Specific, non-limiting examples of suitable lipophilic bioactive agents
include, but are not limited to, acutretin, albendazole, albuterol, aminogluthemide,
amiodarone, amlodipine, amphetamine, amphotericin B, atorvastatin, atovaquone,
azithromycin, baclofen, beclomethsone, benezepril, benzonatate, benzoquinones,
betamethasone, bicalutanide, budesonide, bupropion, busulphan, butenafine,
calcifediol, calciprotiene, calcitriol, camptothecan, candesartan, capsaicin,

                                             -8
carbamezepine, carotenes, celecoxib, cerivistatin, cetrizine, chlorpheniramine,
cholecalciferol, cilostazol, cimetidine, cinnarizine, ciprofloxacin, cisapride,
clarithromycin, clemastine, clomiphene, clomipramine, clopidrogel, codeine,
coenzyme Q10, cyclobenzaprine, cyclosporine, danazol, dantrolene,
dexchlopheniramine, diclofenac, dicoumarol, digoxin, dihydro epiandrosterone,
dihydroergotamine, dihydrotachysterol, dirithromycin, donepezil, efavirenz,
eposartan, ergocalciferol, ergotamine, essential fatty acid sources, etodolac,
etoposide, famotidine, farnesol, fenofibrate, fentanyl, fexofenadine, finasteride,
flucanazole, flurbiprofen, fluvastatin, fosphenytion, frovatriptan, furazolidone,
gabapentin, gemfibrozil, glibenclamide, glipizide, glyburide, glymepride, griseofulvin,
halofantrine, ibuprofen, irbesartan, irinotecan, isoprenoids, isosorbide dinitrate,
isotreinoin, itraconazole, ivermectin, ketoconazole, ketorolac, lamotrigine,
lanosprazole, leflunomide, lisinopril, loperamide, loratadine, lovastatin, L-thryroxine,
lutein, lycopene, medroxyprogesterone, mefepristone, mefloquine, megesterol
acetate, methadone, methoxsalen, metronidazole, metronidazole, miconazole,
midazolam, miglitol, minoxidil, mitoxantrone, montelukast, nabumetone, nalbuphine,
naratiptan, nelfinavir, nifedipine, nilsolidipine, nilutanide, nitrofurantoin, nizatidine,
omeprazole, oprevelkin, osteradiol, oxaprozin, paclitaxel, paricalcitol, paroxetine,
pentazocine, pioglitazone, pizofetin, pravastatin, prednisolone, probucol,
progesterone, pseudo-ephedrine, pyridostigmine, rabeprazole, raloxifene, refocoxib,
repaglinide, rifabutine, rifapentine, rimexolone, ritanovir, rizatriptan, rosigiltazone,
saquinavir, sertraline, sibutramine, sildenafil citrate, simvastatin, sirolimus,
spironolactone, sumatriptan, tacrine, tacrolimus, tamoxifen, tamsulosin, targretin,
tazarotene, telmisartan, teniposide, terbinafine, terzosin, tetrahydrocannabinol,
tiagabine, ticlidopine, tirofibran, tizanidine, topiramate, topotecan, toremifene,

                                            -9
tramadol, tretinoin, troglitazone, trovafloxacin, valsartan, venlafaxine, vertoporfin,
vigabatrin, vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin E, vitamin K, zafirlukast, zileuton,
zolmitriptan, zolpidem, zopiclone, and combinations thereof. Salts, isomers and/or
other derivatives of the above-listed lipophilic bioactive agents may also be used, as
well as combinations thereof.
 [0020]     In embodiments, coenzyme Q10 may be utilized as the lipophilic bioactive
agent in accordance with the present disclosure. For example, coenzyme Q10 may
 be applied as described in International Publication No. WO 2005/069916, the entire
disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein. Coenzyme Q1 0, sometimes
 referred to herein as CoQ10, ubiquinone, or ubidecarenone, is a popular nutritional
supplement and can be found in capsule form in nutritional stores, health food
 stores, pharmacies, and the like, as a vitamin-like supplement to help protect the
 immune system through the antioxidant properties of ubiquinol, the reduced form of
 CoQ10. CoQ10 is found throughout most tissues of the human body and the tissues
 of other mammals and is concentrated in the mitochondria. CoQ10 is very lipophilic
 and, for the most part, insoluble in water.
 [0021]     Other related compounds which may be administered instead of, or in
 combination with, CoQ10 include, but are not limited to, benzoquinones, isoprenoids,
farnesols, farnesyl acetate, farnesyl pyrophosphate, -phenylalanine, d
 phenylalanine, dl-phenylalanine, I-tyrosine, d-tyrosine, dI-tyrosine, 4-hydroxy
 phenylpyruvate, 4-hydroxy-phenyllactate, 4-hyd roxy-cinnamate, dipeptides and
tripeptides of tyrosine or phenylalanine, 3,4-dihydroxymandelate, 3-methoxy-4
 hydroxyphenylglycol, 3-methoxy-4-hydroxymandelate, vanillic acid, phenylacetate,
 pyridoxine, S-adenosyl methionine, panthenol, mevalonic acid, isopentyl
 pyrophosphate,phenylbutyrate, 4-hydroxy-benzoate,decaprenyl pyrophosphate,

                                           - 10
beta-hydroxybutyrate, 3-hyd roxy-3-methyl-g luta rate, acetylcarnitine,
acetoacetylcarnitine, acetylglycine, acetoacetylglycine, carnitine, acetic acid, pyruvic
acid, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutarylcarnitine, all isomeric forms of serine, alanine,
cysteine, glycine, threonine, hydroxyproline, lysine, isoleucine, and leucine, even
carbon number C4 to C1 8 fatty acids (butyric, caproic, caprylic, capric, lauric,
myristic, palmitic, and stearic acids) salts of carnitine and glycine, e.g.,
palmitoylcarnitine and palmitoylglycine, and 4-hydroxy-benzoate
polyprenyltransferase, any salts of these compounds, as well as any combinations
thereof, and the like.
[0022]     In embodiments, it may be desirable to form a stable, skin penetrating
bioactive agent/liposomal concentrate for delivery of the lipophilic bioactive agent.
Thus, in forming a liposome, it may be desirable to combine the lipophilic bioactive
agent with a material that can solubilize the lipophilic bioactive agent in a suitable
media, in some embodiments water, for subsequent encapsulation in a liposome.
Suitable materials which may be utilized as a solubilizer for the lipophilic bioactive
agent include, for example, polyoxyalkylene dextrans, fatty acid esters of
saccharose, fatty alcohol ethers of oligoglucosides (e.g., akylpolyglucosides,
including those commercially available as TRITONT M from Dow Chemical North
America, Midland, Ml, USA), fatty acid esters of glycerol (e.g., glycerol
mono/distearate or glycerol monolaurate), and polyoxyethylene type compounds
(e.g., polyoxyethylene, polyethylene glycol, polyethylene oxide, and copolymers
thereof, including those commercially available as SOLUTOLTM CREOMOPHORTM ,
MACROGOL TM , CARBOWAX TM, and POLYOXYL TM ).
[0023]     Suitable solubilizers also include polyethoxylated fatty acid esters of
sorbitan (e.g., polysorbates, including those commercially available as TWEENTM

                                             - 11
and SPAN TM),    fatty acid esters of poly(ethylene oxide) (e.g., polyoxyethylene
stearates), fatty alcohol ethers of poly(ethylene oxide) (e.g., polyoxyethylated lauryl
ether), alkylphenol ethers of poly(ethylene oxide) (e.g., polyethoxylated octylphenol),
polyoxyethylene-polyoxypropylene block copolymers (also known as poloxamers,
including those commercially available as "PLURONICS"), and ethoxylated fats and
oils (e.g., ethoxylated castor oil, or polyoxyethylated castor oil, also known as
polyethylene glycol-glyceryl triricinoleate). Combinations of these solubilizers may
also be utilized in embodiments. Such combinations are available from standard
commercial sources.
[0024]      In some embodiments, suitable solubilizers include polysorbates, e.g.
those sold under the name TWEENTM. Examples of such polysorbates include
polysorbate 80 (TWEEN TM 80), polysorbate 20 (TWEEN TM 20), polysorbate 60
(TWEEN TM 60), polysorbate 65 (TWEEN TM 65), polysorbate 85 (TWEEN TM 85), and
the like, and combinations including these materials with other similar surfactants,
including ARLACEL@ surfactants commercially available from ICI Americas, as long
as the HLB (Hydrophile-Lipophile Balance) of the surfactant and surfactant mixture
favors the formation of an O/W type emulsion system.
[0025]      To assist in solubilization, it may be desirable, in embodiments, to heat the
lipophilic bioactive agent and solubilizer for a suitable period of time. The
temperature of heating and time of heating may depend upon the specific lipophilic
bioactive agent, the intrinsic thermal stability of the bioactive agent, and the specific
solubilizer to be utilized. For example, in embodiments the lipophilic bioactive agent
and solubilizer may be heated to a temperature from about 40 0 C to about 650 C, in
embodiments from about 50*C to about 55* C, for a period of time from about 5
minutes to about 60 minutes, in embodiments from about 15 minutes to about 30

                                            -  12
minutes. The heating time and solubilization of the lipophilic active agent may be
reduced if the lipophilic active and solubilizer mixture is agitated. The weight ratio of
lipophilic bioactive agent to solubilizer may be about 1:1, in embodiments from about
1:1 to about 4:2, in other embodiments from about 1:2 to about 3:2.
[0026]       In embodiments, a solubilizer such as polysorbate 80 may be capable of
dissolving lipophilic bioactive agent, in embodiments CoQ1 0, at high levels, with the
lipophilic bioactive agent completely soluble in the solubilizer at a ratio of from about
1:2 to about 3:2, when heated to from about 50*C to about 550 C, a temperature
which exceeds the melting point of CoQ10 (which is from about 47 0 C to about 480
C).
[0027]       The amount of solubilizer added to the lipophilic bioactive agent will
depend upon the solubilizer, the lipophilic bioactive agent, and the phospholipids
utilized to form the liposomes. In embodiments, a composition of the present
disclosure possessing liposomes including a lipophilic bioactive agent therein may
possess a solubilizer in an amount from about 0.2% to about 12% by weight, in
embodiments from about 1.5 % to about 6.5% by weight.
[0028]       The solution of lipophilic bioactive agent and solubilizer, sometimes
referred to herein as a first phase, may then be combined with the phospholipid as
described above, in some embodiments lecithin. In embodiments, it may be
desirable to place the phospholipid in a dispersion, sometimes referred to herein as
a second phase, to which the solution of lipophilic bioactive agent and solubilizer
(i.e., the first phase) are added. Suitable solvents for forming a dispersion/second
phase including the phospholipid include, but are not limited to, water, purified water,
deionized water, ethanol, isopropanol, glycols, diglycols, polyglycols, combinations
thereof, and the like. Where added, the solvent may be present in an amount from

                                            - 13
about 70% by weight to about 98% by weight of the second dispersion, in
embodiments from about 78% by weight to about 93% by weight of the second
dispersion, with the phospholipid being present in an amount from about 2% by
weight to about 30% by weight of the second dispersion, in embodiments from about
7% by weight to about 22% by weight of the second dispersion.
[0029]      In embodiments, the phospholipid may be present in an amount of from
about 1% by weight to about 20% by weight of the combination of phospholipid,
solubilizer, and lipophilic bioactive agent, in embodiments from about 4% by weight
to about 12% by weight of the combination of phospholipid, solubilizer, and lipophilic
bioactive agent.
[0030]      In embodiments, solubilization of a lipophilic bioactive agent such as
CoQ1 0 in a material that has both lipophilic and hydrophilic properties, in
embodiments a polysorbate such as polysorbate 80, may assist in liposome
formulation by forming water-dispersible CoQ10 for encapsulation by a high
phosphatidylcholine lecithin, such as PHOSPHOLIPON® 85G.
[0031]      In some embodiments, additional components may be combined with this
second phase to enhance formulation of the liposomes possessing a lipophilic
bioactive agent, to improve overall rheological and processing properties, and to
 insure microbiological integrity of the resulting liposomal concentrate during storage.
Such components include, without limitation, absorbents, antifoaming agents,
acidifiers, alkalizers, buffers, antimicrobial agents, antioxidants (for example
tocopherols, BHT, polyphenols, phytic acid) binders, biological additives, chelating
agents (for example, disodium EDTA, tetrasodium EDTA, sodium metasilicate, and
the like), denaturants, preservatives (for example imidazolidinyl urea, diazolidinyl
urea, phenoxyethanol, methylparaben, ethylparaben, propylparaben, and the like),

                                            -14
reducing agents, solubilizing agents, solvents, viscosity modifiers, humectants,
thickening agents, and combinations thereof. These additional components may be
present in an amount from about 0.001% by weight to about 10% by weight of the
second phase, in embodiments from about 0.1% by weight to about 1% by weight of
the second phase.
[0032]      Examples of suitable humectants which may be added to the second
phase include, but are not limited to, polyols and polyol derivatives, including
glycerol, diglycerol, triglycerol, ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, butylene glycol,
pentylene glycol (sometimes referred to herein as 1,2-pentane diol), isopreneglycol
(1,4-pentane diol), 1,5-pentane diol, hexylene glycol, erythritol, 1,2,6-hexanetriol,
polyethylene glycols such as PEG-4, PEG-6, PEG-7, PEG-8, PEG-9, PEG-10, PEG
 12, PEG-14, PEG-16, PEG-18, PEG-20, combinations thereof, sugars and sugar
derivatives (including fructose, glucose, maltose, maltitol, mannitol, inositol, sorbitol,
sorbityl silanediol, sucrose, trehalose, xylose, xylitol, glucuronic acid and salts
thereof), ethoxylated sorbitol (Sorbeth-6, Sorbeth-20, Sorbeth-30, Sorbeth-40), and
combinations thereof. In some embodiments, a commercially available 1,2-pentane
diol such as HYDROLITE-5@ pentylene glycol (commercially available from Symrise
GmbH) may be utilized. In other embodiments, a propylene glycol may be utilized.
Where utilized, such humectants may be present in amounts from about 0.1% by
weight to about 20% by weight of the second phase, in embodiments from about 3%
by weight to about 10% by weight of the second phase.
[0033]      In some embodiments, a preservative such as phenoxyethanol and a
humectant such as butylene glycol, hexylene glycol, pentylene glycol and/or
propylene glycol may both be added to the second phase. In embodiments, the
pentylene glycold and/or propylene glycol may provide humectancy and assist in the

                                            - 15
preservation of the concentrate when combined with phenoxyethanol. The
phenoxyethanol and pentylene glycol and/or propylene glycol mix should be water
soluble and non-volatile. This is in contrast with the use of ethanol for preservation,
which is often utilized by suppliers of liposomal dispersions. Where present, such
preservatives may be present in amounts from about 0.01% by weight to about 3%
by weight of the second phase, in embodiments from about 0.3% by weight to about
1% by weight of the second phase.
[0034]     The dispersion containing the phospholipid, sometimes referred to herein
as the second phase, and the solution containing the lipophilic bioactive agent and
solubilizer, sometimes referred to herein as the first phase, may be homogenized by
mixing at high shear to form a liposomal concentrate utilizing homogenizers, mixers,
blenders and similar apparatus within the purview of those skilled in the art. In some
embodiments, commercially available homogenizers including a Silverson L4RT
Homogenizer or similar types of stator/rotor homogenizers made by Gifford-Wood,
Frain, IKA and others, as well as multi-stage homogenizers, colloid mills, sonolators,
or other types of homogenizers, may be used to produce submicron liposomal
dispersions of the lipophilic bioactive agent. The stator/rotor type homogenizers
described above have an operational range of from about 100 rpm to about 12,000
rpm, and may be supplied with a range of low shear, standard shear, and/or high
shear head screens.
[0035]     Homogenization may occur by mixing the two phases at suitable speeds
of, for example, from about 4,000 rpm to about 12,000 rpm, in embodiments from
about 5,000 rpm to about 10,000 rpm, in some embodiments about 7,000 rpm. The
shear rate of the homogenizer may also be increased or decreased independent of
the speed of the homogenizing shaft by increasing or decreasing the size of the

                                           - 16
processing screen surrounding the homogenizer head. In embodiments, liposomes
may be made with both a standard emulsification screen and a high shear screen,
for example, those screens supplied with the Silverson L4RT homogenizer. Mixing
may occur for a suitable period of time of less than about 90 minutes, in
embodiments from about 2 minutes to about 60 minutes, in embodiments from about
 5 minutes to about 45 minutes. The resulting liposomes may have a particle size of
 less than about 600 nm, in embodiments from about 100 nm to about 500 nm, in
 other embodiments from about 200 nm to about 400 nm, in some embodiments
 about 300 nm.
 [0036]      In embodiments, the two phases may be separately heated to a
temperature of from about 45 0 C to about 65*C, in some embodiments from about 50
 0C  to about 550 C, and mixed with high shear homogenization at speeds and for
 periods of time described above to form submicron liposomes of CoQ1 0. Where the
 lipophilic bioactive agent is CoQ1 0, the processing temperature for the CoQ1 0
 phase, the water/phospholipid phase, and the combined phases should not exceed
 about 55 0 C in order to avoid oxidative degradation of the CoQ10. Processing the
 mixture at a temperature of from about 45 0 C to about 55 0C may be useful to obtain a
 desired viscosity of the concentrate from about 5,000 cP to about 100,000 cP, in
 embodiments from about 15,000 cP to about 40,000 cP at a temperature of from
 about 35 0C to about 45CC. In some embodiments, processing for extended periods,
 e.g., for up to about 60 minutes at the speeds noted above within this temperature
 range, should not adversely impact the integrity of the resulting liposomes.
 [0037]      The bioactive agent may be present in the resulting concentrate in an
 amount of from about 10% by weight of the concentrate to about 30% by weight of
the concentrate, in embodiments from about 18% by weight of the concentrate to

                                            -  17
about 26% by weight of the concentrate, in some embodiments from about 21% by
weight of the concentrate to about 22% by weight of the concentrate. The amount of
phospholipids in the concentrate may be from about 1% by weight of the concentrate
to about 20% by weight of the concentrate, in embodiments from about 4% by weight
of the concentrate to about 12% by weight of the concentrate, with the balance being
the solubilizer, solvent, humectant and preservative.
[0038]      In embodiments, it may be desirable to include a permeation enhancer in
any composition including the liposomes described above. The permeation
enhancer may increase the bioavailability of the resulting liposomes containing the
lipophilic bioactive agent. While liposomes of the present disclosure may be
administered by any route within the purview of those skilled in the art, the addition
of a permeation enhancer may be especially beneficial for topical routes of
administration.
[0039]      Suitable permeation enhancers include, but are not limited to,
ethoxydiglycol (also known as diethylene glycol monoethyl ether, commercially
available as TRANSCUTOL and TRANSCUTOL P from Gattefosse and TRIVALIN
 CG from Tri-K Industries), 1,3- butylene glycol, isopentyl diol, 1,2-pentane diol,
 propylene glycol, 2-methyl propan-2-ol, propan-2-ol, ethyl-2-hydroxypropanoate,
 hexan-2,5-diol, di(2-hydroxypropyl) ether, pentan-2,4-diol, acetone,
 polyoxyethylene(2) methyl ether, 2-hydroxypropionic acid, 2-hydroxyoctanoic acid,
 propan-1-ol, 1,4 dioxane, tetrahydrofuran, butan-1,4-diol, propylene glycol
 dipelargonate, polyoxypropylene 15 stearyl ether, octyl alcohol, polyoxyethylene
 ester of oleyl alcohol, oleyl alcohol, lauryl alcohol, dioctyl adipate, dicapryl adipate,
 diisopropyl adipate, diisopropyl sebacate, dibutyl sebacate, diethyl sebacate,
 dimethyl sebacate, dioctyl sebacate, dibuyl suberate, dioctyl azelate, dibenzyl

                                           - 18
sebacate, dibutyl phthalate, dibutyl azelate, ethyl myristate, dimethyl azelate, butyl
myristate, dibutyl succinate, didecyl phthalate, decyl oleate, ethyl caproate, ethyl
salicylate, isopropyl palmitate, ethyl laurate, 2-ethyl-hexyl pelargonate, isopropyl
isostearate, butyl laurate, benzyl benzoate, butyl benzoate, hexyl laurate, ethyl
caprate, ethyl caprylate, butyl stearate, benzyl salicylate, 2-hyroxyoctanoic acid,
dimethyl sulphoxide, methyl sufonyl methane (MSM), n,n-dimethyl acetamide, n,n
dimethyl formamide, 2-pyrrolidone, 1-methyl-2-pyrrolidone, 5-methyl-2-pyrrolidone,
1,5-dimethyl-2-pyrrolidone, 1-ethvl-2-pyrrolidone, phosphine oxides, sugar esters,
tetrahydrofurfural alcohol, urea, diethyl-m-toluamide, 1-dodecylazacyloheptan-2-one,
combinations thereof, and the like.
[0040]     The amount of permeation enhancer in the compositions of the present
disclosure, including any combination of any and all phases described herein, may
be less than about 25% by weight of the composition, in embodiments from about
0.5% by weight to about 20% by weight of the composition, in other embodiments
from about 3% by weight to about 15% by weight of the composition, in yet other
embodiments from about 5% by weight of the composition to about 10% by weight of
the composition.
[0041]     In embodiments, a suitable permeation enhancer may include
ethoxydiglycol. In other embodiments, a suitable permeation enhancer may include
ethoxydiglycol in combination with another permeation enhancer such as propylene
glycol, pentylene glycol, or any other permeation enhancer described above.
[0042]     Surprisingly, and as detailed below in the Examples, it has been
discovered that, in some embodiments, lower amounts of ethoxydiglycol, rather than
higher amounts of ethoxydiglycol, optionally in combination with other permeation
enhancers, may provide enhanced bioavailability of a lipophilic bioactive agent, in

                                           - 19
embodiments CoQ10, when administered topically. In embodiments, suitable
amounts of ethoxydiglycol may be from about 0.5% to about 10% by weight of the
composition, in embodiments from about 2% to about 8% by weight of the
composition, in embodiments from about 4% to about 6% by weight of the
composition.
[0043]     Once formed, the resulting liposomes, which may be in a concentrate, may
be administered to a patient or, in embodiments, may be combined with any
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. As used herein the terms "pharmaceutically
acceptable carrier" and "pharmaceutically acceptable carriers" refers to those
compounds which are, within the scope of sound medical judgment, suitable for use
in contact with the tissues of a subject without undue toxicity, irritation, allergic
response, and the like, commensurate with a reasonable benefit/risk ratio, and
effective for their intended use, as well as salts and biocompatible derivatives of
those compounds. As used herein, a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier includes
any and all solvents, including water, dispersion media, coatings, antibacterial and
antifungal agents, stabilizing excipients, absorption enhancing or delaying agents,
polymers, including polymeric binders and polymeric adhesives, combinations
thereof, and the like. Such materials should be non-toxic to the recipients at the
dosages and concentrations employed, and may include buffers such as TRIS HCI,
phosphate, citrate, acetate and other organic acid salts; antioxidants such as
ascorbic acid; low molecular weight (less than about ten residues) peptides such as
polyarginine, proteins such as serum albumin, gelatin, or immunoglobulins;
hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidinone; amino acids such as glycine,
glutamic acid, aspartic acid, or arginine; monosaccharides, disaccharides, and other
carbohydrates including cellulose or its derivatives, glucose, mannose, or dextrins;

                                           - 20
chelating agents such as EDTA; sugar alcohols such as mannitol or sorbitol;
counterions such as sodium and/or nonionic surfactants such as TWEEN,
PLURONICS and/or polyethylene glycol.
[0044]      The use of such media and agents for pharmaceutically active substances
is within the purview of those skilled in the art. Supplementary active ingredients can
also be incorporated into the compositions.
[0045]      In embodiments, the above carriers may be utilized alone or in
combination to form a carrier system. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable carrier
systems are within the purview of those skilled in the art and may include, but are not
limited to, lotions, creams, gels, emulsions, dispersions, solids, solid sticks, semi
solids, aerosol or non-aerosol foams, sprays, serums, transdermal adhesive patch
systems, combinations thereof, and the like. In embodiments, the liposomes may be
in a liposomal concentrate and may be introduced to a patient with a permeation
enhancer as described above. In embodiments, the permeation enhancer may be
present in a water phase added to the liposomal concentrate to form a composition
of the present disclosure. In embodiments, the formulation may be used for
transdermal delivery.
[0046]      Lotions or creams including the liposomes described above may include
additional phases for formation of the lotion and/or cream. For example, in some
embodiments, a composition of the present disclosure may include a lotion formed
by combining the liposomes described above and permeation enhancer with
additional oil phases, water phases, neutralizing phases, pigments, combinations
thereof, and the like. In embodiments, these combined phases may form the
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier described above.

                                            - 21
[0047]      As also noted above, in embodiments the permeation enhancer may be in
one of the additional phases, for example, the water phase.
[0048]       Similarly, the concentrate described above may be placed in any suitable
solvent, including water, for administration, or combined with a polymeric binder
and/or adhesive for administration as a solid, semi-solid, and the like. Emulsions
 and/or dispersions may be formed by combining the liposomal concentrate with
 surfactants utilizing any means within the purview of those skilled in the art.
 [0049]      Where additional phases are present in the formation of a composition of
 the present disclosure in the form of a lotion or cream, the liposome concentrate or
 dispersion may be present in an amount of from about 0.1% to about 30% by weight
 of the lotion or cream, in embodiments from about 5 to about 25% by weight of the
 lotion or cream.
 [0050]      The bioactive agent may thus be present in the final composition, in
 embodiments a lotion, cream or any other suitable form described above, in amounts
 of from about 0.5% by weight to about 20% by weight of the composition, in
 embodiments from about 0.75% by weight to about 10% by weight of the
 composition, in other embodiments from about 1% by weight to about 7.5% by
 weight of the composition, in other embodiments from about 1.25% by weight to
  about 5% by weight of the composition, in other embodiments from about 1.5% by
 weight to about 3% by weight of the composition.
  [0051]     For example, in some embodiments a lotion or cream including the
  liposome concentrate described above may include an oil phase which, in turn, may
  include emollients, fatty alcohols, emulsifiers, combinations thereof, and the like. For
  example, an oil phase could include emollients such as C12-15 alkyl benzoates
  (commercially available as FINSOLV Tm TN from Finetex Inc. (Edison, NJ)), capric-

                                            - 22
caprylic triglycerides (commercially available from Huls as MIGLYOL TM 812), and the
like. Other suitable emollients which may be utilized include vegetable derived oils
(corn oil , safflower oil, olive oil, macadamian nut oil, etc.); various synthetic esters,
including caprates, linoleates, dilinoleates, isostearates, fumarates, sebacates,
lactates, citrates, stearates, palmitates, and the like; synthetic medium chain
triglycerides, silicone oils or polymers; fatty alcohols such as cetyl alcohol, stearyl
alcohol, cetearyl alcohol, lauryl alcohol, combinations thereof, and the like; and
emulsifiers including glyceryl stearate, PEG-100 stearate, Glyceryl Stearate, Glyceryl
Stearate SE, neutralized or partially neutralized fatty acids, including stearic,
palmitic, oleic, and the like; vegetable oil extracts containing fatty acids, Ceteareth
20,Ceteth-20, PEG-1 50 Stearate, PEG-8 Laurate, PEG-8 Oleate, PEG-8 Stearate,
PEG-20 Stearate, PEG-40 Stearate, PEG-1 50 Distearate, PEG-8 Distearate,
combinations thereof, and the like; or other non-polar cosmetic or pharmaceutically
acceptable materials used for skin emolliency within the purview of those skilled in
the art, combinations thereof, and the like.
[0052]      The emollients, in embodiments C12-15 alkyl benzoates, may be included
for emolliency and spreadability. Where present, the emollient may be present in an
amount from about 0.2% by weight to about 15% by weight of the total composition,
in embodiments from about 2% by weight to about 6% by weight of the total
composition. Alcohols such as cetyl alcohol and stearyl alcohol may be added to
impart body or texture to a cream. Where both cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol are
utilized, the ratio of cetyl alcohol to stearyl alcohol may be from about 2:1 to about
 1:2, with the waxy alcohols making up from about 1 to about 6 weight percent of the
total composition, in embodiments from about 2% by weight to about 4% by weight
of the total composition.

                                          - 23
[0053]     As noted above, this oil phase may also include emulsifiers. Suitable
eumulsifiers include, but are not limited to, stearates including glyceryl stearate,
PEG-100 stearate, glyceryl stearate SE, glyceryl stearate citrate, combinations
thereof, and the like. In embodiments, a combination of stearates may be utilized in
the oil phase as an emulsifier. For example, a glyceryl stearate and PEG-1 00
stearate mixture (in embodiments, a mixture of glyceryl stearate and polyethylene
glycol 100 stearate commercially available as ARLACEL* 165 from ICI Americas)
may be used as an emulsifier to form an oil-in-water (o/w) emulsion. In such a
combination, the PEG-1 00 stearate may act as the primary emulsifier and the
glyceryl stearate may be a co-emulsifier. The emulsifier may be present in an
amount from about 2% by weight to about 8% by weight of the total composition, in
embodiments from about 3% by weight to about 5% by weight of the total
composition.
[0054]     The weight ratio of emulsifier to emollients as described above in this oil
phase may be from about 10:1 to about 1:2, in some embodiments from about 2:1 to
about 1:1.
[0055]     Where present, an oil phase may be present in an amount of from about
5% to about 20% by weight of a lotion or cream, in embodiments from about 8% to
about 15% by weight of a lotion or cream. Lotions or creams formed with the above
liposomes may also include a water phase, which may, in embodiments, include the
permeation enhancer described above as well as those items combined to form the
second phase described above, including humectants and preservatives. Thus, in
embodiments, the water phase utilized in formation of a lotion or cream possessing
liposomes as described herein may include the second phase described above. In
addition, in embodiments it may be desirable to add a viscosity modifier, sometimes

                                           -24
referred to herein as a viscosity agent, to provide the lotion and/or cream with a
desired viscosity.
[0056]      Suitable viscosity agents which may be added to the water phase include
water soluble polymers, including anionic polymers and nonionic polymers. Useful
polymers include vinyl polymers such as cross linked acrylic acid polymers with the
CTFA name CARBOMER, pullulan, mannan, scleroglucans, polyvinylpyrrolidone,
polyvinyl alcohol, guar gum, hydroxypropyl guar gum, xanthan gum, acacia gum,
arabia gum, tragacanth, galactan, carob gum, karaya gum, locust bean gum,
carrageenin, pectin, amylopectin, agar, quince seed (Cydonia oblonga Mill), starch
 (rice, corn, potato, wheat), algae colloids (algae extract), microbiological polymers
such as dextran, succinoglucan, starch-based polymers such as carboxymethyl
 starch, methylhydroxypropyl starch, alginic acid-based polymers such as sodium
 alginate, alginic acid propylene glycol esters, acrylate polymers such as sodium
 polyacrylate, polyethylacrylate, polyacrylamide, polyethyleneimine, and inorganic
 water soluble materials such as bentonite, aluminum magnesium silicate, laponite,
 hectonite, and anhydrous silicic acid. Combinations of the foregoing may also be
 used in embodiments. In some embodiments, a CARBOMER such as CARBOMER
 940 may be added as a viscosity agent to control the rheological properties of the
 cream formulas and add stability to the primary emulsion.
 [0057]      Where utilized, a viscosity agent may be present in an amount from about
 0.1% to about 2% by weight of the composition, in embodiments from about 0.25%
 to about 0.6% of the composition.
 [0058]      Alternatively, the water phase may contain other soluble humectants such
 as glycols, polyols, lactate salts, amino acids, peptides, sugars, urea, sodium PCA,
 hyaluronic acid, or salts thereof, or any other suitable humectant or water soluble or

                                         - 25
water-dispersible moisturizer within the purview of those skilled in the art. The
weight ratio of humectants to permeation enhancer to preservative to viscosity agent
may be from about 20:10:1:1 to about 10:20:1:1, in some embodiments from about
15:10:2:1 to about 10:15:1:1.
[0059]      Thus, as noted above, the water phase utilized to form a lotion and/or
cream of the present disclosure may include water, humectants, preservatives,
viscosity agents, and permeation enhancers. For example, in embodiments a
suitable water phase may include a combination of glycerine, pentylene glycol and/or
propylene glycol, ethoxydiglycol, phenoxyethanol, water, and CARBOMER 940.
Such a water phase may contain glycerine for skin moisturization and humectancy;
propylene glycol for humectancy and to aid in skin penetration and to improve the
microbiological preservation profile; ethoxydiglycol to enhance CoQ1O skin
penetration of the liposomes; phenoxyethanol for microbiological preservation;
purified water as the phase solvent, and CARBOMER 940 to control the rheological
properties of the cream formulas and to add stability to the primary emulsion.
[0060]      In some embodiments, the viscosity agent may be added to the water
phase as a dispersion in a humectant as described above, optionally in combination
with water, optionally in combination with a preservative as described above. For
example, in embodiments CARBOMER 940 may be added as a dispersion such as a
2% dispersion containing CARBOMER 940 dispersed in a mixture of water,
propylene glycol, and phenoxyethanol. This CARBOMER 940 dispersion may be
made separately in a batch manufacturing process. Where a viscosity agent such as
CARBOMER 940 is added as a separate dispersion to the water phase, the weight
ratio of viscosity agent to humectant to preservative to water may be from about

                                           - 26
0.3:2:0.05:10 to about 0.5:1:0.2:10, in some embodiments from about 0.1:0.5:0.05:9
to about 0.2:1:0.1:9.
 [0061]     Where present, a water phase may be present in an amount of from about
60% to about 80% by weight of a lotion or cream, in embodiments from about 63% to
about 71% by weight of a lotion or cream.
 [0062]     Insome embodiments, a third phase, which may be referred to herein as a
 neutralization phase or buffer phase, may also be added in the formation of a cream
or lotion. The components of such a phase may include, but are not limited to,
water, amines including triethanolamine, triisopropanolamine, 2-amino-2methyl-1,3
propanediol, tris(hydroxymethyl)amine, 2-aminobutanol, sodium hydroxide,
potassium hydroxide, salts such as sodium lactate, potassium lactate, sodium
citrate, potassium citrate, sodium or potassium mono-, di, or tri-phosphate, sodium
borate, potassium borate, acids such as lactic acid, citric acid, phosphoric acid, boric
acid, combinations thereof, and the like. The water may act as a solvent and a
diluent for the other ingredients in this phase. The amine such as triethanolamine
 may act as a neutralizer of an acid component in the water phase, such as the
CARBOMER acrylic acid copolymer; additional salts such as a sodium lactate
solution (60% w/w in water) and additional acids such as lactic acid may be added
as a buffer system to adjust and maintain the final pH of the cream at from about 4.8
to about 6, in some embodiments from about 5 to about 5.5 (within the natural pH
range of the skin). In embodiments, a pH of about 5 or higher may be useful, as the
CARBOMER 940 acrylic copolymer of the water phase or similar material should be
fully neutralized and develop its full viscosity potential.
[0063]      In embodiments a suitable amount of amine such as triethanolamine may
be added so that it is present in an amount from about 0.5% to about 2%by weight

                                           - 27
of the final composition, in embodiments from about 1%to about 1.5% by weight of
the final composition. A suitable amount of salt such as sodium lactate may be
added so that it is present in an amount from about 0.5% to about 3%by weight of
the final composition, in embodiments from about 1% to about 1.5% by weight of the
final composition. In embodiments, a suitable amount of acid such as lactic acid
may be added so that it is present in an amount from about 0%to 1%by weight of
the final composition, in some embodiments about 0.25% to about 0.75% by weight
of the final composition, in some embodiments about 0.5% by weight of the final
composition. The neutralizer and/or buffer may be added so that it is present in an
amount from about 0.01% to about 10 % by weight of the final composition, in
embodiments from about 2% to about 4 % by weight of the final composition.
[0064]      Where present, the neutralizing phase may be present in an amount of
from about 0.1% to about 15% by weight of a lotion or cream, in embodiments from
about 5%to about 8% by weight of a lotion or cream.
[0065]      Inembodiments, where the lipophilic bioactive agent is CoQ1O, a cream
without a pigment may have a yellow-orange color. Thus, it may be desirable to add
a pigment to any lotion or cream to cosmetically mask the color imparted by the
drug. Any pigment suitable for cosmetic or pharmaceutical formulations may be
combined with the liposomes of the present disclosure. Such pigments include, but
are not limited to, titanium dioxide, iron oxides, zinc oxide, combinations thereof, and
the like. Inembodiments, a water-dispersible grade of titanium dioxide powder may
be used for lightening the color of the final cream. The yellow-orange color of the
cream, imparted by CoQ1 0, may be substantially reduced and may be cosmetically
improved by the addition of titanium dioxide in an amount of up to about 1%by
weight of the lotion or cream, in embodiments from about 0.2% to about 2% by

                                          - 28
weight of the lotion or cream. In addition to the inorganic pigments, water-soluble or
water dispersible FD&C or D&C dyes, and/or pearlescent opacifiying agents based
on glyceryl stearate, or mixtures of glyceryl stearate and other pearlescent agents
suitable for use in topical pharmaceutical compositions, may be utilized.
[0066]     In some embodiments, the amount of preservatives utilized in a
composition of the present disclosure including a lipophilic bioactive agent in
liposomes may be reduced by the inclusion of additional additives including those
described above. For example, the amount of preservatives may be reduced in a
composition of the present disclosure by the addition of multifunctional diols
including, but not limited to, 1,2-pentane diol, 1,4-pentane diol, hexylene glycol,
propylene glycol, 1,3-butylene glycol, glycerol, diglycerol, combinations thereof, and
the like. In addition, the amount of preservatives may be reduced by lowering the
water activity, Aw, of the composition by the addition of humectants described above
and through the addition of soluble salts, e.g., sodium lactate and lactic acid which
are present in the buffer and neutralization phase of the embodiments described
above.
[0067]     Inembodiments, other soluble ingredients may also be added to
compositions of the present disclosure to reduce the level of preservatives
necessary. Such additional soluble ingredients include, but are not limited to, pH
adjusting and buffering agents, tonicity adjusting agents, wetting agents and the like,
for example, sodium acetate, sodium chloride, potassium chloride, calcium chloride,
sorbitan monolaurate, triethanolamine oleate, and the like. Other buffers which may
be added include sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, ammonium hydroxide,
monoethanolamine, diethanolamine, triethanolamine, diisopropanolamine,
aminomethylpropanol, trimethamine, tetrahydroxypropyl ethylenediamine, citric acid,

                                             - 29
acetic acid, lactic acid, and salts of lactic acid including sodium lactate, potassium
lactate, lithium lactate, calcium lactate, magnesium lactate, barium lactate, aluminum
lactate, zinc lactate, sodium citrate, sodium acetate, silver lactate, copper lactate,
iron lactate, manganese lactate, ammonium lactate, combinations thereof, and the
like. These additives may be added to any phase described above utilized in
forming a cream or lotion, including the oil phase, water phase, neutralizing phase,
pigment, combinations thereof, and the like.
[0068]       In embodiments the use of the liposome concentrate described above in
forming the compositions of the present disclosure may permit tailoring the
production of various compositions having the bioactive agent at varying
concentrations. For example, in embodiments, the liposome concentrate may have
the bioactive agent at a concentration of from about 10 to about 15 times greater
than the amount of bioactive agent in a final composition for administration to a
 patient. For manufacturing, a large batch of concentrate may be produced, and then
 multiple portions of the concentrate may be utilized to produce multiple compositions
 having the bioactive agent at varying concentrations. This permits great flexibility in
tailoring the concentration of a bioactive agent in a composition of the present
disclosure.
 [0069]      For example, in embodiments, a submicron liposome concentrate may be
 utilized to create a dosage range of treatment creams possessing a lipophilic
 bioactive agent. In embodiments, the liposome concentrate may be a CoQ1O
 solubilized, fluidized or emulsified within a high linoleic acid-phosphatidylcholine
 multilamella liposome. There are a few reasons for creating a liposome concentrate
 of lipophilic drug actives. For example, the creation of a drug-liposome-concentrate
 in its nascent form, without the addition of a cream, lotion, or other vehicles, may

                                              - 30
permit direct measurement of the drug active, the liposome particle size, and particle
size distribution without interference from other additives, typically present in the final
product form. For example, cream and lotion emulsions formed by the
homogenization of an oil phase, a water phase, and suitable emulsifiers and
coemulsifiers, as described herein may include oil-in-water emulsion particles
ranging from submicron size to a preponderance of particles above one micron.
Once a liposome dispersion or liposome concentrate, as described, is added to the
other components or phases of the final cream or lotion vehicle, measurement of the
drug- liposome particle size and particle size distribution as distinguished from the
particles of O/W emulsion or other additives (e.g., pigment) becomes impractical, if
not impossible.
[0070]      The preparation of a drug-liposome concentrate may also help maintain
the intrinsic stability and initial particle size distribution of the drug-liposome. In the
embodiments described for Coenzyme Q10 liposome concentrates, the concentrate
can be stored at a controlled room temperature (59-86 0 F) for several months until
needed for manufacture. Once required for production, the liposome concentrate
may be added after the formation of the emulsion vehicle and at a temperature that
will not adversely affect the drug-liposome particles.
[0071]      The preparation of the drug-liposome concentrate may also allow for
assay of the drug and confirmation of stability of the drug in the liposome prior to
incorporation of the liposome concentrate in the final vehicle. Moreover, the
formulation of a drug-liposome concentrate at a single concentration allows this
concentrate to be used to create a wide range of final dosage concentrations of the
drug. In embodiments, the drug-liposome concentrate of Coenzyme Q1 0 may
contain about 21% or about 22% Coenzyme Q10 and may be used to make final

                                           - 31
compositions, sometimes referred to herein as products, containing Coenzyme Q10
in amounts from about 0.5% up to about 20% by weight of the final composition, in
embodiments from about 0.75% by weight to about 10% by weight of the final
composition. This range may be widened substantially depending on the dose
requirements of the lipophilic active. As noted in the Examples below, in some
embodiments the bioactive, such as Coenzyme Q10, may be present in amounts of
from about 1.25% by weight of the final composition to about 5% by weight of the
final composition, in other embodiments from about 1.5% by weight to about 5% by
weight of the composition.
[0072]      The resulting creams, lotions, and the like may have a long shelf-life; i.e.,
they may remain stable during storage for at least about 2 years, in embodiments
from about 2 to about 10 years.
[0073]       Such lotions and creams may be packaged in any suitable packaging
within the purview of those skilled in the art, including metal or glaminate tubes. The
resulting creams have acceptable patient use characteristics for aesthetic
considerations of product application, e.g., acceptable "rub-in", skin feel, product
odor, product color, and product transfer.
[0074]       Compositions of the present disclosure may be utilized to administer
 lipophilic bioactive agents for the treatment of any disease or condition which may
 benefit from the application of the lipophilic bioactive agent, including those disclosed
 in International Publication No. WO 2005/069916, the entire disclosure of which is
 incorporated by reference herein. While the instant disclosure has discussed
topical/transdermal formulations in some detail, depending on the specific conditions
being treated, the liposomes containing lipophilic bioactive agents described above
may also be formulated and administered by other systemic and/or local routes.

                                           - 32
Suitable routes of administration include, but are not limited to, other topical routes of
administration, oral, rectal, inhalation, vaginal, transmucosal, intestinal, parenteral
including intramuscular, subcutaneous, intramedullary, intrathecal, direct
intraventricular, intravenous, intraperitoneal, intranasal, intraocular, intratumoral,
combinations thereof, and the like.
[0075]      Where the compositions are administered by injection, the compositions
may be administered in a single bolus, multiple injections, or by continuous infusion
(for example, intravenously or by peritoneal dialysis). For parenteral administration,
the compositions may be formulated in a sterilized pyrogen-free form. Compositions
of the present disclosure can also be administered in vitro to a cell (for example, to
induce apoptosis in a cancer cell in an in vitro culture) by simply adding the
composition to the fluid in which the cell is contained.
[0076]      In some embodiments, compositions of the present disclosure may be
utilized in the treatment of cancer. As used herein, "cancer" refers to all types of
cancer or neoplasm or malignant tumors found in mammals, including, but not
limited to: leukemias, lymphomas, melanomas, carcinomas and sarcomas.
[0077]      As used herein, the terms "cancer," "neoplasm," and "tumor," are used
interchangeably and ineither the singular or plural form, refer to cells that have
undergone a malignant transformation that makes them pathological to the host
organism.
[0078]      Primary cancer cells (that is, cells obtained from near the site of malignant
transformation) can be readily distinguished from non-cancerous cells by well
established techniques, particularly histological examination. The definition of a
cancer cell, as used herein, includes not only a primary cancer cell, but any cell

                                          - 33
derived from a cancer cell ancestor. This includes metastasized cancer cells, and in
vitro cultures and cell lines derived from cancer cells.
[0079]      When referring to a type of cancer that normally manifests as a solid
tumor, a "clinically detectable" tumor is one that is detectable on the basis of tumor
mass, e.g., by procedures such as CAT scan, MR imaging, X- ray, ultrasound or
palpation, and/or which is detectable because of the expression of one or more
cancer-specific antigens in a sample obtainable from a patient.
[0080]      Examples of cancers include cancer of the brain, breast, pancreas, cervix,
colon, head and neck, kidney, lung, non-small cell lung, melanoma, mesothelioma,
ovary, sarcoma, stomach, uterus and Medulloblastoma.
[0081]      The term "sarcoma" generally refers to a tumor which is made up of a
substance such as embryonic connective tissue and is generally composed of
closely packed cells embedded in a fibrillar or homogeneous substance. Examples
 of sarcomas which can be treated with the compositions of the present disclosure
 include, but are not limited to, chondrosarcoma, fibrosarcoma, lymphosarcoma,
 melanosarcoma, myxosarcoma, osteosarcoma, adipose sarcoma, liposarcoma,
 alveolar soft part sarcoma, ameloblastic sarcoma, botryoid sarcoma, chloroma
 sarcoma, chorine carcinoma, embryonal sarcoma, Wilms' tumor sarcoma,
 endometrial sarcoma, stromal sarcoma, Ewing's sarcoma, fascial sarcoma,
 fibroblastic sarcoma, giant cell sarcoma, granulocytic sarcoma, Hodgkin's sarcoma,
 idiopathic multiple pigmented hemorrhagic sarcoma, immunoblastic sarcoma of B
 cells, lymphoma, immunoblastic sarcoma of T-cells, Jensen's sarcoma, Kaposi's
 sarcoma, Kupffer cell sarcoma, angiosarcoma, leukosarcoma, malignant
 mesenchymoma sarcoma, parosteal sarcoma, reticulocytic sarcoma, Rous sarcoma,
 serocystic sarcoma, synovial sarcoma, telangiectatic sarcoma, and the like.

                                             -34
[0082]      The term "melanoma" is taken to mean a tumor arising from the
melanocytic system of the skin and/or other organs. Melanomas which can be
treated with the compositions of the present disclosure include, but are not limited to,
for example, acrallentiginous melanoma, amelanotic melanoma, benign juvenile I
melanoma, Cloudman's melanoma, S91 melanoma, Harding-Passey melanoma,
juvenile melanoma, lentigo maligna melanoma, malignant melanoma, nodular
melanoma, subungual melanoma, superficial spreading melanoma, and the like.
[0083]      The term "carcinoma" refers to a malignant new growth made up of
epithelial cells tending to infiltrate the surrounding tissues which give rise to
metastases. Carcinomas which can be treated with the compositions of the present
disclosure include, but are not limited to, for example, acinar carcinoma, acinous
carcinoma, adenocystic carcinoma, adenoid cystic carcinoma, carcinoma
adenomatosum, carcinoma of the adrenal cortex, alveolar carcinoma, alveolar cell
carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma, carcinoma basocellulare, basaloid carcinoma,
basosquamous cell carcinoma, bronchioalveolar carcinoma, bronchiolar carcinoma,
bronchogenic carcinoma, cerebriform carcinoma, cholangiocellular carcinoma,
chorionic carcinoma, colloid carcinoma, comedo carcinoma, corpus carcinoma,
cribriform carcinoma, carcinoma en cuirasse, carcinoma cutaneum, cylindrical
carcinoma, cylindrical cell carcinoma, duct carcinoma, carcinoma durum, embryonal
carcinoma, encephaloid carcinoma, epiermoid carcinoma, carcinoma epitheliale
adenoides, exophytic carcinoma, carcinoma ex ulcere, carcinoma fibrosum,
gelatiniform carcinoma, gelatinous carcinoma, giant cell carcinoma, carcinoma
gigantocellulare, glandular carcinoma, granulosa cell carcinoma, hair-matrix
carcinoma, hematoid carcinoma, hepatocellular carcinoma, Hurthle cell carcinoma,
hyaline carcinoma, hypemephroid carcinoma, infantile embryonal carcinoma,

                                          - 35
carcinoma in situ, intraepidermal carcinoma, intraepithelial carcinoma, Krompecher's
carcinoma, Kulchitzky-cell carcinoma, large-cell carcinoma, lenticular carcinoma,
carcinoma lenticulare, lipomatous carcinoma, lymphoepithelial carcinoma, carcinoma
medullare, medullary carcinoma, melanotic carcinoma, carcinoma moue, mucinous
carcinoma, carcinoma muciparum, carcinoma mucocellulare, mucoepidermoid
carcinoma, carcinoma mucosum, mucous carcinoma, carcinoma myxomatodes,
nasopharyngeal carcinoma, oat cell carcinoma, carcinoma ossificans, osteoid
carcinoma, papillary carcinoma, periportal carcinoma, preinvasive carcinoma, prickle
cell carcinoma, pultaceous carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma of kidney, reserve cell
carcinoma, carcinoma sarcomatodes, schneiderian carcinoma, scirrhous carcinoma,
carcinoma scroti, signet-ring cell carcinoma, carcinoma simplex, small-cell
carcinoma, solenoid carcinoma, spheroidal cell carcinoma, spindle cell carcinoma,
carcinoma spongiosum, squamous carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, string
carcinoma, carcinoma telangiectaticum, carcinoma telangiectodes, transitional cell
carcinoma, carcinoma tuberosum, tuberous carcinoma, verrucous carcinoma, and
the like.
[0084]     Additional cancers which can be treated with the compositions of the
present disclosure include, for example, Hodgkin's Disease, Non-Hodgkin's
Lymphoma, multiple myeloma, neuroblastoma, breast cancer, ovarian cancer, lung
cancer, rhabdomyosarcoma, primary thrombocytosis, primary macroglobulinemia,
small-cell lung tumors, primary brain tumors, stomach cancer, colon cancer,
malignant pancreatic insulanoma, malignant carcinoid, urinary cancer, bladder
cancer, premalignant skin lesions, testicular cancer, lymphomas, thyroid cancer,
neuroblastoma, esophageal cancer, genitourinary tract cancer, malignant

                                           - 36
hypercalcemia, cervical cancer, endometrial cancer, adrenal cortical cancer, prostate
cancer, and the like.
[0085]      In addition, and as noted above, however, the compositions of the present
disclosure may also be utilized to administer a lipophilic bioactive agent for the
treatment of any disease or condition that may benefit from the application of a
lipophilic bioactive agent.
[0086]      The following Examples are being submitted to illustrate embodiments of
the present disclosure. These Examples are intended to be illustrative only and are
not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure. Also, parts and
percentages are by weight unless otherwise indicated.
                                        EXAMPLES
Example 1
[0087]      A concentrate was produced with CoQ1 0 as the lipophilic bioactive agent.
About 10 kilograms (kg) of polysorbate 80 was placed in a vacuum kettle and heated
to a temperature of from about 50* C to about 550 C. About 8.8 kg of CoQ10 was
combined with the PHOSPHOLIPON@ 85G, a vacuum was applied with the
temperature maintained at from about 50* C to about 550 C, and the contents mixed
for about 15 minutes. The resulting material may be referred to herein as the CoQ10
 phase or the first phase. The CoQ1 0 was dissolved in the polysorbate 80 with the
vacuum kettle sealed, vacuum on, and temperature of the mix of polysorbate/CoQ10
from about 50* C to about 550 C.
 [0088]      In a separate kettle, about 15.8 kg of water was heated to a temperature of
from about 50* C to about 550 C, and about 0.2 kg of phenoxyethanol and about 2 kg
of HYDROLITE-5@ pentylene glycol were added and mixed until clear and uniform.

                                         - 37
About 8 kg of PHOSPHOLIPON@ 85G was then added until dispersed. The
resulting material may be referred to herein as the water phase or the second phase.
The water phase achieved a uniform dispersion and hydration of the lecithin and was
added to the CoQ10/Polysorbate liquid as described below at a temperature from
about  500  C to about 550 C.
[0089]     A Silverson in-line production scale homogenizer, similar to the Silverson
L4RT model used for laboratory scale batches, was utilized to combine the two
phases described above, i.e., the CoQ1 0 phase and the water phase.
Homogenization occurred using the Silverson standard emulsion head screen by
mixing at full capacity (from about 7000 rpm to about 10,000 rpm) for a total of about
5 minutes through a closed recirculating loop and under vacuum (from about 18 mm
to about 20 mm Hg) at temperatures of from about 50 0 C to about 550 C with sweep
agitation until the solubilized CoQ1 0 was completely encapsulated and uniformly
dispersed thereby creating a thick, uniform liposomal dispersion. The resulting
CoQ10 concentrate possessed CoQ10 at a concentration of about 22% by weight.
The PHOSPHOLIPON@ 85G concentration was about 8% by weight of the total
composition, that is, of the combination of the two phases described above.
[0090]      In separate experiments, a one kg laboratory batch of the 22% CoQ1O
concentrate described above was produced and samples were taken at 5 minute
intervals during homogenization. The particle size of the liposomes at the various
sampling times was determined utilizing laser diffraction equipment (Malvern 2000)
following the manufacturer's directions. Details of the homogenization process and
the particle sizes obtained during homogenization are set forth below in Table 1.

                                           - 38
                                          Table 1
  Process time      Silverson         Avg. particle    Particle          Approx. peak
  (minutes)         L4RT Head         diameter(nm)     Intensity; % <    temp.
                    Speed                              300nm             exposure (*C)
  5                 7000               108             84.9              55
  10                7000               162             57.8              65
  15                7000               112             85.4              55
  20                7000               149             67.0              62
  30                7000               120             83.0              55
  45                7000               107             85.0              55
As can be seen from Table 1,the CoQ10 concentrate formula and process
described above was capable of producing liposomes with an average diameter of
107 nm and a particle distribution that included 85% of all liposomes produced within
a size of from about 59 nm to about 279 nm. A short process time (about 5 minutes)
produced a liposome dispersion of CoQ1 0 just as efficiently as a long process time
(about 45 minutes). As can also be seen from the above, optimal liposome particles
were obtained where the CoQ1 0 was not exposed to temperatures above about
550C.
Example 2
[0091]      A cross linked acrylic acid polymer dispersion was prepared for use as a
viscosity agent in a cream composition. The acrylic acid utilized, CARBOMER 940,
was prepared in a 2%dispersion with the following components set forth below in
Table 2:
                                          Table 2
     Phase         Trade Name              CTFA Name             Percent    Amount
     1             phenoxyethanol          phenoxyethanol          0.500     0.0750
     1             hydrolite-5             pentylene glycol        5.000     0.7500
     2             purified water, USP      water                 92.500    13.8750
     3             ACRITAMER 940           CARBOMER 940            2.000     0.3000
                   Totals                                        100.000    15.0000

                                          - 39
[0092]       The manufacturing process was conducted as follows. The equipment
was first cleaned and sanitized. On a benchtop, the phase 1 ingredients were mixed
until clear and uniform. The required amount of water (phase 2) was weighed and
added to a phase vessel kettle of the homgenizer described above in Example 1.
The water was heated with a hot water/steam jacket to a temperature of from about
60*C to about 650C. Phase 1 was then added to the phase 2 water with moderate
agitation until clear and uniform. The phase 1 container was rinsed with process
water and the temperature was maintained at from about 600C to about 650C. The
agitator was then turned on high and CARBOMER 940 powder (phase 3) was
added.
[0093]       The temperature was maintained at from about 600C to about 65 "Cand
mixing continued at medium-high speed of from about 500 rpm to about 800 rpm
until all the CARBOMER 940 powder was added. The CARBOMER powder was
added slowly to the vortex of the mixture of phases 1 and 2. The powder was hand
sifted slowly so that the total amount of CARBOMER was added in no less than
about 10 minutes.
[0094]       Mixing continued at medium-high agitation until all powder was thoroughly
dispersed and no "fish-eyes" were present. The manufacturing process was
conducted so that all of the unneutralized CARBOMER 940 powder was completely
dispersed to create a smooth translucent dispersion of fully hydrated CARBOMER
polymer. Agitation of the batch was high enough to create a visible vortex, but not so
high to cause splashing of the batch. Adequate mixing of the batch occurred at a
high speed of from about 800 rpm to about 1300 rpm over a period of time from
about 60 minutes to about 90 minutes. The batch temperature was maintained at
from about 600C to about 650C at the start of mixing and from about 55*C to about

                                          -40
65"C during mixing. The elevated temperature assisted in dispersion of the
CARBOMER polymer and helped prevent agglomeration.
[0095]      The batch was cooled to from about 250 C to about 30*C with chilled water
through a jacket and mixing continued with medium-high agitation. Samples were
taken to determine microquality, pH, specific gravity and viscosity.
Example 3
[0096]      A cream emulsion base was formed utilizing several phases for
combination with the CoQ10 concentrate possessing liposomes of Example 1.
 Phases A, B, C and D were combined to form the base cream. Phase E was the
CoQ10 concentrate of Example 1 (22% w/w CoQ1 0). Details of the preparation of
the cream emulsion base and the subsequent addition of the CoQ1 0 concentrate of
 Example 1 are set forth below.
 [0097]     For preparation of the cream possessing CoQ1 0 at 1.5% by weight, the
 procedure for combining the various phases was as follows with the ingredients set
forth below in Tables 3-7:
                                        Table 3
                                  CoQ10 Cream 1.5%
  Phase    Trade Name           CTFA Name                    Percent     Amount (g)
  A         RITAMOLLIENT        C12-15 ALKYL                  5.000        1.0000
           TN                    BENZOATE
  A         RITA CA             CETYL ALCOHOL                 2.500        0.5000
  A         RITA SA             STEARYL ALCOHOL               2.000        0.4000
  A         RITAPRO 165         GLYCERYL STEARATE             4.500        0.9000
                                AND PEG-100
                                 STEARATE
 [0098]      Phase A (the "Oil Phase") included C12-15 alkyl benzoates, which are
 light esters added for emolliency and spreadability. The cetyl alcohol and stearyl
 alcohol were waxes added to impart body or texture to the cream and the glyceryl

                                         -41
stearate and PEG-1 00 stearate mixture was a primary emulsifier included to form an
oil-in-water (o/w) emulsion. On a benchtop, the Phase A ingredients were weighed
in a vacuum kettle and heated to from about 70*C to about 75*C in water bath.
                                        Table 4
 Phase     Trade Name           CTFA Name                   Percent     Amount (g)
 B         RITA GLYCERIN        glycerin                     2.000        0.4000
 B         HYDROLITE-5          pentylene glycol             2.125        0.4250
 B         TRANSCUTOL P         ethoxydiglycol               5.000        1.0000
 B         phenoxyethanol       phenoxyethanol               0.463        0.0926
 B         ACRITAMER 940,       water, CARBOMER              50.000      10.0000
           2% dispersion        940
 B         purified water USP   Water                        11.000       2.2000
[0099]     Phase B (the "Water Phase"), contained glycerine for skin moisturization
and humectancy; pentylene glycol for humectancy, to aid in skin penetration and to
improve the microbiological preservation profile; ethoxydiglycol to enhance CoQ10
skin penetration of the liposomes; phenoxyethanol for microbiological preservation;
purified water as the phase solvent, and CARBOMER 940 dispersion of Example 2
above to control the rheological properties of the cream formulas and to add stability
to the primary emulsion.
[00100]    Phase B ingredients were placed in a separate vacuum mixing kettle. The
ingredients were mixed with moderate sweep mixing while heating to from about
700C to about 75 0C (no vacuum). When the Phase B ingredients reached from
about 70 0 C to about 750C, Phase A ingredients were added at from about 700C to
about 750C with moderate sweep mixing. The mixture of Phases A and B was
recirculated through a Silverson homogenizer as described above in Example 1
(standard head) and continued to the next part of the process.

                                            -42
                                          Table 5
  Phase     Trade Name            CTFA Name                   Percent     Amount (g)
  C         TEALAN 99%            triethanolamine              1.300        0.2600
  C         RITALAC LA USP        lactic acid                  0.300        0.0600
  C         RITALAC NAL           Sodium lactate, water        2.000        0.4000
  C         distilled water       Water                        3.312        0.6624
[00101]     In Phase C (the "Neutralization and Buffer Phase"), purified water acted as
a solvent and a diluent for the other ingredients in this phase. Triethanolamine was
the primary neutralizer of the CARBOMER acrylic acid copolymer in the water phase
(Phase B); sodium lactate solution (60% w/w in water) and lactic acid were added as
a buffer system to adjust and maintain the final pH of the cream from about 5 to
about 5.5, which is within the natural pH range of the skin.
[00102]     On a benchtop, Phase C ingredients were weighed and mixed until
 uniform and heated to from about 600C to about 65 *C. The Phase C mixture was
then added to the vacuum mixing kettle containing Phases A and B with sweep
 mixer on medium-high.
 [00103]     Mixing continued while moving to the next part of the process.
                                          Table 6
  Phase      Trade Name            CTFA Name                  Percent     Amount (g)
  D          TITANIUM             titanium dioxide              1.000       0.2000
             DIOXIDE, #3328
 [00104]     Phase D (the "Pigment Phase"). A water-dispersible grade of Titanium
 Dioxide powder was used in the formula solely for the purpose of lightening the color
 of the final cream color. The yellow-orange color of the cream, imparted by CoQ 10,
was substantially reduced and cosmetically improved by the addition of about 1%
w/w Titanium Dioxide.

                                          -43
[00105]    For Phase D of the process, weighed TiO2 was added to the batch
(Phases A, B and C) and mixed and recirculated through the Silverson homogenizer
(high shear head) for about 10 minutes or until completely uniform and fully extended
(color was checked to confirm).
[00106]    It was important to insure there was no agglomeration or clumping of the
titanium dioxide on the sweep mixing blades; this was confirmed by visual
inspection. A Silverson in line homogenizer as described above in Example 1 was
used with a high shear screen to insure maximum deagglomeration and grinding of
the titanium dioxide. The final dispersion of the titanium dioxide was checked with a
Hegman PH-175 fineness of grind gauge.
                                         Table 7
  Phase    Trade Name             CTFA Name                   Percent   Amount (g)
  E        CoQ10                 WATER,                        7.500       1.5000
           CONCENTRATE            POLYSORBATE 80,
           22%                    UBIQUINONE,
           (From Example 1        LECITHIN,
           above)                 PENTYLENE
                                  GLYCOL,
                                  PHENOXYETHANOL
           Totals                                             100.000     20.000
[00107]    Recirculation was stopped and the batch was cooled to from about 500C to
about 55*C with the sweep mixer on medium, at a speed of about 30 rpm. The
previously weighed CoQ10 concentrate (Phase E) from Example 1 was warmed to
from about 450C to about 50"C and added to the batch (Phases A, B, C and D).
[00108]    All phases were mixed with sweep agitation at about 60 rpm with a
vacuum applied until uniform. Temperature was maintained at about 50*C.
[00109]    The batch was cooled to from about 350C to about 45*C with mixing at
about 60 rpm and the application of a vacuum.

                                           -44
[00110] The resulting material was placed into holding containers.
[00111]    For preparation of a cream possessing CoQ10 at 3% by weight, the exact
same procedure described above for forming the cream possessing CoQ1 0 at 1.5%
by weight was followed. The materials for each phase, and the amounts utilized, are
set forth below in Tables 8-12:
                                         Table 8
  CoQ10 Cream 3%
  Phase Trade Name                 CTFA Name              Percent    Amount (g)
  A         RITAMOLLIENT           C12-15 alkyl benzoate    4.000      0.8000
            TN
  A         RITA CA                cetyl alcohol            2.500      0.5000
  A         RITA SA               stearyl alcohol           2.000      0.4000
  A         RITAPRO 165           glyceryl stearate and     4.500      0.9000
                                   PEG-1 00 stearate
                                         Table 9
  Phase     Trade Name             CTFA Name              Percent    Amount (g)
  B         RITA GLYCERIN         glycerin                  2.000      0.4000
  B         HYDROLITE-5            pentylene glycol         2.250      0.4500
  B         TRANSCUTOL P          ethoxydiglycol            5.000      1.0000
  B         phenoxyethanol         phenoxyethanol           0.463      0.0926
  B         ACRITAMER 940,        water, CARBOMER          40.000      8.0000
            2% dispersion         940
  B         purified water,       water                    15.000      3.0000
           _USP
                                         Table 10
  Phase     Trade Name            CTFA Name               Percent    Amount (g)
  C         TEALAN 99%            triethanolamine           1.300      0.2600
  C         RITALAC LA             Lactic acid              0.500      0.1000
  C         RITALAC NAL           sodium lactate, water     2.000      0.4000
  C         purified water,       water                     2.487      0.4974
           _USP

                                            -45
                                           Table 11
  Phase     Trade Name              CTFA Name                  Percent    Amount (g)
  D         TITANIUM                titanium dioxide            1.000        0.2000
            DIOXIDE, #3328
                                           Table 12
   Phase    Trade Name              CTFA Name                  Percent    Amount (g)
   E        CoQ10                   water,                     15.000        3.0000
            CONCENTRATE             POLYSORBATE 80,
            22%                     ubiquinone, LECITHIN,
            (From Example 1         pentylene glycol,
            above)                  phenoxyethanol
            Totals                                             100.000       20.000
[00112]    A similar cream was prepared by using the 22% CoQ10 concentrate from
Example 1 in an amount of about 25% by weight to create a cream having COQ10 at
a concentration of about 5% by weight.
[00113] A summary of the contents of CoQ1 0 creams having 1.5% CoQ1 0 by
weight, 3% CoQ10 by weight, and 5% CoQ10 by weight are set forth below in Tables
13, 14 and 15 respectively. Note that in all the formulation examples given above
and below for CoQ10 creams, the amount of concentrate used would actually yield a
final theoretical concentration of about 10% above the target concentration. So, for
"CoQ10 Cream, 1.5%", the actual batch amount used was 7.5% by weight of a 22%
by weight concentrate that yielded 1.65% w/w CoQ10. The "CoQ10 Cream, 3%" was
made with 15% by weight of the 22% by weight CoQ1 0 concentrate that yielded a
theoretical content of 3.3% CoQ10 by weight. The 10% excess drug was added to
extend the overall shelf life of the product and maintain the drug content from about
90% to about 110% of the label or expected drug content.

                                           -46
                                        Table 13
                                  CoQ10 CREAM, 1.5%
Phase    Trade Name            INCI Name             Percent Supplier
A         RITAMOLLIENT         C12-15 alkyl           5.000  RITA
         TN                    benzoates
A         RITA CA              cetyl alcohol          2.000  RITA
A         RITA SA              stearyl alcohol         1.500 RITA
A         RITAPRO 165          glyceryl stearate and  4.500  RITA
                               PEG-1 00 stearate
B         RITA                 Glycerine              2.000  RITA
          GLYCERINE
B         HYDROLITE 5          pentylene glycol       2.125  SYMRISE
B        TRANSCUTOL            Ethoxydiglycol         5.000  GATTEFOSSE'
          P
B         phenoxyethanol       Phenoxyethanol         0.463  RITA
B         PURIFIED             deionized water        11.000
         WATER
B        ACRITAMER             water, pentylene      50.000
          940 dispersion,      glycol, CARBOMER
         2%                    940, phenoxyethanol
C         purified water        water                 4.212
          USP
C        triethanolamine       triethanolamine        1.300  RITA
C         RITALAC NAL          sodium lactate and     2.000  RITA
                               water
C         RITALAC LA           lactic acid            0.400  RITA
          USP
D        TITANIUM              titanium dioxide       1.000  MPSI
          DIOXIDE #3328
E         CoQ10                water,                 7.500
          liposome             POLYSORBATE 80,
         concentrate,          ubiquinone, lecithin,
         22%WNV (From          pentylene glycol,
          Example 1)           phenoxyethanol
         Totals                                      100.000
                                        Table 14
                                   CoQ1O Cream 3%
      Phase                Ingredient                            % w/w
        A        C12-C15 Alkyl Benzoate                             4.000
        A        Cetyl Alcohol                                      2.000
        A        Stearyl Alcohol                                    1.500
        A        Glyceryl Strearate & PEG 100 Stearate              4.500
        B        Glycerin 1                             1           2.000
        B        Pentylene Glycol                       1           2.250

                             -47
  B   Ethoxydiglycol                                 5.000
  B   Phenoxyethanol                                 0.476
  B   Carbomer |                                    40.000
  B   Purified Water                                16.000
  C   Sodium Lactate                                 2.000
  C   Purified Water                                 2.474
  C   Triethanolamine                                1.300
  C   Lactic                                         0.500
      Acid
  D   Titanium Dioxide                               1.000
  E   CoQ10 Concentrate 22%                         15.000
      (From Example 1)
                                            Total: 100.000
                           Table 15
                       CoQ10 Cream 5%
Phase       Ingredient                             %w/w
  A   C12-C15 Alkyl Benzoate                         3.000
  A   Cetyl Alcohol                                  2.000
  A   Stearyl Alcohol                                1.500
  A   Glyceryl Strearate & PEG 100 Stearate          4.500
  B   Glycerin                                       2.000
  B   Pentylene Glycol                               2.000
  B   Ethoxydiglycol                                 5.000
  B   Phenoxyethanol                                 0.450
  B   Carbomer    |                                 35.000
  B   Purified Water                                14.000
  C   Sodium Lactate                                 2.000
  C   Purified Water                                 0.750
  C   Triethanolamine                                1.300
  C   Lactic                                         0.500
      Acid
  D   Titanium Dioxide                               1.000
  E   CoQ1O Concentrate 22%                         25.000
      (From Example 1)
                                            Total: 100.000

                                           -48
Note: 10% manufacturing overage of CoQ1O was added to the 1.5%, 3% and 5%
batches (i.e., 1.5% plus 0.15%, 3%plus 0.3%, and 5%plus 0.5%).
Example 4
[00114] Creams possessing CoQ1O produced in Example 3 (i.e., 1.5%, 3%, and
5%) above were applied to porcine skin. The topical dose study was conducted on
two pigs each, one male and one female. Each animal had 6 test areas; three test
areas on each side. For each pig, one side (3 sites) was dosed once per day for 7
days, while the opposite test side (3 test areas) for each pig was dosed only one
time on day 1. The creams from Example 3, prepared with ethoxydiglycol, were
used on the male animals. The female animals received 3 test formulas that
contained the same ingredients as the samples produced in Example 3 above,
except they contained 5% 1,3-butylene glycol instead of 5%ethoxydiglycol. Details
of these formulations made with 1,3-butylene glycol, which possessed 1.5% CoQ1 0
by weight, 3%CoQ10 by weight and 5%CoQ10 by weight, are set forth below in
Tables 16, 17, and 18 respectively.
                                         Table 16
                           CoQ10 Cream 1.5% Nominal Active
                                   Butylene Glycol Base
       Phase            Ingredient                                       %w/w
         A       C12-C15 Alkyl Benzoate                                    5.000
         A       Cetyl Alcohol           1                                 2.000
         A       Stearyl Alcohol         1                                 1.500
         A       Glyceryl Strearate & PEG 100 Stearate                     4.500
         B       Glycerin    1                                             2.000
         B        Pentylene Glycol                                         2.125
         B        Butylene Glycol        1                                 5.000
          B       Phenoxyethanol         I         1                   1   0.463

                                -49
  B   Carbomer 1                                       50.000
  B   Purified Water                                   11.001
  C   Sodium Lactate                                    2.000
  C   Purified Water                                    4.211
  C   Triethanolamine                                   1.300
  C   Lactic Acid                                       0.400
  D   Titanium Dioxide                                  1.000
      CoQ10 Concentrate 22%
  E   (From Example 1)                                  7.500
                                               Total: 100.000
                              Table 17
                 CoQIO Cream 3% Nominal Active
                        Butylene Glycol Base
Phase        Ingredient                               %w/w
  A   C12-C15 Alkyl Benzoate                            4.000
  A   Cetyl Alcohol                                     2.000
  A   Stearyl Alcohol                                   1.500
  A   Glyceryl Strearate & PEG 100 Stearate             4.500
  B   Glycerin                                          2.000
  B   Pentylene Glycol                                  2.250
  B   Butylene Glycol                                   5.000
  B   Phenoxyethanol                                    0.476
  B   Carbomer                                         40.000
  B   Purified Water                                   16.000
  C   Sodium Lactate                                    2.000
  C   Purified Water                                    2.474
  C   Triethanolamine                                   1.300
  C   Lactic Acid                                       0.500
  D   Titanium Dioxide                                   1.000
      CoQ10 Concentrate 22%
  E   (From Example 1)                                 15.000
                                               Total: 100.000

                                           - 50
                                         Table 18
                           CoQ10 Cream 5% Nominal Active
                                 Butylene Glycol Base
       Phase                Ingredient                                  %w/w
          A      C12-C15 Alkyl Benzoate                                    3.000
          A      Cetyl Alcohol         [                                   2.000
          A      Stearyl Alcohol       I                                   1.500
          A      Glyce ryl Strearate & PEG 100 Stearate                    4.500
          B      Glycerin 1                                                2.000
          B      Pentylene Glycol                                          2.000
          B      Butylene Glycol                                           5.000
          B      Phenoxyethanol                                            0.450
          B      Carbome                                                  35.000
                 r
          B      Purified Water                                           14.000
          C      Sodium Lactate                                            2.000
          C      Purified Water                                            0.750
          C      Triethanolamine                                           1.300
          C      Lactic                                                    0.500
                 Acid
          D      Titanium Dioxide                                          1.000
          E      CoQ10 Concentrate 22%                                    25.000
                 (From Example 1)
                                                            Total:       100.000
[00115]   All animals received the same dose of each formulation, which was 200
mg, to a 121 cm2 application area applied once or daily for 7 days.
[00116]   After application, skin samples were obtained and analyzed as follows.
The skin test area was gently washed with a mild soap and water mixture (e.g., 1%
Ivory Soap in water or equivalent) to remove any residual topical test formulation. If
the area to be excised was larger than the dosed area, the dosed area was
demarked with indelible ink to delineate the skin area that was dosed. A full
thickness skin section was removed by scalpel with a size approximating 10 cm x 10

                                            - 51
cm, to the depth and including the adipose layer. Following excision, the skin section
was laid flat and wrapped in two layers of plastic wrap (SARAN WRAP" or
equivalent), and frozen to about -70*C or colder in a timely manner. Each skin
section was identified as appropriate (e.g. animal identification, study number, date,
etc.). Samples were maintained at about -70 0 C or lower until examined.
[00117]     Each skin section was placed in a water tight plastic bag and thawed in
from about 30*C to about 350C water baths. Once thawed, each skin section was
gently rinsed with distilled deionized water to remove any residual surface dose and
blood. All subcutaneous tissue (e.g. adipose) was removed by scalpel to the level of
the papular dermis.
 [00118]    Each skin section was then tape stripped (TRANSPORET ., from 3M) from
 about 10 to about 20 times until approximately 10-25% surface glistening was
 observed. This process removed the stratum corneum and any residual surface
 dose.
 [00119]    On each full skin sheet, 6 areas were demarcated with ink. The
 demarcated areas were 1 cm2 in area.
 [00120]    Each skin section was placed in a water tight plastic bag and immersed in
 a -65* (± 30) C water bath to initiate the separation process of the epidermis from the
 dermis. The test sites were then excised from the skin sheet by punch, and the
 epidermis removed from the dermis by forceps. The individual skin sections were
 weighed and the weight recorded. The individual skin sections were minced with a
 scalpel, placed into pre-labeled tubes, and saved for subsequent analysis.
 [00121]    The skin samples were extracted in isopropanol (IPA) on a shaker for
 about 47 hours, then stored at about -20 0C until further processed. The samples

                                          - 52
were then centrifuged at about 13,500 rpm for about 10 minutes and the supernatant
was collected into 2 mL amber vials.
[00122] Quantification of CoQ10 was performed by High Performance Liquid
Chromatography (HPLC-UV). Briefly, HPLC was conducted on a Hewlett-Packard
1100 Series HPLC system with an Agilent 1100 Series LC/MSD. A solvent system
including about 65% Ethanol and about 35% Methanol was run through an Aquasil
C18 column (about 3mm x about 100mm, 5p) at a flow rate of about 1 mL/min. Ten
microliters of sample were injected. Peak areas were quantified to concentration
using an external standard curve prepared from the neat standard. The curve was
spiked into IPA due to solubility issues of CoQ10 in water.
[00123] The results for the content of CoQ10 in mini-pig skin are summarized in
Figures 1 and 2, and Tables 19 and 20 below. The 6 replicates per skin section
were corrected to tissue weight and averaged to obtain a mean for each dosed site.
                      Table 19: Mean ±SD Tissue Weight    (n=42)
Donor #                       Epidermis (grams)             Dermis (gm)
5061873 (Male)                0.037 ± 0.012                 0.682 ± 0.129
5061521 (Female)              0.026 ± 0.007                 0.603 ± 0.090
                   Table 20: Mean: ±SD Measured Concentration
                        of CoQ10 in Porcine Skin (n=6/section)
   Donor #          Sex             Side        Dose         Epidermis       Dermis
                                                (mg)          (pg/gm)       (pg/gm)
  5061873          Male             Left         1.5        137.7 ± 58.2  0.72 ± 1.12
  5061873          Male             Left         3.0        188.7 ± 40.3     < LLQ
  5061873          Male             Left         5.0        163.4 ± 39.1  0.16 ± 0.39
  5061873          Male            Right         1.5           519.3 ±    0.93 ±0.81
                                                                101.2
  5061873          Male            Right         3.0           315.3 ±       < LLQ
                                                                227.0
  5061873          Male            Right         5.0           331.2 ±       < LLQ
                                                                128.7
  5061873          Male           Center          0         24.6 ± 11.5      < LLQ
  5061521         Female            Left         1.5        135.6 ± 39.2     < LLQ

                                          - 53
   5061521        Female            Left          3.0        211.8 ± 60.5        < LLQ
   5061521        Female            Left          5.0        211.9 ± 67.8        < LLQ
   5061521        Female           Right          1.5        118.4 ± 32.6        < LLQ
   5061521        Female           Right          3.0        84.7 ± 24.6         < LLQ
   5061521        Female           Right          5.0        118.1 26.6          < LLQ
   5061521        Female          Center           0         25.7 ±21.8          < LLQ
<LLQ=below lower level of quality validation range (i.e., not detected)
[00124]    The data indicated that measurable amounts of CoQ1O were observed in
all epidermal samples and in selected dermal samples.
[00125]    All dosed sites for the epidermis were found to contain CoQ1O at levels
that were significantly greater than the non-dosed sites (p < 0.001).
[00126] There were no significant differences between the epidermal contents for
CoQ10 across the three dosing concentrations in either the male or female pig skin
sections (p > 0.02)
[00127]    Between the male and female pig, for the sites from the animal's right side
(1-day dosing), the epidermal content for the 1.5% CoQ10 and 5% CoQ10 applied
doses from the male's skin was significantly greater than that seen in the female's
skin (p < 0.003), but not for the 3% CoQ1 0 dose (p = 0.0329). Thus, as can be seen
from the data, the penetration of the CoQ1O on a single dose basis was significantly
greater for the ethoxydiglycol formula vs. the butylene glycol formula (p< 0.003 for
the 1.5% and 5% doses and p=0.0329 for the 3% dose).
 [00128] The epidermal levels for both male and female skin sections, for all three
dose applications, for the 7-day dosing period (left side), were statistically identical.
 [00129]   Dermal content was only observed in the male skin sections for the 1.5%
 CoQI0 and 5% CoQ10 dose applications from the 7-day dosing period (left side),
and the 1.5% CoQ1 0 dose application from the 1-day dosing period (right side).

                                          -54
[00130] A summary of the data is provided as follows in Table 21:
                                        Table 21
                % Concentration                    1.5        3         5
                pg drug/mg formulation              15      30         50
                Amount applied (ng):              200      200      200
                Total druo applied (pg)          3000     6000   10000
                Area applied
                (cm2)                             121      121       121
                pg Drug/cm2                     24.79    49.59    82.64
                           Male Left side
                           (x7d)
                Epidermis (pg/
                cm2)                            3.470    6.688    7.311
                %Dose/cm2                         14.0     13.5       8.8
                Dermis (pg/cm')                 0.575         0   0.106
                % Dose/cm2                         2.3      0.0       0.1
                           Male Right side
                           (x1d)
                Epidermis (pg/
                cm2)                          18.309     8.215   10.986
                % Dose/cm2                       73.8      16.6     13.3
                Dermis (pg/cm2)                 0.582         0         0
                % Dose/cm4                         2.3      0.0       0.0
[00131]   If one were to extrapolate the data from Table 21 to the total area of skin,
the penetration of the CoQ1 0 would be as set forth below in Table 22.
                                        Table 22
                            If expanded out to total area:
                                             1.5                   3           5
        Epidermis                        419.871            809.2481     884.631

                                          -  55  -  _  _ _  _  _  _  _ _ _   _  _
         (pg/121 cm 2)                      -55- 7
         % Dose                               14.0               13.5        8.8
                             If expanded out to total area:
                                               1.5                  3          5
         Epidermis
         (pg/121 cm2 )                 2215.389              994.015 1329.306
         % Dose                               73.8               16.6       13.3
[00132] A single application of the CoQ1O cream formulation delivered an average
of 12%, 17%, or 70% of the applied dose for the respective 5%, 3%, and 1.5%
CoQ1O cream formulations. In general, the penetration of the CoQ10 on a single
dose basis was significantly greater for the ethoxydiglycol formula vs. the butylene
glycol formula (p< 0.003 for the 1.5% and 5% doses and p=0.0329 for the 3% dose).
The data indicated that there was a rise in epidermal content with applied
concentration to 3% CoQ1 0 with the 5% CoQ1 0 dose being essential equal to the
3% CoQ10 dose. This suggests that the skin became saturated with CoQ10 at the
3% CoQ10 dose, or that the vehicle was unable to deliver more CoQ1 0 above the
3% CoQ10 concentration. It can be seen that the levels achieved in the skin
following 7 days of topical application were identical between the 2 animals.
[00133]    For the ethoxydiglycol formulations, and for the single application data,
average penetration of 73.8%, 16.6%, and 13.3% for the respective 1.5%, 3% and
5% ethoxydiglycol containing creams was obtained.
[00134]    An interesting and unexpected finding was the disproportional amount of
CoQ1 0 found in the epidermis for the 1.5% cream, the lowest dose of CoQ1 0 tested.
Without wishing to be bound by any theory, this enhanced penetration of CoQ1 0
may be a function of the ratio of CoQ1 0 to ethoxydiglycol in the cream formulations,
or may possibly be related to the ratio of ethoxydiglycol to CoQ10 and the

                                          - 56
phospholipid liposome. The relatively higher ratio of ethoxydiglycol to CoQ10 used in
the cream containing a lower concentration of CoQ10 may be responsible for the
higher amounts of CoQ10 found inthe epidermis.
[00135] The 1.5% cream and 3% cream also successfully completed 9 weeks
accelerated testing (storage at about 350C and about 50*C); passed 5 freeze-thaw
cycles packaged in both plastic jar and metal tube packaging; and passed USP
microbiological challenge testing. Results were confirmed for the same system with
multiple development batches and at 1.5%, 3%and 5% by weight concentrations of
CoQ1 0 in the cream prototype formulation base.
 Example 5
 [00136] Creams were produced as described in Example 3 above, except
 propylene glycol was utilized instead of pentylene glycol. A concentrate was first
produced as described in Example 1 above, with the components listed below in
Table 23:
                                        Table 23
                           Batch Formula - CoQ 10 Concentrate
  Phase                    Raw Material Name                       Theoretical Quantity
                                                                   % w/w            kg
    A     Polysorbate 80 NF                                           25.000        5.000
    A     Ubidecarenone USP                                           21.000        4.200
    B     Propylene Glycol USP                                        10.000        2.000
    B     Phenoxyethanol NF                                            0.500        0.100
    C     Purified Water USP                                          35.500        7.100
    C     Lecithin NF                                                  8.000        1.600
                                                         Totals     100.000       20.000

                                         - 57
[00137]    The resulting CoQ1O concentrate possessed CoQ10 at a concentration of
about 21% by weight.
[00138]    A CARBOMER dispersion was prepared as described in Example 2 above
for use in forming the cream with the components listed below in Table 24:
                                       Table 24
                          Batch Formula - Carbomer Dispersion
      Phase              Raw Material Name                Theoretical Quantity
                                                          %w/w             Kg
         A     Phenoxyethanol NF                               0.500     0.0900
         A     Propylene Glycol USP                            5.000     0.9000
         B     Purified Water USP                            92.500     16.6500
         C     Carbomer 940 NF                                 2.000     0.3600
                                                 Totals     100.000      18.000
[00139]    A cream having 1.5% by weight CoQ10 and another cream having 3% by
weight CoQ1 0 were prepared as described above in Example 3, with the
components listed below in Tables 25 and 26:
                                        Table 25
                          Batch Formula - CoQ1 0 Cream 1.5%
 Phase    Raw Material Name                        Theoretical Quantity
                                                   %w/w             kg
 A        AlkylC12-15BenzoateNF                    5.000         1.000
 A        Cetyl Alcohol NF                         2.000         0.400
 A        Stearyl Alcohol NF                       1.500         0.300
 A        Glyceryl Stearate/PEG-1 00 Stearate      4.500         0.900
 B        Glycerin USP                             2.000         0.400
 B        Propylene Glycol USP                     1.750         0.350
 B        Diethylene Glycol Monoethyl Ether NF     5.000         1.000
 B        Phenoxyethanol NF                        0.463         0.093
 B        Carbomer Dispersion, 2%                  50.000        10.000
 B        Purified Water USP                       8.377         1.675
 B        Purified Water USP (for rinsing)         3.000         0.600
 C        Trolamine NF                             1.300         0.260
 C        Lactic Acid USP                          0.400         0.080

                                            - 58
C         Sodium Lactate Solution USP, 60%             2.000        0.400
C         Purified Water USP                           4.210        0.842
D         Titanium Dioxide USP                         1.000        0.200
E         CoQ10 Concentrate, 21%                       7.500        1.500
                                                Totals 100.00       20.00
                                          Table 26
                            Batch Formula - CoQ10 Cream 3%
Phase           Raw Material Name                       Theoretical Quantity
                                                        % w/w           kg
A               AlkylC12-15BenzoateNF                   4.000       0.800
A               Cetyl Alcohol NF                        2.000       0.400
A               Stearyl Alcohol NF                      1.500       0.300
A               Glyceryl Stearate/PEG-1 00 Stearate     4.500       0.900
B               Glycerin USP                            2.000       0.400
B               Propylene Glycol USP                    1.500       0.300
B               Diethylene Glycol Monoethyl Ether       5.000       1.000
B               Phenoxyethanol NF                       0.475       0.095
B               Carbomer Dispersion, 2%                 40.000      8.000
B               Purified Water USP                      13.725      2.745
B               Purified Water USP (for rinsing)        3.000       0.600
C               Trolamine NF                            1.300       0.260
C               Lactic Acid USP                         0.500       0.100
C               Sodium Lactate Solution USP, 60% 2.000              0.400
C               Purified Water USP                      2.500       0.500
D               Titanium Dioxide USP                    1.000       0.200
E               CoQ1O Concentrate, 21%                  15.000      3.000
                                                 Totals 100.000     20.000
[00140]     It will be appreciated that various of the above-disclosed and other
features and functions, or alternatives thereof, may be desirably combined into many
other different systems or applications. Also that various presently unforeseen or
unanticipated alternatives, modifications, variations or improvements therein may be
subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be
encompassed by the following claims.

                                              - 59
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
       1.      A composition comprising:
               a liposomal concentrate comprising a phospholipid selected from the
group consisting of lecithin, lysolecithin, phosphatidylcholine,
phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylinositol, phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidic
acid, phosphatidylserine, lysophosphatidylcholine, lysophosphatidylethanolamine,
lysophosphatidylglycerol, lysophosphatidic acid, lysophosphatidylserine, PEG
phosphatidylethanolamine, PVP-phosphatidylethanolamine, and combinations thereof;
               at least one lipophilic bioactive agent; and
               at least one solubilizer;
               in combination with at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier
possessing at least one permeation enhancer in an amount from about 0.5% by weight
to about 20% by weight of the composition,
               wherein the phospholipid is present in the composition in an amount from
about 2% to about 20% by weight of the composition and the bioactive agent is present
in an amount from about 0.5% to about 20% by weight of the composition.
       2.      The composition of claim 1, wherein the phospholipid further comprises a
solvent selected from the group consisting of water, purified water, deionized water,
ethanol, isopropanol, glycols, diglycols, polyglycols, and combinations thereof.
       3.     The composition of claim 1, wherein the phospholipid is in combination
with an additional component selected from the group consisting of absorbents,

                                             - 60
antifoaming agents, acidifiers, alkalizers, buffers, antimicrobial agents, antioxidants,
binders, solubilizing agents, solvents, viscosity modifiers, humectants, thickening
agents, and combinations thereof.
        4.     The composition of claim 1, wherein the at least one lipophilic bioactive
agent is selected from the group consisting of analgesics, anti-inflammatory agents,
anthelmintics, anti-arrhythmic agents, anti-bacterial agents, anti-viral agents, anti
coagulants, anti-depressants, anti-diabetics, anti-epileptics, anti-fungal agents, anti-gout
agents, anti-hypertensive agents, anti-malarials, anti-migraine agents, anti-muscarinic
agents, anti-neoplastic agents, erectile dysfunction improvement agents,
immunosuppressants, anti-protozoal agents, anti-thyroid agents, anxiolytic agents,
sedatives, hypnotics, neuroleptics, p-Blockers, cardiac inotropic agents, corticosteroids,
diuretics, anti-parkinsonian agents, gastro-intestinal agents, histamine receptor
antagonists, keratolytics, lipid regulating agents, anti-anginal agents, cox-2 inhibitors,
leucotriene inhibitors, macrolides, muscle relaxants, nutritional agents, opioid
analgesics, protease inhibitors, sex hormones, stimulants, muscle relaxants, anti
osteoporosis agents, anti-obesity agents, cognition enhancers, anti-urinary incontinence
agents, nutritional oils, anti-benign prostate hypertrophy agents, essential fatty acids,
non-essential fatty acids, and combinations thereof.
        5.      The composition of claim 1, wherein the at least one lipophilic bioactive
agent is selected from the group consisting of acutretin, albendazole, albuterol,
aminogluthemide, amiodarone, amlodipine, amphetamine, amphotericin B, atorvastatin,

                                               - 61
atovaquone, azithromycin, baclofen, beclomethsone, benezepril, benzonatate,
betamethasone, bicalutanide, budesonide, bupropion, busulphan, butenafine,
calcifediol, calciprotiene, calcitriol, camptothecan, candesartan, capsaicin,
carbamezepine, carotenes, celecoxib, cerivistatin, cetrizine, chlorpheniramine,
cholecalciferol, cilostazol, cimetidine, cinnarizine, ciprofloxacin, cisapride,
clarithromycin, clemastine, clomiphene, clomipramine, clopidrogel, codeine, coenzyme
Q10, cyclobenzaprine, cyclosporine, danazol, dantrolene, dexchlopheniramine,
diclofenac, dicoumarol, digoxin, dihydroepiandrosterone, dihydroergotamine,
dihydrotachysterol, dirithromycin, donepezil, efavirenz, eposartan, ergocalciferol,
ergotamine, essential fatty acid sources, etodolac, etoposide, famotidine, fenofibrate,
fentanyl, fexofenadine, finasteride, flucanazole, flurbiprofen, fluvastatin, fosphenytion,
frovatriptan, furazolidone, gabapentin, gemfibrozil, glibenclamide, glipizide, glyburide,
glymepride, griseofulvin, halofantrine, ibuprofen, irbesartan, irinotecan, isosorbide
dinitrate isotreinoin, itraconazole, ivermectin, ketoconazole, ketorolac, lamotrigine,
lanosprazole, leflunomide, lisinopril, loperamide, loratadine, lovastatin, L-thryroxine,
lutein, lycopene, medroxyprogesterone, mefepristone, mefloquine, megesterol acetate,
methadone, methoxsalen, metronidazole, metronidazole, miconazole, midazolam,
miglitol, minoxidil, mitoxantrone, montelukast, nabumetone, nalbuphine, naratiptan,
nelfinavir, nifedipine, nilsolidipine, nilutanide, nitrofurantoin, nizatidine, omeprazole,
oprevelkin, osteradiol, oxaprozin, paclitaxel, paricalcitol, paroxetine, pentazocine,
 pioglitazone, pizofetin, pravastatin, prednisolone, probucol, progesterone, pseudo
ephedrine, pyridostigmine, rabeprazole, raloxifene, refocoxib, repaglinide, rifabutine,
 rifapentine, rimexolone, ritanovir, rizatriptan, rosigiltazone, saquinavir, sertraline,

                                             - 62
sibutramine, sildenafil citrate, simvastatin, sirolimus, spironolactone, sumatriptan,
tacrine, tacrolimus, tamoxifen, tamsulosin, targretin, tazarotene, telmisartan, teniposide,
terbinafine, terzosin, tetrahydrocannabinol, tiagabine, ticlidopine, tirofibran, tizanidine,
topiramate, topotecan, toremifene, tramadol, tretinoin, troglitazone, trovafloxacin,
valsartan, venlafaxine, vertoporfin, vigabatrin, vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin E, vitamin K,
zafirlukast, zileuton, zolmitriptan, zolpidem, zopiclone, and combinations thereof.
        6.      The composition of claim 1,wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable
carrier is selected from the group consisting of solvents, buffers, antioxidants,
antibacterial agents, antifungal agents, stabilizing excipients, absorption enhancing
agents, absorption delaying agents, hydrophilic polymers, peptides, proteins,
monosaccharides, disaccharides, carbohydrates, chelating agents, sugar alcohols,
surfactants, and combinations thereof.
        7.      The composition of claim 1,wherein the at least one permeation enhancer
is selected from the group consisting of ethoxydiglycol, 1,3- butylene glycol, isopentyl
diol, 1,2-pentane diol, propylene glycol, 2-methyl propan-2-ol, propan-2-ol, ethyl-2
hydroxypropanoate, hexan-2,5-diol, di(2-hydroxypropyl) ether, pentan-2,4-diol, acetone,
polyoxyethylene(2) methyl ether, 2-hydroxypropionic acid, 2-hydroxyoctanoic acid,
propan-1-ol, 1,4 dioxane, tetrahyd rofuran, butan-1,4-diol, propylene glycol
dipelargonate, polyoxypropylene 15 stearyl ether, octyl alcohol, polyoxyethylene ester of
oleyl alcohol, oleyl alcohol, lauryl alcohol, dioctyl adipate, dicapryl adipate, diisopropyl
adipate, diisopropyl sebacate, dibutyl sebacate, diethyl sebacate, dimethyl sebacate,

                                            - 63
dioctyl sebacate, dibuyl suberate, dioctyl azelate, dibenzyl sebacate, dibutyl phthalate,
dibutyl azelate, ethyl myristate, dimethyl azelate, butyl myristate, dibutyl succinate,
didecyl phthalate, decyl oleate, ethyl caproate, ethyl salicylate, isopropyl palmitate, ethyl
laurate, 2-ethyl-hexyl pelargonate, isopropyl isostearate, butyl laurate, benzyl benzoate,
butyl benzoate, hexyl laurate, ethyl caprate, ethyl caprylate, butyl stearate, benzyl
salicylate, 2-hyroxyoctanoic acid, dimethyl sulphoxide, methyl sufonyl methane, n,n
dimethyl acetamide, n,n-dimethyl formamide, 2-pyrrolidone, 1-methyl-2-pyrrolidone, 5
methyl-2-pyrrolidone, 1,5-dimethyl-2-pyrrolidone, 1-ethvl-2-pyrrolidone, phosphine
oxides, sugar esters, tetrahydrofurfural alcohol, urea, diethyl-m-toluamide, 1
dodecylazacyloheptan-2-one, and combinations thereof.
        8.     The composition of claim 1, wherein the permeation enhancer is present
in an amount from about 3% by weight to about 15% by weight of the composition and
the bioactive agent is present in an amount of from about 0.75% by weight to about
10% by weight of the composition.
        9.     The composition of claim 1, wherein the solubilizer is selected from the
group consisting of polyoxyalkylene dextrans, fatty acid esters of saccharose, fatty
alcohol ethers of oligoglucosides, fatty acid esters of glycerol, fatty acid esters of
polyoxyethylenes, polyethoxylated fatty acid esters of sorbitan, fatty acid esters of
poly(ethylene oxide), fatty alcohol ethers of poly(ethylene oxide), alkylphenol ethers of
poly(ethylene oxide), polyoxyethylene-polyoxypropylene block copolymers, ethoxylated
oils, and combinations thereof.

                                             -64
        10.    The composition of claim 1,wherein the phospholipid comprises lecithin,
the at least one lipophilic bioactive agent comprises coenzyme Q10, and the permeation
enhancer comprises propylene glycol in combination with ethoxydiglycol.
        11.    A pharmaceutical composition comprising the composition of claim 1,
wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier includes an oil phase, an optional water
phase, and an optional neutralization phase.
        12.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 11, wherein the composition is
selected from the group consisting of lotions and creams.
        13.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 11, wherein the oil phase
comprises emollients, fatty alcohols, emulsifiers, and combinations thereof.
        14.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 13, wherein the emollient is
selected from the group consisting of C12-15 alkyl benzoates, capric-caprylic
triglycerides, vegetable derived oils, caprates, linoleates, dilinoleates, isostearates,
fumarates, sebacates, lactates, citrates, stearates, palmitates, synthetic medium chain
triglycerides, silicone oils, polymers and combinations thereof; the fatty alcohol is
selected from the group consisting of cetyl alcohol, stearyl alcohol, cetearyl alcohol,
lauryl alcohol and combinations thereof; and the emulsifier is selected from the group
consisting of glyceryl stearate, polyethylene glycol 100 stearate, neutralized fatty acids,

                                             - 65
partially neutralized fatty acids, polyethylene glycol 150 stearate, polyethylene glycol 8
laurate, polyethylene glycol oleate, polyethylene glycol 8 stearate, polyethylene glycol
20 stearate, polyethylene glycol 40 stearate, polyethylene glycol 150 distearate,
polyethylene glycol 8 distearate, and combinations thereof.
        15.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 11, wherein the optional water
phase comprises the permeation enhancer optionally in combination with a viscosity
modifier selected from the group consisting of cross linked acrylic acid polymers,
pullulan, mannan, scleroglucans, polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyvinyl alcohol, guar gum,
hydroxypropyl guar gum, xanthan gum, acacia gum, arabia gum, tragacanth, galactan,
carob gum, karaya gum, locust bean gum, carrageenin, pectin, amylopectin, agar,
quince seed, rice starch, corn starch, potato starch, wheat starch, algae extract,
dextran, succinoglucan, carboxymethyl starch, methylhydroxypropyl starch, sodium
alginate, alginic acid propylene glycol esters, sodium polyacrylate, polyethylacrylate,
polyacrylamide, polyethyleneimine, bentonite, aluminum magnesium silicate, laponite,
hectonite, and anhydrous silicic acid.
        16.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 11, wherein the optional water
phase comprises water, glycerine, propylene glycol, ethoxydiglycol, phenoxyethanol,
and cross linked acrylic acid polymers.

                                           - 66
        17.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 11, wherein the optional
neutralization phase comprises components selected from the group consisting of
water, amines, sodium lactate, lactic acid, and combinations thereof.
        18.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 11, further comprising a
pigment.
        19.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 18, wherein the oil phase
comprises C12-15 alkyl benzoates, cetyl alcohol, stearyl alcohol, glyceryl stearate and
polyethylene glycol stearate; the water phase comprises glycerine, propylene glycol,
ethoxydiglycol, phenoxyethanol, purified water, and a cross linked acrylic acid polymer
dispersion comprising phenoxyethanol, propylene glycol, water, and a cross linked
acrylic acid polymer; the neutralization phase comprised purified water, triethanolamine,
sodium lactate, and lactic acid; and the pigment comprises titanium dioxide.
        20.    A method for treating cancer comprising applying the composition of claim
1 to a patient.
        21.    The method of claim 20, wherein the cancer is selected from the group
consisting of leukemias, lymphomas, melanomas, carcinomas and sarcomas.

                                           - 67
        22.   A composition comprising:
               an oil phase comprising C12-15 alkyl benzoates, cetyl alcohol, stearyl
alcohol, glyceryl stearate, and polyethylene glycol 100 stearate, in an amount of from
about 5%to about 20% by weight of the composition;
               a water phase comprising glycerin, propylene glycol, ethoxydiglycol,
phenoxyethanol, water, and a crosslinked acrylic acid polymer dispersion comprising
phenoxyethanol, propylene glycol, water, and a crosslinked acrylic acid polymer, in an
amount of from about 60 to about 80% by weight of the composition;
               a neutralization phase comprising water, triethanolamine, sodium lactate,
and lactic acid, in an amount of from about 0.1% to about 15% by weight of the
composition;
               a pigment comprising titanium dioxide in an amount of from about 0.2% to
about 2%by weight of the composition; and
               a liposomal concentrate comprising a polyethoxylated fatty acid ester of
sorbitan, coenzyme Q10, a phosphatidylcholine lecithin, phenoxyethanol, propylene
glycol, and water, in an amount of from about 0.1% to about 30% by weight of the
composition,
               wherein the propylene glycol and ethoxydiglycol are present in a
combined amount of from 3% by weight to about 15% by weight of the composition and
the coenzyme Q10 is present in an amount of from about 0.75% by weight to about
10% by weight of the composition.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
