  Abstract
  A gaming machine (100) that provides a wagering game, the gaming machine (100)
  including a user interface (107) in communication with a game controller (101), through
5 the operation of which a player selects one of a plurality of wager options that
  determine a number of symbols to be active and inactive in the wagering game. At
  least one of the symbols that are rendered inactive is an ordinary game symbol, not a
  bonus symbol or special symbol.

                                                  -1
    Gaming system and method with wager variability
    Field of the Invention
  5 The present invention generally relates to gaming apparatus and methods of gaming.
    A particular embodiment of the present invention relates to gaming machines on which
    a player may selectively place wagers on one or more game outcomes.
    Background of the Invention
10
    With    the   increase    of   gambling    at   gaming   venues   has   come   increased
    competition between gaming venues to obtain a larger share of the total gambling
    spend. Gaming venue operators           have therefore    continuously  looked for   new
    variations and types of games in order to attract both new and return customers to
15  their venues.
    In response to this need, suppliers of gaming devices and systems have attempted
    to provide the sought after variety, while still developing games that comply with
    the relevant     regulations   in  the  jurisdiction  of the   gaming   venue   operator.
20  Suppliers of gaming devices therefore are faced with restrictions on the types of games
    and gaming apparatus that are allowable, both in terms of the prevailing regulations
    and in terms of providing a return on investment to the gaming venue operators.
    In some jurisdictions at present the regulations impose limits on the number or value of
25  bets that can be placed on a game.             This raises a problem of how to provide
    entertainment to players in a similar manner to the entertainment achieved through
    play of games that do not comply with the regulations. Even where the regulations do
    not have such a limitation, there is an ongoing need for alternative methods for players
    to place wagers in a wagering game on a gaming machine.
30
    In addition, it is important that a player be able to understand the operation of a game
    quickly so that the player can start to quickly play the game and therefore
    extract maximum entertainment from the game.
35  Summary of the Invention
    According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of providing a

                                             -2
   wagering game on a gaming machine, the wagering game including presenting
   symbols on a display according to a random selection process, the method including:
           determining which one of a plurality of wager options has been placed in a
   game play of the wagering game;
 5         rendering at least one symbol that is available to be selected for presentation of
   the display inactive, the number of symbols rendered inactive depending on the wager
   option that has been placed;
           forming at least one outcome from a plurality of symbols, the number of
   outcomes formed being fixed, regardless of the said wager option that is placed; and
10         awarding an award if a winning combination of symbols occurs in a said
   outcome formed by active symbols in the formed at least one outcome and not
   awarding an award for the combination if one or more of the symbols are inactive.
   According to a second aspect of the invention, there is provided a gaming machine for
15 providing a wagering game, the wagering game including presenting symbols on a
   display according to a random selection process, the gaming machine including a
   game controller for:
           determining which one of a plurality of wager options has been placed in a
   game play of the wagering game;
20         rendering at least one symbol that is available to be selected for presentation of
   the display inactive, the number of symbols rendered inactive depending on the wager
   option that has been placed;
           forming at least one outcome from a plurality of symbols, the number of
   outcomes formed being fixed, regardless of the said wager option that is placed; and
25         awarding an award if a winning combination of symbols occurs in a said
   outcome formed by active symbols in the formed at least one outcome and not
   awarding an award for the combination if one or more of the symbols are inactive.
   In embodiments of the first and second aspects of the invention, the plurality of symbol
30 positions presented on the display form an array having m rows and n columns, and
   wherein the number of outcomes of the game is n'm. In this embodiment, the number of
   outcomes of the game may be fixed at n'm.
   Also provided is a method of providing a wagering game on a gaming machine,
35 the wagering game including a plurality of symbols that are displayed on a
   display to represent at least one outcome of the game, the plurality of symbols
   including a plurality of symbol classes, wherein a winning combination in the wagering

                                                -3
    game is represented as an occurrence of a combination of a plurality of symbols
    in the     same   class,  the wagering game including a plurality of different winning
    combinations within two or more of the symbol classes, the method including:
             determining which one of a plurality of available wager options has been placed
  5 in a game play of the wagering game;
             forming at least one outcome from the plurality of symbols by displaying a
    symbol in each of a plurality of symbol display positions; and
             awarding an award according to a pay table of the gaming machine if a winning
    combination occurs;
10           wherein   the   method   further includes, for     at least one wager      option,
    defining at least one,     but less than all of the symbols in at least two different
    symbol classes as inactive for forming a winning combination; and
             wherein for at least one wager option, the symbols that are rendered
    inactive have the effect of approximately at least one third of the symbols being
15  defined as inactive for forming a said winning combination.
    At least one said winning combination may be available for each and every one of the
    plurality of symbol classes irrespective of the wager option that is placed.
20  For at least one of the wager options all or substantially all of the symbol classes may
    have at least one symbol that is defined as inactive for forming a said winning
    combination.
    The wagering game may be a spinning reel game having a plurality of reels, each reel
25  having a plurality of symbols that are each located in a symbol position on the
    reel, wherein forming at least one outcome includes determining the stopping position
    of the reels to display symbols on the reels in the symbol display positions, and
    wherein on at least one of the reels symbols from at least two different symbol classes
    are defined as inactive.
30
    Also provided is a method of providing a wagering game on a gaming machine,
    the wagering game including presenting symbols on a display according to a
    random selection process, the method including:
             determining which one of a plurality of wager options has been placed in a
35  game play of the wagering game;
             rendering at least one symbol that is available to be selected for presentation of
    the display inactive, the number of symbols rendered inactive depending on the wager

                                             -4
   option that has been placed;
           forming    at least one outcome from      a plurality of symbols, the number
   of outcomes formed being fixed regardless of the said wager option that is placed; and
            awarding an award if a winning combination       of symbols occurs in a said
 5 outcome formed by active symbols in the formed at least one outcome and not
   awarding an award for the combination if one or more of the symbols are inactive.
   The wagering game may be a spinning reel game and wherein the outcomes
   are defined     across   an array of symbols presented    by the   spinning  reels, and
10 wherein the number of outcomes is equal to n', wherein n is the number of rows in the
   array and m is the number of columns in the array. In this embodiment, for at least one
   wager option, the number of inactive symbols is selected so that the effective number
   of outcomes for every game play played at that wager option, the number of outcomes
   is effectively less than n'm.
15
   Also provided is a method of providing a wagering game on a gaming machine,
   the wagering game including presenting a plurality of symbols on a display to form
   one or more outcomes, which are evaluated for a winning outcome, the method
   including:
20          determining which one of a plurality of wager options has been placed in a
   game play of the wagering game; selecting at least one symbol dependent on the
   wager option that has been placed and rendering each selected symbol inactive for
   forming a winning outcome, wherein at least two different classes or types of symbol
   are rendered inactive for a single wager option; selecting in a random selection
25 process symbols for display in symbol display positions to form the one or more
   outcomes, the selection made from a combined set including both active and the
   inactive symbols, whereby whether a symbol display position displays an active or
   inactive symbol is randomly determined; paying an award for winning outcomes that
   occur which are defined by symbols that are active and not any symbols that have
30 been rendered inactive.
   The selection of symbols to be rendered inactive may be random or include a random
   component.
35 The process of selecting at least one symbol may include selecting a different number
   of symbols for different wager options laced in the wagering game.

                                               -5
   The process of selecting at least one symbol may be constrained so that every
   possible winning outcome remains achievable in the wagering game for every possible
   selection of symbols to be rendered inactive.
 5 The process of selecting symbols for display may include randomly determining the
   stopping position of a reel including a plurality of symbol positions, with at least one
   symbol position indicating an active symbol position and at least one other symbol
   position indicating an inactive symbol position.
10 Also provided is a gaming system including or consisting of a gaming machine that
   provides a wagering game in which a plurality of symbols are presented on a display to
   represent one or more outcomes, play of the wagering game being controlled by a
   game controller in communication with the display, the gaming machine including a
   user interface in communication with the game controller, through the operation of
15 which a player selects one of a plurality of wager options that determine a number of
   symbols to be active and inactive in the wagering game, wherein for at least one said
   wager option at least one, but not all of the plurality of symbols that define a possible
   said winning combination are rendered inactive for forming the winning combination
   and wherein for at least one said wager option the symbols presented on the display to
20 represent one or more outcomes always includes at least one inactive symbol wherein
   the user interface and game controller are adapted to allow the player to select another
   wager option, which includes at least one of:
           a)      selection of the number of outcomes purchased, wherein an award is
   paid if a winning combination occurs in the purchased outcomes but not the outcomes
25 that have not been purchased; and
            b)     selection of an amount to wager on each outcome;
   which is made independently of the selection of the number of inactive symbols.
   For a said wager option in which the symbols presented on the display to represent
30 one or more outcomes always include at least one inactive symbol, at least one symbol
   from substantially every possible winning combination may be inactive and wherein the
   number of inactive symbols decreases as wager options having higher values are
   selected.
35 The wagering game may be a spinning reel game including a plurality of reels each
   including a plurality of reel positions that carry a said symbol and wherein the game
   controller randomly selects the stopping position of the reel to display the symbols in a

                                              -6
    portion of the reel positions so as to display an array of symbols, across which a
    plurality of pay lines are defined that indicate the plurality of possible outcomes,
    wherein the symbols that are rendered inactive are defined by their position on the
    reels. In this embodiment, on at least one reel the inactive symbols may be distributed
  5 along the reel so that the ratio of active and inactive symbols that are displayed
    randomly varies as a result of the random selection of the stopping position of that reel.
    Sufficient active symbols to form a winning combination may, in one implementation,
    always be presented on the display for every game play regardless of which wager
10  option is selected.
    Further aspects of the present invention and further embodiments of the aspects
    described in the preceding paragraphs will become apparent from the following
    description, given by way of example only and with reference to the accompanying
15  drawings.
    Brief Description of the Drawings
    Figure 1:       shows diagrammatically, a view of a gaming machine suitable for
20  implementing the present invention.
    Figure 2:       shows a block diagram of gaming apparatus suitable for implementing
    the present invention.
25  Figure 3:       shows a block diagram of components of the memory of the gaming
    apparatus represented in Figure 2.
    Figure 4:       shows  diagrammatically,    a network    gaming   system    suitable for
    implementing the present invention.
30
    Figure 5:       shows a flow diagram of a process performed in accordance with an
    embodiment of the present invention.
    Detailed Description
35
    In Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings, one example of a gaming machine suitable
    for implementing the present invention is generally referenced by arrow 10.

                                               -7
   The gaming machine 10 includes a console 12 having a display 14 on which is
   displayed representations of a game 16, that can be played by a player. A mid-trim 20
   of the gaming machine 10 houses a bank of buttons 22 for enabling a player to play
   the game 16. The mid-trim 20 also houses a credit input mechanism 24 including a
 5 coin input chute 24A and a bill collector 24B. A top box 26 may carry artwork 28,
   including for example, pay tables and details of bonus awards and other information or
   images relating to the game. Further artwork and/or information may be provided on
   the front panel 29 of the console 12. A coin tray 30 is mounted beneath the console 12
   for cash payouts from the gaming machine 10.
10
   The display 14 shown in Figure 1 is in the form of a video display unit, particularly a
   cathode ray tube screen device. Alternatively, the display 14 may be a liquid crystal
   display, plasma screen, any other suitable video display unit, or the visible portion of
   an electromechanical device. The top box 26 may also include a display, for example
15 a video display unit, which may be of the same type as the display 14, or a different
   type of display.
   Figure 2 shows a block diagram of a gaming apparatus, generally referenced by arrow
   100, suitable for implementing the present invention. The gaming apparatus 100 may,
20 for example, operate as a standalone gaming machine of the type shows in Figure 1.
   However, the gaming apparatus may alternatively operate as a networked gaming
   machine, communicating with other network devices, such as one or more servers or
   other gaming machines.        The gaming apparatus 100 may also have distributed
   hardware and software components that communicate with each other directly or
25 through a network.      Accordingly, different reference numerals have been used in
   Figure 2 from Figure 1 for components that may be equivalent.
   The gaming apparatus 100 includes a game controller 101, which in the illustrated
   example includes a computational device 102, which may be a microprocessor,
30 microcontroller, programmable logic device or other suitable device. Instructions and
   data to control operation of the computational device 102 are stored in a memory 103,
   which is in data communication with or forms a part of the computational device 102.
   Typically, the gaming apparatus 100 will include both volatile and non-volatile memory
   and more than one of each type of memory, with such memories being collectively
35 represented by the memory 103. The instructions to cause the game controller 101 to
   implement the present invention will be stored in the memory 103.

                                             -8
   The gaming apparatus may include hardware meters 104 for the purposes of
   regulatory compliance     and also include an input/output      (1/O) interface 105 for
   communicating with the peripheral devices of the gaming apparatus 100. The
   input/output interface 105 and/or the peripheral devices may be intelligent devices
 5 with their own memory for instructions and data.
   In the example shown in Figure 2, the peripheral devices that communicate with
   the controller are one or more displays 106, user input devices 107, a card and/or
   ticket reader 108, a printer 109, a bill acceptor and/or coin input mechanism 110
10 and a coin output mechanism 111. One or more of the displays 106 may include a
   touch screen 106A, forming part of the user input devices 107. Additional devices may
   be included as part of the gaming machine 100, or devices omitted as required for the
   specific implementation.
15  In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a communications interface, for
   example a network card 112. The network card, may for example, send status
   information, accounting information or other information to a central controller, server
   or database and receive data or commands from a central controller, server or
   database. One or more of the peripheral devices, for example the card/ticket reader
20  108 may be able to communicate directly with the network card 112.
   The game controller 101 may also include a random number generator 113, which
   generates a series of random numbers that determine the outcome of a series of
   random game events played as part of a game on the gaming apparatus 100. As
25 explained in more detail in relation to Figure 4, the computational device 102 may
   include two or more controllers or processors, which may be local or remote from each
    other and the displays 106.
   Figure 3 shows an exemplary block diagram of the main components of the memory
30  103. The RAM 103A typically temporarily holds program files for execution by the
   computational controller 102 and related data. The EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM
   device and/or may contain some system or game related code. The mass storage
   device 103C is typically used to store game programs, the integrity of which may be
   verified and/or authenticated by the computational controller 102 using protected code
35 from the EPROM 103B or elsewhere.
    Figure 4 shows a gaming system 200. The gaming system 200 includes a network

                                              -9
    201, which for example may be an Ethernet network. Gaming devices 202, shown
    arranged in three banks 203 of two gaming devices 202 in Figure 4 are connected to
    the network 201. The gaming devices 202 may be gaming machines 10, as shown in
    Figure 1 or form part or all of another gaming apparatus 100. Single gaming devices
  5 202 and banks 203 containing three or more gaming devices 202 may also be
    connected to the network 201.
    Servers may also be connected to the network 201. For example, a game server 205
    may generate game outcomes for games played on the gaming devices 202, a
10  database management server 206 may manage the storage of game programs and
    associated data for downloading or access by the gaming devices 202 in a database
    206A, and a jackpot server 207 may control one or more jackpots associated with the
    gaming devices 202.
15   Further servers may be provided to assist in the administration of the gaming system
    200, including for example a gaming floor management server 208, and a licensing
    server 209 to monitor the use of licenses to particular games. An administrator
    terminal 210 is provided to allow an administrator to run the network 201 and the
    devices connected to the network.
20
     Figure 5 shows a simple process flow diagram of a process performed in accordance
    with an embodiment of the present invention. The process may be performed within
    the network gaming system 200, in which the gaming devices 202 may each include
    part or all of a gaming apparatus 100 and the following description assumes this
25  implementation. However, those skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that the
    process will also be able to be implemented by other gaming systems.
     In step 50, the game controller 101 monitors operation of the user interface 107 for the
    selection of a wager option. This may occur in the usual manner, for example in a
30  spinning reel game by a player selecting a number of pay lines and the wager per pay
    line and in a card game by a player selecting a number of hands to play.
    Once the game controller 101 has determined which wager option has been placed, it
    then sets a number of symbols to be inactive (step 51). In a spinning reel game, for the
35  leftmost reel, the number of inactive symbols for a particular wager option may be
    anywhere from zero up to all but one of the symbols. However, it is anticipated that in
    many practical implementations of a spinning reel game that displays three symbol

                                                - 10
   positions for forming game outcomes, a maximum percentage of inactive symbols for a
   wager option would be between about 50% to 75% so that all or at least most spins of
   the real result in the formation of at least one outcome.
 5 Taking as an example a spinning reel game that has five reels and presents 3 symbols
   for each reel. In this game the maximum number of outcomes is typically 243,
   representing every combination of presented symbols when one presented symbol is
   taken from each reel. This mode of operation is sometimes called "243 Ways". If for
   regulatory or other reasons, the number of outcomes playable in a game was required
10 to be limited, but the game designer wanted to provide the entertainment appeal of
   "243 Ways" as a bet option, then the game designer could design the game so that
   when this option is played, a proportion of the symbols on the reels are inactive.
   For example, in the previously described spinning reel game that pays left to right,
15 then if every symbol in every second symbol position on the left-most reel is rendered
   inactive, then the number of outcomes formed by active symbols is immediately halved
   on average, assuming equal probability of stopping positions. This occurs because,
   depending on where the inactive position stops in the window, there are either 81
   possible pay lines defined by the active positions and 162 possible pay lines defined
20 by the inactive positions, or vice-versa.
   Other average numbers of outcomes can be achieved by varying proportion of inactive
   symbol positions on the first reel and on the other reels. If required a constant number
   of outcomes can be achieved for example, by rendering every third symbol on one or
25 more of the reels inactive, so that one inactive symbol is always one and only one of
   the presented symbols for each reel that has inactive symbols.
   of limiting the number of outcomes in a maximum bet, the game designer may
   Therefore, in this example, although the player may get a similar entertainment value
30 to playing a full "243 Ways" game, the number of active outcomes can be limited. This
    can also keep the maximum wager size per game play lower than if full "243 Ways"
   was available. However, the player may still be able to specify a bet per outcome that
    acts to multiply the winnings that are paid on the occurrence of a winning outcome
    and/or place an ante-bet to result in eligibility for an additional game feature,
35  maintaining a large number of options for the game designer to design varying games.
   Taking again the 3 by 5 spinning reel game, instead require that a fully functional

                                              - 11
   "243 Ways" option is available. However, the game designer may not want ordinary
   pay line play for lesser bet options. Therefore, the game designer may create a game
   in which the game controller 101 causes the number of inactive symbol positions to
   decrease with an increase in wager size.
 5
   In this second example, the game designer may still allow the player to purchase a
   number of outcomes and purchase a wager per outcome as is usual for many spinning
   reel games. A third bet option may then be provided that varies the number of inactive
   symbols. The bet options may be multiplied together to form the total wager for the
10 game play, or otherwise combined depending on the particular game rules and the
   payout tables that are used. Alternatively, the number of outcomes and/or the wager
   per outcome may be fixed, reducing the number of wager options available to the
   player. The game designer may also include an ante-bet option if required, which
   operates independently of the number of inactive symbols.
15
   Following the determination of the inactive symbols, the outcomes are then formed
   (step 52), which in a spinning reel game involves showing representations of the reels
   spinning and randomly selecting the stopping position of each reel. The outcomes are
   then defined by the symbols in each pay line that has been purchased. Each outcome
20 is then evaluated for a winning outcome (step 53) and the award applicable to any
   occurring winning outcomes paid. The process then returns to step 50.
   A description of an illustrative embodiment of the second example described above, in
   the form of a spinning reel game having 5 reels with 3 presented symbols per reel is
25 provided below. For the purposes of clarity of explanation, in the game all prizes are
   paid for symbols aligned on the centre line only and no option of providing multiplier
   bets (i.e. multiple bets per pay line) is provided. Those skilled in the relevant arts will
   appreciate how to modify the game to accommodate multiple pay lines and multiple
   bets per outcome.
30
   A player is able to place bets of 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 credits, where each credit bet
   purchases some of each reel strip. 5 credits is the maximum purchase of the reel
   strips, so 5 credits purchases all positions on all the reel strips. The reel strips for
   credit bets of 1 to 5 credits are shown in Tables 1 to 5 respectively, the inactive symbol
35 positions shown within angle brackets.

                           - 12
                  Table 1 - 1 credit bet
  POSITION REEL 1 REEL 2     REEL 3    REEL 4 REEL 5
      1     <A>     A           A        <A>    A
     2       K      Q           K         Q    <K>
      3     <Q>     K           Q         K     Q
     4       A      A          <A>        A     A
      5     <K>     Q           K         Q     K
     6       Q     <K>         <Q>        K     Q
      7     <A>     A          <A>        A     A
      8      K      Q           K         Q     K
      9     <Q>     K           Q         K    <Q>
     10      A      A           A        <A>    A
     11     <K>     Q           K        <Q>    K
     12      Q     <K>          Q         K     Q
                  Table 2 - 2 credits bet
  POSITION REEL 1 REEL 2     REEL 3    REEL 4 REEL 5
      1      A      A           A         A    <A>
     2       K      Q          <K>        Q     K
      3     <Q>     K           Q         K     Q
     4      <A>     A           A        <A>    A
      5      K      Q           K         Q     K
     6       Q     <K>          Q         K    <Q>
     7       A      A          <A>        A     A
      8     <K>     Q           K         Q     K
     9       Q      K           Q        <K>    Q
     10      A      A           A         A    <A>
     11      K     <Q>          K         Q     K
     12      Q      K           Q         K     Q
5

                           - 13
                  Table 3 - 3 credits bet
  POSITION REEL 1 REEL 2     REEL 3    REEL 4 REEL 5
      1      A      A           A         A     A
     2       K      Q          <K>        Q    <K>
      3     <Q>      K          Q         K     Q
     4      <A>     A           A         A     A
      5       K     Q            K        Q     K
     6       Q      K           Q         K    <Q>
     7       A      A          A          A     A
      8     <K>     Q            K        Q     K
     9       Q       K          Q       <K>     Q
     10      A      A           A         A    <A>
     11      K     <Q>          K         Q     K
     12      Q      K           Q         K     Q
                  Table 4 - 4 credits bet
  POSITION REEL 1 REEL 2     REEL 3    REEL 4 REEL 5
      1      A      A           A         A     A
     2       K      Q           K         Q     K
      3      Q       K          Q       <K>     Q
     4       A      A           A         A     A
      5       K     Q            K        Q     K
     6      <Q>     K           Q         K     Q
     7       A      A          A          A     A
      8      K      Q            K      <Q>     K
     9       Q       K          Q         K     Q
     10      A      A           A         A     A
     11      K      Q          <K>        Q     K
     12      Q      K           Q         K     Q
5

                                               - 14
                                      Table 5 - 5 credits bet
             POSITION       REEL 1     REEL 2    REEL 3    REEL 4      REEL 5
                  1            A         A          A         A          A
                 2             K         Q          K         Q          K
                  3            Q          K         Q         K          Q
                 4             A         A          A         A          A
                  5            K         Q           K        Q          K
                 6             Q         K          Q         K          Q
                 7             A         A         A          A          A
                  8           K          Q           K        Q          K
                 9             Q          K         Q         K          Q
                 10            A         A          A         A          A
                 11            K         Q          K         Q          K
                 12            Q         K          Q         K          Q
   As is apparent in the example shown in Tables 1 to 5, the symbols that are rendered
   inactive are ordinary symbols in the game, as opposed to bonus symbols that trigger a
 5 bonus game or other special symbols. Different wagers may result in bonus symbols
   or other special symbols such as scatter symbols that are provided on the reels
   becoming active or inactive in addition to the ordinary symbols of the game.
   The prize schedule pays only for symbol combinations left to right and the prize
10 schedule is as shown in Table 6.
                                Table 6 - exemplary prize schedule
                        5* Aces pays                               250
                        4* Aces pays                                100
                        3* Aces pays                                15
                        5* Kings pays                              200
                        4* Kings pays                              50
                        3* Kings pays                             |10
                        5* Queens pays                              125
                        4* Queens pays                             25
                        3* Queens pays                             5
   The reel strips described with reference to Tables 1 to 5 were designed to provide
15 player returns that are approximately the same regardless of the bet and to ensure
   that prizes for all symbols are available for each bet. It is anticipated that both of these

                                                 -15
   characteristics may be desirable in some embodiments, although they are not
   essential for all embodiments. The percentage returns for this example are shown in
   Table 7.
                                    Table 7 - percentage returns
                       1 credit bet                                 90.471%
                       2 credits bet                                90.495%
                       3 credits bet                                90.615%
                       4 credits bet                                90.856%
                       5 credits bet                                90.947%
 5
    Referring to Table 1 and Table 6, even though the minimum wager has been made
   that has the maximum number of inactive symbols, all winning symbol combinations
   are still possible. This is a result of, for each reel, selectively making some, but not all
   of any one type of symbol in a class of symbol within which a winning combination can
10 be formed inactive. However, as all positions have not been purchased the chances of
   winning are reduced. For other styles of games, for example card games for which the
   presented symbols are all drawn from a common deck, the classes could be defined
   without reference to the location where the symbol could be presented. However,
   where the symbols are drawn from different decks for presentation in particular symbol
15 positions, then the classes are defined for each deck.
    In alternative embodiments, all the symbols of a class may be made inactive on a reel
   for certain wager sizes. For example, if the minimum wager is placed, all the "A"
   symbols may be made inactive in REEL 5, which would mean that the player could not
20 win the prize associated with the spinning up of five "A" symbols (250 according to
   Table 6) if the minimum wager is placed. The "A" symbols are made active for one or
   more wager options other than the minimum wager option. In a particular embodiment,
   a symbol class may be inactive only for the minimum wager and/or the same or a
   different symbol class may be active only for the maximum wager.
25
   The game could provide the option to play multiple pay lines, with the player placing a
   higher wager per game play to purchase the additional pay lines. The active and
   inactive symbols could remain the same, depending on a separate wager of 1 to 5
   credits, which is multiplied by the wager required to play the purchased pay lines to
30 determine the total wager. If multiplier bets (ie bets that multiply any prize payable) are
   available, then these could be added as a factor to determine the total wager required.
   Combination buttons may be provided on the user interface 107, for example allowing
   three pay lines to be played, at 1 credit per pay line and with a 5 credit active symbol

                                               - 16
     bet (15 credit wager) using a single button press.
    In operation, the inactive symbols may be determined prior to spinning the reels or
    following the spinning of the reels. If the inactive symbols are determined prior to
  5 spinning the reels, then each symbol on a reel is designated as active or inactive and
    the reel is then spun. Alternatively, the reels could be spun to select which symbols
    are to be displayed and then the symbols that are to be inactive determined according
    to a quasi-random process, bounded within the required restraints to ensure the
    correct number of active and inactive symbols are displayed.
10
     If symbols which pay in a scattered position are required in a game, the game
    designer may select two alternatives. The first alternative is to always make available
    for all bets all the positions where scatter symbols are located. If this occurs, then
    scatter prizes are multiplied by total credits bet. The second alternative is to grey out
15  some of the positions where scatter symbols occur, thus reducing the chance of
    winning scatter prizes. In this case, since the chance of obtaining a winning pattern is
    varying, the prize for the scatter could be multiplied by only the multiplier bet.
    In an alternative embodiment, the game may be a card game, for example a poker
20  style card game. In this embodiment the different wager options would result in a
    different number of symbols being made inactive. For example, one bet may result in
    all but one of the Aces in one or more of the decks of cards used in the game to be
    inactive for forming a winning hand, whereas another bet may result in every Ace in
    every deck being active.
25
     In another alternative embodiment, a particular wager option may require that half of
    the symbols on a spinning reel be rendered inactive, and the game controller 101 uses
    one or more numbers from the RNG 113 to determine which symbols to render
    inactive. Every symbol may be individually determined as active or inactive according
30  to a 50% probability of each, or alternatively where the inactive symbols are required
    to form a pattern a single determination could be made as to the location of the pattern
    in the set of symbols.
    An example of random determination is now provided for a spinning reel game with left
35  to right pays, and in which the inactive symbols only appear on reel 1 (the leftmost
    reel) and the wager options available to the player are 1, 2, or 3 credits. Three
    positions on the reels are presented for forming three horizontal pay lines. There are

                                                - 17
   five distinct symbols on the reel, each of which can form a winning outcome. Each
    symbol occurs three times on the reel, corresponding to the maximum value wager
    option relative to the minimum value wager option.
 5 When the player bets 3 credits, all positions on reel 1 are available. When the player
   bets 1 credit, the game controller 101 uses outputs from the RNG 113 to render
   inactive symbols in random locations covering two-thirds of all positions. This process
   may be constrained so that at least one of each of the five distinct symbols remains
   active on the reel so as to ensure that every winning outcome is still possible in the
10 game. Further constraints may also be introduced depending on the particular
   implementation. For example in games with long reel strips, a minimum distance
   between      active symbols     may     be  defined to avoid      all or an   unacceptably
   disproportionate number of the active symbols being clustered on one region of the
   reel.
15
   Similarly, if the player bets 2 credits, the game controller 101 renders inactive symbols
   in random locations covering one-third of all positions on the reel.
   Therefore, an exemplary five symbols for this example may include the set {A, K, Q, J,
20  10}. The reel strip may then be this sequence repeated 3 times to form 15 symbol
   positions as shown in table 8.
                            Table 8 - exemplary reel, random selection
                                   POSITION                     REEL 1
                                       1                           A
                                       2                           K
                                       3*                          Q
                                       4*                          J
                                       5                          10
                                       6*                          A
                                       7                           K
                                       8                           Q
                                       9                           J
                                       10*                        10
                                      11                           A
                                      12*                          K
                                      13                           Q
                                      14                           J
                                      15                          10
25  When 3 credits are paid, all symbol positions are active for forming a winning
    combination.
    When 1 credit is paid, two-thirds of all symbol positions are rendered inactive
    according to a random process constrained so that at least one of each of the symbols

                                              -18
   remain. One example is shown in table 8 with the resulting selected active symbol
   positions indicated in the left column by an asterisk next to the position number.
   Alternatively, instead of determining whether each symbol on a reel is active or
 5 inactive, the game controller 101 could make a determination for only the symbols that
   have been already selected to be presented. For example in a spinning reel game that
   presents 3 symbols from each reel to form outcomes, if in the left most reel two-thirds
   of the symbols are to be rendered inactive for the wager option that has been placed,
   then the game controller could randomly select two of the three symbols for rendering
10 inactive. In a second version of this alternative each presented symbol could be
   independently determined to be inactive with a 66% probability of being rendered
   inactive, which would result in varying numbers of active symbols for each game play.
   The second version may be able to be used for a wider range of games with different
   configurations of pay lines. According to this alternative, steps 51 and 52 in Figure 5
15 are reversed. This reversal may be made apparent to the player or may be determined
   in the background with the player presented with images that appear to show the
   symbols having been selected as inactive before the stopping position of the reel was
   determined.
20 In another alternative embodiment, the game may be a dice game or other game that
   has multi-dimensional playing elements. In this embodiment different wager options
   may lead to different faces on a dice being made inactive. The game may be designed
   so that every winning outcome or at least most winning outcomes are still achievable
   in the game. The present invention may also have application to poker style card
25 games, in which case certain cards in a deck used in the game or across multiple
   decks used in the game may be rendered inactive depending on the wager placed.
   Those skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that the present invention may have
   application to still further types of games that currently exist and may be applied to
   games yet to be developed that involve the presentation of symbols to a player to form
30 one or more outcomes that are evaluated for the occurrence of a winning outcome.
   While the foregoing description has been provided by way of example of the preferred
   embodiments of the present invention as presently contemplated, which utilise gaming
   apparatus and machines, those skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that the
35 present invention also may have application to internet gaming and/or have application
   to gaming over a telecommunications network, where handsets are used to display

                                              -19
   game outcomes and receive player inputs.
   Where in the foregoing description reference has been made to integers having known
   equivalents, then those equivalents are hereby incorporated herein as if individually
 5 set forth.
   Those skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that modifications and additions to the
   embodiments of the present invention may be made without departing from the scope
   of the present invention.
10
   It will be understood that the invention disclosed and defined in this specification
   extends to all alternative combinations of two or more of the individual features
   mentioned or evident from the text or drawings. All of these different combinations
   constitute various alternative aspects of the invention.
15

                                              - 20
    The Claims Defining the Invention are as Follows:
    1.      A method of providing a wagering game on a gaming machine, the wagering
    game including presenting symbols on a display according to a random selection
  5 process, the method including:
            determining which one of a plurality of wager options has been placed in a
    game play of the wagering game;
            rendering at least one symbol that is available to be selected for presentation of
    the display inactive, the number of symbols rendered inactive depending on the water
10  option that has been placed;
            forming at least one outcome from a plurality of symbols, the number of
    outcomes formed being fixed, regardless of the said wager option that is placed; and
            awarding an award if a winning combination of symbols occurs in a said
    outcome formed by active symbols in the formed at least one outcome and not
15  awarding an award for the combination if one or more of the symbols are inactive.
    2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the wagering game is a spinning reel game and
    wherein the outcomes are defined across an array of symbols presented by the
    spinning reels, and wherein the number of outcomes is equal to n', wherein n is the
20  number of rows in the array and m is the number of columns in the array.
    3.      The method of claim 2, wherein for at least one wager option, the number of
    inactive symbols is selected so that the effective number of outcomes for every game
    play played at that wager option, the number of outcomes is effectively less than n'm.
25
    4.      A gaming machine for providing a wagering game, the wagering game
    including presenting symbols on a display according to a random selection process,
    the gaming machine including a game controller for:
            determining which one of a plurality of wager options has been placed in a
30  game play of the wagering game;
            rendering at least one symbol that is available to be selected for presentation of
    the display inactive, the number of symbols rendered inactive depending on the wager
    option that has been placed;
            forming at last one outcome from a plurality of symbols, the number of
35  outcomes formed being fixed, regardless of the said wager option that is placed; and
            awarding an award if a winning combination of symbols occurs in a said
    outcome formed by active symbols in the formed at least one outcome and not

                                           - 21
   awarding an award for the combination if one or more of the symbols are inactive.
   5.      The gaming machine of claim 1, wherein the wagering game is a spinning reel
   game and wherein the outcomes are defined across an array of symbols presented by
 5 the spinning reels, and wherein the number of outcomes is equal to n', wherein n is
   the number of rows in the array and m is the number of columns in the array.
   6.      The gaming machine of claim 5, wherein for at least one wager option, the
   number of inactive symbols is selected so that the effective number of outcomes for
10 every game play played at that wager option, the number of outcomes is effectively
   less than nm.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
