Abstract
A staircase assembly at least partially covered in a wrap.

          1/11
    10
            110
120           100
       FIGURE 1

                                                   1
STAIRCASE ASSEMBLY
Field of the Invention
[1]      The present invention relates to a staircase assembly.
Background of the Invention
[2]      Staircases are a major part of a building, contributing significantly to not just the cost
of the building, but also to the internal look of the building. Being a structural component of a
building, staircases are not easily renovated or rebuilt to match, for example, a new visual
theme for the building. Often, a new theme for a building is designed around an existing
staircase, and made to work with the existing staircase. This limits the number of options
available when designing the new theme for the building. Present options for changing the
look of a staircase include repainting and/or replacing components of the staircase. Such
options are either limited in terms of the range of effects that can be achieved, or very costly.
[3]      The present invention seeks to overcome or substantially ameliorate at least some of
the deficiencies of the prior art, or to at least provide an alternative.
[4]      It is to be understood that, if any prior art information is referred to herein, such
reference does not constitute an admission that the information forms part of the common
general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
Summary of the Invention
[5]      According to a first aspect, the present invention provides a staircase component at
least partially covered in a wrap.
[6]      In a preferred embodiment, the wrap is vinyl.
[7]      In a preferred embodiment, the vinyl wrap has a patterned layer enhanced to simulate
a desired material.
[8]      In a preferred embodiment, the vinyl wrap has a patterned layer enhanced to simulate
a visual look of the desired material.
[9]      In another preferred embodiment, the vinyl wrap has a patterned layer enhanced to
simulate a tactile feel of the desired material.
[10]     In a preferred embodiment, the staircase component is at least one of: stringer, tread,
riser, handrail, baluster, wall rail, wall bracket, winder, landing, Newell post, half post, nosing,
post cap, string cap, string bead, infill, stand off pins, stainless steel end cap, tube, baseplate,
skirting and architrave.

                                               2
[11]    In a preferred embodiment, the staircase component is constructed from one or a
composite of materials comprising: wrought iron, aluminium, stainless steel, timber, chipboard,
and ceramics.
[12]    In a preferred embodiment, the wrap comprises an adhesive material for attaching to
the staircase component.
[13]    In a preferred embodiment, the desired material is carbon fibre, leather, animal skin,
woodgrain, stone, or fabric.
[14]    In a preferred embodiment, the patterned layer exhibits properties of one or more of
stain resistance, mould resistance, wear resistance and slip resistance.
[15]    In a preferred embodiment, the wrap exhibits a degree of elasticity and resilience.
[16]    In another preferred embodiment, the wrap comprises a graphic.
[17]    In a preferred embodiment, the graphic is a photograph.
[18]    In another aspect, the present invention provides a plurality of staircase components
having a wrap extending therebetween.
[19]    In a preferred embodiment, the staircase components comprise adjacent components.
[20]    In another aspect, the present invention provides a method for altering an appearance
of a staircase, the method comprising:
        covering one or more components of the staircase with a vinyl wrap having a patterned
        layer.
[21]    In a preferred embodiment, the method comprises disassembling the one or more
components from the staircase prior to covering the one or more components with the vinyl
wrap.
[22]    In another aspect, the present invention provides a method for altering an appearance
of a staircase, the method comprising:
        replacing one or more components of the staircase with a replacement component at
        least partly wrapped in a vinyl wrap having a patterned layer.
[23]    In another aspect, the present invention provides a vinyl wrap for covering a staircase
component, the vinyl wrap comprising:
        a substrate layer; and
        a patterned layer supported by the substrate layer and enhanced to simulate a desired
        material, wherein

                                                 3
         the substrate layer includes an adhesive for adhering the substrate layer to the
         staircase component.
[24]     In another aspect, the present invention provides use of a vinyl wrap for covering
components of a staircase in the alteration of a visual look of the staircase.
[25]     In another aspect, the present invention provides use of a vinyl wrap for covering
components of a staircase in the alteration of a tactile feel of a staircase.
[26]     In another aspect, the present invention provides an assembly for forming a staircase,
the assembly comprising at least one staircase component according to any one of the above.
[27]     In a preferred embodiment, at least one component is covered in two or more vinyl
wraps.
[28]     In a preferred embodiment, at least two components are covered in different vinyl
wraps.
[29]     In another aspect, the present invention provides a staircase comprising at least one
staircase component according to any one of the above.
[30]     In a preferred embodiment, at least one component is covered in two or more vinyl
wraps.
[31]     In a preferred embodiment, at least two components are covered in different vinyl
wraps.
[32]     In another aspect, the present invention provides a kit comprising at least one staircase
component and at least one vinyl wrap for wrapping the staircase component.
[33]     In another aspect, the present invention provides a hollow staircase component at least
partially covered in a wrap.
[34]     In a preferred embodiment, the component is made from extrudable material.
[35]     In a preferred embodiment, the handrail comprises cross-beams extending across an
internal cavity thereof for reinforcement.
[36]     In another aspect, the present invention provides an end bracket for attaching a
handrail to a post, the bracket comprising a plate with a peripheral wall extending from a
periphery of the plate, wherein the plate is shaped to correspond to the cross-section shape
of the handrail such that the peripheral wall follows the shape and will receive an end portion
of the handrail, wherein the peripheral wall is covered in a wrap.
[37]     In another aspect, the present invention provides an end joiner for receiving the end
sections of two elongated stair components, the end joiners being generally hollow tubular

                                                    4
shaped and are shaped to correspond to the shape of the components to be joined, wherein
the end joiner is covered in a wrap.
[38]     In a preferred embodiment, the end joiner is shaped to provide the desired angular
orientation between the stair components.
[39]     In a preferred embodiment, the end joiner includes an internal cross-beam
reinforcement at an internal mid-portion thereof, with the remainder of the end joiner at both
sides of the reinforcement being hollow to receive the end section of the stair component.
[40]    Other aspects of the invention are also disclosed.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[41]     Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the present
invention, preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of
examples only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
[42]     Fig. 1 is a schematic cross-section view of a vinyl wrap;
[43]     Fig. 2 is a perspective view of portions of two staircase components, being a baluster
and a railing, covered in the vinyl wrap in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the
present invention;
[44]     Fig. 3 is a perspective view of a riser covered in the vinyl wrap;
[45]     Fig. 4 is a schematic view of other components of a staircase appropriate for wrapping
in the vinyl wrap;
[46]     Fig. 5 is a flow chart illustrating the process for covering a staircase component in the
vinyl wrap;
[47]     Figure 6 shows other staircase components covered in a vinyl wrap.
[48]     Figure 7 shows an end perspective view of a hollow handrail according to another
aspect of the present invention;
[49]     Figure 8 shows (a) an end bracket attaching a handrail to a post, (b) front view of the
bracket, and (c) side view of bracket;
[50]     Figure 9 shows end joiners being (a) straight joiner, (b) 1350 joiner and (c) 90' joiner;
and
[51]     Figure 10 shows end views of joiners with different shape profiles.

                                                   5
Description of Embodiments
[52]     It should be noted in the following description that like or the same reference numerals
in different embodiments denote the same or similar features.
[53]     A staircase is typically composed of a number of components including: stringers,
treads, risers, handrails, balusters, wall rails, wall brackets, winders, landings, Newell posts,
half posts, nosing, and post caps. Each component may be constructed from one or a
composite of materials, including: wrought iron, aluminium, stainless steel, timber, chipboard,
and ceramics.
[54]     The look of a staircase is generally perceived as a combination of a number of factors,
including the shape/configuration of the staircase, the colours of the staircase's components,
and the perceived texture of the staircase's components. While it is usually not practical to
change the shape/configuration of the staircase, changing the colours and perceived textures
of one or more of the staircase components can still provide a significant and noticeable
change in the look for the staircase.
[55]     According to a preferred embodiment of the present invention, one or more vinyl wraps
are provided to wrap individual components of a staircase. A vinyl wrap 10 according to the
preferred embodiment is shown in Fig. 1, and includes a substrate layer 100 and a patterned
layer 110 provided on top of the substrate layer 100. An adhesive material 120 coats a bottom
of the substrate layer 100.
[56]     The patterned layer 110 is a visually and/or texturally enhanced layer for simulating
the look and/or feel of various materials, such as carbon fibre, leather, animal skin, wood grain,
stone, fabrics, and the like. The patterned layer 110 preferably exhibits properties such as
stain resistance, mould resistance, wear resistance, slip resistance and the like.
[57]     The substrate layer 100 supports the patterned layer 110, and exhibits a degree of
elasticity and resilience.
[58]     The adhesive material 120 adheres the substrate layer 100 to a surface of a staircase
component. The adhesive material 120 according to the preferred embodiment is a chemical
bonding agent, and includes one-part glues, multi-part glues, heat activated adhesives,
cements, and silicon pastes.
[59]     Fig. 2 shows a baluster 200 and a portion of a railing 210 covered in the vinyl wrap 10.
The vinyl wrap 10 in this embodiment provides the look and feel of carbon fibre. By virtue of
its elasticity and flexibility, the vinyl wrap 10 forms a tight skin around the baluster 200 and
railing 210, making the vinyl wrap 10 look and feel a part of the components 200, 210

                                                  6
themselves. The vinyl wrap 10 adheres tightly to external surfaces of the components 200 and
210, as shown for example in the curves of the railing 210.
[60]     The baluster 200 in this example is a staircase component that is wrapped with the
vinyl wrap 10 prior to assembly or disassembled from the staircase before wrapping. The
baluster 200 in this example is a four sided longitudinal member. The vinyl wrap 10 is applied
to the baluster 200 on one side, and wrapped to cover the remaining sides. The vinyl wrap 10
is sized to extend beyond an end edge 220 of the baluster 200, to ensure complete coverage
of all surfaces of the baluster 200. Peeling of the vinyl wrap 10 is also prevented.
[61]      Fig. 3 shows a riser 310 covered in the vinyl wrap 10. The riser 310 in this example is
a staircase component that can be wrapped prior to assembly or is not disassembled from the
installed staircase before wrapping. Wrapping without disassembling a component from the
staircase is possible with careful measurement and cutting of the vinyl wrapping 10 to size.
[62]      Fig. 4 schematically illustrates other components of a staircase whose visual and
tactile feel are alterable by covering with the vinyl wrap 10. Each of the components illustrated
in Fig. 4 may be wrapped in different pieces of vinyl wrap having different patterned layers
110, and one component may be wrapped in multiple pieces of vinyl wrap. In this manner, a
near unlimited number of visual and tactile combinations can be achieved.
[63]     A process for changing the look and feel of a staircase is described with reference to
the flowchart of Fig. 5.
[64]     At step 5-10, one or more components of the staircase are individually disassembled
from the staircase. It is not necessary for components to be disassembled from the staircase
in order to cover the components in vinyl wrap. However, a more lasting and aesthetically
pleasing result is typically achieved if the components are disassembled from the staircase
prior to covering them in the vinyl wrap.
[65]     Alternatively, as illustrated in step 5-15, one or more pre-wrapped component are
supplied.
[66]     At step 5-20, the components disassembled from the staircase are covered in one or
more vinyl wraps. Different components may be covered in different vinyl wraps to achieve a
specific look. For example, the railing of the staircase may be covered in a vinyl wrap having
a patterned layer that has been visually and texturally enhanced to simulate carbon fibre, while
a landing of the staircase is covered in a vinyl wrap having a patterned layer that has been
visually and texturally enhanced to simulate slate. Additionally, a single component may be
covered at different locations with different pieces of the vinyl wrap, and/or a single component

                                                 7
may be layered with different layers of vinyl wrap, to achieve a desired visual and/or tactile
effect.
[67]     At step 5-30, any components of the staircase which were not or could not be
disassembled from the staircase are covered in one or more pieces of vinyl wraps.
[68]     At step 5-40, the components previously disassembled from the staircase, and/or the
supplied pre-wrapped components, are reassembled to reconstruct the staircase.
[69]     The process of Fig. 5 allows the look of a staircase to be updated without significant
renovation works or financial outlay. Moreover, a previously updated staircase can be updated
again multiple times by adding new vinyl wrapping over existing vinyl wrapping, or by removing
any previous vinyl wrapping and adding new vinyl wrapping over the original staircase
component material.
[70]     The vinyl wrap 10 of the preferred embodiment is preferably made available as part of
a kit including one or more staircase components. Alternatively, the vinyl wrap 10 is provided
already covering a new or replacement staircase component.
[71]     The wrap and method for covering a staircase according to the present disclosure
provides for a relatively simple and low cost means to change or update the look of a staircase.
In this manner, a staircase can be updated to match other renovations being performed on a
building, and significantly reduce the limitations on what themes a building can be renovated
with. Moreover, the wrap and method according to the present disclosure allows cheaper
materials to simulate the look and feel of more expensive materials.
[72]     Whilst preferred embodiments of the present invention have been described, it will be
apparent to skilled persons that modifications can be made to the embodiments described.
For example, adjacent pairs of balusters on can be wrapped together such that the wrap
extends between the balusters and covers the gap therebetween. This will provide a new
look.
[73]     The wraps for example can also have pictures thereon, such as family member
pictures. In this manner, the staircase can function as a means for mounting such pictures.
[74]     Figure 6 shows other staircase components at least partly covered with the vinyl wrap.
These components include infill and string cap 320, stand off pin 330, stainless steel end cap
340, stainless steel post or handrail 350, which are all wrapped in carbon fibre wrap. Also
shown is a handrail 360 which is wrapped in alligator skin wrap.
[75]     Figure 7 shows an end perspective view of a hollow handrail 400 according to another
aspect of the present invention. The handrail 400 is hollow and will be made from extrudable
material such as PVC plastic. Being extrudable, the handrail 400 can be custom made in any

                                               8
desired cross-section shape and can be lighter than traditional handrails. The handrail 400
will include cross-beams 410 extending         across the internal cavity 420 thereof for
reinforcement.    The handrail 400 will be wrapped in a similar manner as the staircase
components above.
[76]    Figure 8 shows an end bracket 430 attaching a handrail 400 to a post 450. The bracket
430 comprises a plate 432 with a short peripheral wall 434 extending from the periphery of the
plate 432. The plate 432 is shaped to correspond to the cross-section shape of the handrail
400 such that the peripheral wall 434 follows the same shape and will receive an end portion
of the handrail 440, preferably with a snug fit. The plate 432 includes apertures 436 for
attachment screws 460 to fix the end bracket 430 to the post 450. The peripheral wall 434
comprises apertures 438 for an attachment screw 462 to fix the end bracket 430 to the handrail
400. The peripheral wall 434 will be wrapped in a similar manner as the handrail 400 above
and will thus match the handrail 400.
[77]    Figures 9 and 10 shows end joiners 500. The end joiners 500 are generally hollow
tubular shaped and are shaped to receive the end sections of two elongated stair components
510. The end joiners 500 can be made in a similar manner as the handrail 400 and will be
custom made in shape to correspond to the shape of the components 510 to be joined. The
end joiners 500 will also be shaped as needed to provide the desired angular orientation
between the components 510, such as providing (a) straight join, (b) 135 join and (c) 90 join.
[78]    Figure 10 shows end views of end joiners 500 with different shape profiles of outer
walls 520 thereof. The end joiners 500 include internal cross-beam reinforcements 530 at an
internal mid-portion thereof, with the remainder of the end joiner 500 at both sides of the
reinforcement 530 being hollow to receive the end section of the stair component. The joiners
can also include a recess 540 at a lower face thereof for receiving a balustrade infill 560 for
attachment to a balustrade. The end joiners 500 will be wrapped in a similar manner as the
staircase components above to match.

                                                 9
Claims
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
    1. A staircase component at least partially covered in a wrap.
   2. A staircase component as claimed in claim 1, wherein the wrap is vinyl.
   3. A staircase component as claimed in claim 2, wherein the vinyl wrap has a patterned
        layer enhanced to simulate a desired material.
   4. A staircase component as claimed in claim 2, wherein the vinyl wrap has a patterned
        layer enhanced to simulate a visual look of the desired material.
   5. A staircase component as claimed in claim 2, wherein the vinyl wrap has a patterned
        layer enhanced to simulate a tactile feel of the desired material.
   6. A staircase component as claimed in claim 1, wherein the staircase component is at
        least one of: stringer, tread, riser, handrail, baluster, wall rail, wall bracket, winder,
        landing, Newell post, half post, nosing, post cap, string cap, string bead, infill, stand off
        pins, stainless steel end cap, tube, baseplate, skirting and architrave.
   7. A staircase component as claimed in claim 1, wherein the staircase component is
        constructed from one or a composite of materials comprising: wrought iron, aluminium,
        stainless steel, timber, chipboard, and ceramics.
   8. A staircase component as claimed in claim 1, wherein the wrap comprises an adhesive
        material for attaching to the staircase component.
   9. A staircase component as claimed in claim 3, wherein the desired material is carbon
        fibre, leather, animal skin, woodgrain, stone, or fabrics.
    10. A staircase component as claimed in claim 5, wherein the patterned layer exhibits
        properties of one or more of stain resistance, mould resistance, wear resistance and
        slip resistance.
    11. A staircase component as claimed in claim 1, wherein the wrap exhibits a degree of
        elasticity and resilience.
    12. A staircase component as claimed in claim 1, wherein the wrap comprises a graphic.
    13. A staircase component as claimed in claim 12, wherein the graphic is a photograph.
    14. A plurality of staircase components having a wrap extending therebetween.
    15. A plurality of staircase components as claimed in claim 14, wherein the staircase
        components comprise adjacent components.
    16. A method for altering an appearance of a staircase, the method comprising:

                                            10
             covering one or more components of the staircase with a vinyl wrap having a
    patterned layer.
17. A method according to claim 16, further comprising disassembling the one or more
    components from the staircase prior to covering the one or more components with the
    vinyl wrap.
18. A method for altering an appearance of a staircase, the method comprising:
             replacing one or more components of the staircase with a replacement
    component at least partly wrapped in a vinyl wrap having a patterned layer.
19. A vinyl wrap for covering a staircase component, the vinyl wrap comprising:
             a substrate layer; and
             a patterned layer supported by the substrate layer and enhanced to simulate a
    desired material, wherein
             the substrate layer includes an adhesive for adhering the substrate layer to the
    staircase component.
20. Use of a vinyl wrap for covering components of a staircase in the alteration of a visual
    look of the staircase.
21. Use of a vinyl wrap for covering components of a staircase in the alteration of a tactile
    feel of a staircase.
22. An assembly for forming a staircase, the assembly comprising at least one staircase
    component according to any one of claims 1 to 13.
23. An assembly according to claim 22, wherein at least one component is covered in two
    or more vinyl wraps.
24. An assembly according to claim 22, wherein at least two components are covered in
    different vinyl wraps.
25. A staircase comprising at least one staircase component according to any one of
    claims 1 to 13.
26. A staircase according to claim 25, wherein at least one component is covered in two
    or more vinyl wraps.
27. A staircase according to claim 25, wherein at least two components are covered in
    different vinyl wraps.
 28. A kit comprising at least one staircase component and at least one vinyl wrap for
     wrapping the staircase component.

                                           11
29. A hollow staircase component at least partially covered in a wrap.
30. A staircase component as claimed in claim 29, wherein component is made from
    extrudable material.
31. A staircase component as claimed in claim 29 wherein the handrail comprises cross
    beams extending across an internal cavity thereof for reinforcement.
32. An end bracket for attaching a handrail to a post, the bracket comprising a plate with
    a peripheral wall extending from a periphery of the plate, wherein the plate is shaped
    to correspond to the cross-section shape of the handrail such that the peripheral wall
    follows the shape and will receive an end portion of the handrail, wherein the peripheral
    wall is covered in a wrap.
33. An end joiner for receiving the end sections of two elongated stair components, the
    end joiners being generally hollow tubular shaped and are shaped to correspond to
    the shape of the components to be joined, wherein the end joiner is covered in a wrap.
34. The end joiner of claim 33 wherein the end joiner is shaped to provide the desired
    angular orientation between the stair components.
 35. The end joiner of claim 33 wherein the end joiner includes an internal cross-beam
     reinforcement at an internal mid-portion thereof, with the remainder of the end joiner
     at both sides of the reinforcement being hollow to receive the end section of the stair
     component.

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
 120
                    10
        110                       1/11
                                  1/8
100

            <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
220
                    200
      210                           2/112/8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
       310
                       3/113/8

                                                   4/8
                                               4/11
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                         Landing
                              Handrail
                      Tread
              Riser
                                                                     Fascia
                                                              Baluster
                                                         Stringer
                                           Newell Post

                                             5/8
                                             5/11
<removed-date>   5-10
                       Disassemble
                     component from                                5-15
                                                                             Pre-wrapped
                                                                          component supplied
                         staircase
<removed-apn>
                                             Cover disassembled
                                      5-20   component in vinyl
                                                    wrap
                                                Cover non-
                                               disassembled
                                      5-30
                                             components in vinyl
                                                   wrap
                                                (Re)assemble
                                               disassembled
                                              components and
                                      5-40      supplied pre-
                                                   wrapped
                                                 components

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
      320
330
                                       6/11
                                       6/8

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 7/11
                                  7/8
350
                     340

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
360
                                 8/11
                                 8/8

                      9/11
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              400
                                420
               410   Figure 7

                                      10/11
                               400                          430
<removed-date>
                      430
                                                                  434
                                                             438
                              462
                      460
<removed-apn>
                                                       436
              450
                        (a)                     (b)                     (c)
                                                            432
                                     Figure 8
                      500
                                                      500
                      530                 530
                                                                  510
                                       510
        510
                (a)            (b)              (c)
                                     Figure 9

                           11/11
<removed-date>                                 500
<removed-apn>
                          540
              520                     530
                                560
                                            520
                    530
                          Figure 10

