                                      ABSTRACT
       Edema in tissue of a patient undergoing a course of radiation therapy or treatment can
be estimated based on one or more MRI measurements used to measure changes in fluid
content of various tissues.  A correlation between observed changes in edema and one or
more delivered fractions of radiation can be used to drive one or more clinical actions.
Methods, systems, articles of manufacture, and the like are described.

WO 20 14/066853                           PCT/US2013/066963
                                   1/9
                           1O
                           co
                                       co
                        NN
                ICC)
                            ......
                   (N.O

     ASSESSMENT AND IMPROVEMENT OF TREATMENT USING
     IMAGING OF PHYSIOLOGICAL RESPONSES TO RADIATION
                                          THERAPY
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
    [001]       The current application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. §119(e) to U.S.
provisional application for patent no. 61/719,337, which was filed on October 26, 2012, the
disclosure of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
TECHNICAL FIELD
    [002]       The subject matter described herein relates to radiation therapy and to MRI
imaging of physiological responses to radiation therapy, such as for example edema, etc.
BACKGROUND
    [003]       Radiation therapy maintains a unique and established role among the three
major forms of cancer therapy (surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy).             Surgery
removes cancer-laden tissues from the body, destroying them.             Chemotherapy sterilizes
microscopic disease throughout the entire body. Only radiation therapy can both destroy
cancerous tissues and sterilize microscopic disease simultaneously.        Experimental ablative
cancer treatment technologies (e.g., ultrasound, hyperthermia, and cryosurgery) can only
destroy tissue like surgery, while novel chemotherapy agents cannot effectively destroy solid
tumors. Radiation therapy will maintain and expand its prominent role as the treatment of
choice in cancer therapy and ablative therapies.
    [004]       The clinical objective of radiation therapy is to accurately deliver an optimized
ionizing radiation dose distribution to the tumor and targets while sparing the dose to the
                                                 1

surrounding normal tissue. In delivering ionizing radiation, the clinician attempts to make a
trade off between the probability that the disease will be eradicated and the probability that a
deadly or debilitating side effect will occur from the irradiation of the surrounding healthy or
functional tissues.
     [005]      Whether ablating or sterilizing tissues, ionizing radiation kills cells by
breaking chemical bonds in DNA or other important molecules in the cell. Radiation therapy
functions by targeting rapidly dividing cancer cells, where the radiation causes a reaction that
damages the DNA or other important molecules in the cell, causing cell death at cell division.
Cancer cells, unlike normal cells, divide rapidly and can't repair themselves easily, and as a
result of the genetic damage from the radiation, they die more readily than healthy cells.
Extending the treatment over time and delivering the dose in fractions allows healthy cells to
recover while tumor cells are preferentially eliminated. Sometimes, less recovery of healthy
cells can be accepted if greater positioning and immobilization accuracy can be attained using
stereotactic methods.
     [0061      The use of ionizing radiation therapy to treat cancer or ablate tissues works by
damaging the DNA or other critical molecules of cancerous or targeted cells. This DNA
damage is caused when ionizing charged particles cause direct or indirect ionization of the
atoms, which make up the DNA chain or other important cellular molecules.                 Direct
ionization occurs when the atoms of DNA or other critical cellular molecules are directly
produced by the impinging radiation. Indirect ionization occurs as a result of the ionization
of the aqueous cellular component, forming free radicals, which then damage the DNA or
other critical cellular molecules. Cells have mechanisms for repairing single-strand DNA
damage and thus double-stranded DNA breaks are the most significant mechanism for
causing cell death. Cancer cells are generally undifferentiated and stem cell-like, which
causes them to reproduce more than most healthy differentiated cells, and also to have a
                                                 2

diminished ability to repair sub-lethal damage. Single-strand DNA damage is then passed on
through cell division and damage to the cancer cells' DNA accumulates, causing them to die
or reproduce more slowly.
     [0071      Radiosensitivity is the relative susceptibility of cells, tissues, organs or
organisms to the harmful effect of ionizing radiation.        There are four major modifiers of
radiosensitivity, which are typically referred to as "4 R's": re-oxygenation, re-assortment of
the cell-cycle, repair of sublethal damage, and repopulation.
     [008]      Tumors contain regions of hypoxia (low aqueous oxygen concentration) in
which cancer cells are thought to be resistant to radiation. During fractionated radiotherapy,
these regions are reoxygenated by various mechanisms including reduction of intratumoral
pressure and normalization of the vasculature.       Reoxygenation between radiation fractions
leads to radiosensitization of previously hypoxic tumor areas and is thought to increase the
efficiency of radiation treatment.
     [009]      Mammalian cells exhibit different levels of radioresistance during the course
of the cell cycle. In general, radiation has a greater effect on cells with a greater reproductive
activity. Cells in the late S-phase are especially resistant and cells in the G2-phase and M
phase are most sensitive to ionizing radiation.      During fractionated radiation, cells in the
G2M-phase are preferentially killed. The time between two fractions allows resistant cells
from the S-phase of the cell cycle to redistribute into phases in which cells are more
radiosensitive.
     [010]      Cell kill by ionizing radiation is based on production of unrepairable lesions
involving DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) or damage of other critical molecules.             Most
radiation-induced DNA damage is however sublethal.           Although this damage is generally
repaired at lower doses, at higher doses accumulation of sublethal lesions also contributes to
                                                 3

lethality.   Repair of sublethal damage between radiation fractions is exploited in radiation
therapy because critical normal tissues and tumors often differ in their ability to repair
radiation damage.
    [011]        Normal and malignant stem cells have the ability to perform asymmetric cell
division, which results in a daughter stem cell and a committed progenitor cell. In contrast,
stem cells divide into two committed progenitor cells or two daughter stem cells in a
symmetric cell division.     If the latter happens only in 1% of the stem cell divisions, the
number of stem cells after 20 cell doublings will be twice as high as the number of committed
progenitor cells. As such, small changes in the way stem cells divide can have a huge impact
on the organization of a tissue or tumor and are thought to be the mechanism behind
accelerated repopulation.
    [012]        Quickly dividing tumor cells and tumor stem cells are generally (although not
always) more sensitive than the majority of body cells. The 4 R's mentioned above can have
a significant impact on the radiosensitivity of both tumor and healthy cells, which can be, for
example, hypoxic and therefore less sensitive to X-rays that mediate most of their effects
through free radicals produced by ionizing oxygen.
    [0131        The most sensitive cells are those that are undifferentiated, well nourished,
quickly dividing, and highly metabolically active. Amongst the body cells, the most sensitive
are spermatogonia and erythroblasts, epidermal stem cells, and gastrointestinal stem cells.
The least sensitive are nerve cells and muscle fibers.        Very sensitive cells also include
oocytes and lymphocytes, although they are resting cells and thus do not meet the criteria
described above.
    [014]        The damage of the cell can be lethal (the cell dies) or sublethal (the cell can
repair itself). The effects on cells can be deterministic and/or stochastic.
                                                 4

     [015]      Deterministic effects have a threshold of irradiation under which they do not
appear and are the necessary consequence of irradiation.               The damage caused by
deterministic effects generally depends on the dose. Such effects are typically sublethal (e.g.,
they produce a less pronounced form of disease) in a dose rage between about 0.25 to 2 Sv
(Sieverts), and lethal (e.g., a certain percent of the population dies within 60 days) in a dose
rage between about 2 to 5 Sv. Dose above about 5 Sv cause the majority of people to die
within 60 days, and those above 6 to 7 Sv cause all people to die. Of course, the specific
effects on any one person also depend on other factors, such as for example age, sex, health
etc.
     [016]      Stochastic or random effects, which can be classified as either somatic or
genetic effects, are coincidental and cannot be avoided.        Such effects also do not have a
threshold.   Among somatic effects, secondary cancer is the most important.           Secondary
cancer generally develops because radiation causes DNA mutations directly and indirectly.
Direct effects are those caused by ionizing particles and rays themselves, while the indirect
are those that are caused by free radicals, generated especially in water radiolysis and oxygen
radiolysis. The genetic effects confer the predisposition of cancer to the offspring.
     [0171      The response of a type of cancer cell to radiation is described by its
radiosensitivity.  Highly radiosensitive cancer cells are rapidly killed by modest doses of
radiation. Such cancer cells include leukemias, most lymphomas, and germ cell tumors. The
majority of epithelial cancers are only moderately radiosensitive, and require a significantly
higher dose of radiation, such as for example approximately 60 to 70 Gy (Grays) to achieve a
radical cure. Some types of cancer are notably radioresistant, that is, much higher doses are
required to produce a radical cure than may be safe in clinical practice. Renal cell cancer and
melanoma are generally considered to be radioresistant.
                                                 5

     [0181       The response of a tumor to radiation therapy can also be related to a size of the
tumor. For complex reasons, very large tumors respond less well to radiation than smaller
tumors or microscopic disease. Various strategies can be used to overcome this effect. The
most common technique is surgical resection prior to radiation therapy.         This approach is
most commonly seen in the treatment of breast cancer with wide local excision or
mastectomy followed by adjuvant radiation therapy. Another method involves shrinking the
tumor with neoadjuvant chemotherapy prior to radical radiation therapy. A third technique
involves enhancing the radiosensitivity of the cancer by giving certain drugs during a course
of radiation therapy.     Examples of radiosensitizing drugs include, but are not limited to
Cisplatin, Nimorazole, Cetuximab, and the like.
     [019]       Radiation therapy is itself painless to the patient. Many low-dose palliative
treatments (for example, radiation therapy to bony metastases) cause minimal or no side
effects, although short-term pain flare-up can be experienced in the days following treatment
due to edema compressing nerves in the treated area. Higher doses can cause varying side
effects during treatment (acute side effects), in the months or years following treatment (long
term side effects), or after re-treatment (cumulative side effects).       The nature, severity,
longevity, etc. of side effects depend on the radiosensitivity of organs that receive the
radiation,   the   treatment   itself (type   of   radiation, dose,   fractionation,  concurrent
chemotherapy), and the patient. Side effects from radiation are usually limited to the area of
the patient's body that is under treatment.
     [020]       The major side effects observed in the current art of radiation therapy are
fatigue and skin irritation.     The fatigue often sets in during the middle of a course of
treatment and can last for weeks after treatment ends. The irritated skin will heal, but may
not be as elastic as it was before. Many acute side effects are also observed.
                                                 6

     [0211      Acute     side  effects are   induced   either  immediately     or soon    after
commencement of irradiation. Such effects can include swelling (also referred to as edema
or oedema), nausea and vomiting, damage to epithelial surfaces, mouth and throat sores,
intestinal discomfort, infertility, and the like.   Late effects occur months to years after
treatment and are generally limited to the area that has been treated. They are often caused
by damage of blood vessels and connective tissue cells.        Severity of late effects can be
reduced by fractionating treatment into smaller parts. The damaged and dying cells in an
organ will signal and produce an inflammatory response to ionizing radiation, which is the
underlying cause of many of the acute effect listed below.
     [022]      As part of the general inflammation that occurs from radiation damage of
cells, swelling of soft tissues may cause problems during radiation therapy. This acute effect
can be a concern during treatment of brain tumors and brain metastases, especially where
there is pre-existing raised intracranial pressure or where the tumor is causing near-total
obstruction of a lumen (e.g., trachea or main bronchus).         Surgical intervention may be
considered prior to treatment with radiation.         If surgery is deemed unnecessary or
inappropriate, the patient may receive steroids during radiation therapy to reduce swelling.
     [023]      Nausea and vomiting are typically associated only with treatment of the
stomach or abdomen (which commonly react a few hours after treatment), or with radiation
therapy to certain nausea-producing structures in the head during treatment of certain head
and neck tumors, most commonly the vestibules of the inner ears. As with any distressing
treatment, some patients vomit immediately during radiotherapy, or even in anticipation of it,
but this is considered a psychological response. Nausea for any reason can be treated with
antiemetics.
     [024]      Epithelial surfaces may sustain damage from radiation therapy. Depending on
the area being treated, this may include the skin, oral mucosa, pharyngeal, bowel mucosa,
                                                7

ureter, etc. The rates of onset of damage and recovery from such damage depend upon the
turnover rate of epithelial cells. Typically, the skin starts to become pink and sore several
weeks into treatment. This reaction may become more severe during the treatment and for up
to about one week following the end of radiation therapy, and the skin may break down.
Although this moist desquamation is uncomfortable, recovery is usually quick.               Skin
reactions tend to be worse in areas where there are natural folds in the skin, such as
underneath the female breast, behind the ear, and in the groin.
     [025]      If the head and neck area is treated, temporary soreness and ulceration can
commonly occur in the mouth and throat. If severe, these effects can affect swallowing, and
the patient may need painkillers and nutritional support/food supplements.       The esophagus
can also become sore if it is treated directly, or if, as commonly occurs, it receives a dose of
collateral radiation during treatment of lung cancer.
     [0261      The lower bowel may be treated directly with radiation (treatment of rectal or
anal cancer) or be exposed by radiation therapy to other pelvic structures (prostate, bladder,
female genital tract). Typical symptoms can include soreness, diarrhea, and nausea.
     [0271      The gonads (ovaries and testicles) are very sensitive to radiation. They may
be unable to produce gametes following direct exposure to most normal treatment doses of
radiation. Treatment planning for all body sites is designed to minimize, if not completely
exclude, dose to the gonads if they are not the primary area of treatment. Infertility can be
efficiently avoided by sparing at least one gonad from radiation.
     [028]      Over the long term, other morphological changes due to cell death and
radiation denaturing or damaging of tissues will appear as late side effects, such as for
example fibrosis, epilation, dryness, lymphedema, cancer, heart disease, cognitive decline,
radiation proctitis, etc.
                                                 8

     [0291      Fibrosis refers to irradiated tissues tending to become less elastic over time
due to a diffuse scarring process. Epilation (hair loss) may occur on any hair bearing skin
with doses above 1 Gy.       It only occurs within the radiation field/s.   Hair loss may be
permanent with a single dose of 10 Gy, but if the dose is fractionated permanent hair loss
may not occur until dose exceeds 45 Gy.
     [0301      The salivary glands and tear glands have a radiation tolerance of about 30 Gy
in 2 Gy fractions, a dose which is exceeded by most radical head and neck cancer treatments.
Dry mouth (xerostomia) and dry eyes (xerophthalmia) can become irritating long-term
problems and severely reduce the patient's quality of life. Similarly, sweat glands in treated
skin (such as the armpit) tend to stop working, and the naturally moist vaginal mucosa is
often dry following pelvic irradiation.
     [0311      Lymphedema, a condition of localized fluid retention and tissue swelling, can
result from damage to the lymphatic system sustained during radiation therapy. It is the most
commonly reported complication in breast radiation therapy patients who receive adjuvant
axillary radiotherapy following surgery to clear the axillary lymph nodes .
     [032]      Radiation, while used to treat cancer, is at the same time a potential cause of
cancer, and secondary malignancies are seen in a very small minority of patients -      usually
less than 1/1000. Cancers resulting from radiation treatments typically arise 20 to 30 years
following treatment, although some haematological malignancies may develop within 5 to 10
years. In the vast majority of cases, this risk is greatly outweighed by the reduction in risk
conferred by treating the primary cancer. New cancers resulting from radiation treatment
typically occur within the treated area of the patient.
     [0331      Radiation has potentially excess risk of death from heart disease seen after
some past breast cancer RT regimens.
                                                 9

    [0341       In cases of radiation applied to the head radiation therapy may cause cognitive
decline. Cognitive decline was especially apparent in young children, between the ages of 5
to 11. Studies found, for example, that the IQ of 5 year old children declined each year after
treatment by several IQ points.
    [035]       Radiation proctitis can involve long-term effects on the rectum, including one
or more of bleeding, diarrhoea and urgency, and is generally associated with radiation
therapy to pelvic organs. Pelvic radiation therapy can also cause radiation cystitis when the
bladder is affected
SUMMARY
    [036]       In one aspect, a method includes comparing a subsequent edema analysis
performed after or during at least part of a course of radiation treatment to a baseline edema
analysis (performed previous to the subsequent edema analysis to estimate a change in edema
in patient tissues resulting from the course of radiation treatment, deriving an edema to
delivered dose correlation based at least in part on the change in edema in the patient tissue
correlated with a delivered dose of radiation during the course of radiation treatment, and
performing one or more clinical actions based on the edema to delivered dose correlation.
    [0371       In some variations one or more of the following can optionally be included.
The subsequent edema analysis and baseline edema analysis can each include at least one of
an MRI scan, a Ti-weighted MRI scan, a T2-weighted MRI scan, a ratio of Ti-weighted MRI
to Ti-weighted MRI scan results, and an MRI response ratio.For example, the subsequent
edema analysis can include a subsequent MRI scan and the baseline edema analysis
comprises a baseline MRI scan. Alternatively or in addition, the subsequent edema analysis
can include a subsequent ratio of a subsequent Ti-weighted scan and a subsequent T2
                                                10

weighted MRI scan and the baseline edema analysis comprises a ratio of a baseline Ti
weighted and a baseline T2-weighted MRI scan.
     [0381      The comparing can include quantifying changes in free hydrogen content in
the patient tissues as a proxy for the change in edema, and the quantifying can include
performing a differential analysis of the subsequent edema analysis and the baseline edema
analysis to derive a relative amount of free hydrogen as a function of location in the patient
tissue. The deriving of the edema to delivered dose correlation can include applying one or
more calculations or models of physical dose delivery to derive one or more of an amount of
radiation actually delivered to the patient tissue and an expected amount of radiation
delivered to the patient tissue.       The derived amount of radiation actually delivered or
expected to have been delivered can be based at least in part on one or more inputs
comprising a pre-radiation treatment plan and/or on a combined MRI and radiation delivery
approach that calculates received doses of radiation based on intra-fraction motions of the
patient tissue.
     [039]      The method can further include correlating the change in edema in the patient
tissue with the delivered dose. The correlating can include quantifying how the change in
edema corresponds to an expected outcome for the diseased tissue and surrounding tissues
relative to an expected value.     The expected value can be calculated using at least one of
empirical, experimental, and theoretical modeling approaches.         The one or more clinical
actions based on the edema to delivered dose correlation can include at least one of stopping
the course of treatment for further analysis, alerting a clinician, increasing an amount of
radiation delivered in a later fraction of the course of treatment, and reducing an amount of
radiation delivered in the later fraction of the course of treatment.
     [040]      Systems and methods consistent with this approach are described as well as
articles that comprise a tangibly embodied machine-readable medium operable to cause one
                                                 11

or more machines (e.g., computers, etc.) to result in operations described herein.
Alternatively, hardware, including but not limited to digital electronic circuitry, integrated
circuitry,  specially   designed application specific      integrated circuits  (ASICs),    field
programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) computer hardware, firmware, software, computing
systems, and/or combinations thereof, can be configured to perform one or more operations
described herein. A computing system may include a programmable processor, such as for
example a general purpose processor and a memory coupled to the processor. The memory
may include one or more programs that cause the programmable processor to perform one or
more of the operations described herein.
    [041]       The details of one or more variations of the subject matter described herein are
set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below.           Other features and
advantages of the subject matter described herein will be apparent from the description and
drawings, and from the claims.
DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
    [042]       The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part
of this specification, show certain aspects of the subject matter disclosed herein and, together
with the description, help explain some of the principles associated with the disclosed
implementations. In the drawings,
    [043]       FIG. 1 shows a schematic diagram of a radiation therapy system;
    [044]       FIG. 2 shows a schematic diagram illustrating a demonstration of gantry
rotation;
    [045]       FIG. 3 shows a schematic diagram illustrating a top view of the system shown
in FIG. 1;
                                                12

    [0461      FIG. 4 shows a schematic diagram illustrating a side view of the system shown
in FIG. 1;
    [0471      FIG. 5 shows a detailed schematic of a co-registered isotopic radiation source
with a multi-leaf collimator, such as for example that shown in FIG. 1 through FIG. 4;
    [0481      FIG. 6 shows a first MRI scan image illustrating a Ti-weighted scan result;
    [049]      FIG. 7 shows a second MRI scan image illustrating a T2-weighted scan result;
    [050]      FIG. 8 shows a process flow diagram illustrating aspects of a method having
one or more features consistent with implementations of the current subject matter; and
    [051]      FIG. 9 shows a diagram illustrating features of a system consistent with
implementations of the current subject matter.
    [052]      When practical, similar reference numbers denote similar structures, features,
or elements.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
    [0531      Physiological changes that occur in tissues due to ionizing radiation create
changes that can be detected with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as changes in anatomic
morphology and signal intensity.      In the prior, diagnostic art of MRI, these changes are
generally considered to be impediments to further diagnosis and follow up and are described
to avoid misinterpretation in a MRI diagnostic study. As an example, see "MRI appearance
of radiation-induced changes of normal cervical tissues," N6mayr A, Lell M, Sweeney R,
Bautz W, Lukas P. Eur Radiol. 2001;11(9):1807-17.
    [054]      In contrast, implementations of the current subject matter treat these changes
are not merely impediments to proper radiologic diagnosis, but rather as useful tools in the
assessment and improvement of radiation treatment techniques.
                                               13

    [055]       In currently available approaches, assessments of the probability that a disease
under radiation treatment will be eradicated by radiotherapy or that a side effect will occur
typically involves evaluating dose-volume information derived from a patient treatment plan.
Changes in patient geometry and anatomy can cause the delivered dose to differ from the
planned dose.     As described in co-owned U.S. patent no. 7,907,987, improvements in
radiation treatment can include accounting for the presence of patient motions and changes
over the course of a radiation therapy delivery regime, for example by incorporating real-time
simultaneous magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) into the radiation delivery process.           The
microenvironment of the tumor and healthy tissues being irradiated can also be influenced by
the 4R's discussed above. However, effective and practical methods of in vivo assessment of
such physiological reactions to radiotherapy have not previously existed.
    [056]       The current subject matter includes approaches to acquiring, evaluating, and
incorporating additional MRI data that can be obtained during a course of radiation therapy to
improve a clinician's ability to assess the probability that the disease under radiation
treatment will be eradicated or that a side effect will occur in a given patient that is
undergoing radiation therapy.        The assessment can be based at least in part on the
measurement of physiological and morphological changes in the patient's tissues in response
to the delivered radiation.     This information can then be incorporated into the medical
management and treatment of the patient to improve therapy outcomes and to mitigate side
effects.
    [0571       The amount of radiation used in photon radiation therapy is measured in gray
(Gy), and varies depending on the type and stage of cancer being treated. For curative cases,
the typical dose for a solid epithelial tumor ranges from 60 to 80 Gy, while lymphomas are
treated with 20 to 40 Gy. Preventative (adjuvant) doses are typically around 45 to 60 Gy in
fractions of 1.8 to 2 Gy (e.g., for breast, head, and neck cancers). Radiation oncologists may
                                                 14

consider other factors when selecting a dose, including whether the patient is receiving
chemotherapy, patient comorbidities, whether radiation therapy is being administered before
or after surgery, and the degree of success of surgery.
     [0581      Delivery parameters of a prescribed dose are determined during treatment
planning (e.g. as part of a dosimetry analysis or other process).         Treatment planning is
generally performed on dedicated computers using specialized treatment planning software.
Depending on the radiation delivery method, several angles or sources may be used to sum to
the total necessary dose. A treatment planner generally seeks to design a plan that delivers a
uniform prescription dose to the tumor and minimizes dose delivered to surrounding healthy
tissues. The likelihood of controlling or curing the disease and the probability of side effect
is determined by evaluating dose and dose-volume criteria that have been established through
clinical experience and clinical trials.
     [059]      The total dose delivered for a course of radiation therapy may be delivered in a
single dose or fractionated (spread out over time). Fractionation allows normal cells time to
recover, while tumor cells are generally less efficient in repair between fractions.
Fractionation also allows tumor cells that were in a relatively radiation-resistant phase of the
cell cycle during one treatment fraction to cycle into a sensitive phase of the cycle before the
next treatment fraction is delivered. Similarly, tumor cells that were chronically or acutely
hypoxic (and therefore more radiation-resistant) may re-oxygenate between fractions,
improving the tumor cell kill. Fractionation regimens are individualized between different
radiation therapy centers and even between individual doctors.         The typical fractionation
schedule for adults is 1.8 to 2 Gy per day, five days a week.            In some cancer types,
prolongation of the fraction schedule over too long can allow for the tumor to begin
repopulating, and for these tumor types, including head-and-neck and cervical squamous cell
cancers, radiation treatment is preferably completed within a certain amount of time. For
                                                15

children, a typical fraction size may be approximately 1.5 to 1.8 Gy per day, as smaller
fraction sizes are associated with reduced incidence and severity of late effects in normal
tissues.
     [060]      In some cases, two fractions per day are used near the end of a course of
treatment.   This schedule, known as a concomitant boost regimen or hyperfractionation, is
used on tumors that regenerate more quickly when they are smaller. In particular, tumors in
the head-and-neck demonstrate this behavior.
     [0611      Recently hypofractionation has become more common.          This is a radiation
treatment in which the total dose of radiation is divided into large doses, and treatments are
given less than once a day.        Typical doses vary significantly by cancer type, from
approximately 3Gy per fraction to approximately 20Gy per fraction. A hypofractionation
approach generally attempts to lessen the possibility of the cancer returning by not giving the
cells enough time to reproduce. For single dose delivery or hypofractionation extra care is
often taking in localizing and immobilizing the patient often with methods of stereotaxis.
     [062]      With brachytherapy, implants can be continuously fractionated over minutes
or hours, or they can be permanent seeds, which slowly deliver radiation continuously until
they become inactive.
     [0631      Magnetic resonance imaging can be used to assess inflammatory and other
responses in human tissues and tumors to provide a better measure of cell damage and tissue
response than the physical dose distribution. Differences in radiosensitivity that may exist in
the tumor or organ microenvironment or genetically from patient to patient will be accounted
for with such a method.
     [064]      Many     types  of MRI    scans   can   assess   inflammatory   response    and
morphological changes induced by ionizing radiation. Examples of MRI scans include basic
                                              16

MRI scans (e.g., Ti-weighted MRI, T2-weighted MRI, T*2-weighted MRI, Spin density
weighted MRI, and the like) and specialized MRI scans (e.g., diffusion MRI, magnetization
transfer   MRI,    Tip   MRI,   Fluid attenuated     inversion recovery,    magnetic    resonance
angiography, magnetic resonance gated intracranial CSF dynamics; magnetic resonance
spectroscopy, magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging, functional MRI, and the like).
     [065]       Ti-weighted scans refer to a set of standard scans that depict differences in the
spin-lattice (or Ti) relaxation time of various tissues within the body. Ti-weighted images
can be acquired using either spin echo or gradient-echo sequences. Ti-weighted contrast can
be increased with the application of an inversion recovery RF pulse. Gradient-echo based Ti
weighted sequences can be acquired very rapidly because of their ability to use short inter
pulse repetition times (TR).      Ti-weighted sequences are often collected before and after
infusion of Ti-shortening MRI contrast agents.         In the brain Ti-weighted scans provide
appreciable contrast between gray and white matter. In the body, Ti-weighted scans work
well for differentiating fat from water, with water appearing darker and fat brighter.
     [066]       T2-weighted scans refer to a set of standard scans that depict differences in the
spin-spin (or T2) relaxation time of various tissues within the body. Like the Ti-weighted
scan, fat is differentiated from water. However, in T2-weighted scans fat shows darker, and
water lighter. For example, in the case of cerebral and spinal study, the CSF (cerebrospinal
fluid) will be lighter in T2-weighted images.       These scans are therefore particularly well
suited to imaging edema, with long echo times (TE) and long TR. Because the spin echo
sequence is less susceptible to inhomogeneities in the magnetic field, these images have long
been a clinical workhorse.
     [0671       T*2 (pronounced "T 2 star") weighted scans use a gradient echo (GRE)
sequence, with long TE and long TR.         The GRE sequence used does not have the extra
refocusing pulse used in spin echo so it is subject to additional losses above the normal T2
                                                17

decay (referred to as T2').       These additional losses tend to make T*2 more prone to
susceptibility losses at air-tissue boundaries, but can increase contrast for certain types of
tissue, such as venous blood.
     [0681      Spin density, which is also referred to as proton density, weighted scans are
generally intended to have no contrast from either T2 or Ti decay, with the only signal change
coming from differences in the amount of available spins (hydrogen nuclei in water).       This
approach uses a spin echo or sometimes a gradient echo sequence, with short TE and long
TR.
     [0691      Diffusion MRI, a type of specialized MRI scan, measures the diffusion of
water molecules in biological tissues. Clinically, diffusion MRI is useful for the diagnoses of
conditions (e.g., stroke) or neurological disorders (e.g., Multiple Sclerosis), and helps
improve understanding of the connectivity of white matter axons in the central nervous
system.    In an isotropic medium (inside a glass of water for example), water molecules
naturally move randomly according to turbulence and Brownian motion.              In biological
tissues, however, where the Reynolds number is low enough for flows to be laminar, the
diffusion may be anisotropic. For example, a molecule inside the axon of a neuron has a low
probability of crossing the myelin membrane.       Therefore the molecule moves principally
along the axis of the neural fiber. If it is known that molecules in a particular voxel diffuse
principally in one direction, the assumption can be made that the majority of the fibers in this
area are going parallel to that direction.
     [0701      The recent development of diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) enables diffusion to
be measured in multiple directions and the fractional anisotropy in each direction to be
calculated for each voxel. This development can enable researchers to make brain maps of
fiber directions to examine the connectivity of different regions in the brain (using
                                                18

tractography) or to examine areas of neural degeneration and demyelination in diseases like
multiple sclerosis.
     [0711      Another application of diffusion MRI is diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI).
Following an ischemic stroke, DWI is highly sensitive to the changes occurring in the lesion.
It is speculated that increases in restriction (barriers) to water diffusion, as a result of
cytotoxic edema (cellular swelling), can be responsible for the increase in signal on a DWI
scan. The DWI enhancement appears within 5-10 minutes of the onset of stroke symptoms
(as compared with computed tomography, which often does not detect changes of acute
infarct for up to 4-6 hours) and remains for up to two weeks . Coupled with imaging of
cerebral perfusion, researchers can highlight regions of "perfusion/diffusion mismatch" that
may indicate regions capable of salvage by reperfusion therapy.
     [072]      Like many other specialized applications, this technique is usually coupled
with a fast image acquisition sequence, such as echo planar imaging sequence.
     [073]      Magnetization    transfer  (MT)   refers  to  the  transfer  of  longitudinal
magnetization from free water protons to hydration water protons in NMR and MRI.           In
magnetic resonance imaging of molecular solutions, such as protein solutions, two types of
water molecules, free (bulk) and hydration (bound), are found.      Free water protons have
faster average rotational frequency and hence less fixed water molecules that may cause local
field inhomogeneity. Because of this uniformity, most free water protons have a resonance
frequency lying narrowly around the normal proton resonance frequency of 63 MHz (at 1.5
teslas). This also results in slower transverse magnetization dephasing and hence longer T2.
Conversely, hydration water molecules are slowed down by interaction with solute molecules
and hence create field inhomogeneities that lead to wider resonance frequency spectrum.
                                               19

    [0741       In free liquids, protons, which may be viewed classically as small magnetic
dipoles, exhibit translational and rotational motions.     These moving dipoles disturb the
surrounding    magnetic    field however   on long enough time-scales        (which may be
nanoseconds) the average field caused by the motion of protons is zero. This effect is known
as "motional averaging" or narrowing and is characteristic of protons moving freely in a
liquid phase. On the other hand, protons bound to macromolecules, such as proteins, tend to
have a fixed orientation and so the average magnetic field in close proximity to such
structures does not average to zero. The result is a spatial pattern in the magnetic field that
gives rise to a residual dipolar coupling (range of precession frequencies) for the protons
experiencing the magnetic field.       The wide frequency distribution appears as a broad
spectrum that may be several kHz wide. The net signal from these protons disappears very
quickly, in inverse proportion to the width, due to the loss of coherence of the spins, i.e. T2
relaxation. Due to exchange mechanisms, such as spin transfer or proton chemical exchange,
the (incoherent) spins bound to the macromolecules continually switch places with (coherent)
spins in the bulk media and establish a dynamic equilibrium.
    [0751       Although there is generally no measurable signal from the bound spins, or the
bound spins that exchange into the bulk media, their longitudinal magnetization is preserved
and may typically recover only via the relatively slow process of T] relaxation.         If the
longitudinal magnetization of just the bound spins can be altered, then the effect can be
measured in the spins of the bulk media due to the exchange processes. A magnetization
transfer sequence applies radiofrequency (RF) saturation at a frequency that is far off
resonance for the narrow line of bulk water but still on resonance for the bound protons with
a spectral linewidth on the order of kHz. The RF application causes saturation of the bound
spins which exchange into the bulk water, resulting in a loss of longitudinal magnetization
and hence signal decrease in the bulk water, thereby providing an indirect measure of
                                               20

macromolecular content in tissue.         Implementation of magnetization transfer involves
choosing suitable frequency offsets and pulse shapes to saturate the bound spins sufficiently
strongly, within the safety limits of specific absorption rate for RF irradiation.
     [076]       Tip MRI generally relies upon the fact that molecules have a kinetic energy
that is a function of the temperature and is expressed as translational and rotational motions,
and by collisions between molecules. The moving dipoles disturb the magnetic field but are
often extremely rapid so that the average effect over a long time-scale may be zero.
However, depending on the time-scale, the interactions between the dipoles do not always
average away. At the slowest extreme the interaction time is effectively infinite and occurs
where there are large, stationary field disturbances (e.g. a metallic implant). In this case the
loss of coherence is described as a "static dephasing".         T*2 is a measure of the loss of
coherence in an ensemble of spins that include all interactions (including static dephasing).
T2  is a measure of the loss of coherence that excludes static dephasing, using an RF pulse to
reverse the slowest types of dipolar interaction. There is in fact a continuum of interaction
time-scales in a given biological sample and the properties of the refocusing RF pulse can be
tuned to refocus more than just static dephasing. In general, the rate of decay of an ensemble
of spins is a function of the interaction times and also the power of the RF pulse.
Measurement of spin-lattice relaxation time in the rotating frame occurring under the
influence of RF, is known as Tip. It is similar to       T2 decay but with some slower dipolar
interactions refocused as well as the static interactions, hence Tip >_T2.
     [0771      Fluid attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) is an inversion-recovery pulse
sequence used to null signal from fluids. For example, it can be used in brain imaging to
suppress cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) so as to bring out the periventricular hyperintense lesions,
such as multiple sclerosis (MS) plaques. By carefully choosing the inversion time TI (the
                                                 21

time between the inversion and excitation pulses), the signal from any particular tissue can be
suppressed.
     [078]      Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) generates pictures of the arteries to
evaluate them for stenosis (abnormal narrowing) or aneurysms (vessel wall dilatations, at risk
of rupture). MRA is often used to evaluate the arteries of the neck and brain, the thoracic and
abdominal aorta, the renal arteries, and the legs (called a "run-off'). A variety of techniques
can be used to generate the pictures, such as administration of a paramagnetic contrast agent
(gadolinium) or using a technique known as "flow-related enhancement" (e.g. 2D and 3D
time-of-flight sequences), where most of the signal on an image is due to blood that recently
moved into that plane. Fast low angle shot (FLASH) MRI is a related technique. Techniques
involving phase accumulation (known as phase contrast angiography) can also be used to
generate flow velocity maps easily and accurately. Magnetic resonance venography (MRV)
is a similar procedure that is used to image veins. In this method, the tissue is now excited
inferiorly, while signal is gathered in the plane immediately superior to the excitation plane
thus imaging the venous blood that recently moved from the excited plane.
     [0791      A magnetic resonance gated intracranial cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) or liquor
dynamics (MR-GILD) technique is an MR sequence based on bipolar gradient pulse used to
demonstrate CSF pulsatile flow in ventricles, cisterns, aqueduct of Sylvius and entire
intracranial CSF pathway. It is a method for analyzing CSF circulatory system dynamics in
patients with CSF obstructive lesions such as normal pressure hydrocephalus. It also allows
visualization of both arterial and venous pulsatile blood flow in vessels without use of
contrast agents.
     [080]      Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) can be used to measure the levels of
different metabolites in body tissues. The MR signal produces a spectrum of resonances that
correspond to different molecular arrangements of the isotope being "excited."              This
                                                22

signature can be used to diagnose certain metabolic disorders, especially those affecting the
brain, and to provide information on tumor metabolism. Magnetic resonance spectroscopic
imaging (MRSI) combines both spectroscopic and imaging methods to produce spatially
localized spectra from within the sample or patient. The spatial resolution is much lower
(limited by the available SNR), but the spectra in each voxel contains information about
many metabolites.      Because the available signal is used to encode spatial and spectral
information, MRSI requires high SNR achievable only at higher field strengths (3 T and
above).
     [081]     Functional MRI (fMRI) measures signal changes in the brain that are due to
changing neural activity. The brain is scanned at low resolution but at a rapid rate (typically
once every 2-3 seconds). Increases in neural activity cause changes in the MR signal via T*2
changes. This mechanism is referred to as the blood-oxygen-level dependent (BOLD) effect.
Increased neural activity causes an increased demand for oxygen, and the vascular system
actually overcompensates for this, increasing the amount of oxygenated hemoglobin relative
to deoxygenated hemoglobin. Because deoxygenated hemoglobin attenuates the MR signal,
the vascular response leads to a signal increase that is related to the neural activity. The
precise nature of the relationship between neural activity and the BOLD signal is a subject of
current research. The BOLD effect also allows for the generation of high resolution 3D maps
of the venous vasculature within neural tissue.
     [082]     While a BOLD signal is the most common method employed for neuroscience
studies in human subjects, the flexible nature of MR imaging provides means to sensitize the
signal to other aspects of the blood supply.      Alternative techniques employ arterial spin
labeling (ASL) or weight the MRI signal by cerebral blood flow (CBF) and cerebral blood
volume (CBV). The CBV method requires injection of a class of MRI contrast agents that
are now in human clinical trials. Because this method has been shown to be far more
                                               23

sensitive than the BOLD technique in preclinical studies, it may potentially expand the role
of fMRI in clinical applications.   The CBF method provides more quantitative information
than the BOLD signal, albeit at a significant loss of detection sensitivity.
     [083]      The acute and late responses of human tissues to ionizing radiation can be
imaged with MRI techniques during treatment to assess the true radiosensitivity modified
response of tissue and tumor to the delivered ionizing radiation.        For example, epithelial
surfaces may sustain damage from radiation therapy and internal surfaces may thicken which
can be detected and measured with Ti, T2, T*2, or spin density imaging. In other examples,
imaging can detect irradiated tissues that tend to become less elastic over time due to a
diffuse scarring process. Fibrotic response can be imaged, as well as Lymphedema, which is
a condition of localized fluid retention and tissue swelling resulting from damage to the
lymphatic system sustained during radiation therapy. Lymphedema is the most commonly
reported complication in breast radiation therapy patients who receive adjuvant axillary
radiotherapy following surgery to clear the axillary lymph nodes).
     [084]      Edema is part of the general inflammation that occurs from radiation damage
of cells, as further explained below, and can be directly measured with T] and T2 weighted
MRI consistent with implementations of the current subject matter which includes
techniques, methods, systems, apparatus, articles, etc. relating to tracking of radiation damage
via inflammatory response expressed as edema. Quantitative measurements of inflammation
response can result from measures the swelling due to acute inflammation inside a patient's
tissue with MRI radiography.
     [085]      Inflammation is part of the complex biological response of vascular tissues to
harmful stimuli, such as ionizing radiation. Other stimuli such as cancerous tumor invasion,
pathogens, damaged cells or irritants can also cause inflammation, but baseline measurements
and    assessment    can  be  separated   from    ionizing   radiation   induced   inflammation.
                                               24

Inflammation is a protective attempt by the organism to remove the injurious stimuli, dead
cells or matter and to initiate the healing process.         Inflammation is considered as a
mechanism of innate immunity or sensitivity to the stimulus causing it.           It is also an
important mechanism for the healing of wounds and infections.                However, chronic
inflammation can also lead to a host of diseases, such as hay fever, periodontitis,
atherosclerosis,    rheumatoid arthritis,  and even cancer (e.g., gallbladder       carcinoma).
Therefore, inflammation is closely regulated by the body.
     [0861       Inflammation can be classified as either acute or chronic. Acute inflammation
is the initial response of the body to harmful stimuli and is achieved by the increased
movement of plasma and leukocytes (especially granulocytes) from the blood into the injured
tissues. A cascade of biochemical events propagates and matures the inflammatory response,
involving the local vascular system, the immune system, and various cells within the injured
tissue. Prolonged inflammation, known as chronic inflammation, leads to a progressive shift
in the type of cells present at the site of inflammation and is characterized by simultaneous
destruction and healing of the tissue from the inflammatory process.
     [0871       The classic signs and symptoms of acute inflammation are redness, swelling,
heat, pain, and loss of tissue function. Any sign may be observed in specific instances, but no
single sign must, as a matter of course, be present. Typically inflammation is observed
visually and qualitatively by external examination by a medical practitioner.       The classic
signs appear when acute inflammation occurs on a body's                surface, whereas acute
inflammation of internal organs may not result in the full set. Pain generally results only
where the appropriate sensory nerve endings exist in the inflamed area. For example, acute
inflammation of the lung (pneumonia) does not cause pain unless the inflammation involves
the parietal pleura, which does have pain-sensitive nerve endings.
                                                25

     [0881      Acute inflammation is a short-term process, usually appearing within a few
minutes or hours and ceasing upon the removal of the injurious stimulus. Redness and heat
are due to increased blood flow at body core temperature to the inflamed site, swelling is
caused by accumulation of fluid, and pain is due to release of chemicals that stimulate nerve
endings. Loss of function can have multiple causes.
     [0891      Cells present in all tissues, such as for example resident macrophages,
dendritic cells, histiocytes, Kupffer cells, mastocytes, etc. typically initiate the process of
acute inflammation.     These cells present on their surfaces certain receptors named pattern
recognition receptors (PRRs), which recognize molecules that are broadly shared by
pathogens but distinguishable from host molecules, collectively referred to as pathogen
associated molecular patterns (PAMPs). At the onset of an infection, burn, or other injuries,
these cells undergo activation (i.e., one of their PRRs recognize a PAMP) and release
inflammatory mediators responsible for the clinical signs of inflammation. Vasodilation and
its resulting increased blood flow causes the redness (rubor) and increased heat (calor).
Increased permeability of the blood vessels results in an exudation (leakage) of plasma
proteins and fluid into the tissue (edema), which manifests itself as swelling (tumor). Some
of the released mediators such as bradykinin increase the sensitivity to pain (hyperalgesia,
dolor).    The mediator molecules also alter the blood vessels to permit the migration of
leukocytes, mainly neutrophils, outside of the blood vessels (extravasation) into the tissue.
The neutrophils migrate along a chemotactic gradient created by the local cells to reach the
site of injury.  The loss of function (functio laesa) is probably the result of a neurological
reflex in response to pain.
     [090]      In addition to cell-derived mediators, several acellular biochemical cascade
systems consisting of preformed plasma proteins act in parallel to initiate and propagate the
                                              26

inflammatory response. These include the complement system activated by bacteria, and the
coagulation and fibrinolysis systems activated by necrosis, e.g. a bum or a trauma.
     [091]        The acute inflammatory response requires constant stimulation to be sustained.
Inflammatory mediators have short half lives and are quickly degraded in the tissue. Hence,
acute inflammation generally ceases and diminishes once the stimulus has been removed.
     [092]        The exudative component involves the movement of plasma fluid, containing
important proteins such as fibrin and immunoglobulins (antibodies), into inflamed tissue.
This movement is achieved via the chemically induced dilation and increased permeability of
blood vessels, which results in a net loss of blood plasma. The increased collection of fluid
into the tissue causes it to swell (edema). This extravasated fluid is funneled by lymphatics
to the regional lymph nodes, flushing bacteria along to start the recognition and attack phase
of the adaptive immune system.
     [0931        Acute inflammation is characterized by marked vascular changes, including
but not necessarily limited to vasodilation, increased permeability, and increased blood flow,
which are induced by the actions of various inflammatory mediators.            Vasodilation occurs
first at the arteriole level, progressing to the capillary level, and can bring about a net increase
in the amount of blood present, which can in turn cause the redness and heat of inflammation.
Increased permeability of the vessels results in the movement of plasma into the tissues, with
resultant stasis due to the increase in the concentration of the cells within blood. Enlarged
vessels packed with cells typically characterize this condition. Stasis allows leukocytes to
marginate (move) along the endothelium, a process critical to their recruitment into the
tissues. Normal flowing blood prevents this, as the shearing force along the periphery of the
vessels moves cells in the blood into the middle of the vessel.
                                                  27

     [0941      Inflammation orchestrates the microenvironment around tumors, which can
contribute to proliferation, survival and migration. Cancer cells use selectins, chemokines
and their receptors for invasion, migration, metastasis, and the like. On the other hand, many
cells of the immune system contribute to cancer immunology, suppressing cancer. Molecular
intersection between receptors of steroid hormones, which have important effects on cellular
development, and transcription factors that play key roles in inflammation, such as NF-KB,
may mediate some of the most critical effects of inflammatory stimuli on cancer cells. This
capacity of a mediator of inflammation to influence the effects of steroid hormones in cells is
very likely to affect carcinogenesis in some examples. On the other hand, due to the modular
nature of many steroid hormone receptors, this interaction may offer ways to interfere with
cancer progression, for example through targeting of a specific protein domain in a specific
cell type. Such an approach may limit side effects that are unrelated to the tumor of interest,
and may help preserve vital homeostatic functions and developmental processes in the
organism.
     [095]      The outcome in a particular circumstance will be determined by the tissue in
which the injury has occurred and the injurious agent that is causing it. Possible outcomes to
inflammation can include resolution, fibrosis, abcess formation, chronic inflammation,
swelling, and the like.
     [0961      Resolution is the complete restoration of the inflamed tissue back to a normal
status. Inflammatory measures such as vasodilation, chemical production, and leukocyte
infiltration cease, and damaged parenchymal cells regenerate. In situations where limited or
short lived inflammation has occurred this is usually the outcome.
     [0971      Large amounts of tissue destruction, or damage in tissues unable to regenerate,
may not be completely regenerated by the body. Fibrosis refers to fibrous scarring which
occurs in these areas of damage to form a scar composed primarily of collagen. The scar will
                                               28

not contain any specialized structures, such as parenchymal cells. Accordingly, functional
impairment may occur.
     [098]      Abscess formation includes formation of a cavity containing pus, which is an
opaque liquid containing dead white blood cells and bacteria with general debris from
destroyed cells.
     [099]      If   an  injurious agent   causing    acute  inflammation   persists,  chronic
inflammation will ensue. This process, marked by inflammation lasting many days, months
or even years, may lead to the formation of a chronic wound.         Chronic inflammation is
characterized by the dominating presence of macrophages in the injured tissue. These cells
are powerful defensive agents of the body, but the toxins they release (including reactive
oxygen species) are injurious to the organism's own tissues as well as invading agents.
Consequently, chronic inflammation is almost always accompanied by tissue destruction.
     [0100]     In medical parlance, swelling, turgescence, or tumefaction is a transient
abnormal enlargement of a body part or area not caused by proliferation of cells. It is caused
by accumulation of fluid in tissues.   It can occur throughout the body (generalized), or a
specific part or organ can be affected (localized).    Swelling is considered one of the five
characteristics of inflammation along with pain, heat, redness, and loss of function. A body
part may swell in response to injury, infection, or disease. Swelling can occur if the body is
not circulating fluid well.
     [0101]     Generalized swelling, or massive edema (also called anasarca) is a common
sign in severely ill people. Although slight edema may be difficult to detect to the untrained
eye, especially in an overweight person, massive edema is generally very obvious. Edema
(American English) or oedema (British English), formerly known as dropsy or hydropsy, is
an abnormal accumulation of fluid beneath the skin or in one or more cavities of the body
                                              29

that produces swelling.     Generally, the amount of interstitial fluid is determined by the
balance of fluid homeostasis, and increased secretion of fluid into the interstitium or impaired
removal of this fluid may cause edema.
     [0102]     Cutaneous edema is referred to as "pitting" when, after pressure is applied to a
small area, the indentation persists for some time after the release of the pressure. Peripheral
pitting edema is the more common type, resulting from water retention and can be caused by
systemic diseases, pregnancy in some women, either directly or as a result of heart failure, or
local conditions such as varicose veins, thrombophlebitis, insect bites, and dermatitis. Non
pitting edema is observed when the indentation does not persist. It is associated with such
conditions as lymphedema, lipedema and myxedema.
     [0103]     Causes of edema which are generalized to the whole body can cause edema in
multiple organs and peripherally.     For example, severe heart failure can cause pulmonary
edema, pleural effusions, ascites and peripheral edema.
     [0104]     Although a low plasma oncotic pressure is widely cited for the edema of
nephrotic syndrome, most physicians note that the edema may occur before there is any
significant protein in the urine (proteinuria) or fall in plasma protein level. Fortunately there
is another explanation available. Most forms of nephrotic syndrome are due to biochemical
and structural changes in the basement membrane of capillaries in the kidney glomeruli, and
these changes occur, if to a lesser degree, in the vessels of most other tissues of the body.
Thus the resulting increase in permeability that leads to protein in the urine can explain the
edema if all other vessels are more permeable as well.
     [0105]     As well as the previously mentioned conditions, edemas often occur during the
late stages of pregnancy in some women. This is more common with those of a history of
pulmonary problems or poor circulation also being intensified if arthritis is already present in
                                                30

that particular woman. Women that already have arthritic problems most often have to seek
medical help for pain caused from over-reactive swelling.           Edemas that occur during
pregnancy are usually found in the lower part of the leg, usually from the calf down.
    [0106]      An edema can occur in specific organs as part of inflammations, tendinitis, or
pancreatitis, for example. Certain organs develop edema through tissue specific mechanisms.
For example, cerebral edema is extracellular fluid accumulation in the brain. It can occur in
toxic or abnormal metabolic states and conditions such as systemic lupus or reduced oxygen
at high altitudes. It causes drowsiness or loss of consciousness.     Pulmonary edema occurs
when the pressure in blood vessels in the lung is raised because of obstruction to remove
blood via the pulmonary veins. This is usually due to failure of the left ventricle of the heart.
It can also occur in altitude sickness or on inhalation of toxic chemicals. Pulmonary edema
produces shortness of breath. Pleural effusions may occur when fluid also accumulates in the
pleural cavity.   Edema may also be found in the cornea of the eye with glaucoma, severe
conjunctivitis or keratitis or after surgery.   Such edemas may result in the patient seeing
colored haloes around bright lights. Edema surrounding the eyes is called periorbital edema
or eye puffiness.     The periorbital tissues are most noticeably swollen immediately after
waking, perhaps as a result of the gravitational redistribution of fluid in the horizontal
position.
    [0107]      Common appearances of cutaneous edema are observed with mosquito bites,
spider bites, bee stings (wheal and flare), and skin contact with certain plants such as Poison
Ivy or Western Poison Oak, the latter of which are termed contact dermatitis.            Another
cutaneous form of edema is myxedema, which is caused by increased deposition of
connective tissue. In myxedema (and a variety of other rarer conditions) edema is caused by
an increased tendency of the tissue to hold water within its extracellular space. In myxedema
this is because of an increase in hydrophilic carbohydrate-rich molecules (perhaps mostly
                                               31

hyaluronan) deposited in the tissue matrix. Edema forms more easily in dependent areas in
the elderly (sitting in chairs at home or on airplanes) and this is not well understood.
Estrogens alter body weight in part through changes in tissue water content. There may be a
variety of poorly understood situations in which transfer of water from tissue matrix to
lymphatics is impaired because of changes in the hydrophilicity of the tissue or failure of the
"wicking" function of terminal lymphatic capillaries.
     [0108]     In lymphedema, abnormal removal of interstitial fluid is caused by failure of
the lymphatic system. This may be due to obstruction from, for example, pressure from a
cancer or enlarged lymph nodes, destruction of lymph vessels by radiotherapy, or infiltration
of the lymphatics by infection (such as elephantiasis). It is most commonly due to a failure of
the pumping action of muscles due to immobility, most strikingly in conditions such as
multiple sclerosis, or paraplegia. Lymphatic return of fluid is also dependent on a pumping
action of structures known as lymph hearts. It has been suggested that the edema that occurs
in some people following use of aspirin-like cyclo-oxygenase inhibitors such as ibuprofen or
indomethacin may be due to inhibition of lymph heart action.
     [0109]     Factors that can contribute to the formation of edema include increased
hydrostatic pressure, reduced oncotic pressure within blood vessels, increased tissue oncotic
pressure, increased blood vessel wall permeability (e.g., inflammation), obstruction of fluid
clearance via the lymphatic system, and changes in the water retaining properties of the
tissues themselves. Raised hydrostatic pressure often reflects retention of water and sodium
by the kidney.
     [0110]     Generation of interstitial fluid is regulated by the forces of the Starling
equation, which can be represented by the is the net fluid movement between compartments
J, as follows:
                                               32

     [0111]       J, =KFD1)
     [01121      where Kf is the filtration coefficient (a proportionality constant), and the net
driving force FD can be represented as
     [0113]       FD=[Pc     Pc    [                                                           (2)
     [0114]      where Pc is the capillary hydrostatic pressure, Pi is the interstitial hydrostatic
pressure, c is the capillary oncotic pressure, ri is the interstitial oncotic pressure, , and - is
the reflection coefficient.
     [0115]      Hydrostatic pressure within blood vessels tends to cause water to filter out into
the tissue. This leads to a difference in protein concentration between blood plasma and
tissue. As a result, the oncotic pressure of the higher level of protein in the plasma tends to
draw water back into the blood vessels from the tissue. Starling's equation states that the rate
of leakage of fluid is determined by the difference between the two forces and also by the
permeability of the vessel wall to water, which determines the rate of flow for a given force
imbalance. Most water leakage occurs in capillaries or post capillary venules, which have a
semi-permeable membrane wall that allows water to pass more freely than protein.               The
protein is said to be reflected and the efficiency of reflection is given by a reflection constant
of up to 1. If the gaps between the cells of the vessel wall open up then permeability to water
is increased first, but as the gaps increase in size, permeability to protein also increases with a
fall in reflection coefficient.
     [0116]      Changes in values of the variables in Starling's equation can contribute to the
formation of edemas either by an increase in hydrostatic pressure within the blood vessel, a
decrease in the oncotic pressure within the blood vessel or an increase in vessel wall
permeability. The latter has two effects. It allows water to flow more freely and it reduces
the oncotic pressure difference by allowing protein to leave the vessel more easily.
                                                 33

    [0117]       The Dose-volume histogram (DVH) us a concept used in radiation treatment
planning. DVHs were introduced by Michael Goitein, who also introduced radiation therapy
concepts     such as the     "beam's-eye-view,"    "digitally reconstructed radiograph,"  and
uncertainty/error in planning and positioning, among others, and Verhey in 1979 in a
publication by Shipley et al. A DVH summarizes 3D dose distributions in a graphical 2D
format.    In modem radiation therapy, 3D dose distributions are typically created in a
computerized treatment planning system based on a 3D reconstruction of a CT or MR scan.
The "volume" referred to in DVH analysis can be a target of radiation treatment, a healthy
organ nearby a target, or an arbitrary structure.
    [0118]       DVHs can be visualized in either of two ways: differential DVHs or
cumulative DVHs. A DVH is created by first determining the size of the dose bins of the
histogram. Bins can be of arbitrary size, for example, 0 to 1 Gy, 1.001 to 2 Gy, 2.001 to 3
Gy, etc.    In a differential DVH, bar or column height indicates the volume of structure
receiving a dose given by the bin. Bin doses are along the horizontal axis, and structure
volumes (either percent or absolute volumes) are on the vertical.
    [0119]       The differential DVH takes the appearance of a typical histogram.        The
cumulative DVH is plotted with bin doses along the horizontal axis, as well. However, the
column height of the first bin (for example, 0 to 1 Gy) represents the volume of structure
receiving greater than or equal to that dose.      The column height of the second bin (for
example, 1.001-2 Gy) represents the volume of structure receiving greater than or equal to
that dose, etc. With very fine (small) bin sizes, the cumulative DVH takes on the appearance
of a smooth line graph. The lines always slope and start from top-left to bottom-right. For a
structure receiving a very homogenous dose, for example, 100% of the volume receiving
exactly 10 Gy, the cumulative DVH will appear as a horizontal line at the top of the graph, at
100% volume as plotted vertically, with a vertical drop at 10 Gy on the horizontal axis.
                                                34

    [0120]      Cumulative DVHs are overwhelmingly used and preferred over differential
DVHs. The DVH is ubiquitous in the medical specialty of radiation oncology. A DVH used
clinically usually includes all structures and targets of interest in the radiotherapy plan, with
each line plotted in a different color representing a different structure. The vertical axis is
almost always plotted as percent volume (rather than absolute volume), as well.           Clinical
studies commonly employ DVH metrics to correlate with patient toxicities and outcomes.
    [0121]      A drawback of the DVH methodology is that it offers no spatial information.
In other words, a DVH does not show where within a structure a dose is received. Also,
DVHs from initial radiotherapy plans represent the doses relative to structures at the start of
radiation treatment. As treatment progresses and time elapses, if there are changes (i.e. if
patients lose weight, if tumors shrink, if organs change shape, etc.), the original DVH loses
validity, for example due to a change in the denominator for one or more of the calculations
inherent in the presented data. The spatial attributes of a dose distribution can be visualized
by scrolling through orthogonal images with overlain dose distributions.
    [0122]      The current practice of radiation oncology correlates the probability of
controlling or curing a tumor and the probability of inducing a deadly or debilitating side
effect in a healthy or functional organ with data derived from a dose volume histogram and
point, planar, or volumetric or dose distributions computed from a radiation therapy treatment
plan.
    [0123]      Ionizing radiation dose is the energy per unit mass of ionizing radiation
delivered to a patient or object. It is intended to be a quantitative measure of the amount of
damage caused by the radiation to the DNA or other critical molecules of cancerous or
targeted cells, and unavoidable irradiated healthy or functional cells. However, the 4 R's of
radiobiology which are known to vary in different individuals due to genetic, morphologic,
and pathologic reasons can greatly influence the actual damage caused by the radiation to the
                                                35

DNA or other critical molecules of cancerous or targeted cells, and unavoidably irradiated
healthy or functional cells.
     [0124]     When cells are irradiated and damaged or killed by ionizing radiation, this
stimulus induces an inflammation response in the irradiated tissues. Because this response is
mediated by actual damage to the cells and tissues, it is a more direct measure of actual
damage and cell death than delivered physical ionizing radiation dose.
     [0125]     The inflammation response can be measured as acute edema produced
following or during radiation delivery. The change in MR imaging signal of tissues before
and after the application of ionizing radiation is a direct quantitative measure of the increase
in fluid, seen as a decrease in TI weighted MR scans and a corresponding increase in T2 (or
T*2)   weighted MR scans of the same anatomy in the same patient.           This decrease in Ti,
increase in T2, or both, is a direct quantitative measure of the inflammation. The time from
delivery of stimulus and the length of the scan can also be accounted for in the measure to
allow for the build up or decay of induced edema.            This signal intensity can then be
represented as an inflammation distribution to replace the dose distribution for evaluation of
delivered cellular damage. Similarly, inflammation volume histograms can be produced and
correlated to patient outcomes and toxicity.         Such tools provide a better predictor of
probability of tumor control or cure as well as probability of normal or healthy tissue toxicity
as the inflammation, as measured by induced edema, is in direct response to the ionizing
radiation stimulus.
     [0126]     In further implementations of the current subject matter, observation of
inflammation outside of regions intended to receive damage from ionizing radiation can be
used as a safety feature to alert clinical users to unintended or accidental delivery of ionizing
radiation.
                                                 36

     [0127]     Inflammation response changes the fluid content of the tissue receiving
radiation damage. This increase in fluid changes the material in the beam path such that the
effective atomic number is different and positions at which different types of radiation are
absorbed can also change. For example, an increase in fluid content can result in less "fat
like" material (e.g. CH2) and more "water-like" material in the beam path. In proton therapy
or heavy ion therapy, stopping powers for the delivered beam constituents can thereby be
changed at a local level, thereby changing the range of the Bragg peak and thus changing the
delivered dose distribution. Likewise, an increase in hydrogen content can change the dose
from a neutron beam. Thus, quantitative assessment of edema with MRI scans can be used to
improve the ability to compute dose for proton, heavy ion, and neutron therapy as well.
     [0128]     Implementations of the current subject matter can be realized using a system
or other apparatus capable of capturing MRI images of at least part of a patient with at least
some degree of concurrency with delivery of one or more radiation beams. In other words,
one or more MRI images can be captured during delivery of a fraction of a radiation therapy
dose.     This technology can also be referred to as "intra-fraction" MRI.             In other
implementations of the current subject matter, MRI can be used periodically, optionally but
not necessarily within radiation fractions, to collected differential data characterizing a
change in edema in a patient during a course of treatment. For example, a baseline scan can
be performed of an area being treated, and then one or more additional scans can be collected
over the course of treatment to quantify changes in edema in the treated tissues and those
tissues surrounding the treated tissue or otherwise affected by one or more radiation beams.
The one or more additional scans can optionally include one or more of a scan or scans
performed during at least one fraction, a scan or scans performed between two or more
fractions in a series of fractions, a scan or scans performed at some other interval (which can
be fixed or variable), and the like.
                                                 37

     [0129]     A non-limiting example of a system capable of intra-fraction MRI imaging is
described in co-owned co-owned U.S. patent no. 7,907,987, the disclosure of which is
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. FIG. 1 through FIG. 5 show views 100, 200,
300, 400, 500, respectively, illustrating examples of features that can be included in such a
system. A main magnet Helmholtz coil pair 115 of an MRI machine can be designed as a
split solenoid so that a patient couch 130 runs through a cylindrical bore in the middle of the
magnets and a radiation source 120 (e.g., a linear accelerator, a radioisotope source, etc.
capable of delivering one or more of radioisotope beams, proton beams, heavy ion beams,
neutron beams, X-rays, or the like) can be aimed down the gap between the two solenoidal
sections 115 at a patient 135 on the patient couch 130. The split solenoidal MRI magnets 115
can remain stationary while the radiation source 120, which can include a multi-leaf
collimator intensity moduled radiation therapy (IMRT) unit, is rotated axially around the
couch on a gantry 125. More than one radiation source 120 can be beneficially employed.
The patient 135 is positioned on the patient couch 130 for simultaneous (or at least
approximately concurrent or at least approximately simultaneous) imaging and treatment.
     [0130]     As shown in FIG. 5, the radiation source 120 with a multi-leaf collimator can
contain a radioisotopic source 515 (or other radiation source) which can optionally be
collimated with a fixed primary collimator 520, a secondary doubly divergent multileaf
collimator 525, and tertiary multi-leaf collimator 530 to block interleaf leakage from the
secondary multi-leaf collimator 525.     It will be understood that other systems capable of
producing MRI imagery either during a fraction or otherwise substantially concurrently with
the fraction (e.g. within a short period of time before after, or during a fraction) can also be
useful in implementing the current subject matter. Additionally, in implementations of the
current subject matter in which intra-fraction MRI scans are used, conventional MRI systems
that do not incorporate concurrent radiation delivery can also be used.
                                               38

     [0131]      FIG. 6 and FIG. 7 show two MRI scan images 600, 700 of same part of a
subject patient taken closely in time. The scan image 600 of FIG. 6 shows a Ti-weighted
scan in which areas containing more free hydrogen (e.g. tissues having higher water content)
are represented more darkly than areas containing more fixed hydrogen (e.g. fatty tissue).
The scan image 700 of FIG. 7 shows a T2-weighted scan in which areas containing more
fixed hydrogen (e.g. fatty tissue) are represented more darkly than areas containing more free
hydrogen (e.g. tissues having higher water content).         The scan images 600, 700 show a
section through the subject patient's abdomen and show the liver 602, kidneys 604, and
spinal column 606 among other features.         The liver 602 contains a high amount of fatty
tissue, and is therefore less dark in the scan image 600 showing the TI-weighted scan result
than in the scan image 607 showing the T2-weighted scan result. Similarly, the spinal column
is lighter in FIG. 6 than in FIG. 7 while the kidneys, having a larger water content, are darker
in FIG. 6 than in FIG. 7. Also depicted in FIG. 6 and FIG. 7 is a radiation pathway 610 over
which radiation treatment was delivered to the patient. As seen in both FIG. 6 and FIG. 7, the
scan images 600, 700 indicate an increase in fluid along the radiation pathway 610, which
appears as a darker line in the lighter liver 602 in the Ti-weighted scan of FIG. 6 and as a
lighter line in the darker liver in the T2-weighted scan of FIG. 7. This increased fluid is the
result of edema caused by cell damage in tissues affected by the radiation treatment.
     [0132]      Prior to the present disclosure, a conventional approach to observations of
such edema was to ignore or attempt to correct for this "artifact" that generally considered as
an interference to analysis of underlying pathologies that necessitated the radiation treatment.
In contrast, the current subject matter utilizes a quantification of edema based on one or more
MRI scans of a treated area of a patient to at least estimate an effect of a radiation treatment
dose on both a target structure (e.g. a tumor or other diseased tissue) and the surrounding
                                                 39

tissues. The edema quantified in this manner is generally considered to be acute, transient
edema resulting from cell death in the tissue through which the beam had passed.
     [0133]    In practice, implementations of the current subject matter can include
quantification of a ratio of Ti-weighted and T2-weighted scans to determine, or at least
estimate, a free hydrogen ratio as a function of spatial location within a patient's tissues.
Increases in the estimated free hydrogen ratio can be interpreted as an indicator of increased
edema in the patient's tissues. In this manner changes in edema can be used as a proxy for
estimation of an amount of cell damage or death is occurring in a given tissue region of the
patient. As noted above, cell damaged or destruction by radiation-induced (as well as other)
trauma results in initiator cells (e.g. macrophages, dendritic cells, histiocytes, Kupffer cells,
mastocytes, etc.) releasing inflammatory mediators responsible for the clinical signs of
inflammation, including but not limited to edema (exudation of plasma proteins and fluid into
the tissue). This fluid exudation can be detected, at least on a differential basis, consistent
with implementations of the current subject matter by using MRI scans to detect changes in
free hydrogen content in tissues. It is possible to characterize such changes using one or
more of the scans discussed above. In other examples, two or more scans can be combined to
create a ratio metric representative of the free hydrogen content in a patient's tissues as a
function of spatial position with the tissues.
     [0134]    Consistent with one or more implementations of the current subject matter, a
method as illustrated in the process flow chart 800 of FIG. 8 can include the following
features. At 802, a subsequent edema analysis (e.g. a subsequent MRI-based edema analysis)
performed after or during at least part of a course of radiation treatment are compared to a
baseline edema analysis (e.g. a baseline MRI-based edema analysis) performed previous to
the subsequent edema analysis to estimate a change in edema in patient tissues resulting from
the course of radiation treatment. In some implementations of the current subject matter, the
                                               40

subsequent edema analysis and the baseline edema analysis can be MRI scans, which can
provide estimates of fluid content in cells.
     [0135]      As discussed above, for example, the baseline and subsequent edema analyses
can each include one or more MRI scans. In some implementations of the current subject
matter, the one or more MRI scans can include both Ti-weighted and T2-weighted scans, and
a ratio of the results of these scans can be prepared for each of the baseline and subsequent
scan. The change in edema can be derived (e.g. estimated, calculated, determined, etc.) based
on a differential analysis of the subsequent scan and the baseline scan to determine changes
occurring during the course of radiation treatment.     In some examples, an amount of free
hydrogen can be quantified in the subsequent scan relative to the baseline scan, and a change
in the relative amount of free hydrogen can be used as a proxy for the change in edema in the
patient's tissue.
     [0136]      A baseline scan can act as a reference for comparison with the one or more
subsequent MRI scans taken during or after at least one radiation fraction delivered to the
patient in the course of radiation treatment. In other words, the baseline scan accounts for the
presence of existing edema, for example edema resulting from original pathologies, other
trauma, etc. At least one subsequent MRI scan is taken during the course of treatment (e.g.
one or more of intra-fraction or inter-fraction MRI scans), and changes occurring in the
patient's tissue between the baseline and subsequent scans can be quantified.          In some
examples, this quantifying can be accomplished via a differential imaging approach to
indicate changes in intensity of MRI signals from patient tissue.
     [0137]      A single type of MRI scan can be used for the baseline and at least one
subsequent scan, and changes in the MRI response to this kind of scan can be quantified
between the baseline and subsequent scan. Alternatively, as noted above, each scan can
include a ratio of two or more types of scans, such as for example Ti-weighted and T2
                                               41

weighted scans. Because edema generally result in an increase in fluid as normal cell damage
or cell death recovery mechanisms involve flushing of dead or damaged cell material away
via liquids that have a higher water (and therefore high free hydrogen) content. In some
variations, a baseline scan can be taken prior to any treatment and then used in comparisons
with subsequent scans taken during or between radiation dose fractions delivered to the
patient. In other variations, a series of scans can be used, and differential analysis can be
applied between two or more scans in the series, possible but not necessarily using a scan
collected prior to the commencement of a course of radiation treatment as the baseline scan.
    [0138]      At 804, an edema to delivered dose correlation is derived based on the change
in edema in the patient tissue correlated with a delivered dose of radiation during the course
of radiation treatment. In other words, one or more calculations or models of physical dose
delivery can be applied to derive (e.g. estimate, calculate, determine, etc.) one or more of a
amount of radiation actually delivered to the patient tissue, an expected amount of radiation
delivered to the patient tissue, or the like. The derived amount of radiation actually delivered
or expected to have been delivered can optionally be based on one or more inputs. In some
variations, a pre-radiation treatment plan can provide these data.       In other variations, a
combined MRI and radiation delivery approach (e.g. as described in co-owned U.S. patent
no. 7,907,987) can be used in calculating a more accurate measure of received doses of
radiation to diseased tissue and other tissue structures based on intra-fraction motions of the
patient, the patient's organs, etc.
    [0139]      The correlating of the change in edema in the patient tissue with the delivered
dose (or the expected delivered dose) can involve quantifying how the change in edema
corresponds to an expected outcome for the diseased tissue and surrounding tissues relative to
an expected value (e.g. an expected response of tissue to the amount of delivered radiation).
The expected value can be calculated empirically, experimentally, through the application of
                                                42

one or more theoretical models, or the like, or through the combination of one or more such
approaches.
     [0140]     At 806, one or more clinical actions are performed based on the edema to
delivered dose correlation. The clinical actions can include one or more of a variety of
actions. For example, if edema a patient experiences, in particular edema in tissue structures
other than the target diseased tissue, exceeds an expected value by more than a threshold
amount, the course of treatment can be stopped for further analysis, the radiation delivery
system can be inspected to ascertain any malfunctioning components, a clinician can be
alerted by a user interface or some other automated method, an amount of radiation delivered
in a next fraction can be reduced, etc. In other examples, if the edema a patient experiences,
in particular edema in target diseased tissue, is less than an expected value by more than a
threshold amount, the course of treatment can likewise be stopped for further analysis, the
radiation delivery system can be inspected to ascertain any malfunctioning components, a
clinician can be alerted by a user interface or some other automated method, an amount of
radiation delivered in a next fraction can be increased (assuming, for example that edema
experienced by the patient in tissue structures other than the target diseased tissue is within
some acceptable limit), etc.
     [0141]     As discussed above, MRI scan data analyzed differentially over some period
of time that includes at least one delivery of a radiation therapy dose can be used to derive at
least an estimate of amount of cell death or damage occurring in the scanned tissue. Such
data can be expressed in a variety of ways, including but not limited to a visual depiction, a
numerical expression, or the like representing intensity as a function of location within a
patient's tissues. For example, in the case of a ratio of Ti-weighted and T2-weighted scans
used as a proxy for free hydrogen content in scanned tissues, the differential changes in the
ratio of these two scans can be presented as a function of location. This presentation can
                                                43

include use of voxels on a 2D map or other image of a part of the patient's tissues in the
vicinity of the targeted diseased tissue to visually depict cell death or damage occurring over
a course of treatment.
     [0142]      Increasing ratios of free hydrogen can be used as a proxy for increasing
amounts of damaged tissue in a given location, which can be clinically useful as a virtual,
relative dosimeter for absorbed active radiation dose.       In this manner, a measure can be
provided of how much of a treatment impact the radiation therapy has had on the targeted
diseased    tissue how     severely other   surrounding tissues     have   been  impacted, etc.
Accordingly, implementations of the current subject matter can assist in medically managing
a patient undergoing radiation treatment.       Comparison of the "expected" outcomes of a
dosimetry plan with actual observed changes in edema can allow a clinician to better estimate
how a specific patient is responding to the specific course of radiation treatment.
     [0143]      FIG. 9 shows a schematic diagram of a system 900 having one or more
features in common with implementations of the current subject matter. A computing system
902 can be in communication with an MRI system 904, and optionally with a radiation
delivery system 906. A user interface can optionally include displays, user input devices, etc.
as well as other examples discussed below for conveying information to a clinician or other
user and/or for receiving information inputs. The computing system 902 can optionally be
part of or otherwise integrated into the MRI system 904 and/or to the radiation delivery
system. In the example of FIG. 1 through FIG. 5, the computing system 902, the MRI system
904, and the radiation delivery system 906 can all be integrated.        In some examples, the
radiation delivery system 906 can include its own computing system, such as for example a
dose planning system running dose planning software. Communication of data between the
various components of the system 900 can be accomplished over any data transfer
connections (networks, computer buses, etc.).       The computing system 902 can optionally
                                                44

include a programmable processor that executes one or more software modules that
implement one or more of the features discussed above.
    [0144]     One or more aspects or features of the subject matter described herein can be
realized in digital electronic circuitry, integrated circuitry, specially designed application
specific integrated circuits (ASICs), field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) computer
hardware, firmware, software, and/or combinations thereof. These various aspects or features
can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and/or
interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor,
which can be special or general purpose, coupled to receive data and instructions from, and to
transmit data and instructions to, a storage system, at least one input device, and at least one
output device.
    [0145]     These computer programs, which can also be referred to programs, software,
software applications, applications, components, or code, include machine instructions for a
programmable processor, and can be implemented in a high-level procedural language, an
object-oriented programming language, a functional programming language, a logical
programming language, and/or in assembly/machine language. As used herein, the term
"machine-readable medium" refers to any computer program product, apparatus and/or
device, such as for example magnetic discs, optical disks, memory, and Programmable Logic
Devices (PLDs), used to provide machine instructions and/or data to a programmable
processor, including a machine-readable medium that receives machine instructions as a
machine-readable signal. The term "machine-readable signal" refers to any signal used to
provide machine instructions and/or data to a programmable processor.            The machine
readable medium can store such machine instructions non-transitorily, such as for example as
would a non-transient solid-state memory or a magnetic hard drive or any equivalent storage
medium. The machine-readable medium can alternatively or additionally store such machine
                                               45

instructions in a transient manner, such as for example as would a processor cache or other
random access memory associated with one or more physical processor cores.
     [0146]     To provide for interaction with a user, one or more aspects or features of the
subject matter described herein can be implemented on a computer having a display device,
such as for example a cathode ray tube (CRT) or a liquid crystal display (LCD) or a light
emitting diode (LED) monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a
pointing device, such as for example a mouse or a trackball, by which the user may provide
input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a
user as well.    For example, feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory
feedback, such as for example visual feedback, auditory feedback, or tactile feedback; and
input from the user may be received in any form, including, but not limited to, acoustic,
speech, or tactile input. Other possible input devices include, but are not limited to, touch
screens or other touch-sensitive devices such as single or multi-point resistive or capacitive
trackpads, voice recognition hardware and software, optical scanners, optical pointers, digital
image capture devices and associated interpretation software, and the like.      A computer
remote from an analyzer can be linked to the analyzer over a wired or wireless network to
enable data exchange between the analyzer and the remote computer (e.g. receiving data at
the remote computer from the analyzer and transmitting information such as calibration data,
operating parameters, software upgrades or updates, and the like) as well as remote control,
diagnostics, etc. of the analyzer.
     [0147]     The subject matter described herein can be embodied in systems, apparatus,
methods, and/or articles depending on the desired configuration.    The implementations set
forth in the foregoing description do not represent all implementations consistent with the
subject matter described herein.    Instead, they are merely some examples consistent with
aspects related to the described subject matter.      Although a few variations have been
                                               46

described in detail above, other modifications or additions are possible. In particular, further
features and/or variations can be provided in addition to those set forth herein. For example,
the implementations described above can be directed to various combinations and
subcombinations of the disclosed features and/or combinations and subcombinations of
several further features disclosed above.     In addition, the logic flows depicted in the
accompanying figures and/or described herein do not necessarily require the particular order
shown, or sequential order, to achieve desirable results.     Other implementations may be
within the scope of the following claims.
                                              47

                                           CLAIMS
        What is claimed is:
        1.       A system comprising:
        an MRI system;
        a radiation source; and
        at least one non-transitory machine-readable medium storing instructions which, when
executed, cause the system to perform operations comprising:
                 capturing, during a treatment, a baseline MRI scan and a subsequent MRI
        scan;
                 comparing a baseline edema analysis utilizing the baseline MRI scan with a
        subsequent edema analysis utilizing the subsequent MRI scan to estimate a change in
        edema in patient tissues; and
                 controlling the radiation source to stop delivery of one or more radiation
        beams when the estimated change in edema exceeds an expected value.
        2.       A system as in claim 1, wherein the baseline MRI scan and the subsequent
MRI scan comprise at least one of: a Ti-weighted MRI scan, a T2-weighted MRI scan, a ratio
of Ti-weighted MRI to T2-weighted MRI scan results, and an MRI response ratio.
        3.       A system as in claim 1, further comprising generating an alert at a user
interface after the comparing, the generating based on at least one of: the change in edema
exceeding the expected value or being less than the expected value.
        4.       A system as in claim 1, wherein the baseline MRI scan and the subsequent
MRI scan are captured during a same fraction.
        5.       A system as in claim 1, wherein the baseline MRI scan is captured prior to a
fraction and the subsequent MRI scan is captured during the fraction.
                                               48

        6.      A system as in claim 1, wherein the comparing comprises quantifying changes
in free hydrogen content.
        7.      A system as in claim 1, the operations further comprising generating, at a
display, a visual depiction of an estimate of an amount of cell death in the patient tissues.
         8.     A system as in claim 7, the visual depiction including the use of voxels on a
2D map.
        9.      A system as in claim 7, wherein the visual depiction comprises a differential
change in a ratio of Ti-weighted MRI to T2-weighted MRI scans and the differential change is
presented as a function of location.
         10.    A computer program product comprising a non-transitory machine-readable
medium storing instructions which, when executed, cause the system to perform operations
comprising:
                Capturing, during a treatment, a baseline MRI scan and a subsequent MRI
        scan with an MRI system;
                comparing a baseline edema analysis utilizing the baseline MRI scan with a
        subsequent edema analysis utilizing the subsequent MRI scan to estimate a change in
        edema in patient tissues; and
                controlling a radiation source to stop delivery of one or more radiation beams
        when the estimated change in edema exceeds an expected value.
         11.    A computer program product as in claim 10, wherein the baseline MRI scan
and the subsequent MRI scan comprise at least one of: a Ti-weighted MRI scan, a T2
weighted MRI scan, a ratio of Ti-weighted MRI to T2-weighted MRI scan results, and an
MRI response ratio.
         12.    A computer program product as in claim 10, further comprising generating an
alert at a user interface after the comparing, the generating based on at least one of: the
change in edema exceeding the expected value or being less than the expected value.
                                                49

        13.      A computer program product as in claim 10, wherein the baseline MRI scan
and the subsequent MRI scan are captured during a same fraction.
        14.      A computer program product as in claim 10, wherein the baseline MRI scan is
captured prior to a fraction and the subsequent MRI scan is captured during the fraction.
        15.      A computer program product as in claim 10, wherein the comparing comprises
quantifying changes in free hydrogen content.
        16.      A computer program product as in claim 10, the operations further comprising
generating, at a display, a visual depiction of an estimate of an amount of cell death in the
patient tissues.
        17.      A computer program product as in claim 16, the visual depiction including the
use of voxels on a 2D map.
        18.      A computer program product as in claim 16, wherein the visual depiction
comprises a differential change in a ratio of Ti-weighted MRI to T2-weighted MRI scans and
the differential change is presented as a function of location.
                                                50

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
