                                               Abstract
        A method is provided comprising receiving (1402) instructions at a first device. The
   instructions may correspond to an item transaction. The item may be a food product. The item
   transaction may comprise an item gift. The method may comprise generating (1404) a code
   based on the instructions received at the first device for the item transaction. The method may
   comprise generating (1406) a message at the first device. The method may comprise
   transmitting (1408) the code and the message from the first device to a second device.
P092293D1/10965076

                                                   1
      BEVERAGE DISPENSING SYSTEM WITH SOCIAL MEDIA CAPABILITIES
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[01]         The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
No. <removed-apn>, filed on 4 February 2016, which is itself a divisional application of Australian
Patent Application No. 2012245285. Australian Patent Application No. 2012245285 entered the
Australian National Phase on 31 October 2013, based upon International (PCT) Application No.
PCT/US2012/034486 which was filed on 20 April 2012, and which claims convention priority
from US Application No. 61/478,425, which was filed on 22 April 2011. The entire disclosures
of the abovementioned are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties and for all
purposes.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[02]         This disclosure relates generally to a beverage dispensing system with social media
capabilities, e.g., for dispensing of beverages at restaurants, theatres, and other entertainment
venues.
BACKGROUND
[03]         Various beverage dispensers, such as those at restaurants, theatres and other
entertainment venues, typically have either a "drop in" dispenser apparatus or a counter top type
dispenser apparatus. In a drop in dispenser apparatus, the dispenser apparatus is self-contained
and may be dropped into an aperture of a counter top. In a counter top type dispenser apparatus,
the dispenser apparatus is placed on a counter top. In conventional beverage dispensers, a
dispensing head is coupled to a particular drink syrup supply source via a single pipe dedicated
to supply the particular drink syrup to that dispensing head, wherein the particular drink syrup
supply source is typically located near the counter top, i.e., directly under the counter top, or
directly over the counter top.
[04]         A user will typically place a cup under the signage of the selected beverage and
either press a button or press the cup against a dispensing lever to activate the dispenser so that
14125756_1

                                                  2
     the selected beverage is delivered from the dispensing head corresponding to the selected
     beverage and into the cup until pressure is withdrawn from the button or lever.
[051 Conventional dispensing systems typically do not provide social media capabilities. For
     example, conventional dispensing systems are not configured to receive instructions in
     connection with a gift a beverage from one individual to another individual.
     Conventional dispensing systems typically do not provide an interface that allows a
     recipient of a gift, coupon, or promotion, to hear and/or see an audio, text, and/or video
     message, such as a message of the party who sent the gift, coupon, or promotion to the
     recipient.
[061 Conventional dispensing systems typically are not configured to assist users in making
     healthy lifestyle choices. For example, conventional dispensing systems typically are not
     configured to recognize that a customer is diabetic, and thus may offer the diabetic
     customer a product that is not appropriate for the customer's diabetic condition.
[07] Conventional beverage dispensing systems typically are not configured to identify or
     recognize individuals. For example, conventional beverage dispensing systems typically
     are not configured with telemetry capabilities to identify a mobile device of a customer.
     Conventional beverage dispensing systems typically are not configured to receive from a
     mobile device of a customer a signal that identifies a customer and/or the beverage
     preference or beverage order of a customer. Thus, conventional beverage dispensing
     systems typically are not configured communicate with a mobile device of a customer to
     determine which beverage or beverages a particular individual may want to order or has
     ordered.
[08] Conventional beverage dispensing systems typically are not configured to communicate
     with a mobile device of a customer and/or a mobile software application used by a
     customer. Thus, conventional beverage dispensing systems typically are not configured
     to determine whether a particular customer has ordered and/or has paid for a particular
     beverage and/or has redeemed a coupon, promotion, etc., that entitles the customer to
     receive the beverage.      Conventional dispensing systems typically do not enable

                                                      3
     Alternative Reality Gaming (ARG) promotions and/or campaigns.                Conventional
     dispensing systems typically do not enable detection of code(s), check-in(s), and/or other
     awareness of certain electronic device(s) of a user, e.g., a mobile communication
     device(s), and typically do not enable communication with such an electronic device(s).
     Conventional dispensing systems typically do not provide a system that can be used to
     create a partnership, including a campaign, with philanthropic organizations and/or
     activities.
[09] Conventional beverage dispensing systems typically are not configured to automatically
     provide a beverage promotion or discount to a customer upon identification of the
     customer.
[101 Conventional beverage dispensing systems typically are not configured to monitor
     ordering, filling and refilling activities of a particular customer.
[111 Conventional beverage dispensing systems typically are not configured to receive and
     process orders from mobile devices of customers, and thus are not configured to reduce
     or eliminate wait time by customers to receive ordered beverages.
1121 Conventional dispensing systems typically are not configured to automatically change
     their beverage offerings based on time of day and/or event at a venue.
1131 What is needed is a beverage dispensing system that does not have the limitations and
     disadvantages of conventional dispensing systems and methods.
SUMMARY
[14] Accordingly, there may be provided a processing or dispensing system with social media
     capabilities.
[15] In an aspect of the disclosure, a method is provided comprising receiving instructions at
     a first device. The instructions may correspond to an item transaction. The item may be

                                                   4
       a food product. The item transaction may comprise an item gift. The method may
       comprise generating a code based on the instructions received at the first device for the
       item transaction. The method may comprise generating a message at the first device.
       The method may comprise transmitting the code and the message from the first device to
       a second device.
[16]   The above and other aspects, features and advantages of the present disclosure will be
       apparent from the following detailed description of the illustrated embodiments thereof
      which are to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[171  FIG. 1 shows a user interface, including a screen display, which may be used to
      implement various aspects of the disclosure.
[181  FIG. 2 shows a user interface, including a screen display, which may be used to
      implement various aspects of the disclosure.
[19]  FIG. 3 shows a user interface, including a screen display, which may be used to
      implement various aspects of the disclosure.
[201  FIG. 4 shows a user interface, including a screen display, which may be used to
      implement various aspects of the disclosure.
[21]  FIG. 5 shows a user interface, including a screen display, which may be used to
      implement various aspects of the disclosure.
[22]  FIG. 6 shows a user interface, including a screen display, which may be used to
      implement various aspects of the disclosure.
[23]  FIG. 7 shows a user interface, including a screen display, and further shows a message
      received by a device, which may be used to implement various aspects of the disclosure.

                                                  5
[241 FIG. 8 shows a user interface, including a screen display, which may be used to
     implement various aspects of the disclosure.
[25] FIG. 9 shows a user interface, including a screen display, which may be used to
     implement various aspects of the disclosure.
[261 FIG. 10 shows a user interface, including a screen display, which may be used to
     implement various aspects of the disclosure.
[271 FIG. 11 shows a user interface, including a screen display, which may be used to
     implement various aspects of the disclosure.
[281 FIG. 12 shows a diagram of a system that may be used to implement various aspects of
     the disclosure.
[291 FIG. 13 shows a simplified diagram of a system in accordance with various aspects of
     the disclosure.
[301 FIG. 14 shows a flowchart of a method in accordance with aspects of the disclosure.
[31] FIG. 15 shows a flowchart of a method in accordance with aspects of the disclosure.
[321 FIG. 16 illustrates a flowchart of a method in accordance with aspects of the disclosure.
[331 FIG. 17 illustrates a user interface including a screen display, which may be used to
     implement various aspects of the disclosure.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[34] The embodiments discussed below may be used to order, deliver and form a wide variety
     of food products, including but not limited to free-flowing food products, including cold
     and hot beverages, and including but not limited to beverages known under any PepsiCo
     branded name, such as Pepsi-Cola@.

                                                  6
[35] In an aspect of the disclosure, a method is provided comprising receiving instructions at
     a first device. The instructions correspond to an item transaction. The item is a food
     product. The item transaction comprises an item gift. The method comprises generating
     a code based on the instructions received at the first device for the item transaction. The
     method comprises generating a message at the first device.          The method comprises
     transmitting the code and the message from the first device to a second device.
[361 In an aspect, a method may be provided comprising receiving at a device a code. The
     code may correspond to instructions for an item transaction. The item may be a food
     product. The item may be an item gift. Based on the received code, the method may
     comprise displaying a message and delivering the item gift.
[37] In an aspect, a method may be provided comprising the receiving a user preference at a
     social media computer. The method may comprise automatically generating a message
     and an associated code based on the user preference.           The method may comprise
     automatically transmitting the message and the associated code to the user. The message
     and associated code may correspond to an item promotion.
[38] In an aspect, a device may be provided comprising a transmitter.           The device may
     comprise a receiver.        The receiver may be configured to receive instructions
     corresponding to an item transaction. The item may be a food product, and the item
     transaction may be an item gift. The device may comprise a memory. The device may
     comprise a processor.      The processor may be coupled to the memory for executing
     instructions. The instructions may comprise generating a code based on the instructions
     received at the first device for the item transaction.     The instructions may comprise
     generating a message at the device. The instructions may comprise transmitting the code
     and the message from the device to another device.
[39] In an aspect, a method is provided comprising receiving instructions at a device. The
     instructions correspond to an item transaction. The item is a food product. The item
     transaction is selected from the group consisting of an item purchase order, an item gift,
     an item redemption, and an item promotion. The method comprises generating a code

                                                 7
     based on the instructions received at the device for the item transaction. The method
     comprises transmitting the code to a communications network. The method comprises
     receiving a message at the device. The message is selected from the group consisting of
     a text message, an audio message, a graphic message, and a video message. The method
     comprises transmitting the message to the communications network.
[40] In an aspect of the disclosure, there may be provided a system with social media
     capabilities comprising at least one dispensing component, for example, a beverage
     dispensing head.
[41] In one aspect, a processing or dispensing system with social media capabilities is
     provided.    The processing or dispensing system may be used for the dispensing of
     beverages at any suitable venue, including restaurants, theatres, and other entertainment
     venues.
[42] In one aspect, a processing or dispensing system may be provided comprising a social
     media computer or server, and an interface.       The social media computer may be
     configured to be operatively connected to the interface and receive from the interface
     instructions for a beverage purchase order, a beverage gift, a beverage redemption, or a
     beverage promotion, and generating a code based on the received instructions.
[431 In one aspect, a processing or dispensing system may be provided comprising at least
     one social media computer or server that may be configured to be operatively coupled to
     a communications network. The social media computer may be configured to generate
     instructions for transmitting and display of a message, the message selected from the
     group consisting of an offer, a gift, a promotion, and a discount associated with a
     beverage.
[44] In one aspect, a processing or dispensing system may be provided comprising at least
     one social media computer or server that may be configured to be operatively coupled to
     a communications network. The social media computer may be configured to receive a
     customer order from a mobile device of the customer through the communications
     network. The social media computer may be operatively coupled to a controller. The

                                                   8
     social media computer may be configured to generate instructions in response to the
     customer order. The controller may be configured to receive instructions from the social
     media computer and to provide an appropriate beverage or amount of beverage
     ingredients to a dispenser, such as a dispenser having a dispensing head in response to
     the instructions.
[45] FIG. 1 shows a communication device or machine 2A, including a screen display 4,
     which may be used to implement various aspects of the disclosure.          Display 4 may
     comprise a glass surface. Display 4 may have a surface having a curvature to provide a
     premium appearance by adding fullness to a main surface of display 4. For example,
     display 4 may comprise a surface having a slightly convex surface.          Thus, a slight
     curvature may be achieved by adding or otherwise providing slight convex surfacing to a
     main surface of display 4.
[461 Communication device 2A may be a user interface device. Screen display 4 may be any
     suitable display, such as a touch screen display or a gesture recognition display.
     Communication device 2A may be configured to recognize a communication device 130
     or 132 of a user or consumer when such a device of the user or consumer is in close
     proximity to communication device 2A. As shown in FIG. 1, screen display 4 may
     provide a plurality of options. As shown, screen display 4 may provide a purchase order
     option 8 (e.g., "buy a drink" option). Screen display 4 may provide an option 10 for
     connecting with a web site 10 (e.g., a web site of PepsiCo).        Screen display 4 may
     provide an option 12 for either gifting a gift or redeeming a gift (e.g., "gift a drink" or
     "redeem a gift").
[471 FIG. 2 shows a communication device 2A, including a screen display 14, which may be
     used to implement various aspects of the disclosure.       Screen display 14 may be the
     screen that is displayed after a user chooses option 12 in FIG. 1. Screen display 14 may
     provide an option 16 to gift a gift to another person, e.g., a friend, a family member, a
     colleague, etc., along with a message, such as a text, audio, graphic and/or video
     message. Screen display 14 may provide an option 18 to redeem a gift code.

                                                   9
[481 FIG. 3 shows a communication device 2A, including a screen display 20, which may be
     used to implement various aspects of the disclosure.        Screen display 20 may be the
     screen that is displayed after a user chooses option 16 in FIG. 2. Screen display 20 may
     provide a display for a user to enter information about themselves (e.g., their name), their
     friend's name, their friend's mobile number, and their message to their friend. Screen
     display 20 may provide a display of a beverage to be gifted to the friend, and a user can
     change the drink by selecting the "change drink" button. Screen display 20 may provide
     a "continue" button when the user is finished entering information and drink selection.
[491 FIG. 4 shows a communication device 2A, including a screen display 22, which may be
     used to implement various aspects of the disclosure. Screen display 22 may be similar to
     the screen display 20 in FIG. 3, the addition that a user has now entered information
     about themselves (e.g., their name), their friend's name, their friend's mobile number,
     and their message to their friend. Screen display 22 may provide a display of a beverage
     to be gifted to the friend, and a user can change the drink by selecting the "change drink"
     button. Screen display 22 may provide a "continue" button when the user is finished
     entering information and drink selection.
1501 FIG. 5 shows a communication device 2A, including a screen display 24, which may be
     used to implement various aspects of the disclosure.        Screen display 24 may be the
     screen that is displayed after a user selects the "continue" button in screen display 22
     shown in FIG. 4.       Screen display 24 may provide a display for a user to select the
     "record" button to record a video message. Screen display 24 may provide a button to
     edit information. Screen display 24 may provide a button for a user to send the gift
     without a recorded video message.
[51] FIG. 6 shows a communication device 2A, including a screen display 26, which may be
     used to implement various aspects of the disclosure.        Screen display 26 may be the
     screen that is displayed after a user selects the "record" button in screen display 24
     shown in FIG. 5. Screen display 26 may provide a stop button to stop the recording of a
     video message. Screen display 26 may provide a clock or stop watch in connection with
     the time corresponding to the recording time of the message.

                                                  10
[521 As shown in FIGs. 2-6, a "home" button may be provided so that a user may, if desired,
     return home to the screen display 4 shown in FIG. 1. Any of the screen displays 4, 14,
     20, 22, 24, and 26 may have a "back" button (not shown), so that a user may, if desired,
     go back to the prior screen display.
[531 FIG. 7 shows a communication device or machine 2B, which may be used to implement
     various aspects of the disclosure.   Communication device 2B may be the same as or
     similar to communication device 2A shown in FIG. 1. Alternatively communication
     device 2B may be different than communication device 2A, that is, the communication
     device 2B may be a separate communication or interface device, such as a
     communication or interface device at a different location than communication or
     interface device 2A. FIG. 7 shows a mobile device 28, which may be used to implement
     various aspects of the disclosure.    Mobile device 28 may receive a message 30 in
     response to the information inputted by a user in screen display 22. As discussed below,
     a message 30, which may be the message inputted in message box 23 of screen display
     22 of FIG. 4 or a variant thereof, may be transmitted from communication device 2A to a
     social media computer or server. Message 30 may be transmitted from the social media
     computer or server through a communications network to device of a recipient, such as a
     recipient's mobile device 28. Message 30 may advise a recipient that another person or
     entity has sent them gift.     Message 30 may be received in any suitable form or
     transmission, including a text message, an e-mail, or a message on the recipient's social
     media page. Message 30 may provide a code that entitles the recipient to receive a gift.
     Alternatively, message 30 may provide a link to a code that entitles the recipient to
     receive a gift. Upon receipt of a code that entitles the recipient to receive a gift, the
     recipient may select option 12 at communication device 2B, e.g., a button to "redeem a
     gift."
[541 FIG. 8 shows communication device 2B having screen display 14, which may be used to
     implement various aspects of the disclosure. Screen display 14 may be the screen that is
     displayed after a user chooses option 12 in FIG. 7. Screen display 14 may provide an
     option 18 to redeem a gift code.

                                                    11
[55] FIG. 9 shows communication device 2B having screen display 32, which may be used to
     implement various aspects of the disclosure. Screen display 32 may be the screen that is
     displayed after a user chooses option 18 in FIG. 8. Screen display 32 may provide a box
     for a recipient to enter the gift code, and then select a "continue" button.
[56] FIG. 10 shows communication device 2B having a screen display 34, which may be used
     to implement various aspects of the disclosure. Screen display 34 may be the screen that
     is displayed after a recipient has entered a valid gift code and has selected the "continue"
     button in FIG. 9. Screen display 34 may display message 23 that was entered in screen
     display 22 shown in FIG. 4. The recipient may select a "continue" button as shown in
     FIG. 10.
[57] FIG. 11 shows communication device 2B having a screen display 36, which may be used
     to implement various aspects of the disclosure. Screen display 36 may be the screen that
     is displayed after a recipient has selected a "continue" button of screen display 34 as
     shown in FIG. 10. Screen display 36 may display a video playback of the video recorded
     of the gift giver (see screen interface 24 of FIG. 5). FIG. 11 shows a "done/exit" button
     that a recipient may select. FIG. 11 shows beverage 40, which has been gifted to the
     recipient.
[58] Beverage 40 may be dispensed by a dispenser, e.g., a dispenser 114 of a vending
     machine dispenser 42 shown in FIG. 12.           Beverage 40 may be placed in a suitable
     container 43, such as a bottle, can, or pouch. Alternatively, beverage 40 may dispensed
     through a dispensing head 44 of dispenser 45 into a cup 46 as shown in FIG. 12.
[59] FIG. 12 shows a diagram of a processing or dispensing system that may be used to
     implement various aspects of the disclosure.           A processing or dispensing system
     comprises a social media computer or server 102. Server 102 may be configured to be
     operatively coupled to a communications network 104. The social media computer 102
     may be configured to receive customer orders from communication devices 2A and 2B
     through the communications network 104.

                                                  12
[601 A readable code 48 associated with a particular beverage and volume, such as a readable
     bar code, ultraviolet ink code or a REID code, may be placed on a cup 50, such as the
     bottom 1206 of cup 50. Cup 50 may be provided to a user, including but not limited to a
     customer or recipient, and the user may then place the cup in manner for the code to be
     read by a detector or reader 1201, and an appropriate amount of beverage ingredients
     may be dispensed through a dispensing head 54 of dispenser 56 into cup 50.            For
     example, see U.S. Serial No. 12/704,217, filed February 11, 2010, published on August
     12, 2010 as U.S Patent Application Publication No. 2010/0200110, which is incorporated
     herein by reference in its entirety. As shown FIG. 12, components 1202, 1203, 1204,
     and 1205 are various other components of dispenser 56.
[611 The social media computer 102 may be operatively coupled to a controller 112. The
     social media computer 102 may be configured to generate instructions in response to the
     customer orders made at communication devices 2A and 2B. The controller 112 may be
     configured to receive instructions from the social media computer 102, and to control the
     dispensing of a beverage 40 from a dispenser 42, such as a vending machine dispenser
     114.   Alternatively, beverage 40 may dispensed through a dispensing head 44 of
     dispenser 45 into a cup 46 as shown in FIG. 12.        Controller 112 may be a central
     controller and/or may be a separate controller that is incorporated into each dispenser,
     such as dispensers 42, 45, 56, and/or 142.
[621 An interface or software application may be provided at devices 130 and 132, such as
     mobile devices. Social media computer 102 may be operatively connected to devices
     130 and 132 through a communications network 140A. A user of device 130 may access
     an interface using device 130, such as an interface of communication device 2A as
     previously described, to gift a beverage. A user of device 132 may access an interface
     using device 132, such as an interface of communication device 2B as previously
     described, to receive information regarding a gift, as well as a message 30, and video
     playback of a recorded message from the giver of the gift, as previously described.
     Devices 130 and 132 may be mobile devices.

                                                  13
[63] Information received by social media computer 102 made be stored in a data repository
     128.
[64] Social media computer 102 may be configured to generate instructions in response to the
     customer orders in connection with a beverage order placed by a customer using a
     communication device, such as a mobile device 134 while the customer is in a vehicle
     136, or using a mobile device 138 when the customer is on foot at a location, which may
     be a location remote from a dispenser, e.g., a city block away from a dispenser. Social
     media computer 102 may be operatively coupled to communication devices 134 and 138
     through network 140 or network 104.
[65] Server 102 may be configured to be operatively coupled to a dispenser 142 at drive
     through or pickup window (not shown). Dispenser 142 may be the same as or similar to
     dispensers 42, 45, and 56, as previously described.
[661 In one aspect of the disclosure, the interfaces and/or devices may be networked together
     through communications network 112, 140, or 140A.           Communications network 112
     may represent: 1) a local area network (LAN); 2) a simple point-to-point network (such
     as direct modem-to-modem connection); and/or 3) a wide area network (WAN),
     including the Internet and other commercial based network services. In one aspect, the
     interfaces and/or devices may be connected to social media computer 102 through
     communications network 104 or 140 using various well-known protocols, such as
     TCP/IP, Ethernet, FTP, HTTP, BLUETOOTH, Wi-Fi, ultra wide band (UWB), low
     power radio frequency (LPRF), radio frequency identification (RFID), infrared
     communication, IrDA, third-generation (3G) cellular data communications, fourth
     generation     (4G)  cellular   data   communications,    Global   System   for  Mobile
     communications (GSM), or other wireless communication networks or the like may be
     used as the communications protocol. The interfaces and/or devices may be physically
     connected to each other or one or more networks via twisted pair wires, coaxial cable,
     fiber optics, radio waves or other media. In an aspect, known standard protocols may be
     used, including Flash, HTML5, etc.

                                                   14
[671 The term "network" as used herein and depicted in the drawings should be broadly
     interpreted to include not only systems in which remote storage devices are coupled
     together via one or more communication paths, but also stand-alone devices that may be
     coupled, from time to time, to such systems that have storage capability. Consequently,
     the term "network" includes not only a "physical network" but also a "content network,"
     which is comprised of the data-attributable to a single entity-which resides across all
     physical networks. A "network," as used herein, may also include a network of "virtual"
     servers,  processes,    threads,  or other     ongoing computational   processes    which
     communicate with each other, some or all of which may be hosted on a single machine
     which may provide information to client servers, processes, threads or other ongoing
     computational processes on that same machine, other machines, or both.
[681 As further illustrated in Figure 12, a data repository 128 may be coupled to social media
     computer 102 for storage or retrieval of data, which may be used to implement various
     aspects of the disclosure.    Such data may include customer identification information
     used to track customer purchases and activities. Such tracking may be performed upon
     approval of the customer. For example, information that may be stored by or retrieved
     from data repository 128 may track a code on a cup to track which beverage selection(s)
     are made through the use of the cup. The data repository 128 may physically be located
     in the social media computer or server 102, or in a separate machine in the same or
     separate location.
[691 The devices and machines described above may be operatively connected to each other
     through a communications network, such as communications network 104 and/or 140.
     FIG. 13 shows a simplified diagram of a processing or dispensing system in accordance
     with various aspects of the disclosure.      Social media computer 102, communication
     devices 2A and 2B, mobile devices 134 and 138, and dispensers 42, 45, 56, and 142 may
     comprise    non-transitory    memories,    processors,   displays (which    may   include
     touchscreens), and communication interfaces. By way of example, as shown in FIG. 13,
     communication device 2A, social media computer 102, dispenser 42, and mobile device
     134 may each comprise a non-transitory memory 1302, a processor 1308, a display 1310,
     and a communication interface 1312.         The processors 1308 may execute computer-

                                                  15
     executable instructions present in non-transitory memories 1302 such that, for example,
     the communication device 2A, dispenser 42, and mobile device 134 may each send and
     receive information to and from social media computer 102 via network 104.
[701 Processor 102 shown in FIG. 12 may be a processor 1308 as shown in FIG. 13.
     Processor 1308 shown in FIG. 13 may be processor 102 shown in FIG. 12.               The
     processing or dispensing system may further include a system bus (not shown).         A
     system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or
     memory controller, a peripheral bus, and a local bus using any of a variety of bus
     architectures. The structure of system non-transitory memory is well known to those
     skilled in the art and may include a basic input/output system (BIOS) stored in a read
     only memory (ROM) and one or more program modules such as operating systems,
     application programs and program data stored in random access memory (RAM). The
     system may also include a variety of interface units and drives for reading and writing
     data.
[711 Those of skill in the art will recognize that, in accordance with the disclosure, any
     suitable network connections and other ways of establishing a communications link
     between the computers can be used.         The existence of any of various well-known
     protocols, such as TCP/IP, Frame Relay, Ethernet, FTP, HTTP and the like, is presumed,
     and central processor unit or computer may be operated in a client-server configuration
     to permit a user to retrieve web pages from a web-based server. Furthermore, any of
     various conventional web browsers may be used to display and manipulate data on web
     pages.
[721 Those of skill in the art will recognize that, in accordance with the disclosure, a
     processing or dispensing system may include an associated computer-readable medium
     containing instructions for controlling the computer system may be utilized to implement
     the exemplary embodiments that are disclosed herein. The computer system may include
     at least one computer such as a microprocessor, a cluster of microprocessors, a
     mainframe, and networked workstations.

                                                 16
[73]  Social media computer 102, communication devices 2A and 2B, mobile devices 134 and
      138, dispensers 42, 45, 56, and 142 may also include various input devices 1314. The
     input devices may include keyboards, track balls, mice, joy sticks, buttons, and bill and
     coin validators.   Readers 1316, including but not limited to card readers, bar code
     readers, identification readers, credit card readers, ultraviolet ink readers, and RFID
     readers may be included in the system. For example, but not by way of limitation,
     mobile devices 134 and 138 may also include readers 1316 to enable users to identify
     themselves for tracking purposes.     By way of example, as shown in FIG. 13, social
     media computer 102, communication device 2A, dispenser 42, and mobile device 134
     may comprise input devices 1314. By way of example, as shown in FIG. 13, reader
      1316 of communication device 2A may comprise a credit card reader.
[741 Thus, a processing or dispensing system may be provided comprising a social media
     computer and an interface, the social media computer configured to be operatively
     connected to the interface and receive from the interface instructions for a beverage
     purchase order, a beverage gift, a beverage redemption, or a beverage promotion, the
     social media computer configured to generate a code based on the received instructions.
[75] In one aspect, the social media computer may be configured to be operatively connected
     to a communications network.        In one aspect, the social media computer may be
     configured to transmit the code through the communications network to an interface of a
     device, which may be a mobile device.
[76] In one aspect, the social media computer may be configured to transmit an electronic
     communication to the interface of the device, the electronic communication selected
     from the group consisting of a text message, an audio message, a graphic message, and a
     video message. In an aspect, a system may be configured to receive content updates,
     replacement content, and/or additional content, wherein the content is selected from the
     group consisting of a text message, an audio message, a graphic message, and a video
     message.
[77] In one aspect, the processing or dispensing system may comprise at least a first interface
     and second interface, and a social media computer configured to be operatively

                                                   17
     connected to the first interface and the second interface. The social media computer may
     be configured to receive from the first interface instructions for a beverage purchase
     order, a beverage gift, a beverage redemption, or a beverage promotion.         The social
     media computer may be configured to generate a code based on the received instructions.
     The social media computer may be configured to transmit the code through the
     communications network to a device. The social media computer may be configured to
     receive the code inputted at the second interface and process the code.
[78] In one aspect, the second interface may be configured to display an electronic
     communication. The first interface may be configured to receive a text message or a
     graphic message, record a video message and or record an audio message.
[791 In one aspect, the first interface and the second interface may be selected from the group
     consisting of a touch screen interface, a keyboard, and a voice recognition interface, and
     a gesture recognition interface. In an aspect, a system may be configured to support
     casual touch and/or gesture based gaming.
[801 In one aspect, the processing or dispensing system may comprise a dispenser, a reader or
     detector, and a social media computer. The social media computer may be operatively
     coupled to a communications network, the social media computer configured to receive
     an order from a device of a customer through the communications network. The social
     media computer may be configured to generate a code in response to the order. The code
     may be readable by a detector. The dispenser may be configured to dispense an item
     upon detection of the code by the detector. In one aspect, the dispenser and the detector
     may be integrated.      In one aspect, the dispenser, the detector, and the social media
     computer may be integrated.
[811 In one aspect, the detector may be selected from the group consisting of a bar code
     reader, an ultraviolet ink code reader, and an RFID code reader.
[82] In one aspect, the code may be selected from the group consisting of a bar code, an
     ultraviolet ink code, and an RFID code.

                                                  18
[831 In one aspect, the item may be a consumable item. In a preferred embodiment, the
     consumable item may be a food product. In one embodiment, the food product may be a
     beverage.
[841 In one aspect, the beverage may be dispensed through a dispensing head. Any suitable
     dispensing head may be used. See e.g., U.S. Patent 6,505,758, which is incorporated
     herein by reference in its entirety.
[85] In one aspect, at least one controller or regulator may be configured to dose beverage
     ingredients to the dispensing head. In one embodiment, the controller may be configured
     to dose beverage ingredients to the dispensing head in accordance with instructions
     transmitted by the social media computer.
[86] In one aspect, a processing or dispensing system may be provided that comprises at least
     one social media computer configured to be operatively coupled to a communications
     network.    The social media computer may be configured to identify a customer
     preference from a mobile device of the customer through the communications network.
     The social media computer may be configured to automatically generate and transmit to
     the communications network a message addressed to the mobile device of the customer.
     The message may be selected from the group consisting of an offer, a promotion, and a
     discount associated with the customer preference. The customer preference may be a
     preference for a consumable item, for example a food product, including but not limited
     to a beverage.
[871 In one aspect, a processing or dispensing system may be provided that comprises a social
     media computer and an interface. The social media computer may be configured (i) to
     be operatively connected to the interface. The social media computer may be configured
     to transmit instructions for a message display at the interface. The message display may
     comprise information relating to a consumable item and selected from the group
     consisting of a customer order, a customer preference, a redemption of a coupon, a
     redemption of a promotion, and a gift. The social media computer may be configured to
     transmit instructions to a controller for the dispensing of a consumable item.       The

                                                  19
     interface may be selected from the group consisting of a touch screen interface, a
     keyboard, and a voice recognition interface, and a gesture recognition interface.
[881 In one aspect, the controller may be configured to dispense an appropriate amount of at
     least two beverage ingredients to a dispensing head in response to the instructions from
     the social media computer.
[89] In one aspect, a processing or dispensing system may be provided that recognizes an
     individual and makes determinations regarding what item or items to offer the individual.
[901 In one aspect, a processing or dispensing system may be provided comprising at least
     one social media computer or server that may be configured to be operatively coupled to
     a communications network. The social media computer may be configured to identify a
     customer beverage preference from a mobile device of the customer through the
     communications network. The social media computer may be configured to generate
     and transmit through the communications network a communication to the mobile device
     of the customer. The communication may be selected from the group consisting of an
     offer, a promotion, and a discount associated with a beverage.
1911 In one aspect, a processing or dispensing system may be provided comprising a social
     media computer or service, a touch screen interface, and a sanitizer. The social media
     computer may be configured to be operatively connected to the touch screen interface
     and receive from the touch screen interface a beverage order. The social media computer
     may be configured to generate and transmit instructions to the sanitizer for the sanitizing
     of the touch screen after the touch screen is touched by a user. The sanitizer may be any
     suitable sanitizer, including but not limited to a sanitizer that may provide a sanitizing
     puff of sanitizing agent or composition (e.g., a puff of steam), and/or sanitizing wiping
     motion display, and/or a sanitizing transmission of ultraviolet light to the touch screen.
[92] In one aspect, a processing or dispensing system may be provided comprising an
     interface, the interface operatively connected to a social media computer or server. The
     interface may be configured to recognize a gesture of a user relating to a beverage order
     of a customer. The social media computer may be configured to receive a transmission

                                                  20
     from the interface relating to the beverage order. The social media computer may be
     operatively coupled to a controller. The social media computer may be configured to
     generate instructions in response to the customer order and transmit the instructions to
     the controller. The controller may be configured to receive instructions from the social
     media computer and to provide an appropriate amount of beverage ingredients to a
     dispensing head in response to the instructions.
[931 In one aspect, the processing of dispensing system may be configured to permit the
     preparation of beverages with variable carbonation according to a customer order.
[94] In one aspect, the processing or dispensing system may be configured to provide
     beverages with customized ingredients, including juices, flavorings, sweetness, tartness,
     carbonation, etc., from a single dispensing head.     Thus, a dispensing system may be
     configured, for example, to add a sweetener or reduce or eliminate the amount of
     sweetener from a typical beverage formulation, e.g., add an extra sugar to a sugared tea,
     or reduce or eliminate sugar from a sugared tea.
[95] In one aspect, the processing or dispensing system may be configured to provide
     beverages based on a gesture made at the dispensers. Thus, the dispensing system may
     be configured to have a gesture interface with a gesture interface reader or detector. A
     user may be able to gesture how much lemon or sugar to add to a beverage, and the
     gesture interface may provide a screen display that corresponds to the user's gesture
     movement. The interface may also display an icon, such as a teaspoon, to depict the
     amount of sugar or other ingredient to be included with, or reduced or eliminated from a
     beverage in accordance with the user's gesture(s) or other signals to the interface.
[96] A visual effect may be depicted by an interface to indicate for the user the product being
     selected.
[971 In one aspect, the processing or dispensing system may be configured to provide visual
     and/or audio feedback in response to a customer order.

                                                    21
[981  In one aspect, a dispenser of the system may be configured to provide for the automatic
      sanitizing of a screen interface for beverage ordering.
[991  In one aspect, the processing or dispensing system may be configured to provide a wide
      variety of beverages, including custom-ordered beverages, from a single dispensing
      head, e.g., a cola flavored with cherry, vanilla, lemon, or lime, etc., or a tea flavored with
      lemon, orange, peach, raspberry, etc., or a tea having one or more teaspoons of sweetener
      (sugar, or some other nutritive sweetener or non-nutritive sweetener).
[100] In one aspect, the processing or dispensing system may be configured to recognize that a
      customer is diabetic, and thus will offer the diabetic customer only beverages which are
      appropriate for the customer's diabetic condition.
[1011 In one aspect, the processing or dispensing system may be configured to automatically
      change its offerings based on time of day and/or event at a venue.
[1021 In one aspect, the processing or dispensing system may be configured to automatically
      provide a beverage promotion or discount.
[1031 The processing or dispensing system may be configured to recognize the value paid for a
      beverage.     The system may be configured to issue a cup to a user with a code
      corresponding to the size and the type of beverage ordered.
[1041 In one aspect, the processing or dispensing system may be configured to receive a
      beverage order from a mobile device of a customer to reduce or eliminate wait time by
      the customer to receive an ordered beverage.
[1051 In one aspect, the processing or dispensing system may be configured to provide variable
      pricing based on drink brands and/or cup size.
[1061 In one aspect, the processing or dispensing system may provide a hot spot for Wi-Fi or
      other wireless communication technology. The processing or dispensing system may be
      configured to provide a login page.

                                                   22
1107] In one aspect, the system may provide an interactive experience through telemetry.
      Advantages of the system may include, but are not limited to the following.
[108] A user may gift another person a beverage using the system.
[109] In one aspect, the processing or dispensing system may be configured to allow users to
      vote on their favorite items, including but not limited to their favorite beverages.
11101 In one aspect, the processing or dispensing system may be configured to allow an
      operator of the system to update digital content easily online. Thus, an operator may
      change messaging and media content as desired.
[111] Operators of the system may easily, and remotely, monitor inventory levels, helping
      them to more efficiently plan for their business needs. In an aspect, a system may be
      configured to enable an operator to check an inventory level, either remotely or on
      location, without having to open a machine to visually inspect the inventory level. In an
      aspect, a system or may be configured to provide an inventory alert, e.g., provide an
      electronic message or other indication, such as an audible or visual alarm when an
      inventory level relating to product or item reaches a predetermined lower amount or
      limit.
[1121 Using advanced telemetry, the system may enable any user to gift another person, e.g., a
      friend, family member, colleague, etc., by selecting a beverage and entering the
      recipient's name, mobile number and a personalized message, such as a text message.
      There may also be an option to further personalize the gift with an audio message and/or
      a video message recorded right at the machine and/or a photograph taken right at the
      machine. The gift may be delivered with a system code and instructions to redeem it at
      the system or linked system. When the recipient redeems their gift, they may be given
      the option of either thanking the original sender with a gift of their own or paying it
      forward and gifting a beverage to another person, e.g., another friend, family member,
      colleague, etc., along with a message, such as a text, audio, graphic and/or video
      message.

                                                 23
[113] The system may also enable a user to buy a drink for a complete stranger through any
      suitable social vending system in accordance with this disclosure.       For example, a
      consumer may send a symbol of encouragement to a city that's experienced some
      challenging weather, or a congratulatory beverage to a university that just won a
      championship.     The system may be configured to extend a user's digital and social
      programs beyond users' own devices all the way to the point of purchase.
[114] In one aspect, the use of telemetry with the dispensing or social vending system
      described above, may deliver operational benefits, allowing operators to closely manage
      inventory levels and delivery scheduling remotely, and easily update digital content
      online, enabling them to change messaging and media content as needed.
[1151 In one aspect, the processing or dispensing system may comprise and/or communicate
      with a social media system or application. For example, when a mobile device of a
      consumer is within a predetermined distance from a sensor linked to the modular
      dispensing system, a message may be sent to the consumer's mobile device that queries
      the consumer whether the consumer would like to purchase a beverage. Alternatively, or
      at the same time, a message may appear at a counter location that queries the consumer
      whether the consumer would like to purchase a beverage. The social media system or
      application may download to the dispensing system the preference or preferences of a
      consumer based on the consumer's past purchases and/or identified preferences. Thus,
      the processing or dispensing system and/or the social media system or application may
      query a particular consumer when a mobile device of a consumer is within a
      predetermined distance from a sensor of the modular dispensing system.
[1161 The processing or dispensing system may also receive a beverage order from a consumer
      via a social media system or application, including but not limited to the social media
      system or application of a seller of beverages, including but not limited to restaurants,
      theaters, other entertainment venues, and manufacturers and/or distributors of beverages.
      A consumer may order a beverage prior to arriving at counter so that the drink may be
      prepared and placed in a cup by the time or close to the time the consumer arrives at the
      counter. Alternatively, a cup bearing a bar code, an ultraviolet ink code, or a an RFID

                                                  24
      code or identifier may be prepared and made available to the consumer for filling by the
      time or close to the time the consumer arrives at the counter. For example, see U.S.
      Serial No. 12/704,217, filed February 11, 2010, published on August 12, 2010 as U.S
      Patent Application Publication No. 2010/0200110, which is incorporated herein by
      reference in its entirety. This system may save time for both consumers and beverage
      sellers by cutting down on wait time, ordering time, and beverage preparation time.
[1171 Thus, the system may recognize an individual and make certain decisions regarding what
      beverage(s) or type of beverage(s) to offer the individual. The system may change what
      is offered to different individuals.
[1181 In addition, the system may handle gifts or promotions given from one entity to another.
      By way of example, but not limitation, the system may recognize an individual,
      determine whether that individual has received a gift or is eligible for a promotion, and
      send a query to the individual as to whether the individual will accept the gift or
      promotion, such as a free beverage or a beverage at a reduced price. In an aspect, a
      system may be configured to accept a gift or promotional code for dispensing of free
      product or product at a reduced price.
[119] In an aspect, a dispensing system may be configured to accept a promotional code for
      dispensing of an item, including but not limited to a code for dispensing of a free item or
      code for dispensing of an item at a reduced price.       In an aspect, a system may be
      configured to integrate communications and/or instructions between and/or among
      internal groups and/or individuals of an organization and/or groups and/or individuals
      external to the organization, such as internal and external marketing groups and/or
      individuals.
[1201 In an aspect, a system may be configured to display advertising, including advertising for
      internal partnerships, e.g., advertising for "combo deal" of a snack product and a
      beverage product, wherein both the snack and the beverage are made by the same
      company. In an aspect, a system may be configured to display advertising, including
      advertising for external partnerships, e.g., advertising for "combo deal" of a snack

                                                   25
      product and a beverage product, wherein the snack and the beverage are not made by the
      same company.      In an aspect, a system may be configured to integrate cross-system
      communications for cross-promotion opportunities. For example, the system may be
      configured to cross-promote, at a kiosk or other interface, a free flowing food product,
      e.g., a beverage, with video rental.
[1211 In an aspect, a system may comprise a system, wherein the system is configured to
      connect and/or communicate with another device, such as a companion device, including
      but not limited to a smartphone or tablet. The system may comprise a system that may
      be configured to enable a companion device, e.g., a smartphone or tablet, to
      communicate with the system, such as via a text entry. In an aspect, a system may be
      configured display local marketing messaging.
[1221 In an aspect, a system may be configured to provide messaging customizable directly by
      an operator or user of the system. In an aspect, a system may be configured to validate
      operator- or user-programmed messaging to ensure brand alignment and proper
      operation.
[123] In an aspect, a system may be configured to provide real-time market intelligence and/or
      research on or relating to product preferences, advertising views, and purchases.
[1241 In an aspect, a system may be configured to identify and differentiate customers for
      targeted marketing.      For example, a system may be configured to identify and
      differentiate customers by gender, age, sport team allegiance, location, etc., and/or past
      or current purchases by and/or activities of each customer. By way of further example, a
      system may be configured to identify a particular customer, such as when a particular
      customer communicates with the system via the customer's smartphone or tablet, and
      then send a targeted and/or personalized offer to the customer based on the customer's
      past or current purchases and/or activities. Such identifying may be performed upon
      approval of the customer.
[1251 In an aspect, a system may be configured to track how many users have viewed or
      communicated with each machine, the duration of each view, which screen(s) or product

                                                   26
      offerings each user viewed, whether or not each user made a purchase, which item(s), if
      any, was purchased by each user, and/or the length of time of each user transaction.
      Tracking that may involve certain identification information of a particular user may be
      performed upon approval of the particular user.
[1261 In an aspect, a system may be configured to generate a sales report by machine.
[1271 In an aspect, a system may be configured to communicate a machine defect, malfunction,
      or maintenance need to a central location.
[1281 The system may allow for a user to pull into a drive up location and through the user's
      mobile device (e.g., a personal digital assistant, cell phone, or smart phone), via
      telephone or Wi-Fi, Bluetooth or other suitable communication system, know where the
      user is located and shows the user a menu, and may also provide the user with a special
      drive up line to pick up an order.
[1291 The system may allow for geolocation for advertising due to restricted street sign usage.
[1301 The system may allow for custom made beverages, including but not limited to variable
      sweetness, juice, flavoring(s), and/or carbonation. For example, the system may query a
      user as to whether the user would like to order a beverage with a user specified level
      sweetness, juice, flavoring(s), and/or carbonation. The user may order a beverage having
      a user specified level of sweetness, juice, flavoring(s), and/or carbonation, for example,
      from communication devices 2A or 2B, and that user specified level of sweetness, juice,
      flavoring(s), and/or carbonation may be sent through communications network 104 to
      social media computer 102.        Social media computer 102 may send instructions to
      controller 112 for an appropriate dosing so that a beverage is dispensed from a dispenser
      operatively connected to controller 112, such as dispensers 45, 56, and 142, in
      accordance with the user's specified sweetness, juice, flavoring(s), and/or carbonation.
[1311 Controller 112 may control a dispensing system, including but not limited to a modular
      dispensing system disclosed in U.S Serial No. 13/116,247 (filed May 26, 2011) and/or a
      multi-tower modular dispensing system disclosed in U.S Serial No. 13/ 116,266 (filed

                                                    27
      May 26, 2011), the disclosures of each of which are incorporated herein by reference in
      their entireties. As noted in these applications, those of skill in the art will recognize that
      control of delivery may be achieved through use of an intelligent device, such a
      computer or purpose embedded electronics.
[132] In an embodiment, a user or customer may login at a website, e.g., via manual login, auto
      login, near field communication (NFC) login or recognition login). The login may be for
      an account of the user or customer. In an aspect, a system may be provided, the system
      configured to accept a payment or redemption from a payment or redemption system,
      such as a smart or virtual wallet for in-store and/or online shopping. The system may be
      configured to communicate with a smart or virtual wallet, in connection with an item
      transaction. The system may be configured to accept payment or redemption by a credit
      card, a debit card, a top-up card, and/or a loyalty and/or reward card and/or an account of
      a user, including such cards or accounts of or in a smart or virtual wallet. The system
      may be configured to integrate with a rewards system. For example, the system may be
      configured to credit a loyalty and/or reward card or account of a user. The system may
      be configured to receive suggestions from a user regarding products to stock or provide
      at a location or dispensing machine.      The system may be configured to receive such
      suggestions from multiple users and weigh or assign a weighting to the suggestions.
      Such weighing or weighting may be based, at least in part, according to past purchases of
      product, and/or trends of past purchases of product.
[1331 The user or customer can order a beverage for themselves or another, including but not
      limited to a custom beverage according to inputs of the user or customer, and purchase
      the beverage. The user or customer may "build" or "construct" a beverage using a user
      interface device or machine 2A and/or through a website connected with a network,
      including but not limited to network 104, network 140, or network 104A. By way of
      example, but not limitation, a user or customer may build or construct a beverage using a
      smartphone and/or at an interface at a kiosk or table, and instructions are sent to
      controller 112, which may control a dispensing system, including but not limited to a
      modular dispensing system disclosed in U.S Serial No. 13/116,247 (filed May 26, 2011)
      and/or a multi-tower modular dispensing system disclosed in U.S Serial No. 13/ 116,266

                                                     28
      (filed May 26, 2011) so that the ordered beverage is delivered to or made available at a
      dispenser, e.g., dispensers 42, 45, 56 and 142.         A user or customer may go to the
      dispenser, such as at a banner area, and activate or pull down on an activation device to
      dispense the ordered beverage into a cup. In an embodiment, a code may be placed on a
      cup, and the dispenser may dispense an ordered beverage into a cup upon the detection
      of the code.     The code may correspond to a particular user or customer, and/or
      correspond to a particular ordered beverage.
[134] In one aspect, a user or customer may set or select a color for drink. Thus, for example,
      controller 112 may control the color of a beverage in accordance with a user or customer
      color order. The final drink color may thus be modified to be more appealing to the user
      or customer, such as setting the color for certain events, teams or occasions.
[135] In one aspect, an individual may have a "preferred" beverage(s) posted on a website,
      such as a social networking website, and that individual and/or others may select that
      preferred beverage(s) for delivery of the beverage at a selected dispenser location. Thus,
      for example, an individual who wants a preferred beverage of a celebrity may order and
      purchase that beverage through a website and direct that the beverage be delivered to
      selected dispenser, e.g., a selected dispenser at a selected restaurant, theatre or other
      venue.
[136] In one aspect, a one touchscreen may be provided to drive multiple nozzles for the
      pouring of beverages.
[137] In one aspect, a smartphone application may be provided to find or locate specific
      equipment, e.g., a smartphone application to find or locate a particular kiosk, computer
      interface, and/or dispenser(s), such as an application for locating the nearest dispenser or
      equipment. In an aspect, an interface and/or dispenser may be configured to have a low
      profile, and thus allow for sight lines in specific channels, e.g., shopping malls.
[138] In one aspect, the dispenser may provide a WiFi hotspot. In an aspect, an apparatus or
      dispenser may be configured to provide access to an alternate current ("AC") power for
      recharging of devices, e.g., smartphones and tablets.

                                                    29
[1391 In an aspect, a system may be configured to allow a user interface ("UI") to be updated
      remotely, e.g., a live update for software or hardware.
[1401 In one aspect, a dispensing system may be provided comprising an interface, the
      interface operatively connected to a social media computer or server. The interface may
      be configured to recognize a gesture of a user, i.e., track three-dimensional (3D) head or
      body motions, in real-time relating to a beverage order of a customer. The social media
      computer may be configured to receive a transmission from the interface relating to the
      beverage order. The social media computer may be operatively coupled to a controller.
      The social media computer may be configured to generate instructions in response to the
      customer order and transmit the instructions to the controller. The controller may be
      configured to receive instructions from the social media computer and to provide an
      appropriate amount of beverage ingredients to a dispensing head in response to the
      instructions.
[141] In accordance with aspects of the disclosure, a dispensing system may be provided that
      has social media capabilities. For example, a dispensing system may be provided that is
      configured to receive instructions in connection with a gift a beverage from one
      individual to another individual. The dispensing system may provide an interface that
      allows a recipient of a gift, coupon, or promotion, to hear and/or see an audio, text,
      graphic, and/or video message, such as a message of the party who sent the gift, coupon,
      or promotion to the recipient.
[1421 In one aspect, a processing or dispensing system may be configured to assist users in
      making healthy lifestyle choices. For example, the processing or dispensing system may
      be configured to recognize that a customer is diabetic, and thus not offer the diabetic
      customer a product that is not appropriate for the customer's diabetic condition.
[143] In an aspect, a system may be configured to communicate with and/or include a health
      related computer application and/or equipment, e.g., automatic calorie tracking
      integration.

                                                   30
[144] In an aspect, a system may be configured to comprise a user interface (UIJ), wherein the
      user interface may provide a separate option for healthy food options or choices,
      including beverage options or choices. Such healthy food choices may include "better
      for-you" (BFY) products, and having a separate healthy option at a user interface may
      make selection of healthy food products easier for a user. In an aspect, a system may be
      configured to display nutritional information for products, including products available at
      a dispenser that may correspond to the user interface.
[145] In one aspect, a processing or dispensing system may be configured to identify or
      recognize individuals.     For example, a system may be configured to recognize when
      user, consumer, or customer is in close proximity to a machine.            For example, a
      dispensing system may be configured with telemetry capabilities to identify a mobile
      device of a customer when the mobile device is a predetermined distance from the
      processing or dispensing system. A processing or dispensing system may be configured
      to receive from a mobile device of a customer a signal that identifies a customer and/or
      the beverage preference or beverage order of a customer.           Thus, a processing or
      dispensing system may be configured communicate with a mobile device of a customer
      to determine which beverage or beverages a particular individual may want to order or
      has ordered. In an aspect, a system may be configured to receive user or consumer input
      of a product preference(s), including a product preference(s) that may not be typically
      available.   In a further aspect, the system may be configured to provide information
      regarding the product preference to a central location, such as a non-transitory memory.
      In a further aspect, the system may be configured to provide build a free flowing product,
      e.g., a beverage, in accordance with the product preference to deliver the free flowing
      product to a dispenser, which may be configured to dispense the free flowing product to
      a container, e.g., a cup, upon activation of the dispenser by a user or the detection of a
      code on the cup.
[146] In one aspect, a processing or dispensing system may be configured to communicate
      with a mobile device of a customer and/or a mobile software application used by a
      customer. Thus, a processing or dispensing system may be configured to determine
      whether a particular customer has ordered and/or has paid for a particular beverage

                                                       31
      and/or has redeemed a coupon, promotion, etc., that entitles the customer to receive the
      beverage. In an aspect, a processing or dispensing system may be configured to enable
      Alternative Reality Gaming (ARG) promotions and/or campaigns.            In an aspect, a
      processing or dispensing system may be configured to enable detection of code(s),
      check-in(s), and/or other awareness of certain electronic device(s) of a user, e.g., a
      mobile communication device(s), and enable communication with such an electronic
      device(s). In an aspect, a processing or dispensing system may be configured to create a
      partnership,    including a campaign, with a philanthropic        organization(s) and/or
      activity(ies).   In an aspect, a processing or dispensing system may be configured to
      accept change and/or direct donations to be applied to a charity or charitable
      organization.
[147] In one aspect, a processing or dispensing system may be configured to automatically
      provide a beverage promotion or discount to a customer upon identification of the
      customer.
[1481 In one aspect, a processing or dispensing system may be configured to monitor ordering,
      filling and refilling activities of a particular customer.
[1491 In one aspect, a processing or dispensing system may be configured to receive and
      process orders from mobile devices of customers, and thus are not configured to reduce
      or eliminate wait time by customers to receive ordered beverages.
[1501 In one aspect, a processing or dispensing system may be configured to automatically
      change beverage offerings based on time of day and/or event at a venue.
[151] As shown in FIG. 14, in accordance of an aspect of the disclosure, a method 1400 may
      be provided comprising, in step 1402, receiving instructions at a first device.     The
      instructions may correspond to an item transaction. The item may be a food product.
      The item transaction may be selected from the group consisting of an item purchase
      order, an item gift, an item redemption, and an item promotion.        The method may
      comprise, in step 1404, generating a code based on the instructions received at the first
      device for the item transaction. The method may comprise, in step 1406, generating a

                                                  32
      message at the first device. The method may comprise, in step 1408, transmitting the
      code and the message from the first device to a second device. The message may be
      selected from the group consisting of a text message, an audio message, a graphic
      message, and a video message.
[152] As shown in FIG. 15, a method 1500 may be provided comprising, in step 1502,
      receiving at a device a code.     The code may correspond to instructions for an item
      transaction. The item transaction may be selected from the group consisting of an item
      purchase order, an item gift, an item redemption, and an item promotion. The item may
      be a food product. The method may comprise, based on the received code, in step 1504,
      displaying a message, and, in step 1506, delivering the item, or item gift, item
      redemption, or item promotion.
[153] As shown in FIG. 16, a method 1600 may be provided comprising, in step 1602,
      receiving a user preference at a social media computer. The method may comprise, in
      step 1604, automatically generating a message and an associated code based on the user
      preference.   The method may comprise, in step 1606, automatically transmitting the
      message and the associated code to the user. The message and the associated code may
      correspond to an item transaction, e.g., an item gift, and item promotion, and an item
      discount.
[154] FIG. 17 illustrates communication device 2B in accordance with an aspect of the
      disclosure. As previously disclosed, communication device 2B may be the same as or
      similar to communication device 2A. As shown in FIG. 17, communication device 2B
      may provide a screen display 4 that includes an icon 1700. Those of skill in the art will
      recognize that in accordance with the disclosure, icon 1700 may comprise one or more
      icons, each of which may provide a user with a touch screen icon that permits the user to
      choose a feature or features provided by the system as previously discussed.         For
      example, but not by way of limitation, icon 1700 may comprise an icon indicating a
      "healthy" option or choice that a user may select if desired. Thus, communication device
      2B may be configured to comprise a user interface (UI) comprising icon 1700, wherein
      the user interface may provide a separate option for healthy food options or choices,

                                                    33
      including beverage options or choices. Such healthy food choices may include "better
      for-you" (BFY) products, and having a separate healthy option at a user interface in the
      form of icon 1700 may make selection of healthy food products easier for a user. In an
      aspect, a system may be configured to display nutritional information for products,
      including products available at a communication device 2B or a dispenser that may
      correspond to the user interface, such as in the form of icon 1700.
[1551 As another example, icon 1700 may comprise an icon that corresponds to a health
      related computer application and/or equipment, e.g., automatic calorie tracking
      integration. Thus, if a user touches such an icon, the system will communicate with or
      allow the user to communicate with and/or open a health-related computer application
      and/or equipment, e.g., automatic calorie tracking integration. Thus, the user may send
      or instruct the communication device 2B to communicate with a health-related computer
      application and/or equipment, e.g., automatic calorie tracking integration, with respect to
      a beverage that the user has ordered or selected.
[1561 As another example, icon 1700 may comprise an icon that corresponds to a "favorite,"
      e.g., but not limited to a "favorite team" or "favorite celebrity" or "favorite movie." A
      user who touches a "favorite" icon may then be shown a screen wherein a user may
      select or type their "favorite," and then be taken to a webpage that may indicate
      information, news, and/or favorite food products, e.g., beverage(s), of the selected
      "favorite."   An icon may be provided at the webpage wherein the user may select the
      favorite food product, e.g., a beverage, and thus order the food product.
[1571 As another example, icon 1700 may comprise an icon that corresponds to a "Your
      favorite."   A user who touches a "Your favorite" icon may then be shown a screen
      wherein a user can convey user identification information and/or may select a particular
      custom free-flowing food item, such as a beverage having a lemon flavoring and an
      orange flavoring. The user may then order the beverage from the system, gift the item to
      another person, and/or receive a receipt, e.g., an electronic receipt on their mobile device,
      or a printed receipt from the system.

                                                   34
[1581 Those of skill in the art will recognize that, in accordance with the disclosure, a wide
      variety of icons 1700 may be provided as desired.
[1591 The disclosure herein has been described and illustrated with reference to the
      embodiments of the figures, but it should be understood that the features of the
      disclosure are susceptible to modification, alteration, changes or substitution without
      departing significantly from the spirit of the disclosure. For example, the dimensions,
      number, size and shape of the various components may be altered to fit specific
      applications. Accordingly, the specific embodiments illustrated and described herein are
      for illustrative purposes only and the disclosure is not limited except by the following
      claims and their equivalents.

                                                     35
We claim:
        1. A method comprising:
        receiving instructions at a first device, the instructions corresponding to an item
transaction, the item being a food product and the item transaction comprising an item gift;
        generating a code based on the instructions received at the first device for the item
transaction;
        generating a message at the first device; and
        transmitting the code and the message from the first device to a second device.
        2.      The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving at a third device the
generated code, and based on receipt of the generated code displaying the message and
delivering the item gift.
        3.      The method of claim 2, wherein the third device is the first device.
        4.      The method of claim 1, wherein the first device is selected from the group
consisting of a kiosk terminal, a social media computer, a computer terminal, and a mobile
device.
        5.      The method of claim 1, wherein the food product comprises a free-flowing food
product.
        6.      The method of claim 5, wherein the free-flowing food product comprises a
beverage.
        7.      The method of claim 1, wherein the code corresponds to instructions for
dispensing of the item from a dispenser.
         8.     The method of claim 1, wherein the code is selected from the group consisting of
a number code, an alphanumeric code, and a code detectable by a scanner.

                                                     36
        9.      The method of claim 1, wherein the first device comprises an interface, the
interface selected from the group consisting of a touch screen interface, a keyboard interface, a
voice recognition interface, and a gesture-recognition interface.
        10.     A method comprising:
        receiving at    a device a code, the code corresponding to instructions for an item
transaction, the item being a food product and the item transaction being an item gift; and
         based on the received code, displaying a message and delivering the item gift.
        11.     The method of claim 10, wherein the device is selected from the group consisting
of a kiosk terminal, a social media computer, a computer terminal, and a mobile device.
        12.     The method of claim 11, wherein the food product comprises a free-flowing food
product.
        13.     The method of claim 12, wherein the free-flowing food product comprises a
beverage.
        14.     The method of claim 10, wherein the code corresponds to instructions for
dispensing of the item from a dispenser.
        15.     The method of claim 10, further comprising detecting the code by a scanner.
        16.     The method of claim 15, further comprising dispensing of the item from a
dispenser upon detecting of the code by the scanner.
        17.     The method of claim 10, wherein the received code is a first code, the method
further comprising placing a second code on a cup, detecting the second code on the cup when
the cup is placed under a nozzle of a dispenser, and dispensing into the cup an item
corresponding to the second code.
        18.     The method of claim 17, wherein the first code is the same as the second code.

                                                     37
         19.    The method of claim 17, wherein the second code is selected from the group
consisting of a bar code, an ultraviolet ink code, and an RFID code.
        20.     The method of claim 10, wherein the code is selected from the group consisting
of a number code, an alphanumeric code, and a code detectable by a scanner.
        21.     The method of claim 10, wherein the device comprises an interface, the interface
selected from the group consisting of a touch screen interface, a keyboard interface, a voice
recognition interface, and a gesture-recognition interface.
        22.     The method of claim 10, further comprising placing the code on a cup, detecting
the code on the cup by a scanner when the cup is placed under a nozzle of a dispenser, and
dispensing into the cup an item corresponding to the code.
        23.     A method comprising:
        receiving a user preference at a social media computer;
        automatically generating a message and an associated code based on the user preference;
and
        automatically transmitting the message and the associated code to the user, the message
and associated code corresponding to an item promotion.
        24.     The method of claim 23, wherein the message is selected from the group
consisting of a text message, an audio message, a graphic message, and a video message.
        25.     The method of claim 23, wherein the step of automatically transmitting
comprises transmitting the message when a mobile device of the user is detected within a
predetermined distance of a predetermined location.

                                                     38
         26.     A device comprising:
         a transmitter;
         a receiver configured to receive instructions corresponding to an item transaction, the
item being a food product and the item transaction being an item gift;
         a memory; and
         a processor, the processor coupled to the memory for executing instructions comprising:
                 generating a code based on the instructions received at the first device for the
                 item transaction;
                 generating a message at the device; and
                 transmitting the code and the message from the device to another device.
        27.      An apparatus comprising a social media computer, the social media computer
comprising a memory, and a processor, the processor coupled to the memory for executing
instructions comprising:
        receiving a user preference at the social media computer;
         automatically generating a message and an associated code based on the user preference;
and
        automatically transmitting the message and the associated code to the user, the message
and associated code corresponding to an item promotion.
        28.      The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the message is selected from the group
consisting of a text message, an audio message, a graphic message, and a video message.
        29.      The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the item is a food item.
        30.      The apparatus of claim 29, wherein food product comprises a free-flowing food
product.

                                                     39
        31.    The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the free-flowing food product comprises a
beverage.
        32.    The apparatus of claim 31, further comprising a controller, the controller
configured to dispense an appropriate amount of at least two beverage ingredients to a dispenser
head in response to the instructions from the social media computer.
                                         PepsiCo, Inc.
                              Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                  SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
