                                          ABSTRACT
The present invention is directed to treatment methods for a disease or condition, in a subject
in need of such treatment, that provide alternatives to treatment by injection that give, relative
to treatment by injection, improved treatment outcomes, 100% treatment compliance,
reduced side effects, and rapid establishment and/or termination of substantial steady-state
drug delivery. The method typically includes providing continuous delivery of a drug from
an implanted osmotic delivery device, wherein substantial steady-state delivery of the drug at
therapeutic concentrations is typically achieved within about 7 days or less after implantation
of the osmotic delivery device in the subject and the substantial steady-state delivery of the
drug from the osmotic delivery device is continuous over a period of at least about 3 months.
In one embodiment, the present invention is directed to treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus
using incretin mimetics.

 RAPID ESTABLISHMENT AND/OR TERMINATION OF SUBSTANTIAL STEADY
                                   STATE DRUG DELIVERY
         The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent application
number <removed-apn>, which is in turn a divisional application from Australian patent
application number 2014224102, which is in turn a divisional application from Australian
patent application 2010298733, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by
reference.
         Cross-Reference to Related Applications
[0001]        This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Serial
61/277,724, filed 28 September 2009, now pending, and U.S. Provisional Application Serial
No. 61/358,112, filed 24 June 2010, now pending, which applications are herein incorporated
by reference in their entireties.
         Technical Field
[0002]        The present invention relates to organic chemistry, formulation chemistry, and
peptide chemistry applied to pharmaceutical research and development. Aspects of the present
invention include, but are not limited to, methods of treatment for a disease or condition in a
subject in need of such treatment. In one embodiment the disease is type 2 diabetes mellitus.
         Background of the Invention
[0003]        A variety of drug dosage forms and methods of drug administration have been
developed for delivery of drugs to mammals, in particular, for delivery of drugs to humans
(see, e.g., the Merck Manual of Diagnosis and Therapy, 18th edition, Published by Merck
Sharp & Dohme Corp., Whitehouse Station, NJ). Such dosage forms include, for example,
use of the following routes of administration: oral; injection (e.g., intravenously,
intramuscularly, intrathecally, or subcutaneously); implantation (e.g., subcutaneous); and
across a skin or mucosal barrier (e.g., sublingual, rectal, vaginal, ocular, nasal, inhalation into
the lungs, topical, or transdermal). Each route of administration has specific purposes,
advantages, and disadvantages.
[0004]        The oral route of administration is the most common and generally considered to
be the most convenient. Oral administration, however, poses some limitations because drugs
administered by this route are exposed to the harsh conditions of the digestive system. Other
routes of administration may be required when the oral route cannot be used.
[0005]        When drugs are prepared for administration by injection (e.g., subcutaneous,
intramuscular, intravenous, or intrathecal administration), the drug can be formulated in a
                                                   1

variety of ways including formulations that prolong drug absorption from the injection site for
hours, days, or longer. Such formulations are typically used for subcutaneous injection.
Injectable products formulated for prolonged delivery typically are not administered as often
                                               la

 WO 2011/037623                                                           PCT/US2010/002591
 as injectable drug products having more rapid absorption. Subcutaneous administration is
 used for many protein or peptide drugs because such drugs are typically broken down by the
 digestive system to inactive forms if taken orally. Subcutaneous administration of a drug
typically requires frequent self-injection, for example, one or more times daily or once
weekly injections.
 [00061          When a large volume of a drug product is required, intramuscular
 administration is generally the preferred route of administration. Typically, intramuscular
 administration of drugs is by injection into the muscle of the upper arm, thigh, or buttock.
 The rate of drug absorption into the bloodstream in large part depends on the blood supply to
the muscle, that is, the more blood supply the faster the drug is absorbed.
 [0007]          Intravenous drug administration requires that a needle be inserted directly into
a vein. A drug may be given in a single dose or continuously infused. For infusion, a drug
 solution is either delivered using gravity (e.g., from a collapsible plastic bag) or using an
infusion pump through a tube inserted in a vein, usually in the forearm. An intravenous
injection can be more difficult to administer than a subcutaneous or intramuscular injection,
for example, because inserting a needle or catheter into a vein may be difficult, drugs
typically must be mixed within a relatively short time before beginning administration, there
is an increased chance of infection (e.g., abscessed infections of injection sites caused by lack
of hygiene and/or a lack of correct aseptic technique), and over time there is scarring damage
to the peripheral veins.
[00081           When drugs are administered by intravenous injection it is often desirable for
health care practitioners to closely monitor subjects for signs that the drug is working and that
the drug is not causing undesired side effects. Typically, the effect of intravenously
administered drugs tends to last for a shorter periods of time than drugs administered by
subcutaneous injection or intramuscular injection. Therefore, some drugs must be
administered by continuous infusion to provide appropriate therapeutic effect. Because of the
difficulties associated with intravenous drug administration it is most typically used in
hospital or skilled care settings; it is rarely used for long-term self-administered treatment.
[0009]           A number of complications negatively impact compliance with injection
treatment regimens, including, but not limited to, the following. A subject being needle
phobic, which is particularly troublesome to a subject when a drug must be self-injected over
extended periods of time. Compliance can also be complicated by the inconvenience of
administration of a drug by injection, for example, when subjects are in public or busy with
                                                   2

WO 2011/037623                                                            PCT/US2010/002591
daily activities. Also, frequent self-administration of a drug reminds subjects of their disease
state and carries a stigma associated with the disease and/or treatment.
 [00101          The implantable osmotic drug delivery devices of the present invention, and
use of these osmotic delivery devices in methods for the treatment of diseases or conditions in
subjects in need of treatment, uniquely address unmet needs of previously described drug
dosage forms and methods of treatment. For example, the present invention provides
treatment of subjects at a target drug dose that is continuously administered over time with
the ability to rapidly establish and sustain over time substantial steady-state drug delivery
while also providing the ability to rapidly terminate administration of the drug. Heretofore,
drug administration via injection has not typically been able to provide rapid establishment
and long-term maintenance (e.g., three months or more) of steady-state drug delivery and,
even if that were possible, treatment using drugs administered by injection (e.g., drugs
formulated for prolonged delivery) has not been able to be rapidly terminated. The present
invention also provides for enhanced tolerization of subjects to drug dose escalation relative
to dose escalation performed by administration of drug by injection.
        Summary of the Invention
[00111           The present invention generally relates to improved methods of treating
diseases or conditions in subjects in need of treatment, wherein the methods of the invention
provide rapid establishment and/or rapid termination of substantial steady-state drug delivery.
Further, the present invention relates to methods of escalating drug dose that provide
improved tolerization of subjects to increased drug dose levels relative to dose escalation by
standard drug injection methods. Preferred subjects for the methods of the present invention
are humans.
[00121           In a first aspect, the present invention relates to methods of treating type 2
diabetes mellitus in a subject in need of treatment. The method comprises providing
continuous delivery of an incretin mimetic from an osmotic delivery device, wherein
substantial steady-state delivery of the incretin mimetic at a therapeutic concentration is
achieved within a time period of about 7 days or less after implantation of the osmotic
delivery device in the subject. The substantial steady-state delivery of the incretin mimetic
from the osmotic delivery device is typically continuous over an administration period of at
least about 3 months. In some embodiments of the invention, the substantial steady-state
delivery of the incretin mimetic at therapeutic concentrations is achieved after implantation of
the osmotic delivery device in the subject within a time period selected from the group
                                                   3

 WO 2011/037623                                                             PCT/US2010/002591
 consisting of about 5 days or less, about 4 days or less, about 3 days or less, about 2 days or
 less, or about 1 day or less.
 [0013]           The substantial steady-state delivery of the incretin mimetic from the osmotic
 delivery device is continuous over an administration period of, for example at least about 3
 months to about a year, at least about 4 months to about a year, at least about 5 months to
 about a year, at least about 6 months to about a year, at least about 8 months to about a year,
 or at least about 9 months to about a year.
 [00141           The method can further comprise providing a significant decrease in the
 subject's fasting plasma glucose concentration after implantation of the osmotic delivery
 device in the subject, relative to the subject's fasting plasma glucose concentration before
 implantation of the osmotic delivery device. The decrease is typically obtained within, for
 example, about 7 days or less, about 6 days or less, about 5 days or less, about 4 days or less,
 about 3 days or less, about 2 days or less, or about 1 day or less. Normally, a significant
 decrease in fasting plasma glucose is maintained over the administration period.
 [0015]           Also, the method can further comprising the capability to terminate the
 continuous delivery of the incretin mimetic such that the concentration of the incretin
 mimetic is substantially undetectable in a blood sample from the subject within about 6 half
 lives or less, about 5 half-lives or less, about 4 half-lives or less, or about 3 half-lives or less
 of the incretin mimetic after termination of continuous delivery. When exenatide is the
 incretin mimetic, the method can further comprise the capability to terminate the continuous
 delivery such that the concentration of exenatide is substantially undetectable in a blood
 sample from the subject after termination of continuous delivery in a number of hours
 selected from the group consisting of less than about 72 hours, less than about 48 hours, less
than about 24, and less than about 12 hours. In one embodiment, termination of continuous
delivery is accomplished by removal of the osmotic delivery device from the subject. The
incretin mimetic is, for example, detected by a radioimmunoassay.
 [00161          Osmotic delivery devices for use in the methods of the present invention can
comprise the components described herein including, but note limited to, a reservoir, a semi
permeable membrane, an osmotic engine, a piston, a suspension formulation, and a diffusion
moderator.
[0017]           Suspension formulations for use in the present invention typically comprise a
particle formulation comprising an incretin mimetic, and a vehicle formulation. Examples of
incretin mimetics useful in the practice of the present invention include, but are not limited to,
exenatide peptides, exenatide peptide analogs, exenatide peptide derivatives, GLP-1 peptides,
                                                   4

 WO 2011/037623                                                          PCT/US2010/002591
 GLP-1 peptide analogs, or GLP-1 peptide derivatives. Examples of preferred incretin
 mimetics useful in the practice of the present invention include exenatide having the amino
 acid sequence of exendin-4, lixisenatide, GLP-1(7-36), liraglutide, albiglutide, and
taspoglutide. In some embodiments, the vehicle formulation comprises a solvent (e.g., benzyl
benzoate, lauryl lactate, and/or lauryl alcohol) and a polymer (e.g., polyvinvylpyrrolidone).
 [00181          In some embodiments of the present invention, the continuous delivery
provides to the subject a mcg/day dose of exenatide selected from the group consisting of
about 10 mcg/day, about 20 mcg/day, about 30 mcg/day, about 40 mcg/day, about 60
mcg/day, and about 80 mcg/day.
 [0019]         In another embodiment of the present invention, the method further comprises
a first continuous administration period of the incretin mimetic at a first mcg/day dose that is
followed by a second continuous administration period providing a dose escalation of the
incretin mimetic to a second mcg/day dose, wherein the second mcg/day dose is greater than
the first mcg/day dose. The first mcg/day dose is, for example, delivered by a first osmotic
delivery device and the second mcg/day dose is delivered by a second osmotic delivery
device, and delivery of the incretin mimetic from at least the first or the second osmotic
delivery device is continuous over the administration period of at least about 3 months. In
one embodiment, the second mcg/day dose is at least two times greater than the first mcg/day
dose. The method can further comprise at least one more continuous administration period
providing a dose escalation of the incretin mimetic to a higher mcg/day dose relative to the
second mcg/day dose.
[0020]          Exemplary dose escalations for exenatide are as follows: about 10 mcg/day
followed by about 20 mcg/day; about 10 mcg/day followed by about 40 mcg/day; about 10
mcg/day followed by about 60 mcg/day; about 10 mcg/day followed by about 80 mcg/day;
about 20 mcg/day followed by about 40 mcg/day; about 20 mcg/day followed by about 60
mcg/day; about 20 mcg/day followed by about 80 mcg/day; about 40 mcg/day followed by
about 60 mcg/day; about 40 mcg/day followed by about 80 mcg/day; or about 60 mcg/day
followed by about 80 mcg/day.
[0021]          In a second aspect, the present invention relates to a method of treating a
disease or condition in a subject in need of treatment. The method typically comprises
providing continuous delivery of a drug from an osmotic delivery device, wherein substantial
steady-state delivery of the drug at therapeutic concentrations is achieved within a time
period of about 7 days or less after implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the subject.
The substantial steady-state delivery of the drug from the osmotic delivery device is usually
                                                 5

 WO 2011/037623                                                           PCT/US2010/002591
 continuous over an administration period of at least about 3 months, wherein the drug has a
 half-life. In one embodiment, the method comprises the proviso that the disease or condition
 is not prostate cancer.
 [00221          The method can further comprise the capability to terminate the continuous
 delivery such that the concentration of the drug is substantially undetectable in a blood
 sample from the within about 6 half-lives or less, about 5 half-lives or less, about 4 half-lives
 or less, or about 3 half-lives or less of the drug after termination of continuous delivery. In
 one embodiment, termination of continuous delivery is accomplished by removal of the
 osmotic delivery device from the subject. The drug is, for example, detected by a
 radioimmunoassay or chromatography.
 [0023]          In another embodiment of the present invention, the method further comprises
 a first continuous administration period of the drug at a first dose/day that is followed by a
 second continuous administration period providing a dose escalation of the drug to a second
 dose/day, wherein the second dose/day is greater than the first dose/day. The first dose/day is,
 for example, delivered by a first osmotic delivery device and the second dose/day dose is
 delivered by a second osmotic delivery device, and delivery of the drug from at least the first
 or the second osmotic delivery device is continuous over the administration period of at least
about 3 months. The method can further comprise at least one more continuous
administration period providing a dose escalation of the drug to a higher dose/day relative to
the second dose/day.
 [0024]          Osmotic delivery devices for use in the methods of the present invention can
comprise the components described herein including, but not limited to, a reservoir, a semi
permeable membrane, an osmotic engine, a piston, a drug formulation or a suspension
formulation, and a diffusion moderator. Drug formulations typically comprise a drug and a
vehicle formulation.
[00251           Suspension formulations for use in the present invention typically comprise a
particle formulation comprising a drug, and a vehicle formulation. In some embodiments, the
drug is a polypeptide, for example, a recombinant antibody, antibody fragment, humanized
antibody, single chain antibody, monoclonal antibody, avimer, human growth hormone,
epidermal growth factor, fibroblast growth factor, platelet-derived growth factor,
transforming growth factor, nerve growth factor, a cytokine, or an interferon. In some
embodiments, the vehicle formulation comprises a solvent (e.g., benzyl benzoate, lauryl
lactate, and/or lauryl alcohol) and a polymer (e.g., polyvinvylpyrrolidone).
                                                   6

WO 2011/037623                                                          PCT/US2010/002591
 [0026]          These and other embodiments of the present invention will readily occur to
those of ordinary skill in the art in view of the disclosure herein.
         Brief Description of the Figures
 [00271          Figure 1 presents the data from a randomized, open-label 29-day study of
continuous subcutaneous delivery of exenatide using an osmotic delivery device. The figure
shows fasting plasma glucose concentration versus time over 28 days of treatment. In the
figure, the vertical axis is the Mean Fasting Plasma Glucose (mg/dL) and the horizontal axis
is Treatment Days. Closed circles show data points for an osmotic device delivering 10
mcg/day. Closed triangles show data points for an osmotic device delivering 20 mcg/day.
Closed diamonds show data points for an osmotic device delivering 40 mcg/day. Closed
squares show data points for an osmotic device delivering 80 mcg/day.
[00281           Figure 2 presents the data from a randomized, open-label 29-day study of
continuous subcutaneous delivery of exenatide using an osmotic delivery device. The figure
shows pharmacokinetic data related to plasma exenatide concentration versus time over 28
days of treatment ending on day 29 and at 7 days following removal. In the figure, the
vertical axis is the Exenatide Concentration (pg/ml) and the horizontal axis is Time (days).
Closed diamonds show data points for an osmotic device delivering 10 mcg/day. Closed
squares show data points for an osmotic device delivering 20 mcg/day. Closed triangles show
data points for an osmotic device delivering 40 mcg/day. "X"s show data points for an
osmotic device delivering 80 mcg/day. On day 29, removal of the osmotic delivery device
and the accompanying drop in plasma exenatide concentration is indicated with a vertical
arrow.
[0029]           Figure 3 presents the data from a randomized, open-label 29-day study of
continuous subcutaneous delivery of exenatide using an osmotic delivery device. The figure
shows nausea versus time in individual subjects for osmotic devices delivering 10 mcg/day,
20 mcg/day, 40 mcg/day, and 80 mcg/day. The vertical axis is the Number of Patients
(subjects) Experiencing Nausea, the horizontal axis for each concentration of exenatide being
delivered is presented in Weeks. The degree of nausea is given below the figure as no nausea
(light grey), mild nausea (vertical lines), moderate nausea (stippling), and severe nausea
(black).
[0030]           Figure 4 presents a partial cross-sectional view of one embodiment of an
osmotic delivery device useful in the practice of the present invention.
                                                  7

 WO 2011/037623                                                            PCT/US2010/002591
 [0031]           Figure 5 presents an overview of a Phase 2 clinical study design. In the figure,
 the top line shows a timeline of the Phase 2 study (12 weeks) and the 12-week extension
 phase. The extension phase is weeks 13-24 and the groups were randomized 1:1 to
 continuous delivery of exenatide as indicated in the figure. Group 3, exenatide administered
 via injection, is the second line. The split in the line indicates the randomization of the group
 and the switch to continuous delivery at 40 mcg/day and 60 mcg/day. Group 1, exenatide
 administered using an osmotic delivery device to provide continuous delivery at 20 mcg/day,
 is the third line. The split in the line indicates the randomization of the group to continue 20
 mcg/day or escalate to the elevated dosage of 60 mcg/day. Group 2, exenatide administered
 using an osmotic delivery device to provide continuous delivery at 40 mcg/day, is the fourth
 line. The split in the line indicates the randomization of the group to continue 40 mcg/day or
 escalate to the elevated dosage of 80 mcg/day.
 [00321           Figure 6 presents the data for incidence of nausea over time for treatment by
 continuous delivery of exenatide (Groups 1 and 2) versus treatment by twice-daily injection
 with exenatide (Group 3). The vertical axis is the Weekly Incidence of Nausea (%) and the
 horizontal axis is the time of treatment in Weeks. In the figure, Group 1, treatment by
 continuous delivery of 20 mcg/day of exenatide, is represented by diamonds; Group 2,
treatment by continuous delivery of 40 mcg/day of exenatide, is represented by squares; and
 Group 3, treatment by injection with 5 mcg BID (twice-daily injection) for 4 weeks (arrow
 approximately illustrates starting time point) followed by 10 mcg BID for 8 weeks (arrow
 approximately illustrates starting time point), is represented by triangles.
 [0033]           Figure 7 presents data showing the percent change from baseline in overall
Quality of Life (QOL) assessment at week 8. In the figure the numbers over the bar graphs
represent the following: n with improved QOL score/n with stable QOL score/n with
decreased QOL score, respectively; for Group 3, 36/0/15; for Group 1, 35/3/9; and for Group
2, 40/1/7. The vertical axis is the Change from Baseline in Score (%; the overall QOL score).
The groups are arranged along the horizontal axis and the group sizes are provided under
each group: Group 3, n=51; Group 1, n=47; and Group 2, n=48.
[0034]            Figure 8 presents data from a subscale analysis of QOL performed at week 8.
The vertical axis is the percent Change from Baseline in Score for each of the four QOL
subscales: Well-Being, Medical Control, Lifestyle, and Convenience. The four QOL
subscales are arranged along the horizontal axis. In the figure, each bar of the graph is
labeled with the Group number. Within each subscale, the bar graphs are arrayed in the
following order: Group 3, Group 1, and Group 2.
                                                    8

 WO 2011/037623                                                         PCT/US2010/002591
 [00351          Figure 9 presents an overview of the extension phase for subject status at week
 20. In the figure, continuous delivery of exenatide at the indicated dosages is shown as "CD."
 The group sizes are presented next to the extension phase dosage.     In the extension phase for
 weeks 13-24, subjects from each treatment group were randomized to receive continuous
 delivery of exenatide at 20, 40, 60 or 80 mcg/day. In the figure, Group 1 is treatment by
 continuous delivery of 20 mcg/day of exenatide for the first 12 weeks; Group 2 is treatment
 by continuous delivery of 40 mcg/day of exenatide for the first 12 weeks; and Group 3 is
 treatment by injection with 5 mcg BID (twice-daily) injection for 4 weeks followed by 10
 mcg BID for 8 weeks for the first 12 weeks. The split in the group indicates the
 randomization of the group at week 12 and the boxes show the dosages for the dose
 escalation after week 12. The number in each group at week 20 is shown as "n."
 [00361          Figure 10 presents the extension phase (weeks 13-24) data for incidence of
nausea over time. The first point (-1 Week) shows the incidence of nausea the week prior to
randomization and the beginning of the extension phase treatment protocol. The vertical axis
is the Weekly Incidence of Nausea percent (%) and the horizontal axis is the time of
treatment in Weeks. In the figure, the data for continuous delivery using implantable osmotic
devices delivering 20 mcg/day of exenatide is presented as closed triangles; the data for
continuous delivery using implantable osmotic devices delivering 20 mcg/day of exenatide
wherein subjects were subsequently switched in the extension phase to continuous delivery
using implantable osmotic devices delivering 60 mcg/day of exenatide is presented as grey
squares; and, the data for twice-daily injection of exenatide wherein subjects were switched in
the extension phase to continuous delivery using implantable osmotic devices delivering 60
mcg/day of exenatide is presented as closed circles.
 [00371          Figure 11 presents extension phase data showing the percent change from
baseline in overall QOL assessment at week 20. In the figure the numbers in each bar graph
represent which week (week 8 or week 20) the QOL assessment was performed. The groups
are arranged along the horizontal axis from the left as follows: Group 3 (at Week 8) switched
to continuous delivery of exenatide at 40 mcg/day (CD 40 mcg/day); and Group 3 (at Week
8) switched to continuous delivery of exenatide at 60 mcg/day (CD 60 mcg/day). The vertical
axis is the % Change from Baseline for the overall QOL score.
[0038]          Figure 12 presents further extension phase data showing the percent change
from baseline in overall QOL assessment at week 20. In the figure the numbers in each bar
graph represent which week (week 8 or week 20) the QOL assessment was performed. The
groups are arranged along the horizontal axis from the left as follows: Group 1 (at Week 8)
                                                9

  WO 2011/037623                                                        PCT/US2010/002591
  switched to continuous delivery of exenatide at 60 mcg/day (CD 60 mcg/day); and Group 2
  (at Week 8) switched to continuous delivery of exenatide at 80 mcg/day (CD 80 mcg/day).
  The vertical axis is the % Change from Baseline for the overall QOL score.
  [0039]          Figure 13 presents a competitive profile among subjects on metformin-only
 background treatment combined with a variety of type 2 diabetes mellitus treatments. The
 vertical axis is HbAlc%. The treatments are displayed on the horizontal axis, as follows:
  exenatide administered by twice-daily injection (Treatment A); exenatide administered by
 once-weekly injection (Treatment B); liraglutide administered by once-daily injection
 (Treatment C); taspoglutide administered by once-weekly injection (Treatment D); and
 treatment using the methods and osmotic delivery devices of the present invention for
 continuous delivery of exenatide at 20 mcg/day and 60 mcg/day (Treatment E). The number
 within and near the top of the solid bar graph associated with each treatment provides the
 baseline HbAlc% (e.g., Treatment A, 8.2). The number within and near the top of the
 stippled bar graph associated with each treatment provides the endpoint HbAlc% for the
 study (e.g., Treatment A, 7.4). The number within and near the horizontal axis of the stippled
 bar graph associated with each treatment provides the change of HbAlc for the study (e.g.,
 Treatment A, -0.8).
 [0040]           Figure 14 presents a competitive profile among subjects on metformin-only
 background treatment combined with a variety of type 2 diabetes mellitus treatments. The
 vertical axis is HbAlc%. The treatments are displayed on the horizontal axis, as follows:
 treatment using sitagliptin (Treatment F); and treatment using pioglitazone (Treatment G);
 exenatide administered by once-weekly injection (Treatment B); treatment using the methods
 and osmotic delivery devices of the present invention for continuous delivery of exenatide at
 20 mcg/day and 60 mcg/day (Treatment E). The number within and near the top of the solid
bar graph associated with each treatment provides the baseline HbAlc% (e.g., Treatment F,
 8.5). The number within and near the top of the stippled bar graph associated with each
treatment provides the endpoint HbAlc% for the study (e.g., Treatment F, 7.6). The number
within and near the horizontal axis of the stippled bar graph associated with each treatment
provides the change of HbAlc for the study (e.g., Treatment F, -0.9).
[0041]            Figure 15 presents a competitive profile among subjects on metformin-only
background treatment combined either with continuous delivery of exenatide or with once
weekly injection of exenatide. The vertical axis is HbAlc%. The treatments are displayed
toward the top of the figure, as follows: treatment using the methods and osmotic delivery
devices of the present invention for continuous delivery of exenatide at 20 mcg/day and 60
                                                 10

 WO 2011/037623                                                         PCT/US2010/002591
 mcg/day (Treatment E), which includes the first three sets of bar graphs; and treatment using
 exenatide administered by once-weekly injection (Treatment B), which is set off by a dotted
 line box. On the horizontal axis, the subjects for Treatment E are broken down into groups
 based on baseline HbAlc as follows: All Subjects; Baseline HbAlc greater than 7.0; and
 Baseline HbAlc of greater than or equal to 7.5. The number within and near the top of the
 solid bar graph associated with each treatment provides the baseline HbAlc% (e.g.,
 Treatment B, 8.6). The percent marked with an asterisk within the solid bar graph associated
with each treatment provides the percentage of subjects who achieved an HbAlc of 7% or
 less (e.g., Treatment B, 58%*). The number within and near the top of the stippled bar graph
 associated with each treatment provides the endpoint HbAlc% for the study (e.g., Treatment
B, 7.1). The number within and near the horizontal axis of the stippled bar graph associated
with each treatment provides the change of HbAlc for the study (e.g., Treatment B,
 -1.5).
 [0042]          Figure 16 presents a competitive profile among subjects on metformin-only
background treatment combined either with continuous delivery of exenatide or with once
weekly injection of exenatide, wherein the baselines have been normalized. The vertical axis
is HbAlc%. The treatments are displayed toward the top of the figure, as follows: treatment
using exenatide administered by once-weekly injection (Treatment B); and treatment using
the methods and osmotic delivery devices of the present invention for continuous delivery of
exenatide at 20 mcg/day and 60 mcg/day (Treatment E). The figure is divided by a dark
vertical line into two panels as follows: on the left side and labeled on the horizontal axis is
data for subjects with a baseline HbAlc of less than 9.0; and on the right side and labeled on
the horizontal axis is data for subjects with a baseline HbAlc of greater than or equal to 9.0.
The asterisk following "Subjects with Baseline HbAlc > 9.0" signifies that approximately
one-third of subjects in Treatment B had baseline HbAlc of greater than or equal to 9.0; but
only one subject of Treatment E had a baseline HbAlc of greater than or equal to 9.0. The
number within and near the top of the solid bar graph associated with each treatment provides
the baseline HbAlc% (e.g., Treatment B, left panel, 7.8). The number within and near the
top of the stippled bar graph associated with each treatment provides the endpoint HbAlc%
for the study (e.g., Treatment B, left panel, 6.7). The number within and near the horizontal
axis of the stippled bar graph associated with each treatment provides the change of HbAlc
for the study (e.g., Treatment B, left panel, -1.1).
[0043]           Figure 17 presents a competitive profile among subjects on metformin-only
background treatment combined either with continuous delivery of exenatide or with
                                                  11

 WO 2011/037623                                                         PCT/US2010/002591
 sitagliptin. The vertical axis is HbAlc%. The treatments are displayed toward the top of the
 figure, as follows: treatment using the methods and osmotic delivery devices of the present
 invention for continuous delivery of exenatide at 20 mcg/day and 60 mcg/day (Treatment E),
 which includes the first three sets of bar graphs; and treatment using sitagliptin (Treatment F),
 which is set off by a dotted-line box. On the horizontal axis, the subjects for Treatment E are
 broken down into groups based on baseline HbAlc as follows: All Subjects; Baseline HbAlc
 greater than 7.0; and Baseline HbAlc of greater than or equal to 7.5. The number within and
 near the top of the solid bar graph associated with each treatment provides the baseline
HbAlc% (e.g., Treatment F, 8.5). The percent marked with an asterisk within the solid bar
 graph associated with each treatment provides the percentage of subjects who achieved an
HbAlc of 7% or less (e.g., Treatment F, 31%*). The number within and near the top of the
 stippled bar graph associated with each treatment provides the endpoint HbAlc% for the
 study (e.g., Treatment F, 7.6). The number within and near the horizontal axis of the stippled
bar graph associated with each treatment provides the change of HbAlc for the study (e.g.,
 Treatment F, -0.9).
 [0044]          Figure 18 presents a competitive profile among subjects on metformin-only
background treatment combined either with continuous delivery of exenatide or with
 sitagliptin, wherein the baselines have been normalized. The vertical axis is HbAlc%. The
treatments are displayed toward the top of the figure, as follows: treatment using sitagliptin
(Treatment F); and treatment using the methods and osmotic delivery devices of the present
invention for continuous delivery of exenatide at 20 mcg/day and 60 mcg/day (Treatment E).
The figure is divided by a dark vertical line into two panels as follows: on the left side and
labeled on the horizontal axis is data for subjects with a baseline HbAlc of less than 9.0; and
on the right side and labeled on the horizontal axis is data for subjects with a baseline HbAlc
of greater than or equal to 9.0. The asterisk following "Subjects with Baseline HbAlc ;>
9.0*" signifies that approximately one-third of subjects in Treatment F had baseline HbAlc of
greater than or equal to 9.0; but only one subject of Treatment E had a baseline HbAlc of
greater than or equal to 9.0. The number within and near the top of the solid bar graph
associated with each treatment provides the baseline HbAlc% (e.g., Treatment F, left panel,
7.7). The number within and near the top of the stippled bar graph associated with each
treatment provides the endpoint HbAlc% for the study (e.g., Treatment F, left panel, 7.2).
The number within and near the horizontal axis of the stippled bar graph associated with each
treatment provides the change of HbAlc for the study (e.g., Treatment F, left panel, -0.5).
                                                 12

 WO 2011/037623                                                          PCT/US2010/002591
 [00451           Figure 19 presents a competitive profile among subjects on metformin-only
 background treatment combined either with continuous delivery of exenatide or with
 pioglitazone. The vertical axis is HbAlc%. The treatments are displayed toward the top of
 the figure, as follows: treatment using the methods and osmotic delivery devices of the
 present invention for continuous delivery of exenatide at 20 mcg/day and 60 mcg/day
 (Treatment E), which includes the first three sets of bar graphs; and treatment using
 pioglitazone (Treatment G), which is set off by a dotted-line box. On the horizontal axis, the
 subjects for Treatment E are broken down into groups based on baseline HbAlc as follows:
 All Subjects; Baseline HbAlc greater than 7.0; and Baseline HbA lc of greater than or equal
to 7.5. The number within and near the top of the solid bar graph associated with each
treatment provides the baseline HbAlc% (e.g., Treatment G, 8.5). The percent marked with
 an asterisk within the solid bar graph associated with each treatment provides the percentage
 of subjects who achieved an HbAlc of 7% or less (e.g., Treatment G, 43%*). The number
within and near the top of the stippled bar graph associated with each treatment provides the
endpoint HbAlc% for the study (e.g., Treatment G, 7.3). The number within and near the
horizontal axis of the stippled bar graph associated with each treatment provides the change
of HbAlc for the study (e.g., Treatment G, -1.2).
 [0046]          Figure 20 presents a competitive profile among subjects on metformin-only
background treatment combined either with continuous delivery of exenatide or with
pioglitazone, wherein the baselines have been normalized. The vertical axis is HbAlc%. The
treatments are displayed toward the top of the figure, as follows: treatment using
pioglitazone (Treatment G); and treatment using the methods and osmotic delivery devices of
the present invention for continuous delivery of exenatide at 20 mcg/day and 60 mcg/day
(Treatment E). The figure is divided by a dark vertical line into two panels as follows: on the
left side and labeled on the horizontal axis is data for subjects with a baseline HbAlc of less
than 9.0; and on the right side and labeled on the horizontal axis is data for subjects with a
baseline HbAlc of greater than or equal to 9.0. The asterisk following "Subjects with
Baseline HbAlc > 9.0*"      signifies that approximately one-third of subjects in Treatment G
had baseline HbAlc of greater than or equal to 9.0; but only one subject of Treatment E had a
baseline HbAlc of greater than or equal to 9.0. The number within and near the top of the
solid bar graph associated with each treatment provides the baseline HbAlc% (e.g.,
Treatment G, left panel, 7.8). The number within and near the top of the stippled bar graph
associated with each treatment provides the endpoint HbAlc% for the study (e.g., Treatment
G, left panel, 6.9). The number within and near the horizontal axis of the stippled bar graph
                                                 13

 WO 2011/037623                                                          PCT/US2010/002591
associated with each treatment provides the change of HbAlc for the study (e.g., Treatment
G, left panel, -0.9).
 [0047]          Figure 21 presents comparative weight loss data among subjects on
metformin-only background treatment combined with a variety of type 2 diabetes mellitus
treatments. The vertical axis is % Weight Loss. The treatments are displayed on the
horizontal axis, as follows: treatment using pioglitazone (Treatment G); treatment using
sitagliptin (Treatment F); exenatide administered by once-weekly injection (Treatment B);
and treatment using the methods and osmotic delivery devices of the present invention for
continuous delivery of exenatide at 20 mcg/day and 60 mcg/day (Treatment E). The number
within the bar graph associated with each treatment provides the weight gain or loss for the
study (e.g., Treatment G, +2.8 kg).
        Detailed Description of the Invention
[0048]           All patents, publications, and patent applications cited in this specification are
herein incorporated by reference as if each individual patent, publication, or patent
application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference in its
entirety for all purposes.
                 1.0.0           Definitions
[00491           It is to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of
describing particular embodiments only, and is not intended to be limiting. As used in this
specification and the appended claims, the singular forms "a," "an" and "the" include plural
referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus, for example, reference to "a
solvent" includes a combination of two or more such solvents, reference to "a peptide"
includes one or more peptides, or mixtures of peptides, reference to "a drug" includes one or
more drugs, reference to "an osmotic device" includes one or more osmotic devices, and the
like.
[0050]           Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have
the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the
invention pertains. Although other methods and materials similar, or equivalent, to those
described herein can be used in the practice of the present invention, the preferred materials
and methods are described herein.
[00511           In describing and claiming the present invention, the following terminology
will be used in accordance with the definitions set out below.
                                                  14

 WO 2011/037623                                                           PCT/US2010/002591
 [0052]          The terms "drug," "therapeutic agent," and "beneficial agent" are used
 interchangeably to refer to any therapeutically active substance that is delivered to a subject
 to produce a desired beneficial effect. In one embodiment of the present invention, the drug is
 a polypeptide. In another embodiment of the present invention, the drug is a small molecule,
 for example, hormones such as androgens or estrogens. The devices and methods of the
 present invention are well suited for the delivery of proteins, small molecules and
 combinations thereof.
 [0053]          The terms "peptide," "polypeptide," and "protein" are used interchangeably
 herein and typically refer to a molecule comprising a chain of two or more amino acids (e.g.,
 most typically L-amino acids, but also including, e.g., D-amino acids, modified amino acids,
 amino acid analogs, and/or amino acid mimetic). Peptides may be naturally occurring,
 synthetically produced, or recombinantly expressed. Peptides may also comprise additional
 groups modifying the amino acid chain, for example, functional groups added via post
 translational modification. Examples of post-translation modifications include, but are not
 limited to, acetylation, alkylation (including, methylation), biotinylation, glutamylation,
 glycylation, glycosylation, isoprenylation, lipoylation, phosphopantetheinylation,
 phosphorylation, selenation, and C-terminal amidation. The term peptide also includes
 peptides comprising modifications of the amino terminus and/or the carboxy terminus.
Modifications of the terminal amino group include, but are not limited to, des-amino, N-lower
 alkyl, N-di-lower alkyl, and N-acyl modifications. Modifications of the terminal carboxy
group include, but are not limited to, amide, lower alkyl amide, dialkyl amide, and lower
 alkyl ester modifications (e.g., wherein lower alkyl is C1 -C4 alkyl). The term peptide also
includes modifications, such as but not limited to those described above, of amino acids
falling between the amino and carboxy termini. In one embodiment, a peptide may be
modified by addition of a small-molecule drug.
 [0054]           The terminal amino acid at one end of the peptide chain typically has a free
amino group (i.e., the amino terminus). The terminal amino acid at the other end of the chain
typically has a free carboxyl group (i.e., the carboxy terminus). Typically, the amino acids
making up a peptide are numbered in order, starting at the amino terminus and increasing in
the direction of the carboxy terminus of the peptide.
[0055]           The phrase "amino acid residue" as used herein refers to an amino acid that is
incorporated into a peptide by an amide bond or an amide bond mimetic.
                                                 15

 WO 2011/037623                                                          PCT/US2010/002591
  [00561         The phrase "incretin mimetics" as used herein includes, but is not limited to,
 glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1), as well as peptide derivatives and peptide analogs thereof;
 and exenatide, as well as peptide derivatives and peptide analogs thereof Incretin mimetics
 are also known in the literature as "insulinotropic peptides" or "GLP-1 receptor agonists."
 [0057]          The term "insulinotropic" as used herein typically refers to the ability of a
 compound, e.g., a peptide, to stimulate or affect the production and/or activity of insulin (e.g.,
 an insulinotropic hormone). Such compounds typically stimulate the secretion or
 biosynthesis of insulin in a subject.
 [00581          The term "vehicle" as used herein refers to a medium used to carry a
 compound, e.g., a drug. Vehicles of the present invention typically comprise components
 such as polymers and solvents. The suspension vehicles of the present invention typically
 comprise solvents and polymers that are used to prepare suspension formulations further
 comprising drug particle formulations.
 [0059]          The phrase "phase separation" as used herein refers to the formation of
 multiple phases (e.g., liquid or gel phases) in the suspension vehicle, such as when the
 suspension vehicle contacts the aqueous environment. In some embodiments of the present
 invention, the suspension vehicle is formulated to exhibit phase separation upon contact with
 an aqueous environment having less than approximately 10% water.
 [0060]          The phrase "single-phase" as used herein refers to a solid, semisolid, or liquid
homogeneous system that is physically and chemically uniform throughout.
 [0061]          The term "dispersed" as used herein refers to dissolving, dispersing,
 suspending, or otherwise distributing a compound, for example, a drug particle formulation,
in a suspension vehicle.
 [0062]          The phrase "chemically stable" as used herein refers to formation in a
formulation of an acceptable percentage of degradation products produced over a defined
period of time by chemical pathways, such as deamidation (usually by hydrolysis),
aggregation, or oxidation.
[00631          The phrase "physically stable" as used herein refers to formation in a
formulation of an acceptable percentage of aggregates (e.g., dimers and other higher
molecular weight products). Further, a physically stable formulation does not change its
physical state as, for example, from liquid to solid, or from amorphous to crystal form.
[00641          The term "viscosity" as used herein typically refers to a value determined from
the ratio of shear stress to shear rate (see, e.g., Considine, D.M. & Considine, G.D.,
                                                   16

 WO 2011/037623                                                          PCT/US2010/002591
Encyclopedia of Chemistry, 4th Edition, Van Nostrand, Reinhold, NY, 1984) essentially as
follows:
 [00651         F /A = p* V/L                                       (Equation 1)
         where F/A = shear stress (force per unit area),
         p= a proportionality constant (viscosity), and
         V/L = the velocity per layer thickness (shear rate).
 [0066]         From this relationship, the ratio of shear stress to shear rate defines viscosity.
Measurements of shear stress and shear rate are typically determined using parallel plate
rheometery performed under selected conditions (for example, a temperature of about 37'C).
Other methods for the determination of viscosity include, measurement of a kinematic
viscosity using viscometers, for example, a Cannon-Fenske viscometer, a Ubbelohde
viscometer for the Cannon-Fenske opaque solution, or a Ostwald viscometer. Generally,
suspension vehicles of the present invention have a viscosity sufficient to prevent a particle
formulation suspended therein from settling during storage and use in a method of delivery,
for example, in an implantable, drug delivery device.
[0067]          The term "non-aqueous" as used herein refers to an overall moisture content,
for example, of a suspension formulation, typically of less than or equal to about 10 wt%,
preferably less than or equal to about 7 wt%, more preferably less than or equal to about 5
wt%, and more preferably less than about 4 wt%.
[0068]          The term "subject" as used herein refers to any member of the subphylum
Chordata,including, without limitation, humans and other primates, including non-human
primates such as rhesus macaques and other monkey species and chimpanzees and other ape
species; farm animals such as cattle, sheep, pigs, goats and horses; domestic mammals such
as dogs and cats; laboratory animals including rodents such as mice, rats and guinea pigs;
birds, including domestic, wild and game birds such as chickens, turkeys and other
gallinaceous birds, ducks, geese, and the like. The term does not denote a particular age or
gender. Thus, both adult and newborn individuals are intended to be covered.
[0069]          The term "osmotic delivery device" as used herein typically refers to a device
used for delivery of a drug (e.g., an incretin mimetic) to a subject, wherein the device
comprises, for example, a reservoir (made, e.g., from a titanium alloy) having a lumen that
contains a suspension formulation comprising a drug (e.g., an incretin mimetic) and an
osmotic agent formulation. A piston assembly positioned in the lumen isolates the
suspension formulation from the osmotic agent formulation. A semi-permeable membrane is
positioned at a first distal end of the reservoir adjacent the osmotic agent formulation and a
                                                  17

WO 2011/037623                                                            PCT/US2010/002591
diffusion moderator (which defines a delivery orifice through which the suspension
formulation exits the device) is positioned at a second distal end of the reservoir adjacent the
suspension formulation. Typically, the osmotic delivery device is implanted within the
subject, for example, subcutaneously (e.g., in the inside, outside, or back of the upper arm; or
in the abdominal area). An exemplary osmotic delivery device is the DUROS@ (ALZA
Corporation, Mountain View, CA) delivery device.
[0070]          The term "continuous delivery" as used herein typically refers to a
substantially continuous release of drug from an osmotic delivery device. For example, the
DUROS@ delivery device releases drug essentially at a predetermined rate based on the
principle of osmosis. Extracellular fluid enters the DUROS@ device through the semi
permeable membrane directly into the osmotic engine that expands to drive the piston at a
slow and consistent rate of travel. Movement of the piston forces the drug formulation to be
released through the orifice of the diffusion moderator. Thus release of the drug from the
osmotic delivery device is at a slow, controlled, consistent rate.
[00711          The term "substantial steady-state delivery" as used herein typically refers to
delivery of a drug at or near a target concentration over a defined period of time, wherein the
amount of the drug being delivered from an osmotic device is substantially zero-order
delivery. Substantial zero-order delivery of an active agent (e.g., exenatide) means that the
rate of drug delivered is constant and is independent of the drug available in the delivery
system; for example, for zero-order delivery, if the rate of drug delivered is graphed against
time and a line is fitted to the data the line has a slope of approximately zero, as determined
by standard methods (e.g., linear regression).
[00721          The phrase "drug half-life" as used herein refers how long it takes a drug to be
eliminated from blood plasma by one half of its concentration. A drug's half-life is usually
measured by monitoring how a drug degrades when it is administered via injection or
intravenously. A drug is usually detected using, for example, a radioimmunoassay or
chromatographic method.
                2.0.0            General Overview of the Invention
[0073]          Before describing the present invention in detail, it is to be understood that this
invention is not limited to particular types of drug delivery devices, particular sources of
drugs, particular solvents, particular polymers, and the like, as use of such particulars may be
selected in view of the teachings of the present specification. It is also to be understood that
                                                  18

 WO 2011/037623                                                            PCT/US2010/002591
the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments of the
invention only, and is not intended to be limiting.
 [00741          In a first aspect, the present invention relates to a method of treating type 2
diabetes mellitus in a subject in need of treatment. The method comprises providing
 continuous delivery of an incretin mimetic from an osmotic delivery device, wherein
 substantial steady-state delivery of the incretin mimetic at a therapeutic concentration is
achieved within a time period of about 7 days or less after implantation of the osmotic
delivery device in the subject. The substantial steady-state delivery of the incretin mimetic
from the osmotic delivery device is continuous over an administration period. Humans are
preferred subjects for the practice of the present invention. The present invention includes an
incretin mimetic (e.g., exenatide), as well as an osmotic device comprising an incretin
mimetic (e.g., exenatide) for use in the present methods of treating type 2 diabetes mellitus in
a subject in need of treatment.
 [0075]          In some embodiments of the present invention, the administration period is,
for example, at least about 3 months, at least about 3 months to about a year, at least about 4
months to about a year, at least about 5 months to about a year, at least about 6 months to
about a year, at least about 8 months to about a year, at least about 9 months to about a year,
or at least about 10 months to about a year.
 [0076]          In some embodiments of the present invention, the substantial steady-state
delivery of an incretin mimetic at therapeutic concentrations is achieved within about 5 days
or less after implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the subject, within about 4 days or
less after implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the subject, within about 3 days or
less after implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the subject, within about 2 days or
less after implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the subject, or within about 1 day or
less after implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the subject. In preferred
embodiments of the present invention, the substantial steady-state delivery of the incretin
mimetic at therapeutic concentrations is achieved within about 2 days or less, more preferably
within about 1 day or less after implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the subject.
[00771           In further embodiments, the treatment methods of the present invention
provide significant decrease in the subject's fasting plasma glucose concentration after
implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the subject (relative to the subject's fasting
plasma glucose concentration before implantation of the osmotic delivery device) that is
achieved within about 7 days or less after implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the
subject, within about 6 days or less after implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the
                                                   19

WO 2011/037623                                                            PCT/US2010/002591
subject, within about 5 days or less after implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the
subject, within about 4 days or less after implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the
subject, within about 3 days or less after implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the
subject, within about 2 days or less after implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the
subject, or within about 1 day or less after implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the
subject. In preferred embodiments of the present invention, the significant decrease in the
subject's fasting plasma glucose concentration after implantation of the osmotic device,
relative to the subject's fasting plasma glucose concentration before implantation, is achieved
within about 2 days or less, preferably within about 1 day or less after implantation of the
osmotic delivery device in the subject, or more preferably within about 1 day after
implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the subject. The significant decrease in fasting
plasma glucose is typically statistically significant as demonstrated by application of an
appropriate statistical test or is considered significant for the subject by a medical
practitioner. A significant decrease in fasting plasma glucose relative to the baseline before
implantation is typically maintained over the administration period.
[0078]           In yet further embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention, the
treatment methods further comprise the capability to terminate the continuous delivery of the
incretin mimetic such that the concentration of the incretin mimetic is substantially
undetectable in a blood sample from the subject within about 6 half-lives or less of the
incretin mimetic after termination of continuous delivery, within about 5 half-lives or less of
the incretin mimetic after termination of continuous delivery, within about 4 half-lives or less
of the incretin mimetic after termination of continuous delivery, or within about 3 half-lives
or less of the incretin mimetic after termination of continuous delivery. Examples of incretin
mimetic half-lives are exenatide, approximately 2.5 hours, and GLP-1, approximately 2
minutes. The incretin mimetic may be detected, for example, by a radioimmunoassay.
Termination of the continuous delivery can be accomplished, for example, by removal of the
osmotic delivery device from the subject.
[0079]           In related embodiments of the present invention, the treatment methods further
comprise the capability to terminate the continuous delivery of exenatide such that the
concentration of exenatide is substantially undetectable in a blood sample from the subject in
less than about 72 hours after termination of continuous delivery, in less than about 48 hours
after termination of continuous delivery, in less than about 24 hours after termination of
continuous delivery, in less than about 18 hours after termination of continuous delivery, in
less than about 14 hours after termination of continuous delivery, in less than about 12 hours
                                                 20

 WO 2011/037623                                                         PCT/US2010/002591
after termination of continuous delivery, in less than about 6 hours after termination of
continuous delivery, or in less than about 4 hours after termination of continuous delivery. In
preferred embodiments, exenatide is substantially undetectable in a blood sample from the
subject in less than about 24 hours after termination of continuous delivery, in less than about
 18 hours after termination of continuous delivery, or more preferably in less than about 14
hours after termination of continuous delivery.
[0080]           In preferred embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention, the
incretin mimetic comprises an exenatide peptide, a peptide analog thereof, or a peptide
derivative thereof, a GLP-1 peptide (e.g., GLP-1(7-36)amide peptide), a peptide analog
thereof, or a peptide derivative thereof. Specific examples of preferred incretin mimetics
useful in the practice of the present invention include exenatide having the amino acid
sequence of exendin-4, lixisenatide, GLP-1(7-36), liraglutide, albiglutide, and taspoglutide.
[0081]           In some embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention, wherein the
incretin mimetic is exenatide, the continuous delivery can provide to the subject a mcg/day
dose of exenatide, for example, of about 10 mcg/day, about 20 mcg/day, about 30 mcg/day,
about 40 mcg/day, about 60 mcg/day, or about 80 mcg/day.
[00821            In some embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention, wherein the
incretin mimetic is exenatide, the method of treating type 2 diabetes mellitus further
comprises the capability to terminate the continuous delivery such that the concentration of
the exenatide is substantially undetectable in a blood sample from the subject after
termination of continuous delivery, for example, in less than about 72 hours, in less than
about 48 hours, in less than about 24, or in less than about 12 hours.
[0083]           In additional embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention, the
method of treating type 2 diabetes mellitus further comprises a first continuous administration
period of the incretin mimetic at a first mcg/day dose that is followed by a second continuous
administration period providing a dose escalation of the incretin mimetic to a second mcg/day
dose, wherein the second mcg/day dose is greater than the first mcg/day dose. In some
embodiments, the first mcg/day dose is delivered by a first osmotic delivery device and the
second mcg/day dose is delivered by a second osmotic delivery device, and delivery of the
incretin mimetic from at least the first or the second osmotic delivery device is continuous
over the administration period of at least about 3 months. In one embodiment, the second
mcg/day dose is at least two times greater than the first mcg/day dose. Further, the method
can comprise at least one more continuous administration period providing a dose escalation
of the incretin mimetic to a higher mcg/day dose relative to the second mcg/day dose. Dose
                                                 21

 WO 2011/037623                                                           PCT/US2010/002591
escalation can be accomplished, for example, by removal of the first osmotic delivery device
and implantation of a second osmotic delivery device, or by implantation of a second or
further osmotic delivery device where the total dose delivered by the first and second osmotic
delivery devices results in the desired dose escalation.
 [00841          In a preferred embodiment of the present invention comprising dose
escalation, the incretin mimetic is an exenatide, and the first mcg/day dose followed by the
second mcg/day dose for continuous delivery are selected from the group consisting of: about
 10 mcg/day followed by about 20 mcg/day; about 10 mcg/day followed by about 40 mcg/day;
about 10 mcg/day followed by about 60 mcg/day; about 10 mcg/day followed by about 80
mcg/day; about 20 mcg/day followed by about 40 mcg/day; about 20 mcg/day followed by
about 60 mcg/day; about 20 mcg/day followed by about 80 mcg/day; about 40 mcg/day
followed by about 60 mcg/day; about 40 mcg/day followed by about 80 mcg/day; and about
60 mcg/day followed by about 80 mcg/day.
[0085]           In a second aspect, the present invention relates to a method of treating type 2
diabetes mellitus in a subject in need of treatment. The method comprises providing
continuous delivery of an incretin mimetic (e.g., exenatide) from an implanted osmotic
delivery device, wherein (i) a significant decrease in fasting plasma glucose concentration is
achieved after implantation of the osmotic device in the subject, relative to the fasting plasma
glucose concentration before implantation, within about 7 days of implantation of the osmotic
delivery device in the subject, (ii) the delivery of the incretin mimetic is continuous over an
administration period, and (iii) a significant decrease in fasting plasma glucose is maintained
over the period. The significant decrease in fasting plasma glucose is typically statistically
significant as demonstrated by application of an appropriate statistical test or is considered
significant for the subject by a medical practitioner.
[00861           In a third aspect, the present invention relates to a method of treating type 2
diabetes mellitus in a subject in need of treatment comprising the capability to terminate
continuous delivery of an incretin mimetic such that the concentration of the incretin mimetic
is substantially undetectable in a blood sample from the subject within about 6 half-lives or
less of the incretin mimetic after termination of continuous delivery, within about 5 half-lives
or less of the incretin mimetic after termination of continuous delivery, within about 4 half
lives or less of the incretin mimetic after termination of continuous delivery, or within about 3
half-lives or less of the incretin mimetic after termination of continuous delivery. Examples
of incretin mimetic half-lives include exenatide, approximately 2.5 hours, and GLP-1,
approximately 2 minutes.
                                                  22

 WO 2011/037623                                                            PCT/US2010/002591
 [0087]            In a fourth aspect, the present invention relates to a method of treating type 2
 diabetes mellitus, comprising a first continuous administration period of an incretin mimetic
 at a first mcg/day dose that is followed by a second continuous administration period
 providing a dose escalation of the incretin mimetic to a second mcg/day dose, wherein the
 second mcg/day dose is greater than the first mcg/day dose. In some embodiments, the first
 mcg/day dose is delivered by a first osmotic delivery device and the second mcg/day dose is
 delivered by a second osmotic delivery device, and delivery of the incretin mimetic from at
 least the first or the second osmotic delivery device is continuous over the administration
 period of at least about 3 months. In one embodiment, the second mcg/day dose is at least two
 times greater than the first mcg/day dose. Further, the method can comprise at least one
 additional continuous administration period providing a dose escalation of the incretin
 mimetic to a higher mcg/day dose relative to the second mcg/day dose. Dose escalation can
 be accomplished, for example, by removal of the first osmotic delivery device and
 implantation of a second osmotic delivery device, or by implantation of a second or further
 osmotic delivery device where the total dose delivered by the first and second (or further)
 osmotic delivery devices results in the desired dose escalation. This aspect of the present
 invention (which comprises multiple, sequential continuous administration periods of
 escalating doses of the incretin mimetic) provides improved tolerization to dose escalation of
 the incretin mimetic relative to dose escalation based on injection of the incretin mimetic.
 [0088]           In embodiments of all aspects of the present invention relating to methods of
treating type 2 diabetes mellitus, an exemplary osmotic delivery device comprises the
 following: an impermeable reservoir comprising interior and exterior surfaces and first and
 second open ends; a semi-permeable membrane in sealing relationship with the first open end
 of the reservoir; an osmotic engine within the reservoir and adjacent the semi-permeable
membrane; a piston adjacent the osmotic engine, wherein the piston forms a movable seal
with the interior surface of the reservoir, the piston divides the reservoir into a first chamber
and a second chamber, the first chamber comprising the osmotic engine; a suspension
formulation, wherein the second chamber comprises the suspension formulation and the
suspension formulation is flowable and comprises the incretin mimetic; and a diffusion
moderator inserted in the second open end of the reservoir, the diffusion moderator adjacent
the suspension formulation. In preferred embodiments, the reservoir comprises titanium or a
titanium alloy.
[0089]            In embodiments of all aspects of the present invention relating to methods of
treating type 2 diabetes mellitus, suspension formulations for use in the methods can, for
                                                   23

 WO 2011/037623                                                           PCT/US2010/002591
 example, comprise a particle formulation comprising an incretin mimetic, and a vehicle
 formulation. Examples of incretin mimetics include, but are not limited to, an exenatide
 peptide, a peptide analog thereof, or a peptide derivative thereof; a GLP-1 peptide, a peptide
 analog thereof, or a peptide derivative thereof. Specific examples of preferred incretin
 mimetics include exenatide having the amino acid sequence of exendin-4, lixisenatide, GLP
 1(7-36), liraglutide, albiglutide, and taspoglutide. Vehicle formulations for use in forming the
 suspension formulations of the present invention can, for example, comprise a solvent and a
 polymer. Examples of solvents include, but are not limited to benzyl benzoate, lauryl lactate,
 lauryl alcohol, or combinations thereof An example of a polymer is a polyvinvylpyrrolidone.
 In a preferred embodiment, the suspension vehicle consists essentially of one solvent and one
polymer, for example, the solvent benzyl benzoate and the polymer polyvinvylpyrrolidone.
 [0090]           The reservoir of the osmotic delivery devices may, for example, comprise
titanium or a titanium alloy.
 [0091]          In a fifth aspect, the present invention relates to a method of treating a disease
or condition in a subject in need of treatment. The method comprises providing continuous
delivery of a drug from an osmotic delivery device, wherein substantial steady-state delivery
of the drug at therapeutic concentrations is achieved within a time period of about 7 days or
less after implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the subject. The substantial steady
state delivery of the drug from the osmotic delivery device is continuous over an
administration period of at least about 3 months. The drug has a known or determined half
life in a typical subject. Humans are preferred subjects for the practice of the present
invention. The present invention includes a drug effective for treatment of the disease or
condition, as well as an osmotic device comprising the drug for use in the present methods of
treating the disease or condition in a subject in need of treatment. Advantages of the present
invention include mitigation of peak-associated drug toxicities and attenuation of sub-optimal
drug therapy associated with troughs.
[0092]           In some embodiments of the present invention, the administration period is,
for example, at least about 3 months, at least about 3 months to about a year, at least about 4
months to about a year, at least about 5 months to about a year, at least about 6 months to
about a year, at least about 8 months to about a year, at least about 9 months to about a year,
or at least about 10 months to about a year.
[0093]           In one embodiment of this aspect of the present invention, the method of
treating a disease or condition includes the proviso that the disease or condition is not prostate
cancer.
                                                  24

 WO 2011/037623                                                         PCT/US2010/002591
 [00941          In some embodiments of this aspect of the present invention, the substantial
 steady-state delivery of a drug at therapeutic concentrations is achieved within a period of
 about 7 days or less after implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the subject, about 5
 days or less after implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the subject, about 4 days or
 less after implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the subject, about 3 days or less after
 implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the subject, about 2 days or less after
 implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the subject, or about 1 day or less after
implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the subject.
 [0095]          In some embodiments of this aspect of the present invention, establishment of
the substantial steady-state delivery of the drug at therapeutic concentrations, after
implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the subject, may take a longer period of time,
for example, a period of about 2 weeks or less, or within less than about 6 half-lives of the
drug within the subject after implantation of the device.
 [00961          In yet further embodiments of the fifth aspect of the present invention, the
methods of treating a disease or condition further comprise the capability to terminate the
continuous delivery of the drug such that the concentration of the drug is substantially
undetectable in a blood sample from the subject within about 6 half-lives or less of the drug
after termination of continuous delivery, within about 5 half-lives or less of the drug after
termination of continuous delivery, within about 4 half-lives or less after termination of
continuous delivery, or within about 3 half-lives or less of the drug after termination of
continuous delivery. Some examples of drug half-lives are as follows: exenatide,
approximately 2.5 hours; GLP-1, approximately 2 minutes; GIP, approximately 5 minutes;
PYY, approximately 8 minutes; glucagon, approximately 6 minutes; oxynotomodulin,
approximately 6 minutes; and GLP-2, approximately 6 minutes. In the situation where more
than one drug is administered, the capability to terminate the continuous delivery of the more
than one drug is such that the concentration of the more than one drug is substantially
undetectable in a blood sample from the subject within about 6 half-lives or less of the more
than one drug having the longest half-life after termination of continuous delivery.
Termination of the continuous delivery can be accomplished, for example, by removal of the
osmotic delivery device from the subject. In some embodiments, the drug is detected in a
blood sample by a radioimmunoassay or chromatography.
[0097]           In preferred embodiments of the fifth aspect of the present invention, the drug
comprises a polypeptide, for example, selected from the following: recombinant antibodies,
antibody fragments, humanized antibodies, single chain antibodies, monoclonal antibodies,
                                                25

WO 2011/037623                                                          PCT/US2010/002591
and avimers; human growth hormone, epidermal growth factor, fibroblast growth factor,
platelet-derived growth factor, transforming growth factor, and nerve growth factor;
cytokines; and interferons. In other embodiments, the drug comprises a small molecule.
[0098]          In additional embodiments of the fifth aspect of the present invention, the
method of treating a disease or condition further comprises a first continuous administration
period of the drug at a first dose/day that is followed by a second continuous administration
period providing a dose escalation of the drug to a second dose/day, wherein the second
dose/day is greater than the first dose/day. In some embodiments, the first dose/day is
delivered by a first osmotic delivery device and the second dose/day is delivered by a second
osmotic delivery device, and delivery of the drug from at least the first or the second osmotic
delivery device is continuous over the administration period of at least about 3 months. In one
embodiment, the second dose/day is at least two times greater than the first dose/day.
Further, the method can comprise at least one more continuous administration period
providing a dose escalation of the drug to a higher dose/day relative to the second dose/day.
Dose escalation can be accomplished, for example, by removal of the first osmotic delivery
device and implantation of a second osmotic delivery device, or by implantation of a second
or further osmotic delivery device where the total dose delivered by the first and second
osmotic delivery devices results in the desired dose escalation.
[00991          In a sixth aspect, the present invention relates to a method of treating a disease
or condition in a subject in need of treatment comprising the capability to terminate
continuous delivery of a drug such that the concentration of the drug is substantially
undetectable in a blood sample from the subject within about 6 half-lives or less of the drug
after termination of continuous delivery, within about 5 half-lives or less of the drug after
termination of continuous delivery, within about 4 half-lives or less of the drug after
termination of continuous delivery, or within about 3 half-lives or less of the drug after
termination of continuous delivery. Some examples of drug half-lives are as follows:
exenatide, approximately 2.5 hours; GLP-1, approximately 2 minutes; GIP, approximately 5
minutes; PYY, approximately 8 minutes; glucagon, approximately 6 minutes; oxyntomodulin,
approximately 6 minutes; and GLP-2, approximately 6 minutes. In some embodiments,
termination of continuous delivery comprises removal of the osmotic delivery device from
the subject. In some embodiments, the drug is detected in a blood sample by a
radioimmunoassay or chromatography.
[00100]         In a seventh aspect, the present invention relates to a method of treating a
disease or condition in a subject in need of treatment, comprising a first continuous
                                                 26

 WO 2011/037623                                                          PCT/US2010/002591
 administration period of a drug at a first dose/day that is followed by a second continuous
 administration period providing a dose escalation of the drug to a second dose/day, wherein
the second dose/day is greater than the first dose/day. In some embodiments, the first
 dose/day is delivered by a first osmotic delivery device and the second dose/day is delivered
by a second osmotic delivery device, and delivery of the drug from at least the first or the
 second osmotic delivery device is continuous over the administration period of at least about
 3 months. In one embodiment, the second dose/day is at least two times greater than the first
dose/day. Further, the method can comprise at least one additional continuous administration
period providing a dose escalation of the drug to a higher dose/day relative to the second
dose/day. Dose escalation can be accomplished, for example, by removal of the first osmotic
delivery device and implantation of a second osmotic delivery device, or by implantation of a
second or further osmotic delivery device where the total dose delivered by the first and
 second (or further) osmotic delivery devices results in the desired dose escalation. This
aspect of the present invention (which comprises multiple, sequential continuous
administration periods of escalating doses of the drug) provides improved tolerization to dose
escalation of the drug relative to, for example, dose escalation based on injection of the drug.
 [00101]        In embodiments of all aspects of the present invention relating to methods of
treating a disease or condition in a subject, an exemplary osmotic delivery device comprises
the following: an impermeable reservoir comprising interior and exterior surfaces and first
and second open ends; a semi-permeable membrane in sealing relationship with the first open
end of the reservoir; an osmotic engine within the reservoir and adjacent the semi-permeable
membrane; a piston adjacent the osmotic engine, wherein the piston forms a movable seal
with the interior surface of the reservoir, the piston divides the reservoir into a first chamber
and a second chamber, the first chamber comprising the osmotic engine; a drug formulation
or suspension formulation comprising the drug, wherein the second chamber comprises the
drug formulation or suspension formulation and the drug formulation or suspension
formulation is flowable; and a diffusion moderator inserted in the second open end of the
reservoir, the diffusion moderator adjacent the suspension formulation. In preferred
embodiments, the reservoir comprises titanium or a titanium alloy.
[00102]         In embodiments of all aspects of the present invention relating to methods of
treating a disease or condition in a subject, the drug formulation can comprise the drug and a
vehicle formulation. Alternatively, suspension formulations are used in the methods and can,
for example, comprise a particle formulation comprising the drug and a vehicle formulation.
Vehicle formulations for use in forming the suspension formulations of the present invention
                                                 27

 WO 2011/037623                                                          PCT/US2010/002591
 can, for example, comprise a solvent and a polymer. Examples of solvents include, but are
 not limited to benzyl benzoate, lauryl lactate, lauryl alcohol, or combinations thereof. An
 example of a polymer is a polyvinvylpyrrolidone. In a preferred embodiment, the suspension
 vehicle consists essentially of one solvent and one polymer, for example, the solvent benzyl
 benzoate and the polymer polyvinvylpyrrolidone.
 [00103]         The reservoir of the osmotic delivery devices may, for example, comprise
 titanium or a titanium alloy.
 [00104]         In embodiments of all aspects of the present invention the implanted osmotic
 delivery device can be used to provide subcutaneous delivery.
 [00105]         In embodiments of all aspects of the present invention the continuous delivery
 can, for example, be zero-order, controlled continuous delivery.
                 3.0.0           Formulations and Compositions
 [00106]         Drugs for use in the practice of the present invention are typically uniformly
 suspended, dissolved or dispersed in a suspension vehicle to form a suspension formulation.
                 3.1.0           Drug Particle Formulations
 [00107]         In one aspect, the present invention provides drug particle formulations for
pharmaceutical use. The particle formulation typically comprises a drug and includes one or
more stabilizing component. Examples of stabilizing components include, but are not limited
to, carbohydrates, antioxidants, amino acids, buffers, inorganic compounds, and surfactants.
                 3.1.1           Exemplary Drugs
 [00108]         The drug particle formulations comprise a drug. The drug may be any
physiologically or pharmacologically active substance, particularly those known to be
delivered to the body of a human or an animal. Drugs that may be delivered by the osmotic
delivery system of the present invention include, but are not limited to, drugs that act on the
peripheral nerves, adrenergic receptors, cholinergic receptors, the skeletal muscles, the
cardiovascular system, smooth muscles, the blood circulatory system, synoptic sites,
neuroeffector junctional sites, endocrine and hormone systems, the immunological system,
the reproductive system, the skeletal system, autacoid systems, the alimentary and excretory
systems, the histamine system or the central nervous system. Further, drugs that may be
delivered by the osmotic delivery system of the present invention include, but are not limited
to, drugs used for the treatment of infectious diseases, chronic pain, diabetes, autoimmune
disorders, endocrine disorders, metabolic disorders, and rheumatologic disorders.
                                                 28

 WO 2011/037623                                                            PCT/US2010/002591
 [001091          Suitable drugs include, but are not limited to, the following: peptides, proteins,
 polypeptides (e.g., enzymes, hormones, cytokines), polynucleotides, nucleoproteins,
 polysaccharides, glycoproteins, lipoproteins, steroids, analgesics, local anesthetics, antibiotic
 agents, anti-inflammatory corticosteroids, ocular drugs, other small molecules for
 pharmaceutical use (e.g., ribavirin), or synthetic analogs of these species, as well as mixtures
 thereof.
 [00110]         In one embodiment, preferred drugs include macromolecules. Such
 macromolecules include, but are not limited to, pharmacologically active peptides proteins,
 polypeptides, genes, gene products, other gene therapy agents, or other small molecules. In a
 preferred embodiment the macromolecules are peptides, polypeptides or proteins. Numerous
 peptides, proteins, or polypeptides that are useful in the practice of the present invention are
 described herein. In addition to the peptides, proteins, or polypeptides described,
 modifications of these peptides, proteins, or polypeptides are also known to one of skill in the
 art and can be used in the practice of the present invention following the guidance presented
 herein. Such modifications include, but are not limited to, amino acid analogs, amino acid
 mimetics, analog polypeptides, or derivative polypeptides. Further, the drugs disclosed
 herein may be formulated or administered singly or in combination (e.g., using mixtures of
 drugs or multiple devices; U.S. Patent Publication No. 2009/0202608).
 [00111]         Examples of proteins that can be formulated into drug particle formulations of
the present invention include, but are not limited to, the following: human growth hormone;
 somatostatin; somatropin, somatotropin, somatotropin analogs, somatomedin-C, somatotropin
plus an amino acid, somatotropin plus a protein; follicle stimulating hormone; luteinizing
hormone, luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH), LHRH analogs such as leuprolide
or leuprolide acetate, nafarelin and goserelin, LHRH agonists or antagonists; growth hormone
releasing factor; calcitonin; colchicine; gonadotropic releasing hormone; gonadotropins such
as chorionic gonadotropin; oxytocin, octreotide; vasopressin; adrenocorticotrophic hormone;
epidermal growth factor; fibroblast growth factor; platelet-derived growth factor;
transforming growth factor; nerve growth factor; prolactin; cosyntropin; lypressin
polypeptides such as thyrotropin releasing hormone; thyroid stimulation hormone; secretin;
pancreozymin; enkephalin; glucagon; incretin mimetics; endocrine agents secreted internally
and distributed by way of the bloodstream; or the like.
[00112]          Further proteins that may be formulated into drug particle formulations
include, but are not limited to, the following: alpha antitrypsin; factor VII; factor VIII; factor
IX and other coagulation factors; insulin and insulin related compounds (for example,
                                                 29

 WO 2011/037623                                                         PCT/US2010/002591
 isophane insulin suspension, protamine zinc insulin suspension, globin zinc insulin, extended
 insulin zinc suspension); peptide hormones; adrenal cortical stimulating hormone, thyroid
 stimulating hormone and other pituitary hormones; erythropoietin; growth factors such as
 granulocyte-colony stimulating factor, granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor,
 insulin-like growth factor 1; tissue plasminogen activator; CD4; 1-deamino-8-D-arginine
 vasopressin; interleukin-1 receptor antagonist; tumor necrosis factor, tumor necrosis factor
 receptor; tumor suppresser proteins; pancreatic enzymes; lactase; cytokines, including
 lymphokines, chemokines or interleukins such as interleukin-1, interleukin-2; cytotoxic
 proteins; superoxide dismutase; endocrine agents secreted internally and distributed in an
 animal by way of the bloodstream; recombinant antibodies, antibody fragments, humanized
 antibodies, single chain antibodies, monoclonal antibodies; avimers; or the like.
 [00113]          Some embodiments of the present invention comprise use of peptide
hormones, for example, incretin mimetics (e.g., GLP-1 or exenatide), as well as peptide
analogs and peptide derivatives thereof, PYY (also known as peptide YY, peptide tyrosine
tyrosine), as well as peptide analogs and peptide derivatives thereof, for example, PYY(3-36);
oxyntomodulin, as well as peptide analogs and peptide derivatives thereof); and gastric
inhibitory peptide (GIP), as well as peptide analogs and peptide derivatives thereof.
 [00114]          Other embodiments comprise use of interferon peptides (e.g., alpha, beta,
gamma, lambda, omega, tau, consensus, and variant interferons, as well as peptide analogs or
peptide derivatives thereof such as pegylated forms, as well as mixtures thereof, see, for
example, The Interferons: Characterization and Application, by Anthony Meager (Editor),
Wiley-VCH (May 1, 2006)).
[00115]           GLP-1, including three forms of the peptide, GLP-1(1-37), GLP-1(7-37) and
GLP-1(7-36)amide, as well as peptide analogs of GLP-1 have been shown to stimulate insulin
secretion (i.e., is insulinotropic), which induces glucose uptake by cells and results in
decreases in serum glucose concentrations (see, e g., Mojsov, S., Int. J. Peptide Protein
Research, 40:333-343 (1992)).
[00116]           Numerous GLP-1 peptide derivatives and peptide analogs demonstrating
insulinotropic action are known in the art (see, e.g., U.S. Patent Nos. 5,118,666; 5,120,712;
5,512,549; 5,545,618; 5,574,008; 5,574,008; 5,614,492; 5,958,909; 6,191,102; 6,268,343;
6,329,336; 6,451,974; 6,458,924; 6,514,500; 6,593,295; 6,703,359; 6,706,689; 6,720,407;
6,821,949; 6,849,708; 6,849,714; 6,887,470; 6,887,849; 6,903,186; 7,022,674; 7,041,646;
7,084,243; 7,101,843; 7,138,486; 7,141,547; 7,144,863; and 7,199,217), as well as in clinical
trials (e.g., taspoglutide and albiglutide). One example of a GLP-1 peptide derivative useful
                                                30

 WO 2011/037623                                                          PCT/US2010/002591
 in the practice of the present invention is Victoza@ (Novo Nordisk A/S, Bagsvaerd DK)
 (liraglutide; U.S. Patent Nos. 6,268,343, 6,458,924, 7,235,627). Once-daily injectable
 Victoza@ (liraglutide) is commercially available in the United States, Europe, and Japan. For
 ease of reference herein, the family of GLP-1 peptides, GLP-1 peptide derivatives and GLP-1
 peptide analogs having insulinotropic activity is referred to collectively as "GLP-1."
 [00117]          The molecule exenatide has the amino acid sequence of exendin-4 (Kolterman
 O.G., et al., J. Clin. Endocrinol. Metab. 88(7):3082-9 (2003)) and is produced by chemical
 synthesis or recombinant expression. Twice-daily injectable exenatide is commercially
 available in the United States and Europe, and sold under the tradename of Byetta@ (Amylin
 Pharmaceuticals, Inc., San Diego CA). Exendin-3 and exendin-4 are known in the art and
 were originally isolated from Heloderma spp. (Eng, J., et al., J. Biol. Chem., 265:20259-62
 (1990); Eng., J., et al., J. Biol. Chem., 267:7402-05 (1992)). Use of exendin-3 and exendin-4
 for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus and the prevention of hyperglycemia has been
 proposed (see, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 5,424,286). Numerous exenatide peptide derivatives and
 peptide analogs (including, e.g., exendin-4 agonists) are known in the art (see, e.g., U.S.
 Patent Nos. 5,424,286; 6,268,343; 6,329,336; 6,506,724; 6,514,500; 6,528,486; 6,593,295;
 6,703,359; 6,706,689; 6,767,887; 6,821,949; 6,849,714; 6,858,576; 6,872,700; 6,887,470;
 6,887,849; 6,924,264; 6,956,026; 6,989,366; 7,022,674; 7,041,646; 7,115,569; 7,138,375;
 7,141,547; 7,153,825; and 7,157,555). One example of an exenatide derivative useful in the
practice of the present invention is lixisenatide (also known as ZP10, AVE0010) (see, e.g.,
U.S. Patent No. 6,528,486), which is in clinical trials. For ease of reference herein, the family
of exenatide peptides (e.g., including exendin-3, exendin-4, and exendin-4-amide), exenatide
peptide derivatives, and exenatide peptide analogs is referred to collectively as "exenatide."
 [00118]          PYY is a 36 amino acid residue peptide amide. PYY inhibits gut motility and
blood flow (Laburthe, M., Trends Endocrinol Metab. 1(3):168-74 (1990), mediates intestinal
secretion (Cox, H.M., et al., Br J Pharmacol 101(2):247-52 (1990); Playford, R.J., et al.,
Lancet 335(8705):1555-7 (1990)), and stimulate net absorption (MacFayden, R.J., et al.,
Neuropeptides 7(3):219-27 (1986)). Two major in vivo variants, PYY(1-36) and PYY(3-36),
have been identified (e.g., Eberlein, G.A., et al., Peptides 10(4), 797-803 (1989)). The
sequence of PYY, as well as peptide analogs and peptide derivatives thereof, are known in
the art (e.g., U.S. Patent Nos. 5,574,010 and 5,552,520).
[00119]           Oxyntomodulin is a naturally occurring 37 amino acid peptide hormone found
in the colon that has been found to suppress appetite and facilitate weight loss (Wynne K, et
al., Int J Obes (Lond) 30(12):1729-36(2006)). The sequence of oxyntomodulin, as well as
                                                 31

 WO 2011/037623                                                          PCT/US2010/002591
peptide analogs and peptide derivatives thereof, are known in the art (e.g., Bataille D, et al.,
Peptides 2(Suppl 2):41-44 (1981); and U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2005/0070469 and
 2006/0094652).
 [00120]         GIP is an insulinotropic peptide hormone (Efendic, S., et al., Horm Metab Res.
 36:742-6 (2004)) and is secreted by the mucosa of the duodenum and jejunum in response to
 absorbed fat and carbohydrate that stimulate the pancreas to secrete insulin. GIP circulates as
 a biologically active 42-amino acid peptide. GIP is also known as glucose-dependent
insulinotropic protein. GIP is a 42-amino acid gastrointestinal regulatory peptide that
 stimulates insulin secretion from pancreatic beta cells in the presence of glucose (Tseng, C.,
et al., PNAS 90:1992-1996 (1993)). The sequence of GIP, as well as peptide analogs and
peptide derivatives thereof, are known in the art (e.g., Meier J.J., Diabetes Metab Res Rev.
21(2):91-117 (2005); Efendic S., Horm Metab Res. 36(11-12):742-6 (2004)).
 [00121]         Examples of half-lives of some of the peptides are as follows: exenatide,
 approximately 2.5 hours; GLP-1, approximately 2 minutes; GIP, approximately 5 minutes;
PYY, approximately 8 minutes; glucagon, approximately 6 minutes; oxyntomodulin,
approximately 6 minutes; and GLP-2, approximately 6 minutes.
 [00122]         Drug particle formulations for use in the practice of the present invention are
exemplified using exenatide. The examples are not intended to be limiting.
 [00123]         In another embodiment, preferred drugs include small molecules. Examples of
drugs that may be used in the practice of the present invention include, but are not limited to,
the following: chemotherapeutics; hypnotics and sedatives such as pentobarbital sodium,
phenobarbital, secobarbital, thiopental, amides and ureas exemplified by diethylisovaleramide
and alpha-bromo-isovaleryl urea, urethanes, or disulfanes; heterocyclic hypnotics such as
dioxopiperidines, and glutarimides; antidepressants such as isocarboxazid, nialamide,
phenelzine, imipramine, tranylcypromine, pargyline); tranquilizers such as chloropromazine,
promazine, fluphenazine reserpine, deserpidine, meprobamate, benzodiazepines such as
chlordiazepoxide; anticonvulsants such as primidone, diphenylhydantoin, ethltoin,
pheneturide, ethosuximide; muscle relaxants and anti-parkinson agents such as mephenesin,
methocarbomal, trihexylphenidyl, biperiden, levo-dopa, also known as L-dopa and L-beta-3
4-dihydroxyphenylalanine; analgesics such as morphine, codeine, meperidine, nalorphine;
antipyretics and anti-inflammatory agents such as aspirin, salicylamide, sodium salicylamide,
naproxin, ibuprofen; local anesthetics such as procaine, lidocaine, naepaine, piperocaine,
tetracaine, dibucane; antispasmodics and anti-ulcer agents such as atropine, scopolamine,
methscopolamine, oxyphenonium, papaverine, prostaglandins such as PGE1 , PGE2, PGFlalpha,
                                                32

 WO 2011/037623                                                         PCT/US2010/002591
 PGF2aIpha, PGA; anti-microbials such as penicillin, tetracycline, oxytetracycline,
 chlorotetracycline, chloramphenicol, sulfonamides, tetracycline, bacitracin,
 chlorotetracycline, erythromycin, isoniazid, rifampin, ethambutol, pyrazinamide, rifabutin,
 rifapentine, cycloserine, ethionamide, streptomycin, amikacin/kanamycin, capreomycin, p
 aminosalicyclic acid, levofloxacin, moxifloxacin and gatifloxacin; anti-malarials such as 4
 aminoquinolines, 8-aminoquinolines, pyrimethamine, chloroquine, sulfadoxine
 pyrimethamine; mefloquine; atovaquone-proguanil; quinine; doxycycline; artemisinin (a
 sesquiterpene lactone) and derivatives; anti-leishmaniasis agents (e.g., meglumine
 antimoniate, sodium stibogluconate, amphotericin, miltefosine,.and paromomycin); anti
 trypanosomiasis agents (e.g., benznidazole and nifurtimox); anti-amoebiasis agents (e.g.,
 metronidazole, tinidazole, and diloxanide furoate); anti-protozoal diseases agents (e.g.,
 eflornithine, furazolidone, melarsoprol, metronidazole, ornidazole, paromomycin sulfate,
 pentamidine, pyrimethamine and tinidazole); hormonal agents such as prednisolone,
 cortisone, cortisol and triamcinolone, androgenic steroids (for example, methyltestosterone,
fluoxmesterone), estrogenic steroids (for example, 17-beta-estradoil and thinyl estradiol),
progestational steroids (for example, 17-alpha-hydroxyprogesterone acetate, 19-nor
progesterone, norethindrone); sympathomimetic drugs such as epinephrine, amphetamine,
ephedrine, norepinephrine; cardiovascular drugs such as procainamide, amyl nitrate,
nitroglycerin, dipyridamole, sodium nitrate, mannitol nitrate; diuretics such as acetazolamide,
chlorothiazide, flumethiazide; antiparasitic agents such as bephenium hydroxynaphthoate,
dichlorophen, enitabas, dapsone; neoplastic agents such as mechloroethamine, uracil mustard,
5-fluorouracil, 6-thioguanine and procarbazine; hypoglycemic drugs such as tolbutamide,
acetohexamide, tolazamide, chlorpropamide; nutritional agents such as vitamins, essential
amino acids, and essential fats; eye drugs such as pilocarpine base, pilocarpine hydrochloride,
pilocarpine nitrate; antiviral drugs such as disoproxil fumarate, aciclovir, cidofovir,
docosanol, famciclovir, fomivirsen, foscarnet, ganciclovir, idoxuridine, penciclovir,
trifluridine, tromantadine, valaciclovir, valganciclovir, vidarabine, amantadine, arbidol,
oseltamivir, peramivir, rimantadine, zanamivir, abacavir, didanosine, emtricitabine,
lamivudine, stavudine, zalcitabine, zidovudine, tenofovir, efavirenz, delavirdine, nevirapine,
loviride, amprenavir, atazanavir, darunavir, fosamprenavir, indinavir, lopinavir, nelfinavir,
ritonavir, saquinavir, tipranavir, enfuvirtide, adefovir, fomivirsen, imiquimod, inosine,
podophyllotoxin, ribavirin, viramidine, fusion blockers specifically targeting viral surface
proteins or viral receptors (for example, gp-41 inhibitor (T-20), CCR-5 inhibitor); anti-nausea
                                                 33

 WO 2011/037623                                                           PCT/US2010/002591
 such as scopolamine, dimenhydrinate); iodoxuridine, hydrocortisone, eserine, phospholine,
 iodide, as well as other beneficial drugs.
 [00124]         The drugs can also be in various forms including, but not limited to, the
following: uncharged molecules; components of molecular complexes; and
pharmacologically acceptable salts such as hydrochloride, hydrobromide, sulfate, laurates,
palmatates, phosphate, nitrate, borate, acetate, maleate, tartrate, oleates, or salicylates. For
acidic drugs, salts of metals, amines or organic cations, for example, quaternary ammonium,
can be employed. Furthermore, simple derivatives of the drug such as esters, ethers, amides
and the like that have solubility characteristics suitable for the purpose of the invention can
also be used herein.
 [00125]         The above drugs and other drugs known to those of skill in the art are useful in
methods of treatment for a variety of conditions including but not limited to the following:
chronic pain, hemophilia and other blood disorders, endocrine disorders, metabolic disorders,
rheumatologic disorders, diabetes (including type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus), leukemia,
hepatitis, renal failure, infectious diseases (including bacterial infection, viral infection (e.g.,
infection by human immunodeficiency virus, hepatitis C virus, hepatitis B virus, yellow fever
virus, West Nile virus, Dengue virus, Marburg virus, Ebola virus, etc.), and parasitic
infection), hereditary diseases (such as cerbrosidase deficiency and adenosine deaminase
deficiency), hypertension, septic shock, autoimmune diseases (e.g., Grave's disease, systemic
lupus erythematosus, multiple sclerosis, and rheumatoid arthritis), shock and wasting
disorders, cystic fibrosis, lactose intolerance, Crohn's diseases, inflammatory bowel disease,
gastrointestinal cancers (including colon cancer and rectal cancer), breast cancer, leukemia,
lung cancer, bladder cancer, kidney cancer, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, pancreatic cancer,
thyroid cancer, endometrial cancer, and other cancers. Further, some of the above agents are
useful for the treatment of infectious diseases requiring chronic treatments including, but not
limited to, tuberculosis, malaria, leishmaniasis, trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness and
Chagas disease), and parasitic worms.
[00126]          The amount of drug in drug particle formulations is that amount necessary to
deliver a therapeutically effective amount of the agent to achieve the desired therapeutic
result in the subject to which the drug is being delivered. In practice, this will vary depending
upon such variables, for example, as the particular agent, the severity of the condition, and
the desired therapeutic effect. Beneficial agents and their dosage unit amounts are known to
the prior art in Goodman & Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 11th Ed.,
(2005), McGraw Hill; Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 18th Ed., (1995), Mack
                                                 34

 WO 2011/037623                                                         PCT/US2010/002591
 Publishing Co.; and Martin's Physical Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, 1.00 edition
 (2005), Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. Further, highly concentrated drug particles are
 described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2010/0092566. Typically, for an osmotic delivery
 system, the volume of the chamber comprising the drug formulation is between about 100 A       1
 to about 1000    l, more preferably between about 140 pl and about 200 pl. In one
 embodiment, the volume of the chamber comprising the drug formulation is about 150 pl.
 [00127]         Drug particle formulations of the invention are preferably chemically and
 physically stable for at least 1 month, preferably at least 3 months, more preferably at least 6
 months, more preferably at least 12 months at delivery temperature. The delivery temperature
 is typically normal human body temperature, for example, about 37"C, or slightly higher, for
 example, about 40"C. Further, drug particle formulations of the present invention are
 preferably chemically and physically stable for at least 3 months, preferably at least 6 months,
 more preferably at least 12 months, at storage temperature. Examples of storage temperatures
 include refrigeration temperature, for example, about 5"C; or room temperature, for example,
 about 25 0 C.
 [00128]         A drug particle formulation may be considered chemically stable if less than
 about 25%, preferably less than about 20%, more preferably less than about 15%, more
preferably less than about 10%, and more preferably less than about 5% breakdown products
of the drug particles are formed after about 3 months, preferably after about 6 months,
preferably after about 12 months at delivery temperature and after about 6 months, after about
 12 months, and preferably after about 24 months at storage temperature.
 [00129]         A drug particle formulation may be considered physically stable if less than
about 10%, preferably less than about 5%, more preferably less than about 3%, more
preferably less than 1%aggregates of the drug are formed after about 3 months, preferably
after about 6 months, at delivery temperature and about 6 months, preferably about 12
months, at storage temperature.
[00130]          When the drug in the drug particle formulation is a protein, the protein
solution is kept in a frozen condition and lyophilized or spray dried to a solid state. Tg (glass
transition temperature) may be one factor to consider in achieving stable compositions of
protein. While not intending to be bound by any particular theory, the theory of formation of
a high Tg amorphous solid to stabilize peptides, polypeptides, or proteins has been utilized in
pharmaceutical industry. Generally, if an amorphous solid has a higher Tg, such as 100"C,
peptide products will not have mobility when stored at room temp or even at 40"C because
the storage temperature is below the Tg. Calculations using molecular information have
                                                35

 WO 2011/037623                                                           PCT/US2010/002591
 shown that if a glass transition temperature is above a storage temperature of 500C that there
 is zero mobility for molecules. Zero mobility of molecules correlates with better stability.
 Tg is also dependent on the moisture concentration in the product formulation. Generally, the
 more moisture, the lower the Tg of the composition.
 [00131]         Accordingly, in some aspects of the present invention, excipients with higher
 Tg may be included in the protein formulation to improve stability, for example, sucrose
 (Tg=75 0 C) and trehalose (Tg=1 10"C). Preferably, particle formulations are formable into
 particles using processes such as spray drying, lyophilization, desiccation, freeze-drying,
 milling, granulation, ultrasonic drop creation, crystallization, precipitation, or other
techniques available in the art for forming particles from a mixture of components. In one
 embodiment of the invention the particles are spray dried. The particles are preferably
 substantially uniform in shape and size.
 [00132]         The particles are typically sized such that they can be delivered via an
implantable osmotic drug delivery device. Uniform shape and size of the particles typically
helps to provide a consistent and uniform rate of release from such a delivery device;
however, a particle preparation having a non-normal particle size distribution profile may
also be used. For example, in a typical implantable osmotic delivery device having a delivery
orifice, the size of the particles is less than about 30%, more preferably is less than about
20%, more preferably is less than about than 10%, of the diameter of the delivery orifice. In
an embodiment of the particle formulation for use with an osmotic delivery system, wherein
the delivery orifice diameter of the implant is about 0.5 mm, particle sizes may be, for
example, less than about 150 microns to about 50 microns. In an embodiment of the particle
formulation for use with an osmotic delivery system, wherein the delivery orifice diameter of
the implant is about 0.1 mm, particle sizes may be, for example, less than about 30 microns to
about 10 microns. In one embodiment, the orifice is about 0.25 mm (250 microns) and the
particle size is about 2 microns to about 5 microns.
[00133]          Typically, the particles of the particle formulations, when incorporated in a
suspension vehicle, do not settle in less than about 3 months, preferably do not settle in less
than about 6 months, more preferably do not settle in less than about 12 months, more
preferably do not settle in less than about 24 months at delivery temperature, and most
preferably do not settle in less than about 36 months at delivery temperature. The suspension
vehicles typically have a viscosity of between about 5,000 to about 30,000 poise, preferably
between about 8,000 to about 25,000 poise, more preferably between about 10,000 to about
20,000 poise. In one embodiment, the suspension vehicle has a viscosity of about 15,000
                                                  36

 WO 2011/037623                                                             PCT/US2010/002591
 poise, plus or minus about 3,000 poise. Generally speaking, smaller particles tend to have a
 lower settling rate in viscous suspension vehicles than larger particles. Accordingly, micron
to nano-sized particles are typically desirable. In viscous suspension formulation, particles of
 about 2 microns to about 7 microns of the present invention will not settle for at least 20 years
 at room temperature based on simulation modeling studies. In an embodiment of the particle
 formulation of the present invention, for use in an implantable osmotic delivery device,
 comprises particles of sizes less than about 50 microns, more preferably less than about 10
 microns, more preferably in a range from about 2 microns to about 7 microns.
 [00134]         In one embodiment, a drug particle formulation comprises a drug, as described
 above, one or more stabilizers, and optionally a buffer. The stabilizers may be, for example,
 carbohydrate, antioxidant, amino acid, buffer, inorganic compound, or surfactant. The
 amounts of stabilizers and buffer in the particle formulation can be determined
 experimentally based on the activities of the stabilizers and buffers and the desired
 characteristics of the formulation, in view of the teachings of the present specification.
 Typically, the amount of carbohydrate in the formulation is determined by aggregation
 concerns. In general, the carbohydrate amount should not be too high so as to avoid
promoting crystal growth in the presence of water due to excess carbohydrate unbound to
 drug. Typically, the amount of antioxidant in the formulation is determined by oxidation
 concerns, while the amount of amino acid in the formulation is determined by oxidation
concerns and/or formability of particles during spray drying. Typically, the amount of buffer
in the formulation is determined by pre-processing concerns, stability concerns, and
formability of particles during spray drying. Buffer may be required to stabilize drug during
processing, e.g., solution preparation and spray drying, when all excipients are solubilized.
 [00135]         Examples of carbohydrates that may be included in the particle formulation
include, but are not limited to, monosaccharides (e.g., fructose, maltose, galactose, glucose,
D-mannose, and sorbose), disaccharides (e.g., lactose, sucrose, trehalose, and cellobiose),
polysaccharides (e.g., raffinose, melezitose, maltodextrins, dextrans, and starches), and
alditols (acyclic polyols; e.g., mannitol, xylitol, maltitol, lactitol, xylitol sorbitol, pyranosyl
sorbitol, and myoinsitol). Preferred carbohydrates include disaccharides and/or non-reducing
sugars, such as sucrose, trehalose, and raffinose.
[00136]          Examples of antioxidants that may be included in the particle formulation
include, but are not limited to, methionine, ascorbic acid, sodium thiosulfate, catalase,
platinum, ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), citric acid, cysteins, thioglycerol,
thioglycolic acid, thiosorbitol, butylated hydroxanisol, butylated hydroxyltoluene, and propyl
                                                 37

 WO 2011/037623                                                          PCT/US2010/002591
gallate. Further, amino acids that readily oxidize can be used as antioxidants, for example,
 cysteine, methionine, and tryptophan. A preferred antioxidant is methionine.
 [00137]         Examples of amino acids that may be included in the particle formulation
 include, but are not limited to, arginine, methionine, glycine, histidine, alanine, L-leucine,
 glutamic acid, iso-leucine, L-threonine, 2-phenylamine, valine, norvaline, praline,
 phenylalanine, trytophan, serine, asparagines, cysteine, tyrosine, lysine, and norleucine.
Preferred amino acids include those that readily oxidize, e.g., cysteine, methionine, and
trytophan.
 [00138]         Examples of buffers that may be included in the particle formulation include,
but are not limited to, citrate, histidine, succinate, phosphate, maleate, tris, acetate,
 carbohydrate, and gly-gly. Preferred buffers include citrate, histidine, succinate, and tris.
 [00139]         Examples of inorganic compounds that may be included in the particle
formulation include, but are not limited to, NaCl, Na2 SO4, NaHCO 3, KCl, KH 2PO4, CaCl 2,
and MgCl 2 .
 [00140]         In addition, the particle formulation may include other excipients, such as
 surfactants, and salts. Examples of surfactants include, but are not limited to, Polysorbate 20,
Polysorbate 80, PLURONIC@ (BASF Corporation, Mount Olive, NJ) F68, and sodium
docecyl sulfate (SDS). Examples of salts include, but are not limited to, sodium chloride,
calcium chloride, and magnesium chloride.
 [00141]         All components included in the particle formulation are typically acceptable
for pharmaceutical use in mammals, in particular, in humans.
 [00142]         In summary, a selected drug or combination of drugs is formulated into dried
powders in solid state, which preserve maximum chemical and biological stability of the
drug. The particle formulation offers long-term storage stability at high temperature, and
therefore, allows delivery to a subject of stable and biologically effective drug for extended
periods of time.
                 3.2.0           Vehicle Formulations and Suspension Formulations
[00143]          In one aspect, the suspension vehicle provides a stable environment in which
the drug particle formulation is dispersed. The drug particle formulations are chemically and
physically stable (as described above) in the suspension vehicle. The suspension vehicle
typically comprises one or more polymer and one or more solvent that form a solution of
sufficient viscosity to uniformly suspend the particles comprising the drug. The suspension
                                                  38

WO 2011/037623                                                           PCT/US2010/002591
vehicle may comprise further components, including, but not limited to, surfactants,
antioxidants, and/or other compounds soluble in the vehicle.
[001441          The viscosity of the suspension vehicle is typically sufficient to prevent the
drug particle formulation from settling during storage and use in a method of delivery, for
example, in an implantable, osmotic delivery device. The suspension vehicle is biodegradable
in that the suspension vehicle disintegrates or breaks down over a period of time in response
to a biological environment, while the drug particle is dissolved in the biological environment
and the active pharmaceutical ingredient (i.e., the drug) in the particle is absorbed.
[00145]          The solvent in which the polymer is dissolved may affect characteristics of the
suspension formulation, such as the behavior of drug particle formulation during storage. A
solvent may be selected in combination with a polymer so that the resulting suspension
vehicle exhibits phase separation upon contact with the aqueous environment. In some
embodiments of the invention, the solvent may be selected in combination with the polymer
so that the resulting suspension vehicle exhibits phase separation upon contact with the
aqueous environment having less than approximately about 10% water.
[00146]          The solvent may be an acceptable solvent that is not miscible with water. The
solvent may also be selected so that the polymer is soluble in the solvent at high
concentrations, such as at a polymer concentration of greater than about 30%. Examples of
solvents useful in the practice of the present invention include, but are not limited to, lauryl
alcohol, benzyl benzoate, benzyl alcohol, lauryl lactate, decanol (also called decyl alcohol),
ethyl hexyl lactate, and long chain (C8 to C24 ) aliphatic alcohols, esters, or mixtures thereof.
The solvent used in the suspension vehicle may be "dry," in that it has a low moisture
content. Preferred solvents for use in formulation of the suspension vehicle include lauryl
lactate, lauryl alcohol, benzyl benzoate, and mixtures thereof.
[00147]          Examples of polymers for formulation of the suspension vehicles of the
present invention include, but are not limited to, a polyester (e.g., polylactic acid or
polylacticpolyglycolic acid), a polymer comprising pyrrolidones (e.g., polyvinylpyrrolidone
having a molecular weight ranging from approximately 2,000 to approximately 1,000,000),
ester or ether of an unsaturated alcohol (e.g., vinyl acetate),
polyoxyethylenepolyoxypropylene block copolymer, or mixtures thereof.
Polyvinylpyrrolidone can be characterized by its K-value (e.g., K-17), which is a viscosity
index. In one embodiment, the polymer is polyvinylpyrrolidone having a molecular weight
of 2,000 to 1,000,000. In a preferred embodiment the polymer is polyvinylpyrrolidone K-17
(typically having an approximate average molecular weight range of 7,900 - 10,800). The
                                                 39

 WO 2011/037623                                                         PCT/US2010/002591
polymer used in the suspension vehicle may include one or more different polymers or may
include different grades of a single polymer. The polymer used in the suspension vehicle may
also be dry or have a low moisture content.
[00148]         Generally speaking, a suspension vehicle for use in the present invention may
vary in composition based on the desired performance characteristics. In one embodiment,
the suspension vehicle may comprise about 40 wt% to about 80 wt% polymer(s) and about 20
wt% to about 60 wt% solvent(s). Preferred embodiments of a suspension vehicle include
vehicles formed of polymer(s) and solvent(s) combined at the following ratios: about 25 wt%
solvent and about 75 wt% polymer; about 50 wt/o solvent and about 50 wt% polymer; about
75 wt% solvent and about 25 wt% polymer. Accordingly, in some embodiments the
suspension vehicle may comprise selected components and in other embodiments consist
essentially of selected components.
[001491         The suspension vehicle may exhibit Newtonian behavior. The suspension
vehicle is typically formulated to provide a viscosity that maintains a uniform dispersion of
the particle formulation for a predetermined period of time. This helps facilitate making a
suspension formulation tailored to provide controlled delivery of the drug contained in the
drug particle formulation. The viscosity of the suspension vehicle may vary depending on the
desired application, the size and type of the particle formulation, and the loading of the
particle formulation in the suspension vehicle. The viscosity of the suspension vehicle may be
varied by altering the type or relative amount of the solvent or polymer used.
[00150]         The suspension vehicle may have a viscosity ranging from about 100 poise to
about 1,000,000 poise, preferably from about 1,000 poise to about 100,000 poise. In
preferred embodiments, the suspension vehicles typically have a viscosity, at 33 *C, of
between about 5,000 to about 30,000 poise, preferably between about 8,000 to about 25,000
poise, more preferably between about 10,000 to about 20,000 poise. In one embodiment, the
suspension vehicle has a viscosity of about 15,000 poise, plus or minus about 3,000 poise, at
33 *C. The viscosity may be measured at 33"C, at a shear rate of 10-4/sec, using a parallel
plate rheometer.
[00151]         The suspension vehicle may exhibit phase separation when contacted with the
aqueous environment; however, typically the suspension vehicle exhibits substantially no
phase separation as a function of temperature. For example, at a temperature ranging from
approximately 0"C to approximately 70"C and upon temperature cycling, such as cycling
from 4"C to 37"C to 4"C, the suspension vehicle typically exhibits no phase separation.
                                               40

 WO 2011/037623                                                         PCT/US2010/002591
[00152]          The suspension vehicle may be prepared by combining the polymer and the
solvent under dry conditions, such as in a dry box. The polymer and solvent may be
combined at an elevated temperature, such as from approximately 40"C to approximately
700 C, and allowed to liquefy and form the single phase. The ingredients may be blended
under vacuum to remove air bubbles produced from the dry ingredients. The ingredients may
be combined using a conventional mixer, such as a dual helix blade or similar mixer, set at a
speed of approximately 40 rpm. However, higher speeds may also be used to mix the
ingredients. Once a liquid solution of the ingredients is achieved, the suspension vehicle may
be cooled to room temperature. Differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) may be used to
verify that the suspension vehicle is a single phase. Further, the components of the vehicle
(e.g., the solvent and/or the polymer) may be treated to substantially reduce or substantially
remove peroxides (e.g., by treatment with methionine; see, e.g., U.S., Patent Application
Publication No. 2007-0027105).
[00153]          The drug particle formulation is added to the suspension vehicle to form a
suspension formulation. In some embodiments the suspension formulation may comprise a
drug particle formulation and a suspension vehicle and in other embodiments consist
essentially of a drug particle formulation and a suspension vehicle.
[00154]          The suspension formulation may be prepared by dispersing the particle
formulation in the suspension vehicle. The suspension vehicle may be heated and the particle
formulation added to the suspension vehicle under dry conditions. The ingredients may be
mixed under vacuum at an elevated temperature, such as from about 40*C to about 70"C. The
ingredients may be mixed at a sufficient speed, such as from about 40 rpm to about 120 rpm,
and for a sufficient amount of time, such as about 15 minutes, to achieve a uniform dispersion
of the particle formulation in the suspension vehicle. The mixer may be a dual helix blade or
other suitable mixer. The resulting mixture may be removed from the mixer, sealed in a dry
container to prevent water from contaminating the suspension formulation, and allowed to
cool to room temperature before further use, for example, loading into an implantable, drug
delivery device, unit dose container, or multiple-dose container.
[00155]          The suspension formulation typically has an overall moisture content of less
than about 10 wt%, preferably less than about 5 wt%, and more preferably less than about 4
wt%.
[00156]          In preferred embodiments, the suspension formulations of the present
invention are substantially homogeneous and flowable to provide delivery of the drug particle
formulation from the osmotic delivery device to the subject.
                                                41

WO 2011/037623                                                          PCT/US2010/002591
 [00157]        In summary, the components of the suspension vehicle provide
biocompatibility. Components of the suspension vehicle offer suitable chemico-physical
properties to form stable suspensions of drug particle formulations. These properties include,
but are not limited to, the following: viscosity of the suspension; purity of the vehicle;
residual moisture of the vehicle; density of the vehicle; compatibility with the dry powders;
compatibility with implantable devices; molecular weight of the polymer; stability of the
vehicle; and hydrophobicity and hydrophilicity of the vehicle. These properties can be
manipulated and controlled, for example, by variation of the vehicle composition and
manipulation of the ratio of components used in the suspension vehicle.
                4.0.0            Delivery of Suspension Formulations
[00158]         The suspension formulations described herein may be used in an implantable,
osmotic drug delivery device to provide zero-order, continuous, controlled, and sustained
delivery of a compound over an extended period of time, such as over weeks, months, or up
to about one year or more. Such an implantable osmotic drug delivery device is typically
capable of delivering the suspension formulation, comprising the drug, at a desired flow rate
over a desired period of time. The suspension formulation may be loaded into the
implantable, osmotic drug delivery device by conventional techniques.
[00159]         A dose and delivery rate can be selected to achieve a desired blood
concentration of a drug generally within less than about 6 half-lives of the drug within the
subject after implantation of the device. The blood concentration of the drug is selected to
give the optimal therapeutic effects of the drug while avoiding undesirable side effects that
may be induced by excess concentration of the drug, while at the same time avoiding peaks
and troughs that may induce side effects associated with peak or trough plasma
concentrations of the drug.
[00160]         The implantable, osmotic drug delivery device typically includes a reservoir
having at least one orifice through which the suspension formulation is delivered. The
suspension formulation may be stored within the reservoir. In a preferred embodiment, the
implantable, drug delivery device is an osmotic delivery device, wherein delivery of the drug
is osmotically driven. Some osmotic delivery devices and their component parts have been
described, for example, the DUROS@ delivery device or similar devices (see, e.g., U.S.
Patent Nos. 5,609,885; 5,728,396; 5,985,305; 5,997,527; 6,113,938; 6,132,420; 6,156,331;
6,217,906; 6,261,584; 6,270,787; 6,287,295; 6,375,978; 6,395,292; 6,508,808; 6,544,252;
6,635,268; 6,682,522; 6,923,800; 6,939,556; 6,976,981; 6,997,922; 7,014,636; 7,207,982;
                                                42

WO 2011/037623                                                           PCT/US2010/002591
7,112,335; 7,163,688; U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2005/0175701, 2007/0281024,
2008/0091176, and 2009/0202608).
 [00161]        The DUROS@ delivery device typically consists of a cylindrical reservoir
which contains the osmotic engine, piston, and drug formulation. The reservoir is capped at
one end by a controlled-rate, semi-permeable membrane and capped at the other end by a
diffusion moderator through which suspension formulation, comprising the drug, is released
from the drug reservoir. The piston separates the drug formulation from the osmotic engine
and utilizes a seal to prevent the water in the osmotic engine compartment from entering the
drug reservoir. The diffusion moderator is designed, in conjunction with the drug
formulation, to prevent body fluid from entering the drug reservoir through the orifice.
 [00162]        The DUROS@ device releases a drug at a predetermined rate based on the
principle of osmosis. Extracellular fluid enters the DUROS@ device through a semi
permeable membrane directly into a salt engine that expands to drive the piston at a slow and
even delivery rate. Movement of the piston forces the drug formulation to be released
through the orifice or exit port at a predetermined sheer rate. In one embodiment of the
present invention, the reservoir of the DUROS@ device is load with a suspension formulation
wherein the device is capable of delivering the suspension formulation to a subject over an
extended period of time (e.g., about 1, about 3, about 6, about 9, about 10, or about 12
months) at a pre-determined, therapeutically effective delivery rate.
[00163]         The release rate of the drug from the osmotic delivery device typically
provides a subject with a predetermined target dose of a drug, for example, a therapeutically
effective daily dose delivered over the course of a day; that is, the release rate of the drug
from the device, provides substantial steady-state delivery of the drug at a therapeutic
concentration to the subject.
[00164]         Typically, for an osmotic delivery device, the volume of a beneficial agent
chamber comprising the beneficial agent formulation is between about 100 Pl to about 1000
pl, more preferably between about 120 pl and about 500 pl, more preferably between about
150 pl and about 200 pl.
[00165]         Typically, the osmotic delivery device is implanted within the subject, for
example, subcutaneously to provide subcutaneous drug delivery. The device(s) can be
implanted subcutaneously into either or both arms (e.g., in the inside, outside, or back of the
upper arm) or the abdomen. Preferred locations in the abdominal area are under the
abdominal skin in the area extending below the ribs and above the belt line. To provide a
number of locations for implantation of one or more osmotic delivery device within the
                                                43

 WO 2011/037623                                                         PCT/US2010/002591
abdomen, the abdominal wall can be divided into 4 quadrants as follows: the upper right
quadrant extending 5-8 centimeters below the right ribs and about 5-8 centimeters to the right
of the midline, the lower right quadrant extending 5-8 centimeters above the belt line and 5-8
centimeters to the right of the midline, the upper left quadrant extending 5-8 centimeters
below the left ribs and about 5-8 centimeters to the left of the midline, and the lower left
quadrant extending 5-8 centimeters above the belt line and 5-8 centimeters to the left of the
midline. This provides multiple available locations for implantation of one or more devices
on one or more occasions. Implantation and removal of osmotic delivery devices are
generally carried out by medical professionals using local anesthesia (e.g., lidocaine).
 [001661         Termination of treatment by removal of an osmotic delivery device from a
subject is straightforward, and provides the important advantage of immediate cessation of
delivery of the drug to the subject.
 [001671         The suspension formulations may also be used in infusion pumps, for
example, the ALZET@ (DURECT Corporation, Cupertino CA) osmotic pumps which are
miniature, infusion pumps for the continuous dosing of laboratory animals (e.g., mice and
rats).
                 5.0.0           Exemplary Advantages of Certain Aspects of the Present
                                 Invention
[00168]          In one aspect, the present invention relates to methods of treatment with
continuous delivery of incretin mimetics (e.g., exenatide), for example, by use of an
implantable osmotic delivery device. Experiments described herein have demonstrated that
continuous delivery of exenatide using an implantable osmotic delivery device, provided the
following benefits for subjects in need of treatment: treating type 2 diabetes mellitus,
improving glycemic control (as measured, e.g., by glucose levels, HbAlc, and/or
fructosamine), reducing HbAlc, reducing fasting plasma glucose, reducing post-prandial
blood glucose levels, reducing adverse gastrointestinal events (e.g., nausea and vomiting)
relative to twice-daily injections, weight loss, reducing LDL-C, reducing systolic blood
pressure, treating hypertension, reducing fructosamine levels, and improving of quality of life
for subjects undergoing treatment.
[00169]          In addition, the continuous delivery of incretin mimetics (e.g., exenatide) may
be used in the practice of the following methods: treating obesity, controlling appetite,
reducing caloric intake, reducing food intake, suppressing appetite, inducing anorexia,
treating impaired glucose tolerance, treating post-prandial hyperglycemia, treating post
prandial dumping syndrome, treating hyperglycemic conditions, reducing triglycerides,
                                                 44

 WO 2011/037623                                                         PCT/US2010/002591
 reducing cholesterol, increasing urine flow, decreasing potassium concentration in the urine,
 alleviating toxic hypervolemia, inducing rapid diuresis, pre-surgical patient preparation, post
 surgical patient treatment, increasing renal plasma flow and glomerular filtration rate, treating
 pre-eclampsia or eclampsia during pregnancy, increasing cardiac contractility, treating renal
 failure, treating congestive heart failure, treating nephrotic syndrome, treating pulmonary
 edema, treating systemic edema, treating cirrhosis, treating impaired glucose tolerance,
 treating pre-diabetes (blood glucose levels that are higher than normal but not yet high
 enough to be diagnosed as diabetes), treating type 1 diabetes mellitus (e.g., in combination
 with insulin), reducing risk of a cardiovascular event due to impaired glucose tolerance,
 reducing risk of a cerebrovascular event due to impaired glucose tolerance, delaying the
 progression of diabetes, ameliorating diabetes, delaying diabetes onset, inducing   P cell
 regeneration, restoring normoglycemia, providing euglycemic control, treating peripheral
vascular disease, treating acute coronary syndrome, treating cardiomyopathy, treating
 gestational diabetes, treating polycystic ovary syndrome, treating or preventing nephropathy,
 and treating diabetes induced by a variety of diseases or conditions (for example, steroid
 induced diabetes, human immunodeficiency virus treatment-induced diabetes, latent
 autoimmune diabetes in adults, nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease,
 hypoglycemia unawareness, restrictive lung disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
lipoatrophy and metabolic syndrome).
 [00170]          The present invention also provides treatment methods for delivery of an
incretin mimetic having the following advantages. The continuous delivery from, for
example, an osmotic delivery device, ensures 100% treatment compliance for subjects and
avoids the need for twice-daily, daily, weekly, or even monthly injections because the devices
described herein can deliver an incretin mimetic for time periods of up to a about year or
more. The avoidance of self-injection is a particular advantage for a subject who is needle
phobic. Further, use of implantable devices for continuous delivery provides treatment
convenience and avoids scheduling conflicts, for example, with meals, and also eliminates the
inconvenience of administration of a drug by injection, for example, when subjects are in
public or busy with daily activities. Also, frequent self-administration of a drug reminds
subjects of their disease state and carries a stigma associated with the disease and/or
treatment; whereas continuous delivery of a drug from an implanted osmotic device may
offer subjects some respite from such reminders and stigma.
                                                   45

 WO 2011/037623                                                         PCT/US2010/002591
 [001711        The present invention also provides methods to treat subjects at dosage levels
of incretin mimetics previously thought to be higher than tolerable dosage levels. For
example, continuous delivery of exenatide is described herein for dosages tolerated at least up
to 80 mcg/day.
 [00172]        In another aspect the present invention provides methods of dosage escalation.
In one embodiment, multiple devices for continuous delivery of a drug, for example, an
incretin mimetic, are provided. Each device is capable of delivering a particular drug dose
per day. A low-dose device is initially implanted, followed by removal and implantation of a
higher daily dose device. Alternatively, the first device may be kept in place and a second
device implanted to increase the daily dose. In another alternative, a subject may be started
by dosing with an injectable form of the drug (e.g., twice-daily, once-daily, once-weekly, or
once- or twice-monthly injection) and transitioned to an implantable device to provide
continuous delivery after an initial period. Such transitioning from injectable to implantable
may, for example, allow subjects or physicians to try a drug and perhaps be observed for any
immediate adverse effects before implantation of a device. Injectable to implantable
transitions may also be useful for treatment of subjects who are particularly nervous about
possible drug side effects. Also, providing the drug by injection or by continuous delivery at
low dose may permit tolerization of the drug at low dose before changing to higher and more
efficacious therapeutic doses.
[00173]         Optimal time periods are determined for a drug concerning how long an initial
device remains in place before replacement with a higher dose delivery device. Similarly
optimal time periods are determined for how long an initial phase of treatment by injection
goes on before implantation of an osmotic delivery device. For example, treatment is
commenced at a low dose with low incidence of side effects (e.g., for about 2 weeks, about 3
months, about 6 months, about 9 months, about a year). The subject adjusts to that dose and
subsequently a higher dose delivery device is implanted providing dose escalation.
Alternatively, a subject who has been treated with an injectable form dose escalates to an
implantable osmotic delivery device. Such dose escalations were shown from the data
presented herein to achieve additional benefits in glucose regulation and weight loss.
Examples of initial dosages include, but are not limited to, delivery of about 1 mcg/day to
about 20 mcg/day, followed by dose escalation to about 5 mcg/day to about 1,000 mcg/day.
Preferably, escalation of incretin mimetic doses include, but are not limited to, the following:
about 10 mcg/day followed by about 20 mcg/day; about 10 mcg/day followed by about 40
mcg/day; about 10 mcg/day followed by about 60 mcg/day; about 10 mcg/day followed by
                                               46

WO 2011/037623                                                           PCT/US2010/002591
about 80 mcg/day; about 20 mcg/day followed by about 40 mcg/day; about 20 mcg/day
followed by about 60 mcg/day; about 20 mcg/day followed by about 80 mcg/day; about 40
mcg/day followed by about 60 mcg/day; about 40 mcg/day followed by about 80 mcg/day;
and about 60 mcg/day followed by about 80 mcg/day. In one embodiment, the present
invention includes kits and methods for manufacturing kits comprising one or more lower
dose osmotic delivery devices and one or more higher dose osmotic delivery devices (the
lower and higher dosages being relative to the other devices in the kit). Such kits may
optionally include an implanter, lidocaine, and sterile field/supplies.
[00174]         Generally, dose escalation is from a low dose of incretin mimetic, for example,
about 1 mcg/day to about 30 mcg/day, to a high dose of greater than the low dose to about 80
mcg/day.
[00175]         In another aspect, the present invention provides a method of treating diabetes
without a substantial increase in insulin secretion using an incretin mimetic. In a preferred
embodiment of this aspect of the present invention the incretin mimetic is exenatide. Data
obtained in the course of the studies described herein demonstrated that, at higher doses of
continuous delivery of exenatide (e.g., 20 mcg/day, 40 mcg/day, and 80 mcg/day), effective
treatment of diabetes was achieved in the absence of an increase in insulin production.
Insulin levels were measured by radioimmunoassay.
[00176]         In another aspect, the methods of the present invention allow for the
administration of a drug, e.g., an incretin mimetic, without a substantial initial drug burst that
typically occurs with depot injections (e.g., initial drug burst of from about 5% of total drug
in depot formulation to about 1%of total drug in depot formulation) that provide sustained
delivery over a period of time (e.g., depot injections formulated using poly(lactides),
poly(glycolides), poly(lactide-co-glycolides), poly(lactic acid)s, poly(glycolic acid)s,
poly(lactic acid-co-glycolic acid)s and blends and copolymers thereof).
[00177]         In a further aspect the present invention is directed to methods of providing
greater reduction in plasma blood glucose in a shorter time period (e.g. within 1-5 days) than
can be achieved using twice-daily daily injections, comprising providing continuous delivery
of an incretin mimetic, for example, exenatide. In one embodiment, continuous delivery is
achieved by use of an implantable osmotic delivery device.
[00178]         Another advantage of the present invention is the ability to remove the
delivery device providing continuous delivery of the drug and provide rapid termination of
drug delivery for any reason, for example, in the case of myocardial infarction, pregnancy,
                                                 47

 WO 2011/037623                                                         PCT/US2010/002591
pancreatitis or suspected pancreatitis, emergency medical care (e.g., termination of drug
therapies), or adverse drug reactions.
 [00179]        The present invention uniquely addresses unmet needs relative to injectable
incretin mimetics. For example, one shortcoming of twice-daily injectable exenatide is that
greater than 65% of subjects are not treated to or maintained at HbAlc treatment goals. .
Another disadvantage of twice-daily injectable exenatide is that greater than 65% of these
 subjects become noncompliant between 6-12 months when attempting to adhere to the
injection treatment schedule. Also, 65% of subjects treated with twice-daily injectable
exenatide are overweight and need sustained weight loss.
 [00180]        Experiments described herein (e.g., Example 3) demonstrated that the methods
of and osmotic devices comprising an incretin mimetic for use in methods of treating type 2
diabetes mellitus by continuous delivery as set forth by the present invention provide
sustained treatment of subjects at target doses, complete subject compliance with the
treatment, and sustained weight loss. A target dose typically provides substantial steady-state
delivery of the incretin mimetic at a therapeutic concentration to the subject.
 [00181]        The data presented in the Experimental section herein demonstrate that the
present invention provides methods of and osmotic devices comprising incretin mimetics for
use in methods of treating type 2 diabetes mellitus by continuous delivery, wherein
substantial steady-state delivery of the incretin mimetic at therapeutic concentrations is
achieved within a time period of about 7 days or less, about 6 days or less, about 5 days or
less, about 4 days or less, about 3 days or less, preferably about 2 days or less, and more
preferably about 1 day or less, after implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the
subj ect.
 [001821        The data also demonstrate that the present invention provides methods of and
osmotic devices comprising incretin mimetics for use in methods of treating type 2 diabetes
mellitus by continuous delivery, wherein a significant decrease in fasting plasma glucose
concentration, relative to the fasting plasma glucose concentration before implantation, is
achieved after implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the subject within a time period
of about 7 days or less, about 6 days or less, about 5 days or less, about 4 days or less, about 3
days or less, preferably about 2 days or less, and more preferably about 1 day or less, after
implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the subject.
[00183]         The data also demonstrate that the present invention provides the capability to
terminate the continuous delivery such that the concentration of an incretin mimetic is
substantially undetectable in a blood sample from the subject, after termination of continuous
                                                48

 WO 2011/037623                                                          PCT/US2010/002591
delivery, in less than about 6 half-lives of the drug after termination of continuous delivery, in
less than about 5 half-lives of the drug after termination of continuous delivery, in less than
about 4 half-lives of the drug after termination of continuous delivery, or in less than about 3
half-lives of the drug after termination of continuous delivery. Further, the data show that
treatment by continuous delivery of an incretin mimetic provided better decreases in HbAlc
than treatment by injection.
[001841         Also, the data illustrate that the methods of and osmotic devices comprising an
incretin mimetic for use in methods of treating type 2 diabetes mellitus by continuous
delivery as described herein provide improved tolerization to dose escalation of the incretin
mimetic relative to injection of the incretin mimetic.
[00185]         In addition, these data presented herein demonstrate a significant advantage of
the implanted osmotic delivery device of the present invention over incretin mimetic
administration via injection in terms of reported quality of life for treated subjects.
[00186]         The comparative data described below demonstrate the superior treatment
outcomes using the methods of and osmotic devices comprising an incretin mimetic for use in
methods of treating type 2 diabetes mellitus by continuous delivery of the present invention,
in combination with metformin therapy, relative to other treatment methods. Such other
treatment methods include twice-daily injection of exenatide, once-weekly injection of
exenatide, once-daily injection of liraglutide, once-weekly injection of taspoglutide, once
daily orally administered sitagliptin, and once-daily orally administered pioglitazone.
[00187]         In summary, the methods of and osmotic devices comprising an incretin
mimetic, for example, exenatide, for use in methods of treating type 2 diabetes mellitus by
continuous delivery as described herein provide a new standard of effective treatment. The
present invention provides superior HbAlc reduction, improved weight loss, and complete
compliance, as well as long-term glycemic control relative to the use of dipeptidyl peptidase
4 (DPP-4) inhibitors (e.g., sitagliptin), thiazolidinediones (TZDs) (e.g., pioglitazone), other
injectable incretin mimetics (e.g., liraglutide and taspoglutide), and twice-daily or once
weekly injection of exenatide. Further, the present invention provides better incretin mimetic
treatment tolerability because no self-injections are required and the methods of and osmotic
devices comprising an incretin mimetic for use in methods of treating type 2 diabetes mellitus
by continuous delivery provide improved gastrointestinal tolerance.
                                                  49

WO 2011/037623                                                          PCT/US2010/002591
         Experimental
[00188]          The following examples are put forth so as to provide those of ordinary skill in
the art with a complete disclosure and description of how to practice the present invention,
and are not intended to limit the scope of what the inventors regard as the invention. Efforts
have been made to ensure accuracy with respect to numbers used (e.g., amounts,
concentrations, percent changes, etc.) but some experimental errors and deviations should be
accounted for. Unless indicated otherwise, temperature is in degrees Centigrade and pressure
is at or near atmospheric.
[00189]           The compositions used to practice the methods of the present invention meet
the specifications for content and purity required of pharmaceutical products. Further
examples of suspension formulations comprising incretin mimetics can be found in U.S.
Patent Publication Nos. 2006/0193918, 2008/0260840, and 2010/0092566.
                                             Example 1
                         Description of a Typical Osmotic Delivery Device
[00190]           Suspension formulations comprising exenatide particles suspended in
solvent/polymer vehicles were developed for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Suspension formulations were loaded into a DUROS@ device for subcutaneous implantation
to deliver exenatide at a continuous and consistent rate.
[00191]          Figure 4 depicts an example of a DUROS@ delivery system useful in the
practice of the present invention. In Figure 4, the osmotic delivery device 10 is shown
comprising a reservoir 12. A piston assembly 14 is positioned in the lumen of the reservoir
and divides the lumen into two chambers. In this example, the chamber 16 contains a
beneficial agent formulation and the chamber 20 contains an osmotic agent formulation. A
semi-permeable membrane 18 is positioned at a first distal end of the reservoir, adjacent the
chamber 20 containing the osmotic agent formulation. A diffusion moderator 22 is
positioned in mating relationship at a second distal end of the reservoir 12, adjacent the
chamber 16 containing the suspension formulation, comprising the drug. The diffusion
moderator 22 includes a delivery orifice 24. The diffusion moderator 22 may be any suitable
flow device having a delivery orifice. In this embodiment, the flow path 26 is formed
between a threaded diffusion moderator 22 and threads 28 formed on the interior surface of
the reservoir 12. In alternative embodiments, the diffusion moderator can, for example, (i) be
press-fit (or friction fit) through an opening and contacting a smooth interior surface of the
reservoir, or (ii) comprise two pieces with an outer shell constructed and arranged for
positioning in an opening, an inner core inserted in the outer shell, and a fluid channel having
                                                 50

 WO 2011/037623                                                          PCT/US2010/002591
a spiral shape defined between the outer shell and the inner core (e.g., U.S. Patent Publication
No. 2007/0281024).
[00192]          Fluid is imbibed into the chamber 20 through the semi-permeable membrane
 18. The beneficial agent formulation is dispensed from the chamber 16 through the delivery
orifice 24 in the diffusion moderator 22. The piston assembly 14 engages and seals against
the interior wall of the reservoir 12, thereby isolating the osmotic agent formulation in
chamber 20 and fluid imbibed through the semi-permeable membrane 18 from the beneficial
agent formulation in chamber 16. At steady-state, the suspension formulation is released
through the delivery orifice 24 in the diffusion moderator 22 at a rate corresponding to the
rate at which external fluid is imbibed into the chamber 20 through the semi-permeable
membrane 18. That is, the DUROS@ delivery device releases drug at a predetermined rate
based on the principle of osmosis. Extracellular fluid enters the DUROS@ delivery device
through the semi-permeable membrane directly into the osmotic engine that expands to drive
the piston at a slow and consistent rate of travel. Movement of the piston forces the drug
formulation to be released through the orifice of the diffusion moderator.
[00193]          The semi-permeable membrane 18 may be in the form of a plug that is
resiliently engaged in sealing relationship with the interior surface of the reservoir 12. In
Figure 4, it is shown to have ridges that serve to frictionally engage the semi-permeable
membrane 18 with the interior surface of the reservoir 12.
[00194]          These DUROS@ delivery devices allow for zero-order, continuous, and
controlled subcutaneous delivery of exenatide at consistent rate, which provides several
advantages as a treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus; for example, relatively constant blood
therapeutic concentrations of exenatide allow for better control of blood glucose
concentrations and may moderate the risk of secondary disease otherwise associated with
poorly controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus. These DUROS@ delivery devices provide
treatment durations of about 3 to about 12 months over a broad range of dosages with
preserved stability of the exenatide.
[001951          Unlike daily or twice-daily injections of exenatide, the DUROS@ delivery
devices maintain consistent blood concentrations of exenatide. This is particularly important
during all meal periods and overnight. The DUROS@ delivery device does not require any
action on the part of the subject to ensure therapeutic compliance.
[00196]          In addition, these DUROS@ delivery devices may have safety advantages
compared to daily or twice-daily injections of exenatide or depot formulations of exenatide.
Zero-order delivery eliminates the peak blood concentrations of exenatide typically observed
                                                 51

WO 2011/037623                                                         PCT/US2010/002591
with daily or twice-daily injections that appear to be associated with adverse reactions, e.g.,
frequent nausea, and the trough concentrations that may be associated with reduced efficacy.
A further desirable feature of these DUROS@ delivery devices is that they can be quickly and
easily removed in a doctor's office to terminate drug administration in the event of adverse
drug reaction or any event requiring cessation of treatment.
                                             Example 2
              Phase lb Clinical Trial Data for Continuous Delivery of Exenatide
 [00197]        A Phase lb clinical trial was designed as a multi-center, randomized, open
label study with three sites and a total of 44 subjects. The Phase lb clinical trial was
designed and conducted to evaluate the safety and tolerability of continuous subcutaneous
delivery of unmodified, synthetic exenatide having the amino acid sequence of exendin-4 via
DUROS@ delivery devices (ITCA 650) in subjects with inadequately controlled type 2
diabetes mellitus. In this study, osmotic delivery devices were implanted subcutaneously in
the abdominal area under the abdominal skin.
[00198]         In the study, subjects were randomized to receive doses of 10 mcg/day, 20
mcg/day, 40 mcg/day, or 80 mcg/day of ITCA 650. There were 10-12 subjects per group for
each of four dose groups. Treatment was for 28 days with a 7-day follow-up period. Thus,
this was a 29-day study that corresponded to a total of 28 days of treatment.
[00199]         A.      Demographics of Study Group
[00200]         Inclusion/exclusion criteria were as follows: subjects were 30-70 years of age
and diagnosed as having type 2 diabetes mellitus for greater than 6 months prior to screening.
Subjects had inadequately controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus but were on stable treatment
regimens of diet and exercise alone or in combination with metformin monotherapy, TZD
monotherapy, or metformin plus TZD combination therapy. Subjects' hemoglobin Alc
(HbAlc) levels were greater than or equal to 6.5% and less than or equal to 10%. Subjects
had fasting plasma glucose of less than 270 mg/dL and fasting C-peptide of greater than 0.8
ng/ml.
[00201]         The following 4 dose groups were investigated: Group 1, 10 mcg/day
exenatide delivered by DUROS@ delivery devices; Group 2, 20 mcg/day exenatide delivered
by DUROS@ delivery devices; Group 3, 40 mcg/day exenatide delivered by DUROS@
delivery devices; and Group 4, 80 mcg/day exenatide delivered by DUROS@ delivery
devices.
[00202]         The demographics of the study groups are presented in Table 1.
                                                52

 WO 2011/037623                                                          PCT/US2010/002591
 [00203]                                     Table 1
                           Group 1           Group 2             Group 3           Group 4
       Age (years)
          Mean                 56.4             57.4                52.1              56.7
          Range              44-68             47-70               37-67             49-63
        Sex (M/F)               8/4              7/4                4/6               7/4
       Weight (kg)
          Mean                95.7              94.3                88.5              89.5
          Range           75.5-130.2        55.7-120.4          56.1-125.8        58.1-130.3
       HbAlc (%)
          Mean                7.7%             7.9%                7.4%              7.4%
          Range             6.5-10.2          6.7-9.8             6.5-9.4           6.6-9.4
   Previous Treatment:
     Diet & Exercise          8.3%                                20.0%             36.4%
       Metformin             91.7%            90.9%               80.0%             45.4%
    Metformin + TZD                            9.1%                                 18.2%
[00204]        The disposition of the subjects in the study is presented in Table 2.
[00205]                                       Table 2
                                    Group 1            Group 2           Group 3      Group 4
                n                       12                 11                10           11
      Completed the Study           11(92%)           11(100%)          10(100%)      7 (64%)
     Subjects Discontinued           1 (8%)             0 (0%)            0 (0%)      4 (36%)
        Adverse Events                   1                 0                 0             1
       Withdrew Consent                 0                  0                 0            3
[00206]        B.      Pharmacodynamic Data
[00207]        The following pharmacodynamic measurement data were obtained from the
study of exenatide delivered by DUROS@ delivery devices.
[00208]        Fasting plasma glucose (determined by standard methods) decreased within 24
hours (Figure 1) following initiation of treatment (i.e., implantation of the DUROS@ delivery
devices) and was significantly different from baseline to endpoint in the 20 mcg/day group,
the 40 mcg/day group, and the 80 mcg/day group as shown in Table 3. In Table 3 the data are
shown from the randomized, open-label 29-day study of continuous subcutaneous delivery of
exenatide using an osmotic delivery device. The table shows the change in fasting plasma
glucose concentrations at the end of the 28-day treatment for osmotic devices delivering 10
mcg/day, 20 mcg/day, 40 mcg/day, and 80 mcg/day. Mean values in the table are given in
                                                53

 WO 2011/037623                                                        PCT/US2010/002591
 mg/dL units. The decreases in fasting plasma glucose concentrations for the osmotic devices
 delivering 20 mcg/day, 40 mcg/day, and 80 mcg/day were statistically significant.
 [00209]         Accordingly, in one embodiment, the present invention relates to methods of
 and osmotic devices comprising exenatide for use in methods of treating type 2 diabetes
 mellitus by continuous delivery of exenatide wherein substantial steady-state delivery of the
 exenatide at therapeutic concentrations is achieved within a time period of about 7 days or
less, preferably about 2 days or less, and more preferably about 1 day or less, after
implantation of the osmotic delivery device in the subject. In a related embodiment the
invention provides a significant decrease in fasting plasma glucose concentration, relative to
the fasting plasma glucose concentration before implantation, achieved after implantation of
the osmotic delivery device in the subject within a time period of about 7 days or less,
preferably about 2 days or less, and more preferably about 1 day or less, after implantation of
the osmotic delivery device in the subject.
 [00210]                                 Table 3
                                         Mean t S.D.                   p-value
           10 mcg/day                   -5.6   34.33                   0.5175
           20 mcg/day                   -31.2   24.20                  0.0039
           40 mcg/day                   -42.0 + 33.16                  0.0003
           80 mcg/day                   -28.8 + 32.25                   0.0014
[00211]          Treatment with exenatide delivered by DUROS@ delivery devices at 20
mcg/day, 40 mcg/day and 80 mcg/day resulted in clinically and significant mean reductions
in two-hour post-prandial glucose from pre-treatment to endpoint as shown in Table 4. An
obvious dose-response relationship was observed. Measurement of reductions in two-hour
post-prandial glucose was performed by standard methods. In Table 4 the data show the
change in 2-hour postprandial glucose concentrations at the end of the 28-day treatment for
osmotic devices delivering 10 mcg/day, 20 mcg/day, 40 mcg/day, and 80 mcg/day. Mean
values in the table are given in mg/dL units. The decreases in 2 hour postprandial glucose
concentrations for the osmotic devices delivering 20 mcg/day, 40 mcg/day, and 80 mcg/day
were statistically significant.
                                                54

 WO 2011/037623                                                          PCT/US2010/002591
 [002121                                     Table 4
                                           Mean  S.D.                    p-value
            10 mcg/day                     -16.3 24.78                   0.1699
            20 mcg/day                     -34.7  32.39                  0.0135
            40 mcg/day                     -47.1  70.45                  0.0012
            80 mcg/day                     -69.6  44.35                  <0.0001
 [002131         Glucose AUC (area under the curve) and the ratio of endpoint over pre
treatment was significantly different from baseline AUC in the 20 mcg/day group, the 40
mcg/day group, and the 80 mcg/day group; there was a trend toward reduction in these
parameters at the 10 mcg/day dose. AUC calculations were performed by standard methods.
 [00214]         After implantation of the DUROS@ delivery devices, exenatide plasma
concentrations rose to the steady-state exposure concentration within 24-48 hours and were
maintained throughout the treatment period (Figure 2). Following removal of the DUROS@
delivery devices, exenatide concentrations fell to undetectable concentrations within 24 hours
(Figure 2). Exenatide was detected using a radioimmunoassay. Accordingly, in one
embodiment, the present invention relates to methods of and osmotic devices comprising
exenatide for use in methods of treating type 2 diabetes mellitus by continuous delivery of
exenatide that provide the capability to terminate the continuous delivery such that the
concentration of exenatide is substantially undetectable in a blood sample from the subject
after termination of continuous delivery in less than about 72 hours, preferably less than
about 24.
[002151          HbAlc (as shown in Table 5) and fructosamine levels were significantly
different from baseline to endpoint in the all treatment groups. Hbl Ac and fructosamine
determinations were made by standard methods. In Table 5 the data are shown from the
randomized, open-label 29-day study of continuous subcutaneous delivery of exenatide using
an osmotic delivery device. The table shows the change in HbAlc at day 29 (relative to day
1 of the study; i.e., the initiation of continuous delivery) for osmotic devices delivering 10
mcg/day, 20 mcg/day, 40 mcg/day, and 80 mcg/day. Mean values in the table are change in
HbAlc plus or minus the standard deviation (S.D.). The decreases in HbAlc for all osmotic
devices (i.e., delivering 10 mcg/day, 20 mcg/day, 40 mcg/day, and 80 mcg/day) were
statistically significant.
                                                  55

 WO 2011/037623                                                       PCT/US2010/002591
 [00216]                                   Table 5
               Dose              Mean Change in HbAic t                  p-value
                                            S.D.
            10 mcg/day                 -0.54 0.39                     0.0010
            20 mcg/day                 -0.62  0.31                   <0.0001
            40 mcg/day                 -0.45  0.31                   0.0013
            80 mcg/day                 -0.73  0.36                    0.0018
 [00217]         Body weight decreased in all treatment groups and was significantly different
 from baseline to endpoint in the 80 mcg/day group (Table 6). In Table 6 the data are shown
 from the randomized, open-label 29-day study of continuous subcutaneous delivery of
 exenatide using an osmotic delivery device. The table shows the change in body weight at
the end of the 28-day treatment for osmotic devices delivering 10 mcg/day, 20 mcg/day, 40
mcg/day, and 80 mcg/day. Mean values in the table are given in kilograms (kg).
 [00218]                                 Table 6
             Dose                      Mean  S.D.                    p-value
             10 mcg/day                 -0.27    .91                  0.3415
             20 mcg/day                -0.28 1.51                    0.5485
             40 mcg/day                -1.13 1.60                    0.0524
             80 mcg/day                -3.09  2.13                   0.0086
[00219]          While there was an apparent dose-response relationship with respect to
gastrointestinal adverse events (nausea and vomiting), these effects occurred early after
implantation of the device(s) and abated within the first week in most subjects. The data for
nausea versus time in individual subjects is presented in Figure 3.
[00220]          In summary, therapy with exenatide delivered using DUROS@ delivery
devices at doses of 10, 20, and 40 mcg/day was well tolerated for 28 days of treatment.
Steady-state concentrations of exenatide were rapidly achieved and maintained throughout
the course of treatment. Removal of the DUROS@ delivery devices provided rapid
termination of treatment and exenatide concentrations fell to undetectable concentrations
within 24 hours. Significant decreases in fasting plasma glucose and 2-hour post-prandial
glucose were observed within 1-5 days and were maintained throughout the 28-day treatment
period in the 20, 40, 80 mcg/day dose groups. Significant decreases in HbAlc were observed
in all treatment groups. Body weight decreased in all treatment groups.
                                               56

 WO 2011/037623                                                         PCT/US2010/002591
 [002211         Treatment of subjects having type 2 diabetes mellitus with the DUROS@
delivery devices providing 10 mcg/day, 20 mcg/day, 40 mcg/day, and 80 mcg/day was safe
and well-tolerated; no clinically significant treatment-associated trends in safety, vital signs,
or physical examination findings were observed. While there was an apparent dose-response
relationship with respect to gastrointestinal adverse events (nausea and vomiting), these
effects appeared to occur early (within the first week) after implantation of the device(s) and
tended to abate with time.
[00222]         These data demonstrated that DUROS@ delivery devices providing continuous
delivery of exenatide offered the following benefits: highly effective control of glucose;
reduction in frequency, severity, and persistence of side effects; elimination of need for self
injection; significant weight loss; and 100% compliance with prescribed therapy. Further
advantages for treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus with these devices were the ability to
rapidly achieve steady-state therapeutic concentrations of exenatide in a subject after
implantation; the ability to provide long-term steady-state delivery of exenatide; the ability to
provide a significant decrease in fasting plasma glucose concentration (relative to the fasting
plasma glucose concentration before implantation of the osmotic device); and the capability
of quickly terminating treatment if desirable.
                                            Example 3
               Phase 2 Clinical Trial Data for Continuous Delivery of Exenatide
[00223]         A Phase 2 clinical trial was designed as a multi-center randomized, open-label
study with 50 sites and a total of 155 subjects. The Phase 2 study was designed and conducted
to compare the efficacy, safety and tolerability of treatment with continuous subcutaneous
delivery of unmodified, synthetic exenatide having the amino acid sequence of exendin-4 via
DUROS@ delivery devices (ITCA 650) versus twice-daily injections of unmodified, synthetic
exenatide having the amino acid sequence of exendin-4 in subjects with inadequately
controlled, metformin-treated type 2 diabetes mellitus. In the study, subjects were initially
randomized to receive either 20 or 40 mcg/day of ITCA 650 for 12 weeks or twice-daily
(BID) exenatide injections at 5 mcg BID for 4 weeks followed by 10 mcg BID for 8 weeks.
Subsequently, subjects were randomized to receive 20, 40, 60 or 80 mcg/day of ITCA 650 for
an additional 12 weeks. In this study, osmotic delivery devices (ITCA 650) were implanted
subcutaneously in the abdominal area under the abdominal skin.
[00224]         There were approximately 50 subjects per group for each of three groups as
follows: Group 1, a group treated with implanted osmotic delivery devices of the present
invention that delivered 20 mcg/day; Group 2, a group treated with implanted osmotic
                                                 57

 WO 2011/037623                                                         PCT/US2010/002591
delivery devices of the present invention that delivered 40 mcg/day; and Group 3, a group
treated with twice-daily exenatide injections at 5 mcg BID for 4 weeks followed by 10 mcg
BID for 8 weeks. An overview of the study design is presented in Figure 5. The extension
phase was weeks 13-24 and the groups were randomized 1:1 to continuous delivery of
exenatide as indicated in the figure. At the beginning of the extension phase for each subject,
any implanted osmotic delivery device was removed and an osmotic delivery device
providing continuous delivery of exenatide at the assigned dose was implanted. For example,
if a subject was initially in Group 1 being treated by continuous delivery of exenatide at 20
mcg/day and was being increased to a dose of 60 mcg/day, then at the beginning of the
extension phase the osmotic device delivering 20 mcg/day was removed and a new device
delivering 60 mcg/day was implanted. For subjects initially being treated by injection, the
injections were discontinued and osmotic delivery devices were implanted at the beginning of
the extension phase. The study was completed on 15 July 2010.
[00225]          Accordingly, results of the Phase 2 study allow evaluation of the safety and
efficacy of treatment using continuous delivery of exenatide versus exenatide twice-daily
injections in type 2 diabetes mellitus over a 13-24 week treatment period. Further, the study
allows evaluation of treatment dose escalation by continuous delivery of exenatide and the
ability to transition subjects from treatment with exenatide twice-daily injections to treatment
by continuous delivery.
[00226]          A.      Demographics of Study Group
[00227]          Inclusion/exclusion criteria were as follows. Subjects were 18-70 years of age
and diagnosed as having type 2 diabetes mellitus for greater than 6 months prior to screening.
Subjects had inadequately controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus but were on stable treatment
regimens of diet and exercise alone or in combination with metformin monotherapy.
Subjects' HbAlc levels were greater than or equal to 7.0% and less than or equal to 10%.
Subjects had fasting plasma glucose of less than 240 mg/dL and a body/mass index (BMI) of
less than or equal to 40 kg/m 2 .
[00228]          The demographics of the study groups are presented in Table 7.
                                                58

WO 2011/037623                                                           PCT/US2010/002591
[00229]                                     Table 7
                                    Group 1                Group 2           Group 3
    N (sample size)                    51                     51                53
      Age (years)                     54.0                   53.3              53.8
     Gender (M/F)                    25/26                  23/28             29/24
  Duration of Diabetes                 6.2                    8.4               5.2
         (years)
      HbAlc (%)                        7.9                    8.0               8.0
      Weight (kg)                     93.5                   91.5              93.4
     BMI (kg/m 2 )                    33.5                   31.8              33.0
[00230]         The disposition of the subjects in the study at 12 weeks is presented in Table 8.
[00231]                                       Table 8
                             Group 1              Group 2          Group 3           Total
                              N (%)                N (%)             N (%)           N (%)
       Randomized                51                   51               53             155
        and treated
        Completed            47 (92.2)            48 (94.1)        47 (88.7)       142 (91.6)
          treatment
             Early            4(7.8)               3 (5.9)          6(11.3)         13(8.4)
        Withdrawal
           Withdrew           2 (3.9)              1(2.0)            2 (3.8)        5 (3.2)
            Consent
            Adverse            1(2.0)              2 (3.9)          2 (3.8)         5 (3.2)
             Event
             Other            1(2.0)               0 (0.0)          2 (3.8)         3 (1.9)
[00232]         B.      Pharmacodynamic Data
[00233]                 (i)    Data at Week 12
[00234]         The following pharmacodynamic measurement data were obtained from this
Phase 2 clinical study of exenatide.
                                                59

WO 2011/037623                                                          PCT/US2010/002591
[00235]         The changes in HbAlc after 12 weeks of treatment are presented in Table 9.
[00236]                                        Table 9
                    Sample Size          Baseline            Week 12            Change in
                                         HbAlc%              HbAlc%              HbAlc
      Group 1           n=47                 7.90              6.94               -0.96*
      Group 2           n=47                 8.00              6.96               -1.04*
      Group 3           n=47                 8.01              7.19               -0.82*
*p<0.001 relative to baseline
[00237]          The data demonstrated that after 12 weeks of treatment all groups showed a
reduction in HbAlc from baseline to endpoint. Exenatide treatment by continuous delivery
(Groups 1 and 2) provided better decreases in HbAlc than exenatide treatment by injection
(Group 3). All decreases in HbAlc were statistically different at 12 weeks compared to
baseline; but not between each other. The study was not powered to detect differences
between groups.
[00238]         Further analysis of the data showed that a higher percentage of subjects
reached HbAlc less than or equal to 7% and less than or equal to 6.5% at 12 weeks when
treated following the methods of the present invention using continuous delivery of exenatide
from an osmotic delivery device versus twice-daily injection (Table 10).
[00239]                                  Table 10
                                Subjects             Percent       Subjects            Percent
                          (at or below 7% of                  (at or below 6.5%
                                 Total)                            of Total)
         Group 1                30 of 47                64          15 of 47             32
         Group 2                32 of 47                68          12 of 47             26
         Group 3                24 of 47                51           8 of 47             17
[00240]         Body weight decreased in all treatment groups and was significantly different
from baseline to endpoint after 12 weeks of treatment in all groups (Table 11).
[00241]                                  Table 11
                    Subjects        Mean Weight Loss (in kg)         Percent Change (%)
     Group 1          n=47                  -0.8    2.4**                  -0.9 t 2.7
     Group 2          n=48                   -2.0 3.0*                     -2.6    3.5
     Group 3          n=47                   -1.3 2.5*                     -1.5    2.8
* p<0.001 relative to baseline **p<0.05 relative to baseline
[00242]         While there was an apparent dose-response relationship with respect to
gastrointestinal adverse events (nausea and vomiting), these effects occurred early after
implantation of the device(s) and typically abated within the several weeks in most subjects
(Figure 6). In Figure 6 it can be seen that, when the dose of the twice-daily injections was
                                                  60

 WO 2011/037623                                                         PCT/US2010/002591
increased from 5 mcg/day to 10 mcg/day, the incidence of nausea increased and remained
higher than the with the initial treatment dosage level. That result was in contrast to the data
seen with continuous delivery wherein the overall trend was toward a decreased incidence of
nausea over time.
 [00243]         Referring to Figure 6, the initial frequency of nausea with exenatide injections
was above 20% at the starting dose of 5 mcg BID. At four weeks when the dose was
increased to 10 mcg BID, the frequency of nausea increased again to greater than 20% and
persisted at that rate for the remainder of the 12-week period.
[00244]          With treatment at 20 mcg/day by continuous delivery, the initial frequency of
nausea was about 25% and gradually decreased every week. Over the first four weeks, the
frequency of nausea was similar to exenatide injections even though twice the amount of
exenatide was being delivered. From week 6 onward, the frequency of nausea continued to
fall and was less than 10% at the end of week 12. The duration of nausea was much less in
the 20 mcg/day continuous delivery group with a mean duration of nausea of 17 days versus
47.7 days with exenatide injections.
[00245]          At the higher dose of 40 mcg/day administered by continuous delivery, the
frequency of nausea was higher but fell to a similar rate compared to exenatide injections
from week six onward even though the amount of exenatide that the subject received was
twice that of exenatide injections. Most of the nausea was mild to moderate.
[00246]          The data in Figure 6 demonstrate that delivery of 20 mcg/day by continuous
delivery from an osmotic delivery device resulted in continuing improvement of nausea
symptoms over the 12-week treatment period. Further, the data demonstrate that over time
delivery of 40 mcg/day by continuous delivery from an osmotic delivery device resulted in no
greater nausea than lower dose exenatide twice-daily injection. These data show improved
tolerability of exenatide treatment using continuous delivery versus twice-daily injections of
exenatide. Accordingly, in one embodiment, the present invention relates to methods of and
osmotic devices comprising exenatide for use in methods of treating type 2 diabetes mellitus
by continuous delivery of exenatide that provide improved tolerization to dose escalation of
exenatide.
[002471         In addition, quality of life was assessed among study subjects at baseline and
week 8 using the validated DM-SAT Quality of Life survey (Anderson, RT, et al., Diabetes
Care 32:51 (2009)). Sixteen criteria were examined and subjects self-scored on a scale of 0
10. Comparisons of change were made from baseline across all treatment arms (n-50
subjects/arm) and an aggregate total score obtained from the 16 criteria. In addition, the 16
                                                  61

WO 2011/037623ouped by four subscales of well-being, lifestyle, mediPCT/US2010/002591
convenience.
[002481          The data presented in Figure 7 shows the percent change from baseline in the
overall QOL assessment at week 8. In the figure the numbers over the bar graphs represent
the following: n with improved QOL score/n with stable QOL score/n with decreased QOL
score, respectively; for Group 3, 36/0/15; for Group 1, 35/3/9; and for Group 2, 40/1/7. The
data indicated that -on average subjects gave an overall higher QOL assessment to exenatide
treatment when the treatment was provided by continuous delivery at 20 mcg/day (Group 1)
and 40 mcg/day (Group 2) using an implanted osmotic delivery device versus when exenatide
was administered by twice-daily injections (Group 3). For exenatide injections (Group 3), the
QOL improvement was a little more than 10%. For Groups 1 and 2 the improvement in QOL
was greater, from 20-30%. A greater fraction of the subjects receiving exenatide injections
(Group 3) reported a decrease in QOL than either of the continuous delivery groups (Groups
 1 and 2). These data demonstrated a significant advantage of the implanted osmotic delivery
device over exenatide administration via injection in terms of reported quality of life for
treated subj ects.
[00249]          Further, a subscale analysis of QOL was performed at week 8 and the percent
changes from baseline are presented in Figure 8. In the figure, the bars are labeled with the
Group number, that is, Groups 3, 1, and 2, respectively. The data showed that subjects rated
continuous delivery of exenatide using an osmotic pump as providing consistently higher
QOL than exenatide administered by injection by each of the four subscales of well-being,
medical control, lifestyle, and convenience. These data demonstrated a significant advantage
of the implanted osmotic delivery device over exenatide administration via injection in terms
of reported quality of life in each of the four subscales for treated subjects.
[00250]          Treatment with exenatide by continuous delivery resulted in potential
beneficial changes in other parameters relative to treatment with exenatide injections at week
12. For example, the change of low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) values from
baseline to week 8 were as shown in Table 12.
[00251]                                Table 12
                                      Change in LDL from            Percent Change
                                              Baseline
             Group 1                         -4.8 mg/dL                   -1.63
             Group 2                        -5.4 mg/dL                    -4.33
             Group 3                        +1.2 mg/dL                    15.26
                                                  62

 WO 2011/037623                                                        PCT/US2010/002591
[00252]        LDL-C decreased 4.8 and 5.4 mg/dL with exenatide treatment by continuous
delivery at 20 and 40 mcg/day, respectively, whereas it increased 1.2 mg/dL with exenatide
treatment by injections. These data demonstrated a more favorable effect on reduction of
LDL-C by treatment using continuous delivery of exenatide versus twice-daily injection.
[002531         Further, the change of seated systolic blood pressure values from baseline to
week 8 were as shown in Table 13.
[002541                              Table 13
     Group 1                                       -3.6 mmHg
     Group 2                                       -6.8 mmHg
     Group 3                                       -4.2 mmHg
[002551         Systolic blood pressure decreased 3.6 and 6.8 mmHg with exenatide treatment
by continuous delivery at 20 and 40 mcg/day, respectively, and decreased 4.2 mmHg with
exenatide treatment by injections. These data demonstrated that all treatment methods
provided similar, favorable effect on reduction of systolic blood pressure by treatment using
continuous delivery of exenatide and twice-daily injection.
[002561                 (ii)   Data at Week 20
[00257]        Extension phase data for subject status at week 20 is presented in Figure 9. In
the extension phase for weeks 13-24, subjects from each treatment group were randomized to
receive continuous delivery of exenatide at 20, 40, 60 or 80 meg/day. The changes in HbAlc
percent at week 20 of treatment are presented in Table 14.
[00258]                                      Table 14
      Dosage        Sample Size          Baseline           Week 20           Change in
   Delivered by                         HbAlc%              HbAlc%              HbAlc
    Continuous
    Delivery to
   Randomized
      Groups
    20 mcg/day           n=17              7.88               7.03               -0.85
    40 mcg/day           n=39              7.83               6.77               -1.06
    60 mcg/day           n=35              8.06               6.79               -1.27
    80 mcg/day           n=17              8.07               6.68               -1.39
[00259]         These data demonstrated that dose escalation to continuous delivery at the
higher doses of 60-80 mcg/day resulted in further reduction in HbAlc relative to baseline. In
addition, continued weight loss was observed.
[00260]         The data presented in Table 15 show subjects reaching HbAlc treatment goals
at 20 weeks. The data demonstrated continuing reduction of HbAlc in the randomized
                                                63

 WO 2011/037623                                                         PCT/US2010/002591
groups. Further, the data demonstrated that dose escalation resulted in more subjects
reaching HbAlc treatment goals.
[00261]                                   Table 15
                      Subjects       Percent          Subjects           Percent
                        (at or                      (at or below
                     below 7%                         6.5% of
                      of Total)                        Total)
     20 mcg/day        10 of 20         50%            4 of 20             20%
     40 mcg/day        31 of 39         79%           18 of 39             46%
     60 mcg/day       28 of 38          74%           18 of 38             47%
     80 mcg/day        13 of 17         76%            9 of 17             53%
[00262]         In summary, exenatide treatment by continuous delivery using an implantable
osmotic delivery device at doses of 20 and 40 mcg/day was well tolerated over 12 weeks with
robust glucose-lowering activity. HbAlc decreased by 0.96% and 1.04% with exenatide
treatment by continuous delivery at doses of 20 and 40 mcg/day, respectively, compared to a
decrease of 0.82% with exenatide injections. More subjects reached HbAlc treatment goals
of 7% or 6.5% with exenatide treatment by continuous delivery than with exenatide
injections. Weight loss was observed in all treatment groups. Despite receiving twice as
much exenatide during the initial 4 weeks of treatment, nausea decreased progressively over
the first six weeks with exenatide treatment by continuous delivery at 20 mcg/day compared
to treatment with exenatide injections where nausea persisted from weeks 4-12 with a weekly
incidence of > 20%. Both doses of exenatide treatment by continuous delivery performed
better than exenatide injections overall and in all four subscales (well-being, medical control,
lifestyle, convenience) of a QOL survey conducted after 8 weeks of treatment.
[00263]         In addition, dose escalation with exenatide treatment by continuous delivery at
week 13 resulted in further reduction of HbAlc after 8 weeks of therapy. Subjects treated
with exenatide treatment by continuous delivery at 60 mcg/day from weeks 13-20 had a
decrease in HbAlc of 1.27% from baseline. Subjects treated with exenatide treatment by
continuous delivery at 80 mcg/day from weeks 13-20 had a decrease in HbAlc of 1.39%
from baseline.
                                                64

WO 2011/037623                                                        PCT/US2010/002591
[00264]                (iii)  Final Data at Completion of Phase 2 Study
[00265]        The overall disposition of the subjects at completion of the study is presented
in Table 16.
[00266]                                      Table 16
                                                      Groups 1 and 2         Group 3
                      Weeks 1-12
                    Completion Rate                         93%                89%
               Withdrawals due to nausea                    3.9%               5.7%
         Withdrawals prior to re-randomization              8.4%               6.4%
                      Weeks 13-24
                    Completion Rate                         95%                NA*
               Withdrawals due to nausea                    <1%                NA*
*NA - not applicable
[00267]        In Table 16, "Weeks 1-12" presents the study disposition over the first
treatment period. There was a very high completion rate, 93%, in the treatment groups
providing continuous delivery (Groups 1 and 2). Groups 1 and 2 each had two subjects
withdraw due to nausea, and Group 3 had three subjects withdraw due to nausea. In the table,
"Withdrawals prior to re-randomization" are subjects that completed the first 12 weeks of
treatment, but opted not to continue through the 12-week extension phase treatment period.
No specific reasons were given for these withdrawals.
[00268]        In Table 16, for "Weeks 13-24," all subjects were treated using continuous
delivery from implanted osmotic delivery devices. This treatment period of the study had a
very high completion rate. Only one subject withdrew because of nausea. This subject had
been on exenatide injections and then received treatment by continuous delivery at 60
mcg/day. The subject noted nausea for five days and withdrew from study.
[00269]        The changes in HbAlc percent for weeks 13-24 of treatment are presented in
Table 17.
                                               65

 WO 2011/037623                                                          PCT/US2010/002591
 [00270]                                        Table 17
        Dose          Sample     Baseline    Week 12     Week 24      Change      Percent of
   Delivered by         Size       HbAlc      HbAlc       HbAlc          in        Subjects
    Continuous                       %           %          %         HbAlc          who
       Delivery                                                                    achieved
    Weeks 13-24                                                                     HbAic:
      (mcg/day)      _57%                                                              <6.5%
          20            n=20        7.96        7.10       7.07       -0.89*     60%      20%
          40            n=42        7.79        7.07       6.93       -0.86*     71%      43%
          60            n=41        8.05        7.08       6.67       -1.38*     73%      49%
          80            n=19        8.03        6.83       6.67       -1.36*     79%      63%
*p<0.0001 relative     to baseline
[00271]           In Table 17, the data given for Week 12 shows the average change in HbAlc
values from initiation of treatment (baseline) to week 12 (the end of the first treatment period)
for the subjects after randomization and before entry into the extension phase treatment
period (weeks 13-24) (see Figure 5). The data shown for Week 24 show the changes in
HbAlc associated with each dose at the end of treatment by continuous delivery at the
specified doses. After treatment with exenatide by continuous delivery, at 24 weeks further
decreases in HbAlc were seen in all treatment groups. All of these reductions in HbAlc are
statistically significant relative to the baseline and demonstrate that continued reduction of
HbAlc can be obtained using continuous delivery of exenatide. For the two highest doses
(i.e., 60 mcg/day and 80 mcg/day), both groups had a change of greater than 1.3%
demonstrating that increasing the dose of exenatide administered by continuous delivery
provided continued reduction in HbAlc over the treatment period. The percentage of subjects
with HbAIc at 7% or less demonstrated good treatment outcome for all groups, with the
greatest improvements seen at the higher doses (60 mcg/day, 73%; and 80 mcg/day, 79%).
The study was not powered to detect differences between groups.
[00272]          The reductions in HbAlc and the percent of subjects who achieved an HbAlc
of less than 7% demonstrate the clinical value of treatment of subjects having type 2 diabetes
mellitus using continuous delivery of exenatide over a range of different doses.
[00273]          Further analysis of the HbAlc data from weeks 13-24 for subjects receiving
continuous delivery of 60 mcg/day of exenatide showed that the higher the initial HbAlc
baseline at the beginning of the extension phase treatment period the greater the reduction in
HbAlc that was seen at the end of the extension phase treatment period (Table 18).
                                                  66

WO 2011/037623                                                         PCT/US2010/002591
 [00274]                                   Table 18
   Subjects treated     Sample      Baseline       Week 24      Change         Percent of
    by continuous         Size      HbAlc           HbAic      in HbAlc          Subjects
    delivery of 60                                                              achieving
        mcg/day                                                              HbAlc of 7%
                                                                                   or less
     All Subjects        n=41         8.05            6.67       -1.38*             73%
    Subjects having      n=36         8.22            6.73       -1.49*             69%
       a baseline
     HbAlc > 7.0
    Subjects having      n=27         8.54            6.77       -1.77*             63%
       a baseline
     HbAlc ;> 7.5
*p<0.0001 relative to baseline
[00275]           In Table 18, the "Baseline" is the mean HbAlc of the subjects at initiation of
treatment at the beginning of the clinical study. For the 41 subjects who received treatment
by continuous delivery of 60 mcg/day of exenatide from weeks 13-24, the mean HbAlc was
8.05% with a 1.38% drop after treatment. Of these 41 subjects, 36 subjects who had a
baseline HbAlc of greater than 7 had a mean HbAlc of 8.22% with a 1.49% drop after
treatment. Of the 41 subjects, 27 subjects who had a baseline HbAlc of greater than or equal
to 7.5 had a mean HbAlc of 8.54% with an even bigger drop of 1.77% after treatment. These
results further demonstrate that treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus subjects using
continuous delivery of exenatide provides desirable treatment outcome because continued
improvement in HbAlc was seen over the treatment period and subjects with higher baselines
at the beginning of the treatment period showed the desirable outcome of greater reductions
in HbAlc than subjects with lower baselines.
[00276]         Body weight decreased in all treatment groups and was significantly different
from baseline to endpoint at 24 weeks of treatment in all groups (Table 19).
[00277]                                  Table 19
          Dose         Sample Size         Mean Weight Loss            Percent Change
      Delivered by                                (in kg)                   (in %)
      Continuous
         Delivery
      Weeks 13-24
        (mcg/day)
            20             n=20                     -0.8                     -0.85
            40             n=42                    -3.6*                      -4.0
            60             n=41                    -3.1*                      -3.4
            80             n=19                   -3.5**                      -3.8
* p<0.0001 relative to baseline **p<0.01 relative to baseline
                                                67

 WO 2011/037623                                                           PCT/US2010/002591
 [002781         The lowest dose of 20 mcg/day had an average weight loss of 0.8 kg. All the
higher doses had greater than 3 kg weight loss; the values were also statistically significant.
 [00279]         The data presented in Figure 10 show the incidence of nausea over the
treatment period of weeks 13-24. In the figure, the first time point (-1 week) shows the
incidence of nausea the week prior to subject randomization for extension phase dosing.
With continuous delivery of 20 mcg/day of exenatide, the incidence of nausea remained very
low throughout the treatment period. With an increase in the continuous delivery dose from
20 mcg/day to 60 mcg/day of exenatide, there was an increase in the incidence of nausea; but
treatment was well-tolerated as described below. When subjects receiving 20 mcg/day of
 exenatide as twice-daily injections were treated in the extension phase using continuous
 delivery of 60 mcg/day of exenatide, the incidence of nausea was much higher reaching 50%
 during the fourth week after dose escalation. Thus, treatment with twice-daily exenatide
injections was not helpful in tolerization of subjects to the gastrointestinal side effects of
increased doses of exenatide, whereas treatment using continuous delivery of exenatide did
provide tolerization of subjects to the gastrointestinal side effects of increased doses of
 exenatide. Accordingly, in one embodiment, the present invention relates to methods of and
osmotic devices comprising exenatide for use in methods of treating type 2 diabetes mellitus
by continuous delivery of exenatide that provide improved tolerization to dose escalation of
exenatide.
 [00280]         Regarding the treatment being well tolerated, for subjects treated using
continuous delivery of 20 to 60 mcg/day of exenatide, there were no withdrawals from
treatment, six subjects reported nausea during weeks 13-24, and four reported nausea during
weeks 1-12. There were no reports of vomiting. Four of these subjects were at sites
participating in a continuation phase allowing treatment from weeks 25-48 and all four
elected to continue treatment using continuous delivery. Further, 85% of all eligible subjects
in all of the treatment groups elected to continue treatment in the continuation phase.
 [00281]         In addition, changes in subjects' QOL score in the extension phase of the study
were evaluated essentially as described above. With reference to Figure 9, the data presented
in Figure 11 presents changes from baseline for QOL scores based on subsequent
randomization to two treatment groups (i.e., continuous delivery of either 40 mcg/day or 60
mcg/day exenatide) in the extension phase of the original subjects in Group 3 (twice-daily
injection of exenatide). QOL for original subjects of Group 3 who were randomized to
continuous delivery of 40 mcg/day were compared using their QOL data from week 8 and
their QOL data obtained at week 20. QOL data for original subjects of Group 3 who were
                                                 68

 WO 2011/037623                                                         PCT/US2010/002591
randomized to continuous delivery of 60 mcg/day were compared using their QOL data from
week 8 and their QOL data obtained at week 20. As can been seen from the data in Figure 11,
subjects who switched from twice-daily exenatide injections (Group 3) to continuous delivery
from an implanted osmotic device (at doses of 40 mcg/day or 60 mcg/day of exenatide)
reported substantial increase in QOL scores.
 [00282]        With reference to Figure 9, the data presented in Figure 12 presents changes
from baseline for QOL scores based on the original subjects of Group 1 (continuous delivery
of 20 mcg/day of exenatide) who were subsequently randomized to continuous delivery at 60
mcg/day in the extension phase, and the original subjects of Group 2 (continuous delivery of
40 mcg/day of exenatide) who were subsequently randomized to continuous delivery of 80
mcg/day in the extension phase. QOL data for these subjects were compared using their QOL
data from week 8 and their QOL data obtained at week 20. As can be seen from the data
presented in Figure 12, the QOL scores for subjects treated by continuous delivery who had
their dose increased 2-3 fold in the extension phase maintained higher QOL scores (relative to
those treated by twice-daily injection, compare to Figure 7 and Figure 8) even at the higher
doses. Thus, the present invention provides methods of and osmotic devices comprising
exenatide for use in methods of treating type 2 diabetes mellitus by continuous delivery of
exenatide that provide improved QOL to subjects being treated with exenatide.
 [00283]        In summary, treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus using continuous delivery of
exenatide from implanted osmotic devices provides glycemic control at all doses. Subjects
started on continuous delivery of 20 mcg/day followed by dose escalation to 60 mcg/day
experienced superior tolerability and reductions in HbAlc and weight. In addition,
improvement in subject-reported QOL was observed at all exenatide doses administered by
continuous delivery versus twice-daily injection of exenatide. A greater improvement in QOL
was observed in subjects treated by continuous delivery of exenatide versus twice-daily
exenatide injection. Also, marked QOL improvement was seen in subjects switching from
twice-daily exenatide injection to continuous delivery using implanted osmotic delivery
devices.
[00284]         The methods and implantable osmotic delivery devices of the present
invention provide unique potential for long-term optimal treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus
because it is the first incretin mimetic therapy that ensures subject adherence and eliminates
the need self injection.
                                                 69

WO 2011/037623                                                                PCT/US2010/002591
[00285]        C.       Comparative Treatment Data
[002861        This example discusses comparisons of different therapeutic approaches for
the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus among subjects on a metformin-only treatment
background. The data from the above-described Phase 2 clinical study of treatment using
continuous delivery from implanted osmotic delivery devices was compared to treatment
outcomes for twice-daily and once-weekly exenatide injections, as well as oral anti-diabetic
agents.
[002871        Figure 13 to Figure 21 present comparative treatment data for the drugs and
treatment methods set forth in Table 20.
[002881                                         Table 20
     Treatment                               Drug/
   Designation in                   Dosing Schedule                        Source of Data/Studies
       Figures       _  _   _ _  _  _  _   _  _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _ _
                                          twie-dily njecionDeFronzo RA, et al.,
                                         Exentide
    Treatment A            Exenatide, twice-daily injection             Diabetes Care 28(5): 1092
                                  (5 mcg per injection)                          1100 (2005)
    Treatment B           Exenatide, once-weekly injection           Bergenstal RM, et al., Lancet
                                        (2 mg/week)                     376(9739):431-439 (2010)
    Treatment C            Liraglutide, once-daily injection             Pratley RE, et al., Lancet
                                   (1.2 or 1.8 mg/day)                375(9724):1447-1456(2010)
                                                                             Rosenstock J, et al.,
                                                                              American Diabetes
                                                                          Association (ADA) 70th
                                                                      Scientific Sessions, Orlando
                                                                      FL, Abstract 62-OR (2010);
                                                                        Nauck M, et al., American
    Treatment D         Taspoglutide, once-weekly injection           Diabetes Association (ADA)
                                   (10 or 20 mg/week)                      70th Scientific Sessions,
                                                                      Orlando FL, Abstract 60-OR
                                                                       (2010); Bergenstal R, et al.,
                                                                              American Diabetes
                                                                          Association (ADA) 70th
                                                                      Scientific Sessions, Orlando
                                                                      FL, Abstract 58-OR (2010).
                        Exenatide, continuous delivery of 20
    Treatment E            mcg/day or 60 mcg/day using an                 The Phase 2 clinical trial
                           implantable osmotic device (i.e.,                   described herein.
                       embodiments of the present invention)
    Treatment F           Sitagliptin, taken orally once a day       Bergenstal RM, et al., Lancet
                                       (100 mg/day)                     376(9739):431-439 (2010)
    Treatment G         Pioglitazone, taken orally once a day        Bergenstal RM, et al., Lancet
                    I___    _  (15 mg, 30 mg, or 45 mg)                 376(9739):431-439 (2010)
                                                     70

WO 2011/037623                                                          PCT/US2010/002591
[00289]          Liraglutide and taspoglutide are both peptides and incretin mimetics.
Sitagliptin is a small molecule DPP-4 inhibitor. Pioglitazone is a TZD and a potent agonist
for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma.
[00290]          The comparative data presented in Figure 13 demonstrates that treatment using
the methods and osmotic delivery devices of the present invention for continuous delivery of
exenatide (Treatment E) provided the best reduction in HbAlc over the treatment periods of
the studies. Accordingly, the continuous delivery of exenatide as described herein provided
superior HbAlc reductions relative to exenatide administered by injection either twice-daily
(Treatment A) or once-weekly (Treatment B), as well as superior reductions in HbAlc
relative to treatment by two different incretin mimetics, liraglutide (once-daily injection;
Treatment C) and taspoglutide (once-weekly injection; Treatment D).
[00291]          The comparative data presented in Figure 14 demonstrates that treatment using
the methods and osmotic delivery devices of the present invention for continuous delivery of
exenatide (Treatment E) provided excellent HbAIC drop despite a lower baseline at study
initiation than treatment with sitagliptin (Treatment F), pioglitazone (Treatment G), or once
weekly injections of exenatide (Treatment B). In the Bergenstal RM, et al., study about one
third of subjects had a HbAlc of greater than 9%; however, in the experiments described
herein using continuous delivery of 20 mcg/day or 60 mcg/day of exenatide, there was only
one subject above having a HbAlc above 9. This explains the difference in the mean HbAlc
baselines.
[00292]          The comparative data presented in Figure 15 demonstrates that treatment using
the methods and osmotic delivery devices of the present invention for continuous delivery of
exenatide (Treatment E) provided an increased reduction in HbAlc despite lower baselines
when compared to once-weekly administration of exenatide. Unlike the Phase 2 clinical trial
described herein, which was conducted entirely in the United States, the Bergenstal RM, et
al., study was conducted in the United States, Mexico and India. This geographic distribution
resulted in an enrollment of subjects who were less well controlled on metformin
monotherapy and who entered the study with higher baseline HbAlc levels. The mean
baseline HbAlc in subjects treated with once-weekly injections of exenatide (Treatment B)
from the Bergenstal RM, et al., study, and one-third of the subjects enrolled in the Bergenstal
RM, et al., study had baseline HbAIc levels higher than 9%. Analyzing only subjects from
Treatment E who had higher baseline HbAIc levels demonstrated that the absolute drop in
HbAlc is higher among subjects on treatment using the methods and osmotic delivery
devices of the present invention for continuous delivery of exenatide (Treatment E). This
                                                71

 WO 2011/037623                                                          PCT/US2010/002591
 suggests that the continuous delivery of exenatide as described by the present invention may
 outperform once-weekly injection of exenatide in similar study populations who have high
baseline HbAlc.
 [00293]          The comparative data presented in Figure 16 demonstrates that treatment using
the methods and osmotic delivery devices of the present invention for continuous delivery of
exenatide (Treatment E) provided robust reductions of HbAlc relative to treatment with
once-weekly injections of exenatide (Treatment B). The HbAlc changes from the Bergenstal
RM, et al., study were further analyzed between subjects with baseline HbAlc less than 9%
and subjects with baseline HbAlc greater than or equal to 9%. Comparing the results of
exenatide treatment by continuous delivery of the present invention (Treatment E) to
treatment using once-weekly exenatide injection (Treatment B) following the same analysis
showed that HbAlc reductions following the treatment methods of the present invention are
as good or better than those seen using once-weekly exenatide injection.
 [00294]          The same comparison of results of the treatment methods of the present
invention (Treatment E) with the results from subjects on sitagliptin from the Bergenstal RM,
et al., study suggested an even greater advantage for the continuous delivery of exenatide to
provide better reductions in HbAlc relative to sitagliptin (Figure 17). These results support
use of the osmotic delivery devices of the present invention for treatment providing
continuous delivery as a preferred add-on therapy to metformin relative to DPP-4 inhibitors
(e.g., sitagliptin). Further, when comparing subjects with HbAlc of less than or equal to 9%
from the Bergenstal RM, et al., study to similar subjects from the Phase 2 clinical study
described herein, it was seen that the treatment methods and osmotic devices of the present
invention provide much more substantial reductions in HbAlc (Figure 18).
[00295]           Similarly, the same comparison of results of the treatment methods of the
present invention (Treatment E) with the results from subjects on pioglitazone from the
Bergenstal RM, et al., study suggested that the continuous delivery of exenatide provides
greater reductions in HbAlc relative to pioglitazone (Figure 19). These results support use of
the osmotic delivery devices of the present invention for treatment providing continuous
delivery as a preferred add-on therapy to metformin relative to TZDs (e.g., pioglitazone).
Further, when comparing subjects with HbAlc of less than or equal to 9% from the
Bergenstal RM, et al., study to similar subjects from the Phase 2 clinical study described
herein, it was seen that the treatment methods and osmotic devices of the present invention
provided much more substantial reductions in HbAlc (Figure 20).
                                               72

 WO 2011/037623                                                           PCT/US2010/002591
[00296]         Further, Figure 21 presents a comparison of weight loss obtained using
sitagliptin (Treatment F), pioglitazone (Treatment G), or once-weekly injections of exenatide
(Treatment B) to treatment using the methods and osmotic delivery devices of the present
invention for continuous delivery of exenatide (Treatment E). The data presented in the
figure demonstrate that, when comparing the treatments, the methods and osmotic delivery
devices of the present invention provide the best weight loss.
[00297]         Finally, all the subjects enrolled into the Phase 2 clinical study were receiving
only metformin therapy for treatment of their type 2 diabetes mellitus before initiation of the
study. The metformin doses were not modified over the course of the Phase 2 clinical study.
Subjects were treated using continuous delivery of 20 mcg/day or 40 mcg/day of exenatide
for 12 weeks or were randomized to a group that was treated by twice-daily, self-injected
exenatide (4 weeks at 5 mcg BID followed by 10 mcg BID for 8 weeks).
[00298]         Metformin is known to cause certain gastrointestinal adverse events such as
diarrhea, nausea and vomiting. Subjects treated by continuous administration of 20 mcg/day
of exenatide and whose dose of exenatide was then escalated to higher doses of continuously
administered exenatide had fewer adverse gastrointestinal side effects than those subjects
who received exenatide injections at 20 mcg/day and were then escalated to higher doses of
continuously administered exenatide.
[00299]         Thus, subjects who started on exenatide continuous delivery therapy were
better tolerized to the effects of the combination of exenatide given with metformin than
those who initially received exenatide injections given with metformin. Accordingly, using
continuous administration of exenatide from an osmotic delivery device is the best exenatide
treatment option for combination with metformin therapy relative to twice-daily injections of
exenatide.
[00300]         The Phase 2 clinical trial data illustrates that exenatide treatment by
continuous delivery provided the following potential benefits: highly effective control of
glucose; reduction in the gastrointestinal side effects relative to treatment by injection;
elimination of the need for self-injection; substantial weight-loss; and 100% compliance to
prescribed therapy.
                                             Example 4
           Phase 3 Clinical Trial Study Designs for Continuous Delivery of Exenatide
[00301]         The following study designs are presented for illustrative purposes only and
other Phase 3 clinical trial designs are feasible as will be understood by one of ordinary skill
in the art.
                                                 73

 WO 2011/037623                                                          PCT/US2010/002591
 [00302]         A.      First Study Design
 [00303]         One Phase 3 clinical trial study design is as follows. The study is a
 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. The study group includes subjects with
 type 2 diabetes mellitus treated with metformin, TZD, sulfonylurea, and any combination of
 metformin, TZD or sulfonylurea. Subjects have an HbAlc of greater than 7%. Subjects are
 randomized 1:2 between placebo versus continuous delivery of unmodified, synthetic
 exenatide having the amino acid sequence of exendin-4 using implantable osmotic delivery
 devices, respectively. There are a total of 300 subjects. The dose of exenatide used for
 continuous delivery is selected based on the results at completion of the Phase 2 study
 including tolerability, glucose-lowering activity, and weight loss activity. The dose for
 continuous delivery will likely include 3 months of treatment with 20 mcg/day and 3 months
 of treatment with 60 mcg/day. Randomization is stratified based on sulfonylurea use and
HbAlc (less than 9% versus greater than or equal to 9%).
 [00304]         The data to be obtained and assessed includes the following: HbAlc (primary
 endpoint), fasting plasma glucose, weight, lipids, blood pressure, adiponectin, C-reactive
protein (CRP), calcitonin, and amylase/lipase. In addition QOL assessment will be
performed.
 [00305]         There will be either an open-label or a blinded 26-week extension phase for
long-term treatment using continuous delivery from implanted osmotic delivery devices.
 [00306]         B.      Second Study Design
 [00307]         A second Phase 3 clinical trial study design is as follows. The study is a
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 3 study having a 26-week blinded study
and a mandatory 26-week extension. The study group includes subjects with type 2 diabetes
mellitus treated with diet and exercise and/or an oral treatment selected from the following: a
TZD, a sulfonylurea, a TZD and metformin, a sulfonylurea and metformin, or a TZD and a
sulfonylurea; with the exclusion of metformin-only treatment. The exclusion of metformin
only treatment provides a larger sulfonylurea subset for safety evaluation. Inclusion criteria
for subjects include stable maximum dose background therapy. There will be no exclusion
for cardiovascular risk.
[00308]           Subjects have an HbAlc of greater than or equal to 7.5%. Subjects are
randomized 1:2 between placebo versus continuous delivery of unmodified, synthetic
exenatide having the amino acid sequence of exendin-4 using implantable osmotic delivery
devices, respectively. There are a total of 375 subjects. The doses used for continuous
delivery of exenatide include: Group A (n=150), 13 weeks of treatment with 20 mcg/day
                                                 74

WO 2011/037623                                                           PCT/US2010/002591
followed by 13 weeks of treatment with 60 mcg/day; Group B (n=150), 13 weeks of
treatment with 20 mcg/day followed by 13 weeks of treatment with 40 mcg/day; and, Group
C (n=75), the placebo control group, 13 weeks of treatment with placebo followed by 13
weeks of treatment with placebo. The primary endpoint of the study is week 26. There is a
mandatory blinded extension phase with treatment as follows: Group A, 26 weeks of
treatment with 60 mcg/day; Group B, 26 weeks of treatment with 40 mcg/day; and Group C,
26 weeks of treatment with 20 mcg/day.
[00309]         The data to be obtained and assessed includes the following: HbAlc (primary
endpoint), fasting plasma glucose, weight, lipids, blood pressure, adiponectin, C-reactive
protein (CRP), calcitonin, and amylase/lipase. In addition QOL assessment will be
performed.
[003101         Further modifications of this study may include the following. Addition of a
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 3 clinical trial, wherein the study group
includes subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus treated with DPP-4 inhibitors or TZDs as add
ons to metformin treatment (i.e., subjects are treated with a DPP-4 inhibitor and metformin or
a TZD and metformin). The study is a 26-week blinded study with a mandatory 26-week
extension. The study is placebo-controlled with placebos for both continuous delivery of
exenatide and for orally administered drugs. The total number of this group of subjects is
approximately 500. The treatment doses include: Group A (n=170), 13 weeks of treatment by
continuous delivery of exenatide at 20 mcg/day followed by 13 weeks of treatment with 60
mcg/day; Group B (n= 170), 26 weeks of treatment with 45 mg/day pioglitazone (a TZD);
and, Group C (n=170), 26 weeks of treatment with 100 mg/day sitagliptin (a DPP-4
inhibitor). The primary endpoint of the study is week 26. There is a mandatory blinded
extension phase with treatment as follows: Group A, 26 weeks of treatment with continuous
delivery of exenatide at 60 mcg/day; Group B, 26 weeks of treatment with 45 mg/day
pioglitazone; and Group C, 26 weeks of treatment with 100 mg/day sitagliptin.
[00311]         The purpose of this study is to demonstrate superiority of treatment with
continuous delivery of exenatide using osmotic delivery devices to treatment with DPP-4
inhibitors and TZDs.
[00312]         As is apparent to one of skill in the art, various modification and variations of
the above embodiments can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of this
invention. Such modifications and variations are within the scope of this invention.
                                                 75

What is claimed is:
1.         A method for reducing body weight, treating obesity, suppressing appetite or
facilitating weight loss in a human subject, the method comprising:
implanting in the human subject at least one osmotic delivery device comprising an incretin
mimetic to provide continuous administration of the incretin mimetic from the at least one
osmotic delivery device, wherein
     (i)      continuous administration comprises a first continuous administration period of the
              incretin mimetic at a first mcg/day dose, followed by a second continuous
              administration period of the incretin mimetic at a second mcg/day dose, wherein
              the second mcg/day dose is greater than the first mcg/day dose,
     (ii)     substantial steady-state delivery of the incretin mimetic at a therapeutic
              concentration is achieved within about 5 days after each implantation of an osmotic
              delivery device, and
     (iii)    substantial steady-state delivery of the incretin mimetic is continuous for at least
              about 3 months.
2.         A method for reducing HbAlc plasma concentration, reducing systolic blood pressure,
reducing LDL-C, reducing glucose levels, reducing fructosamine levels or improving quality
of life in a human subject, the use comprising:
           implanting in the human subject at least one osmotic delivery device comprising an
incretin mimetic to provide continuous administration of the incretin mimetic from the at least
one osmotic delivery device, wherein
     (i)      continuous administration comprises a first continuous administration period of the
              incretin mimetic at a first mcg/day dose, followed by a second continuous
              administration period of the incretin mimetic at a second mcg/day dose, wherein
              the second mcg/day dose is greater than the first mcg/day dose,
     (ii)     substantial steady-state delivery of the incretin mimetic at a therapeutic
              concentration is achieved within about 5 days after each implantation of an osmotic
              delivery device, and
     (iii)    substantial steady-state delivery of the incretin mimetic is continuous for at least
              about 3 months.
3.         A method for mitigating nausea in a human subject, the use comprising:
                                                   76

implanting in the human subject at least one osmotic delivery device comprising an incretin
mimetic to provide continuous administration of the incretin mimetic from the at least one
osmotic delivery device, wherein
    (i)      continuous administration comprises a first continuous administration period of the
             incretin mimetic at a first mcg/day dose, followed by a second continuous
             administration period of the incretin mimetic at a second mcg/day dose, wherein
             the second mcg/day dose is greater than the first mcg/day dose,
    (ii)     substantial steady-state delivery of the incretin mimetic at a therapeutic
             concentration is achieved within about 5 days after each implantation of an osmotic
             delivery device, and
    (iii)    substantial steady-state delivery of the incretin mimetic is continuous for at least
             about 3 months.
4.        A method for reducing body weight, treating obesity, suppressing appetite or to
facilitate weight loss in a human subject who has been administered an incretin mimetic
during a first administration period at a first mcg/day dose, the use comprising:
implanting in the human subject at least one osmotic delivery device comprising an incretin
mimetic to provide continuous administration of the incretin mimetic from the at least one
osmotic delivery device during a second continuous administration period at a second mcg/day
dose that is greater than the first mcg/day dose, wherein
    (i)      substantial steady-state delivery of the incretin mimetic at a therapeutic
             concentration is achieved within about 5 days after each implantation of an osmotic
             delivery device; and
    (ii)     substantial steady-state delivery of the incretin mimetic is continuous for at least
             about 3 months.
5.        A method for reducing HbAlc plasma concentration, reducing LDL-C, reducing
systolic blood pressure, reducing glucose levels, reducing fructosamine levels or improving
quality of life in a human subject who has been administered an incretin mimetic during a first
administration period at a first mcg/day dose, the use comprising:
implanting in the human subject at least one osmotic delivery device comprising an incretin
mimetic to provide continuous administration of the incretin mimetic from the at least one
osmotic delivery device during a second continuous administration period at a second mcg/day
dose that is greater than the first mcg/day dose, wherein
                                                  77

    (i)     substantial steady-state delivery of the incretin mimetic at a therapeutic
            concentration is achieved within about 5 days after each implantation of an osmotic
            delivery device; and
    (ii)    substantial steady-state delivery of the incretin mimetic is continuous for at least
            about 3 months.
6.       A method for mitigating nausea in a human subject who has been administered an
incretin mimetic during a first administration period at a first mcg/day dose, the use
comprising:
         implanting in the human subject at least one osmotic delivery device comprising an
incretin mimetic to provide continuous administration of the incretin mimetic from the at least
one osmotic delivery device during a second continuous administration period at a second
mcg/day dose that is greater than the first mcg/day dose, wherein
    (i)     substantial steady-state delivery of the incretin mimetic at a therapeutic
            concentration is achieved within about 5 days after each implantation of an osmotic
            delivery device; and
    (ii)    substantial steady-state delivery of the incretin mimetic is continuous for at least
            about 3 months.
7.       The method according to claim 1 or 4, for reducing body weight in a human subject.
8.       The method according to claim 1 or 4, to facilitate weight loss in a human subject.
9.       The method according to claim 1 or 4, for treating obesity in a human subject.
10.      The method according to claim 1 or 4, for suppressing appetite in a human subject.
11.      The method according to claim 2 or 5, for reducing HbAlc plasma concentration in a
human subject.
12.      The method according to claim 2 or 5, for reducing LDL-C in a human subject.
13.      The method according to claim 2 or 5, for reducing glucose levels in a human subject.
                                                 78

14.      The method according to claim 2 or 5, for reducing fructosamine levels in a human
subject.
15.      The method according to claim 2 or 5, for reducing systolic blood pressure in a human
subject.
16.      The method according to claim 2 or 5, for improving quality of life in a human subject.
17.      The method according to any one of claims 1-16, wherein the human subject is on
metformin-only background treatment.
18.      The method according to any one of claims 1-17, wherein the substantial steady-state
delivery of the incretin mimetic from the at least one osmotic delivery device is continuous
over at least one administration period of about three months to about one year.
19.      The method according to any one of claims 1-18, further comprising providing a
significant decrease in the subject's fasting plasma glucose concentration in about 7 days or
less after implantation of the at least one osmotic delivery device in the human subject,
relative to the human subject's fasting plasma glucose concentration before implantation of the
at least one osmotic delivery device.
20.      The method according to any one of claims 1-18, comprising providing a significant
decrease in the subject's HbAlc plasma concentration in about 7 days or less after
implantation of the at least one osmotic delivery device in the human subject, relative to the
human subject's HbAlc plasma concentration before implantation of the at least one osmotic
delivery device.
21.      The method according to any one of claims 1-20, further comprising the capability to
terminate the continuous administration such that the concentration of incretin mimetic is
substantially undetectable in a blood sample from the subject in less than about 72 hours after
termination of continuous administration.
22.      The method according to claim 21, wherein termination of continuous administration is
removal of the at least one osmotic delivery device from the subject.
                                                 79

23.      The method according to claim 22, wherein the incretin mimetic is detected by a
radioimmunoassay.
24.      The method according to any one of claims 1-23, wherein the first mcg/day dose is
administered by a first osmotic delivery device and the second mcg/day dose is administered
by a second osmotic delivery device.
25.      The method according to claim 24, wherein the second mcg/day dose is at least two
times greater than the first mcg/day dose.
26.      The method according to any one of claims 1-25, wherein the use comprises at least
one more continuous administration period providing a dose escalation of the incretin mimetic
to a third mcg/day dose that is higher relative to the second mcg/day dose.
27.      The method according to any one of claims 1-26, wherein substantial steady-state
delivery of the incretin mimetic from the at least one osmotic delivery device is at a mcg/day
dose of incretin mimetic selected from the group consisting of about 10 mcg/day, about 20
mcg/day, about 40 mcg/day, about 60 mcg/day and about 80 mcg/day.
28.      The method according to any one of claims 1-27, wherein the first mcg/day dose
followed by the second mcg/day dose are selected from the group consisting of: about 10
mcg/day followed by about 20 mcg/day; about 10 mcg/day followed by about 40 mcg/day;
about 10 mcg/day followed by about 60 mcg/day; about 10 mcg/day followed by about 80
mcg/day; about 20 mcg/day followed by about 40 mcg/day; about 20 mcg/day followed by
about 60 mcg/day; about 20 mcg/day followed by about 80 mcg/day; about 40 mcg/day
followed by about 60 mcg/day; about 40 mcg/day followed by about 80 mcg/day; and about
60 mcg/day followed by about 80 mcg/day.
29.      The method according to claim 28, wherein the first mcg/day dose followed by the
second mcg/day dose is about 20 mcg/day followed by about 40 mcg/day.
30.      The method according to claim 28, wherein the first mcg/day dose followed by the
second mcg/day dose is about 20 mcg/day followed by about 60 mcg/day.
                                                 80

31.     The method according to claim 29 or 30, wherein the first mcg/day dose for about 3
months is followed by the second mcg/day dose for about 6 months.
32.     The method according to any one of claims 1-31, wherein substantial steady-state
delivery of the incretin mimetic at a therapeutic concentration is achieved within about 3 days
after each implantation of an osmotic delivery device.
33.     The method according to any one of claims 1-32, wherein the incretin mimetic
comprises an exenatide peptide, exenatide peptide analog, exenatide peptide derivative, GLP-l
peptide, GLP-l peptide analog, or GLP-l peptide derivative.
34.     The method according to claim 33, wherein the incretin mimetic comprises an
exenatide peptide having the amino acid sequence of exendin-4.
35.     The method according to any one of claims 1-34, wherein the osmotic delivery device
comprises:
        an impermeable reservoir comprising interior and exterior surfaces and first and second
open ends;
        a semi-permeable membrane in sealing relationship with the first open end of the
reservoir;
        an osmotic engine within the reservoir and adjacent the semi-permeable membrane;
        a piston adjacent the osmotic engine, wherein the piston forms a movable seal with the
interior surface of the reservoir, the piston divides the reservoir into a first chamber and a
second chamber, the first chamber comprising the osmotic engine;
        a suspension formulation, wherein the second chamber comprises the suspension
formulation; and
        a diffusion moderator inserted in the second open end of the reservoir, the diffusion
moderator adjacent the suspension formulation.
36.     The method according to claim 35, wherein the reservoir comprises titanium or a
titanium alloy.
                                                  81

37.      The method according to claim 35 or 36, wherein the suspension formulation is
flowable, the suspension formulation comprising a particle formulation comprising exenatide
peptide, and a vehicle formulation, wherein the vehicle formulation comprises a solvent and a
polymer, wherein the solvent is selected from the group consisting of benzyl benzoate, lauryl
lactate, and lauryl alcohol, and the polymer is polyvinylpyrrolidone.
38.      The method according to any one of claims 1-37, wherein the human subject has
tolerized to the incretin mimetic following the first administration period at the first mcg/day
dose.
                                                82

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
