ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to methods of treatment using [3-(4-{2-butyl-1-[4-(4-chloro
phenoxy)-phenyl]-1H-imidazol-4-yl}-phenoxy)-propyl]-diethyl    amine ("COMPOUND I") or
a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In various embodiments, the methods of treatment
include treatment of mild-to-moderate dementia of Alzheimer's type, diabetes, insomnia, and
other indications. The present invention also relates to pharmaceutical compositions
comprising COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. See Fig. 1.

WO 2014/055588                               PCT/US2013/062964
                               1/14
                                               cio
                                               0
                                        c,4E   31
                                               Q)     L
          CD   w    r- Co LO   -q-  POC
                 6O-S~aV U! 96UDHO UDN

      WO 2014/055588                                                           PCT/US2013/062964
            TREATMENT OF MILD AND MODERATE ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE
                                     FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The present invention relates to a method of treating individuals suffering from mild-to-moderate
dementia of Alzheimer's type by administering an effective amount of [3-(4-{2-butyl-1-[4-(4
chloro-phenoxy)-phenyl]-1H-imidazol-4-yl}-phenoxy)-propyl]-diethyl         amine ("COMPOUND
I"). The present invention also relates to a method of inhibiting the interaction of the receptor for
advanced glycation end products (RAGE) with a RAGE ligand in individuals with mild-to
moderate Alzheimer's disease. The present invention also relates to a method for treating
diabetes and the reduction of glucose metabolism, including in individuals suffering from mild
to-moderate Alzheimer's disease. Additionally, the present invention relates to a method for
treating insomnia or sleep onset latency in individuals, including those suffering from mild-to
moderate Alzheimer's disease.
                               BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
RAGE and the Treatment of Disease
The Receptor for Advanced Glycation Endproducts (RAGE) is a member of the immunoglobulin
super family of cell surface molecules. The extracellular (N-terminal) domain of RAGE includes
three immunoglobulin-type regions, one V (variable) type domain followed by two C-type
(constant) domains (Neeper et al ., J. Biol. Chem. 267:14998-15004 (1992)). A single
transmembrane spanning domain and a short, highly charged cytosolic tail follow the
extracellular domain. The N-terminal, extracellular domain can be isolated by proteolysis of
RAGE to generate soluble RAGE (sRAGE) comprised of the V and C domains.
RAGE is expressed in most tissues, and in particular, is found in cortical neurons during
embryogenesis (Hori et al. (1995)). Increased levels of RAGE are also found in aging tissues
(Schleicher et al., J. Clin. Invest. 99 (3): 457-468 (1997)), and the diabetic retina, vasculature and
kidney (Schmidt et al., Nature Med. 1 :1002-1004 (1995)). Activation of RAGE in different
tissues and organs leads to a number of pathophysiological consequences. RAGE has been
                                                    1

      WO 2014/055588                                                         PCT/US2013/062964
implicated in a variety of conditions including: acute and chronic inflammation (Hofmann et al.,
Cell 97:889-901 (1999)), the development of diabetic late complications such as increased
vascular permeability (Wautier et al., J. Clin. Invest. 97:238-243 (1996)), nephropathy (Teillet et
al., J. Am. Soc. Nephrol. 11 :1488-1497 (2000)), atherosclerosis (Vlassara et. al., The Finnish
Medical Society DUODECIM, Ann. Med. 28:419-426 (1996)), and retinopathy (Hammes et al,
Diabetologia 42:603-607 (1999)). RAGE has also been implicated in Alzheimer's disease (Yan et
al . Nature 382: 685-691 (1996)), erectile dysfunction, and in tumor invasion and metastasis
(Taguchi et al. Nature 405: 354-357 (2000)).
Advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs) have been implicated in a variety of disorders
including complications associated with diabetes and normal aging. Incubation of proteins or
lipids with aldose sugars results in nonenzymatic glycation and oxidation of amino groups on
proteins to form Amadori adducts. Over time, the adducts undergo additional rearrangements,
dehydrations, and cross-linking with other proteins to form complexes known as AGEs. Factors
which promote formation of AGEs include delayed protein turnover (e.g. as in amyloidoses),
accumulation of macromolecules having high lysine content, and high blood glucose levels (e.g.
as in diabetes) (Hori et al, J. Biol. Chem. 270: 25752-761 , (1995)).
AGEs display specific and saturable binding to cell surface receptors on endothelial cells of the
microvasculature, monocytes and macrophages, smooth muscle cells, mesengial cells, and
neurons.
In addition to AGEs, other compounds can bind to, and inhibit the interaction of physiological
ligands with RAGE. In normal development, RAGE interacts with amphoterin, a polypeptide
which mediates neurite outgrowth in cultured embryonic neurons (Hori et al, (1995)). RAGE has
also been shown to interact with EN-RAGE, a protein having substantial similarity to calgranulin
(Hofnann et al. (1999)). RAGE has also been shown to interact with P-amyloid (Yan et al.
Nature 389:689-695 (1997); Yan et al. Nature 382:685-691 (1996); Yan et al, Proc. Natl. Acad.
Sci, 94:5296-5301 (1997)).
Binding of ligands such as AGEs, S1 00/calgranulin/EN-RAGE,         -amyloid, CML (Ne
Carboxymethyl lysine), HMGB1 (high mobility group box 1) and amphoterin to RAGE has been
                                                  2

      WO 2014/055588                                                           PCT/US2013/062964
shown to modify expression of a variety of genes. For example, in many cell types interaction
between RAGE and its ligands generates oxidative stress, which thereby results in activation of
the free radical sensitive transcription factor NF-KB, and the activation of NF-KB regulated
genes, such as the cytokines IL-I 3,TNF-a, and the like.
As noted above, RAGE antagonists are useful in the treatment of the complications of diabetes.
It has been shown that nonenzymatic glycoxidation of macromolecules ultimately resulting in the
formation of advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs) is enhanced at sites of inflammation, in
renal failure, in the presence of hyperglycemia and other conditions associated with systemic or
local oxidant stress (Dyer, D, et al., J. Clin. Invest., 91 :2463-2469 (1993); Reddy, S., et al.,
Biochem., 34:10872-10878 (1995); Dyer, D., et al., J. Biol . Chem., 266: 11654-1 1660 (1991);
Degenhardt, T., et al., Cell Mol. Biol, 44: 1139-1 145 (1998)). Accumulation of AGEs in the
vasculature can occur focally, as in the joint amyloid composed of AGE-B2-microglobulin found
in patients with dialysis-related amyloidosis (Miyata, T, et al , J. Clin. Invest, 92: 1243-1252
(1993); Miyata, T, et al , J. Clin. Invest, 98:1088-1094 (1996)), or generally, as exemplified by
the vasculature and tissues of patients with diabetes (Schmidt, A-M, et al. Nature Med, 1 :1002
1004 (1995)). The progressive accumulation of AGEs over time in patients with diabetes
suggests that endogenous clearance mechanisms are not able to function effectively at sites of
AGE deposition. Such accumulated AGEs have the capacity to alter cellular properties by a
number of mechanisms. Although RAGE is expressed at low levels in normal tissues and
vasculature, in an environment where the receptor's ligands accumulate, it has been shown that
RAGE becomes upregulated (Li, J. et al., J. Biol. Chem., 272: 16498-16506 (1997); Li, J., et al.,
J. Biol. Chem., 273:30870-30878 (1998); Tanaka, N., et al., J. Biol. Chem,. 275:25781
25790(2000)). RAGE expression is increased in endothelium, smooth muscle cells and
infiltrating mononuclear phagocytes in diabetic vasculature. Also, studies in cell culture have
demonstrated that AGE-RAGE interaction caused changes in cellular properties important in
vascular homeostasis.
RAGE antagonists are also useful in treating amyloidoses and/or Alzheimer's disease. RAGE
appears to be a cell surface receptor which binds P-sheet fibrillar material regardless of the
composition of the subunits (amyloid-3 peptide, AP, amylin, serum amyloid A, prion-derived
peptide) (Yan, S. -D., et al ., Nature, 382:685-691 (1996); Yan, S-D, et al, Nat. Med, 6:643-651
                                                    3

     WO 2014/055588                                                          PCT/US2013/062964
(2000)). Deposition of amyloid has been shown to result in enhanced expression of RAGE. For
example, in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease, RAGE expression increases in
neurons and glia (Yan, S. -D, et al. Nature 382:685-691 (1996)). The consequences of AP
interaction with RAGE appear to be quite different on neurons versus microglia. Whereas
microglia become activated as a consequence of AP-RAGE interaction, as reflected by increased
motility and expression of cytokines, early RAGE-mediated neuronal activation is superceded by
cytotoxicity at later times. Further evidence of a role for RAGE in cellular interactions of AP
concerns inhibition of Ap-induced cerebral vasoconstriction and transfer of the peptide across the
blood-brain barrier to brain parenchyma when the receptor was blocked (Kumar, S, et al,
Neurosci. Program, p141 (2000)). Inhibition of RAGE-amyloid interaction has been shown to
decrease expression of cellular RAGE and cell stress markers (as well as NF-kB activation), and
diminish amyloid deposition (Yan, S-D, et al, Nat. Med, 6:643-651 (2000)) suggesting a role for
RAGE-amyloid interaction in both perturbation of cellular properties in an environment enriched
for amyloid (even at early stages) as well as in amyloid accumulation.
                                 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
The present invention provides a method for the treatment of mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's
disease by administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of [3-(4-{2-butyl-1-[4
(4-chloro-phenoxy)-phenyl]-1H-imidazol-4-yl}-phenoxy)-propyl]-diethyl        amine ("COMPOUND
I") or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
In one embodiment, COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is
administered in an amount of less than 20 mg per day.
In another embodiment, COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is
administered between 1 mg/5 kg of the subject's body weight per day to 1 mg/50 kg of the
subject's body weight per day.
                                                  4

      WO 2014/055588                                                        PCT/US2013/062964
In yet another embodiment, the present invention provides a method for inhibiting the interaction
of the receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE) with a RAGE ligand in subjects
with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease, comprising administering to a subject in need
thereof an amount less than 20 mg per day of COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof.
In a further embodiment, the present invention provides a method of treating diabetes comprising
administering to a subject in need thereof an amount less than 20 mg per day of COMPOUND I
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
The present invention also provides a method for inhibiting the reduction of glucose metabolism
associated with the regression of subjects with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease,
comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an amount less than 20 mg per day of
COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
In another embodiment, the present invention provides a method of lowering blood glucose
levels in a subject comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an amount less than 20
mg per day of COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
In yet another embodiment, the present invention also provides of treating insomnia comprising
administering to a subject in need thereof an amount less than 20 mg per day of COMPOUND I
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
In another embodiment, the treatment of insomnia is in a subject with mild-to-moderate
Alzheimer's disease.
The present invention also provides a method of decreasing sleep onset latency comprising
administering to a subject in need thereof an amount less than 20 mg per day of COMPOUND I
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
                                                 5

      WO 2014/055588                                                      PCT/US2013/062964
In yet another embodiment, the method of decreasing sleep onset latency is in a subject with
mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease.
In another embodiment, the present invention provides a method of reducing the frequency of
adverse events in a subject with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease comprising administering
to a subject in need thereof an amount less than 20 mg per day of COMPOUND I or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
In another embodiment of any of the previous embodiments, a suitable amount of an
acetylcholinesterase inhibitor (AChEI) or memantine may also be administered.
The present invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising between 1 mg and
20 mg of COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
In another embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition includes an acetylcholinesterase
inhibitor (AChEI).
In still another embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition includes memantine.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
FIG. 1 - Graph displaying the change from baseline in ADAS-cog for ADAS-cog subgroup of
subjects presenting with ADAS-cog scores at baseline of less than or equal to 22.8 between
placebo and treatment with 5 mg of COMPOUND I.
FIG. 2 - Kaplan-Meier curves for the group dosed with placebo and the group dosed with 5 mg
of COMPOUND I where an event is defined as achievement of an increase in ADAS-cog of 7 or
more points at any time for the subgroup of subjects with low baseline ADAS-cog at
presentation where low is among subjects in the lowest 25% of the study population.
                                                 6

     WO 2014/055588                                                          PCT/US2013/062964
FIG. 3 - Graph showing concentration-driven classification of subjects regardless of dose of
COMPOUND I administered.
FIG. 4 - Graph showing profile over time comparing placebo-treated subjects to subjects in
study whose measured median pk concentrations were in the range of 8 to 15 ng/ml of
COMPOUND I.
FIG. 5a - Graph showing a regression analysis regressing concentration (ng/ml) on BMI (kg/m 2)
for the 5 mg dose group.
FIG. 5b - Graph showing a regression analysis regressing concentration (ng/ml) on BMI (kg/m2)
for the 20 mg dose group.
FIG. 5c - Graph showing a regression analysis regressing concentration (ng/ml) on body weight
(kg) for the 5 mg dose group.
FIG. 5d - Graph showing a regression analysis regressing concentration (ng/ml) on body weight
(kg) for the 20 mg dose group.
FIG. 6a - Graph showing that mean change from baseline in glucose for subjects who present
with high glucose values where high is defined as being 100 mg/ml or greater at baseline. It is
noted that comparison with placebo rules out regression to the mean.
FIG. 6b - Graph showing that mean change from baseline in glucose for subjects who present
with high glucose values where high is defined as being in the highest one third (33%) of glucose
values at baseline. It is noted that comparison with placebo rules out regression to the mean.
FIG. 6c - Graph showing that mean change from baseline in glucose for subjects who present
with high glucose values where high is defined as being in the highest 25% of glucose values at
baseline. It is noted that comparison with placebo rules out regression to the mean.
                                                 7

   FIG. 6d - Graph showing that mean glucose for subjects who present with normal or low glucose
   values where subgroup is taken as all subjects in the lower half (50%) of glucose values at
   baseline (subgroup is defined with a median cut).
 5 FIG. 7 - Kaplan-Meier curves are shown of time for adverse event by dose group.
   FIG. 8 - Kaplan-Meier curves are shown of time for adverse event by concentration group.
                                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 0
   The present invention demonstrates that subjects with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease
   may benefit from dose-dependent treatment with COMPOUND I compared with placebo.
   Further, the present invention demonstrates that treatment with COMPOUND I may lower
   glucose levels and may inhibit reduction in glucose metabolism that is associated with the
 5 regression of subjects with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease. Additionally, the present
   invention provides a treatment for insomnia or sleep onset latency in subjects, including those
   with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease by providing subjects with an effective amount of
   COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
 0 The present invention is based on results from a parallel three-arm phase 2 study to evaluate the
   safety, tolerability, and efficacy of two doses of COMPOUND I compared to placebo in subjects
   with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease. The study was conducted at forty different study
   sites across the United States.
25 In the study of the present invention, there were 399 subjects (133 per group), who were
   randomized to placebo or to COMPOUND I administered at 20 mg daily (after a loading dose of
   60 mg daily for 6 days), or to COMPOUND I administered at 5 mg daily (after a loading dose of
   15 mg daily for 6 days).
                                                      8

      WO 2014/055588                                                         PCT/US2013/062964
Study visits occurred at screening, baseline (within four weeks after screening), then at four
weeks, 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18 months, with a safety follow-up visit at 21 months. Visits included
clinical and safety evaluations, blood draw for plasma biomarker and pharmacokinetic analysis,
and pill counts to assess compliance. Primary (clinical) outcome measures were obtained at
baseline and at subsequent three monthly visits, and secondary clinical outcome measures at
baseline and at six monthly intervals. Brain MRIs were obtained at baseline, 12 and 18 months.
Lumbar punctures for CSF biomarkers were performed at baseline and 12 months on a subgroup
of subjects.
Key eligibility criteria included subjects who were aged 50 or older; had a diagnosis of probable
Alzheimer's disease; had a Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score between 14 and 26;
and were in good general health. Subjects could have no evidence of stroke contributing to
dementia. Further inclusion criteria included treatment with a stable dose of an
acetylcholinesterase inhibitor and/or memantine for at least four months prior to randomization,
and an available caregiver to act as informant and supervise study medications. Exclusion
criteria included uncontrolled hypertension, unstable cardiac or pulmonary disease, diabetes,
weight less than 40 kg or greater than 100 kg within the past two years, chronic use of non
steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or immunosuppressive agents, drugs that increase QTc or
inhibit CYP 34A, markedly abnormal ECG or QTc (QTcB or QTcF) or any screening 12-lead
ECG greater than 450 msec for females or greater than 430 msec for males. There also could be
no history of treatment for cancer within the past five years, drug or alcohol abuse, or major
psychiatric illness. Women could not be of child-bearing potential. Subjects could not have
taken another investigational drug for three months before screening.
The primary efficacy measure was the 70-point ADAS-cog. The ADAS-cog is used to assess the
severity of selected areas of cognitive impairment (memory, language, orientation, reason and
praxis). Scores range from 0 to 70 with lower scores indicating lesser severity and a score of 70
representing the worst cognitive impairment. Its use in assessing and following changes in
patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease has been extensively validated. Primary
safety measures included reports of adverse events, blood and urine tests, and ECG measures.
Secondary clinical measures included Clinical Dementia Rating Sum of Boxes (CDR-sb);
                                                  9

     WO 2014/055588                                                          PCT/US2013/062964
Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study Activities of Daily Living Scale (ADCS-ADL);
Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI); and MMSE. Subjects also received a neuropsychological test
battery, including: Digit Symbol Substitution Test, Forward and Backward Digit Span Test,
Controlled Oral Word Association Test, Stroop Color Word interference Test, and Trail-Making
Test (Parts A and B). Caregivers received a Quality of Life questionnaire and a Resource
Utilization Schedule.
A brain MRI was performed at baseline and 12 months, on 1.5T scanners, using standardized
acquisition parameters based on those in the ADNI study, and used for volumetric analysis.
Cerebrospinal fluid was obtained by lumbar puncture, at baseline and after 12 months, for
analysis of Alzheimer's disease-related biomarkers. Apolipoprotein E (APO-E) genotyping was
performed and DNA was banked for pharmacogenomic studies on subjects who consented.
Plasma was assayed for study drug levels at each visit and was stored for biomarker studies.
Further, complete physical and neurological examinations were performed at baseline, and vital
signs and brief examinations at subsequent visits. Clinical laboratory studies and urinalysis were
performed at every visit. Electrocardiograms (ECGs) were obtained at all visits and centrally
read (QTc analysis by a cardiologist). Adverse events were classified according to severity and
causality by site investigators and reported to the ADCS and sponsors using standard methods.
If subjects decided to withdraw from the study or were discontinued by site investigators, an
early termination visit was scheduled within 14 days, including clinical and safety evaluations
similar to the baseline visit.
                                              Definitions
Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the broad scope of the
invention are approximations, the numerical values set forth in the specific examples are reported
as precisely as possible. Any numerical value, however, inherently contains certain errors
necessarily resulting from the standard deviation found in their respective testing measurements.
By percent by weight it is meant that a particular weight of one ingredient in a composition is
divided by the total weight of all of the ingredients in that composition. Percent by weight may
                                                  10

       WO 2014/055588                                                            PCT/US2013/062964
be used interchangeably and means approximately the same as weight/weight percent or %
(weight/weight) or percent by mass or mass percent.
It is further noted that, as used in this specification, the singular forms "a," "an," and "the"
include plural referents unless expressly and unequivocally limited to one referent.
In another embodiment, the dosage or blood level of COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof and administration may be sufficient for inhibition of the biological
function of RAGE at a sufficient level for sufficient time to treat Alzheimer's disease.
COMPOUND I refers to [3 -(4- {2-butyl- 1-[4-(4-chloro-phenoxy)-phenyl] -1H-imidazol-4-yl}
phenoxy)-propyl]-diethyl amine. COMPOUND I is the subject matter of U.S. Patent Nos.
7,361,678 and 7,884,219.
Various salts and isomers of COMPOUND I can be used. The term "salts" can include acid
addition salts or addition salts of free bases. Examples of acids which may be employed to form
pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts include inorganic acids such as hydrochloric,
sulfuric, or phosphoric acid, and organic acids such as acetic, maleic, succinic, or citric acid, etc.
All of these salts (or other similar salts) may be prepared by conventional means. The nature of
the salt is not critical, provided that it is non-toxic and does not substantially interfere with the
desired pharmacological activity. A preferred salt for the method of the present invention is the
hydrochloride salt.
The phrase "pharmaceutically acceptable", as used in connection with compositions of the
invention, refers to molecular entities and other ingredients of such compositions that are
physiologically tolerable and do not typically produce untoward reactions (toxicity or side
effects) when administered to a mammal (e.g., human). Preferably, as used herein, the term
"pharmaceutically acceptable" means approved by a regulatory agency of the Federal or a state
government or listed in the U.S. Pharmacopeia or other generally recognized pharmacopeia for
use in mammals, and more particularly in humans. Berge, et al. Journal of Pharmaceutical
Science, Vol. 66(1), pp. 1-19 (1977).
                                                     11

      WO 2014/055588                                                         PCT/US2013/062964
The term "carrier" applied to pharmaceutical compositions of the invention refers to a diluent,
excipient, or vehicle with which an active compound (e.g., an 1-aminocyclohexane derivative) is
administered. Such pharmaceutical carriers can be sterile liquids, such as water, saline solutions,
aqueous dextrose solutions, aqueous glycerol solutions, and oils, including those of petroleum,
animal, vegetable or synthetic origin, such as peanut oil, soybean oil, mineral oil, sesame oil and
the like. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers are described in "Remington's Pharmaceutical
Sciences" by E. W. Martin,    1 8 th Edition.
The term "subject" or "subject in need thereof' as used herein refers to a mammal. In an
embodiment, the term refers to humans diagnosed with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease.
"Mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease" can be diagnostically assessed as "probable
Alzheimer's" according to the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders
and Stroke/the Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Associations (NINCDS-ADRDA)
criteria.
The diagnosis of "mild-to-moderate" is well within the purview of the ordinary skilled physician
using standard criteria, including the clinical assessment scales disclosed above and below. By
way of example, the following numerical ranges on the standardized Mini-Mental State
Examination (MMSE; 0-30 scale) have been used to diagnose mild-to-moderate, moderate, and
moderate-to-severe Alzheimer's.
Mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease has been diagnosed as determined by MMSE scores of 10
to 22 in the present study, and also from 10-26 in studies using other therapeutics for treating
mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's (e.g., donepezil). Severe Alzheimer's has been diagnosed in
subjects having MMSE scores of less than 10.
Accordingly, a diagnosis of "mild" Alzheimer's disease could be made for subjects having the
higher scores within the above-described ranges, e.g., about 21 to 26 on the MMSE.
                                                  12

      WO 2014/055588                                                            PCT/US2013/062964
It should be noted that the MMSE scale is not the only way to diagnose mild Alzheimer's
disease, but represents a convenience. Nor should the claims be construed as requiring the step of
"grading" a subject on the MMSE scale to be performed. In an embodiment, a subject having
mild Alzheimer's disease is a patient who would score 21 or higher if the patient were scored
according to MMSE scale. If a different scale were to be used, "mild" Alzheimer's disease would
be defined as a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease or probable Alzheimer's disease which is made
based on a score that clearly does not overlap with the score range for moderate-to-severe
Alzheimer's disease established for the same scale.
In an embodiment, mild Alzheimer's disease is defined as individuals having an ADAS-cog
score of less than or equal to 23.
The term "intent to treat principle" refers to the principle that asserts that the effect of a treatment
policy can be best assessed by evaluating on the basis of the intention to treat a subject (i.e. the
planned treatment regimen) rather than the actual treatment given. It has the consequence that
subjects allocated to a treatment group should be followed up, assessed and analyzed as members
of that group irrespective of their compliance to the planned course of treatment. It is noted that
the ITT principle refers to a methodology (how), not a population of analysis (who). It is also
noted that the ITT analyses are generally accepted as the most valid analyses in that they are
supported by randomization, and exclusion of a subject based on behavior characteristics of the
subject (e.g., compliance with trial medication) is not consistent with the ITT principle because it
is not supported by randomization. It is also noted that subgroup analyses based on population
characteristics (e.g., severity of AD at baseline) are supported by randomization and considered
valid.
The term "Full Analysis Set (FAS)" refers to the set of subjects that is as close as possible to the
ideal implied by the intention-to-treat principle. It is derived from the set of all randomized
subjects by minimal and justified elimination of subjects. The FAS includes all subjects who
receive at least one dose of trial medication and have at least one post-baseline assessment. The
dataset for the FAS includes all collected data whether on treatment or off-treatment (it is
irrelevant to treatment compliance). It is noted that observations of subjects after treatment has
                                                   13

      WO 2014/055588                                                           PCT/US2013/062964
discontinued are still included in a pure ITT analysis recognizing that the treatment that was
received, particularly with a compound with a long half-life, affects assessments collected after
treatment, regardless of whether or not the subject is still taking active treatment.
The term "on treatment" refers to data collected within 28 days of last dose. All data collected
between the first dose of trial medication and the last dose of trial medication and all data
collected within 28 days of the last dose of trial medication are considered to be on-treatment."
The term "off treatment" refers to data collection 29 days or later following the final dose of trial
medication.
The term "trial medication" refers to all blinded medication within a clinical trial whether active
or placebo.
The term "post baseline" refers to all data collected after baseline regardless of whether it is on
treatment or off treatment.
The term "Per Protocol Set (Valid Cases, Efficacy Sample, Evaluable Subjects Sample)" or "per
treatment set" refers to the set of data generated by the subset of subjects who complied with the
protocol sufficiently to ensure that these data would be likely to exhibit the effects of treatment,
according to the underlying scientific model. Compliance covers such considerations as exposure
to treatment, availability of measurements and absence of major protocol violations. It is noted
that a per-treatment analysis excludes subjects based on behavior characteristics and is not
generally supported by randomization. Such analyses can be useful, but are not generally as valid
as ITT analyses.
The term "Statistical Analysis Plan (SAP)" refers to a document that contains the analyses
planned in advance of unblinding to protect alpha. It is a more technical and detailed elaboration
of the principal features of the analysis described in the protocol, and includes detailed
procedures for executing the statistical analysis of the primary and secondary variables and other
data. The SAP is generally signed prior to unblinding, and modifications to the SAP after
                                                   14

      WO 2014/055588                                                               PCT/US2013/062964
unblinding, such as unplanned analyses based on post-hoc behavior of a subject (e.g., treatment
compliance).
The term "dropout" refers to a subject in a clinical trial who for any reason fails to continue in
the trial until the last visit required of him/her by the study protocol. In particular, in these
studies, a subject is a dropout when the subject's last visit occurred prior to Month 18.
The term "Treatment Effect" refers an effect attributed to a treatment in a clinical trial. In most
clinical trials the treatment effect of interest is a comparison (or contrast) of two or more
treatments. It is noted that the treatment effect does not include the placebo effect. Differences
between randomized active treatment groups and placebo groups are generally recognized as
treatment effects in controlled clinical trials.
The term "treatment-emergent" refers to an observation or event that emerges during treatment
having been absent pre-treatment, or worsens relative to the pre-treatment state.
The term "treatment-emergent adverse event" refers to any untoward event that is observed or
reported after the first dose of trial medication that was not present prior to the first dose of trial
medication or any untoward event that represents the exacerbation of a pre-existing condition.
Exacerbation includes any increase in severity or frequency.
The term "Generalisability, Generalisation" refers to the extent to which the findings of a clinical
trial can be reliably extrapolated from the subjects who participated in the trial to a broader
patient population and a broader range of clinical settings.
The term "treatment" as used herein, refers to the full spectrum of treatments for a given
condition or disorder from which a subject is suffering, including alleviation or amelioration of
one or more of the symptoms resulting from that disorder, to the delaying of the onset or
progression of the disorder.
The term "treat" is used herein to mean to relieve or alleviate at least one symptom of a disease
in a subject. For example, the term "treat" may mean to relieve or alleviate cognitive impairment
                                                     15

      WO 2014/055588                                                           PCT/US2013/062964
(such as impairment of memory and/or orientation) or impairment of global functioning
(activities of daily living) and/or slow down or reverse the progressive deterioration in ADL or
cognitive impairment in individuals having mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease.
Within the meaning of the present invention, the term "treat" may also mean delay of the
progression of a disease in the patients presenting with additional symptoms associated with
Alzheimer's disease, such as but not limited to those identified using one or more of the ADAS
cog, the MMSE, the ADCS-ADL criteria, the CDR-sb, or the NPI total criteria, defined above.
The term "delay the progression" is used herein to mean slower than expected development or
continuance or aggravation of a disease in a subject compared to an untreated subject. This can
be determined for Alzheimer's disease, for example, by obtaining slower than expected
deterioration in measures such as cognitive performance in treated patients, compared with those
measures in untreated patients (who represent the expected progression of the disease). Cognitive
performance can be measured using, e.g., the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale (ADAS
cog), or the Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study-Activities of Daily Living (ADCS-ADL).
For example, the typical disease progression in subjects with mild Alzheimer's disease is an
increase of about 1 to about 3 points on the ADAS-cog over a time period of about 6 months.
However, disease progression is highly individualized, and also depends on factors such as the
initial condition of the patient.
In a specific embodiment, the term "treat" may also mean to increase the glucose metabolic rate,
or to inhibit further reduction in the metabolic rate in patients with mild-to-moderate
Alzheimer's disease, which is associated with regression. This can also be assessed by
comparing the glucose metabolism in treated patients with that in untreated patients. A reduction
in the decrease of glucose metabolism in the treated patients, or a slower than expected decrease,
or stability of glucose metabolism in treated patients, compared with untreated patients, is
indicative of a benefit accompanying the treatment.
In another specific embodiment, the term "treat" may also mean to improve symptoms associated
with insomnia or decrease sleep onset latency in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's
disease, which is associated with regression.
                                                  16

     WO 2014/055588                                                            PCT/US2013/062964
The term "therapeutically effective amount" is used herein to mean an amount or dose of
COMPOUND I that is effective to ameliorate or delay a symptom, behavior or event associated
with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease. Alternatively, a therapeutically effective amount is
sufficient to cause an improvement in a clinically significant condition or parameter (according
to the attending physician employing one or more of the foregoing sets of criteria) associated
with Alzheimer's disease in an individual in need thereof. In still another embodiment, a
therapeutically effective amount is used herein to denote the amount of COMPOUND I or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof that will elicit the therapeutic response of a subject that
is being sought. In an embodiment, the therapeutic response may be antagonizing RAGE.
A "responder" is defined as a patient who has not progressed and for whom the change from
baseline to 18 months in ADAS-cog is less than or equal to 7.
The terms "about" and "approximately" shall generally mean an acceptable degree of error or
variation for the quantity measured given the nature or precision of the measurements. Typically,
degrees of error or variation are within 20 percent (%), preferably within 10%, and more
preferably within 5% of a given value or range of values. Numerical quantities given herein are
approximate unless stated otherwise, meaning that the term "about" or "approximately" can be
inferred when not expressly stated.
                              Formulation, Dosage, and Administration
The invention further provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of
COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable
carrier. The term "pharmaceutical composition" is used herein to denote a composition that may
be administered to a mammalian host, e.g., orally, topically, parenterally, by inhalation spray, or
rectally, in unit dosage formulations containing conventional non-toxic carriers, diluents,
adjuvants, vehicles and the like. The term "parenteral" as used herein, includes subcutaneous
injections, intravenous, intramuscular, intraci sternal injection, or by infusion techniques.
                                                  17

      WO 2014/055588                                                          PCT/US2013/062964
The pharmaceutical compositions containing a compound of the invention may be in a form
suitable for oral use, for example, as tablets, troches, lozenges, aqueous, or oily suspensions,
dispersible powders or granules, emulsions, hard or soft capsules, or syrups or elixirs.
Compositions intended for oral use may be prepared according to any known method, and such
compositions may contain one or more agents selected from the group consisting of sweetening
agents, flavoring agents, coloring agents, and preserving agents in order to provide
pharmaceutically elegant and palatable preparations. Tablets may contain the active ingredient in
admixture with non-toxic pharmaceutically-acceptable excipients which are suitable for the
manufacture of tablets. These excipients may be for example, inert diluents, such as calcium
carbonate, sodium carbonate, lactose, calcium phosphate or sodium phosphate; granulating and
disintegrating agents, for example corn starch or alginic acid; binding agents, for example,
starch, gelatin or acacia; and lubricating agents, for example magnesium stearate, stearic acid or
talc. The tablets may be uncoated or they may be coated by known techniques to delay
disintegration and absorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action
over a longer period. For example, a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or
glyceryl distearate may be employed. They may also be coated by the techniques described in
U.S. Patent Nos. 4,356,108; and 4,265,874, to form osmotic therapeutic tablets for controlled
release.
Formulations for oral use may also be presented as hard gelatin capsules where the active
ingredient is mixed with an inert solid diluent, for example, calcium carbonate, calcium
phosphate or kaolin, or a soft gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredient is mixed with water
or an oil medium, for example peanut oil, liquid paraffin, or olive oil.
Aqueous suspensions may contain the active compounds in admixture with excipients suitable
for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Such excipients are suspending agents, for example
sodium carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, sodium
alginate, polyvinylpyrrolidone, gum tragacanth and gum acacia; dispersing or wetting agents
may be a naturally-occurring phosphatide such as lecithin, or condensation products of an
alkylene oxide with fatty acids, for example polyoxyethylene stearate, or condensation products
of ethylene oxide with long chain aliphatic alcohols, for example, heptadecaethyl-eneoxycetanol,
or condensation products of ethylene oxide with partial esters derived from fatty acids and a
                                                   18

     WO 2014/055588                                                           PCT/US2013/062964
hexitol such as polyoxyethylene sorbitol monooleate, or condensation products of ethylene oxide
with partial esters derived from fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides, for example polyethylene
sorbitan monooleate. The aqueous suspensions may also contain one or more coloring agents,
one or more flavoring agents, and one or more sweetening agents, such as sucrose or saccharin.
Oily suspensions may be formulated by suspending the active ingredient in a vegetable oil, for
example arachis oil, olive oil, sesame oil or coconut oil, or in a mineral oil such as a liquid
paraffin. The oily suspensions may contain a thickening agent, for example beeswax, hard
paraffin or cetyl alcohol. Sweetening agents such as those set forth above, and flavoring agents
may be added to provide a palatable oral preparation. These compositions may be preserved by
the addition of an anti-oxidant such as ascorbic acid.
Dispersible powders and granules suitable for preparation of an aqueous suspension by the
addition of water provide the active compound in admixture with a dispersing or wetting agent,
suspending agent and one or more preservatives. Suitable dispersing or wetting agents and
suspending agents are exemplified by those already mentioned above. Additional excipients, for
example, sweetening, flavoring, and coloring agents may also be present.
The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may also be in the form of oil-in-water
emulsions. The oily phase may be a vegetable oil, for example, olive oil or arachis oil, or a
mineral oil, for example a liquid paraffin, or a mixture thereof. Suitable emulsifying agents may
be naturally-occurring gums, for example gum acacia or gum tragacanth, naturally-occurring
phosphatides, for example soy bean, lecithin, and esters or partial esters derived from fatty acids
and hexitol anhydrides, for example sorbitan monooleate, and condensation products of said
partial esters with ethylene oxide, for example polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate. The
emulsions may also contain sweetening and flavoring agents.
Syrups and elixirs may be formulated with sweetening agents, for example glycerol, propylene
glycol, sorbitol or sucrose. Such formulations may also contain a demulcent, a preservative and
flavoring and coloring agents. The pharmaceutical compositions may be in the form of a sterile
injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspension. This suspension may be formulated according to
the known methods using suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents described
                                                  19

     WO 2014/055588                                                           PCT/US2013/062964
above. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in
a non-toxic parenterally-acceptable diluent or solvent, for example as a solution in 1 ,3
butanediol . Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water,
Ringer's solution, and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition, sterile, fixed oils are
conveniently employed as solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose, any bland fixed oil
may be employed using synthetic mono- or diglycerides. In addition, fatty acids such as oleic
acid find use in the preparation of injectables.
The compositions may also be in the form of suppositories for rectal administration of the
compounds of the invention. These compositions can be prepared by mixing the drug with a
suitable non-irritating excipient which is solid at ordinary temperatures but liquid at the rectal
temperature and will thus melt in the rectum to release the drug. Such materials include cocoa
butter and polyethylene glycols, for example.
For topical use, creams, ointments, jellies, solutions or suspensions, lotions, eye ointments and
eye or ear drops, impregnated dressings and aerosols etc., containing the compounds of the
invention are contemplated. These topical formulations may contain appropriate conventional
additives such as preservatives, solvents to assist drug penetration and emollients in ointments
and creams. The formulations may also contain compatible conventional carriers, such as cream
or ointment bases and ethanol or oleyl alcohol for lotions. Such carriers may be present as from
about .1 % up to about 99% of the formulation. More usually they will form up to about 80% of
the formulation. For the purpose of this application, topical applications shall include mouth
washes and gargles.
For administration by inhalation the compounds according to the invention are conveniently
delivered in the form of an aerosol spray presentation from pressurized packs or a nebulizer, with
the use of a suitable propellant, e.g. dichlorodifluoromethane, trichlorofluoromethane,
dichlorotetrafluoroethane, tetrafluoroethane, heptafluoropropane, carbon dioxide or other
suitable gas.
In the case of a pressurized aerosol the dosage unit may be determined by providing a valve to
deliver a metered amount. Capsules and cartridges of e.g. gelatin for use in an inhaler or
                                                   20

     WO 2014/055588                                                       PCT/US2013/062964
insufflator may be formulated containing a powder mix of a compound of the invention and a
suitable powder base such as lactose or starch.
The equipment and parameters listed in the following manufacturing description are
representative of the equipment and parameters that may be used to prepare a pharmaceutical
formulation. The actual equipment and parameters used in the manufacture of a pharmaceutical
formulation may vary.
The compound (in free base form) may be sifted and weighed out with an approximately equal
amount of microcrystalline cellulose. The mixture may be geometrically diluted with
microcrystalline cellulose. The mixture, any remaining microcrystalline cellulose, lactose
monohydrate, croscarmellose sodium, colloidal silicon dioxide, and Starch 1500 may be added
into a blender and mixed. A small portion of the mixture may be removed, combined with
magnesium stearate, and returned to the blender and mixed. The resulting mixed may be
encapsulated and administered. The weight percent of the compound, microcrystalline cellulose,
and/or lactose monohydrate may be adjusted to prepare dosages with higher or lower amounts of
the compound. For example, Formulation A in the table below may be used to prepare a capsule
formulation of 5 mg per dose, and Formula B may be used to prepare a capsule formulation of 20
mg per dose.
                     Name of Ingredients        Formulation   Formulation B
                                                  A (wt%)        (wt%)
                     Compound (free base)                 2.4            9.5
                     Microcrystalline
                     Cellulose                          54.2            50.6
                     Lactose Monohydrate                27.9            24.4
                     Pregelatinized Starch                8.0            8.0
                     Croscarmellose Sodium                6.4            6.4
                     Colloidal Silicon
                     Dioxide                              0.4            0.4
                     Magnesium Sterarate                  0.8            0.8
                                                 21

     WO 2014/055588                                                          PCT/US2013/062964
In one embodiment, a method of treating Alzheimer's disease comprises administering to a
subject in need thereof an amount less than 20 mg per day of COMPOUND I or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof may be administered in a dose ranging from about 1 mg per day to less than 20 mg per
day. In some embodiments, the dose is from about 1 mg per day to about 19 mg per day, or from
about 1 mg per day to about 18 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 17 mg per day,
or from about 1 mg per day to about 16 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 15 mg
per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 14 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about
13 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 12 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day
to about 11 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 10 mg per day, or from about 1 mg
per day to about 9 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 8 mg per day, or from about
1 mg per day to about 7 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 6 mg per day, or from
about 1 mg per day to about 5 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 4 mg per day, or
from about 1 mg per day to about 3 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 2 mg per
day. In other embodiments, the dose is about 5 mg per day or about 4 mg per day or about 3 mg
per day or about 2 mg per day.
In some embodiments, the serum blood concentration of COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof in a subject is between about 1 ng/ml to about 65 ng/ml, or between about
1 ng/ml to about 60 ng/ml, or between about 1 ng/ml to about 55 ng/ml, or between about 1
ng/ml to about 50 ng/ml, or between about 1 ng/ml to about 45 ng/ml, or between about 1 ng/ml
to about 40 ng/ml, or between about 1 ng/ml to about 35 ng/ml, or between about 1 ng/ml to
about 30 ng/ml, or between about 1 ng/ml to about 25 ng/ml, or between about 1 ng/ml to about
20 ng/ml, or between about 1 ng/ml to about 15 ng/ml, or between about 1 ng/ml to about 10
ng/ml. In other embodiments, the serum blood concentration in the subject is between 8 to about
15 ng/ml. In still other embodiments, the serum blood concentration in the subject is about 12.5
ng/ml.
In another embodiment, the method of the treatment of Alzheimer's disease is determined by the
improvement, or no deterioration, or a reduction in the rate of deterioration in at least one of the
assessments selected from the group consisting of Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale
                                                 22

      WO 2014/055588                                                         PCT/US2013/062964
cognitive subscale (ADAS-cog), the Clinical Dementia Rating Sum of Boxes (CDR-sb), the
Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study Activities of Daily Living Scale (ADCS-ADL), the
Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI), and the Mini-Mental State Evaluation (MMSE). In some
embodiments, the treatment results in a reduction in the rate of deterioration in ADAS-cog
scores. In other embodiments, the treatment results in a median reduction in the rate of
deterioration of ADAS-cog scores of two to five points.
In other embodiments, a method of treating Alzheimer's disease comprises administering to a
subject in need thereof an amount of COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof between 1 mg/5 kg of the subject's body weight per day and 1 mg/50 kg of the subject's
body weight per day. The administration of COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof may be administered in an amount of about 1 mg/10 kg per day, or 1 mg/15 kg per
day, or 1 mg/20 kg per day, or 1 mg/25 kg per day, or 1 mg/30 kg per day, or 1 mg/35 kg per
day, or 1 mg/40 kg per day, or 1 mg/45 kg per day. In yet other embodiments, COMPOUND I
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered in an amount of 1 mg/20 kg per
day. In yet other embodiments, COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is
administered in an amount between about 0.2 mg/kg per day and 0.02 mg/kg per day. In yet
other embodiments, COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered
in an amount between about 0.1 mg/kg per day, or about 0.09 mg/kg per day, or about 0.08
mg/kg per day, or about 0.07 mg/kg per day, or about 0.06 mg/kg per day, or about 0.05 mg/kg
per day, or about 0.04 mg/kg per day, or about 0.03 mg/kg per day.
In some embodiments, a method is provided to inhibit the interaction of the receptor for
advanced glycation end products (RAGE) with a RAGE ligand in subjects with mild-to-moderate
Alzheimer's disease, by administering to a subject in need thereof an amount less than 20 mg per
day of COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In an embodiment, the
RAGE ligand may be one of soluble P-amyloid, insoluble P-amyloid, s100b, calgranulin, EN
RAGE, HMGB1 (high mobility group box 1), aphoterin, or carboxymethyllysine. COMPOUND
I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may be administered in a dose ranging from about
1 mg per day to less than 20 mg per day. In some embodiments, the dose is from about 1 mg per
day to about 19 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 18 mg per day, or from about 1
                                                 23

     WO 2014/055588                                                          PCT/US2013/062964
mg per day to about 17 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 16 mg per day, or from
about 1 mg per day to about 15 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 14 mg per day,
or from about 1 mg per day to about 13 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 12 mg
per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 11 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about
10 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 9 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to
about 8 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 7 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per
day to about 6 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 5 mg per day, or from about 1
mg per day to about 4 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 3 mg per day, or from
about 1 mg per day to about 2 mg per day. In other embodiments, the dose is about 5 mg per day
or about 4 mg per day or about 3 mg per day or about 2 mg per day.
In an embodiment, the administration of COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof treats mild Alzheimer's disease. In some embodiments, mild Alzheimer's disease may
be defined as a subject that presents with an ADAS-cog score of less than or equal to23.
In other embodiments, treatment with COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof is used to treat diabetes by administering to a subject in need thereof an amount less than
20 mg per day. In other embodiments, COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof is administered in a dose from about 1 to about 20 mg per day. COMPOUND I or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may be administered in a dose ranging from about 1 mg
per day to less than 20 mg per day. In some embodiments, the dose is from about 1 mg per day
to about 19 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 18 mg per day, or from about 1 mg
per day to about 17 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 16 mg per day, or from
about 1 mg per day to about 15 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 14 mg per day,
or from about 1 mg per day to about 13 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 12 mg
per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 11 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about
10 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 9 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to
about 8 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 7 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per
day to about 6 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 5 mg per day, or from about 1
mg per day to about 4 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 3 mg per day, or from
about 1 mg per day to about 2 mg per day. In other embodiments, the dose is about 5 mg per day
                                                  24

      WO 2014/055588                                                          PCT/US2013/062964
or about 4 mg per day or about 3 mg per day or about 2 mg per day. In still other embodiments,
the method includes treating diabetes in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease.
In some embodiments, the administration of COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof may reduce the levels of HbA1C in a subject in need thereof. In other embodiments,
the administration of COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may reduce
the amount of HbA1C in a subject in need thereof by at least 0.1 of a percentage point, or 0.2 of
a percentage point, or 0.3 of a percentage point, or 0.4 of a percentage point, or 0.5 of a
percentage point, or 0.6 of a percentage point, or 0.7 of a percentage point, or 0.8 of a percentage
point, or 0.9 of a percentage point, or one percentage point. In still other embodiments, the
administration of COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may reduce the
level of HbA1C in a subject in need thereof to less than 7%. In other embodiments, the level of
HbA1C may be reduced to a level between 5 and 6.5 %.
In some embodiments, the present invention provides a method for inhibiting the reduction of
glucose metabolism associated with the regression of subjects with mild-to-moderate
Alzheimer's disease by administering to a subject in need thereof an amount less than 20 mg per
day of COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. COMPOUND I may be
administered in a dose ranging from about 1 mg per day to less than 20 mg per day. In some
embodiments, the dose is from about 1 mg per day to about 19 mg per day, or from about 1 mg
per day to about 18 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 17 mg per day, or from
about 1 mg per day to about 16 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 15 mg per day,
or from about 1 mg per day to about 14 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 13 mg
per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 12 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about
11 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 10 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day
to about 9 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 8 mg per day, or from about 1 mg
per day to about 7 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 6 mg per day, or from about
1 mg per day to about 5 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 4 mg per day, or from
about 1 mg per day to about 3 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 2 mg per day.
                                                 25

      WO 2014/055588                                                          PCT/US2013/062964
In other embodiments, the dose is about 5 mg per day or about 4 mg per day or about 3 mg per
day or about 2 mg per day. In other embodiments, the administration of COMPOUND I or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is used to lower blood glucose levels. In still other
embodiments, the subject is suffering from mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease. In other
embodiments, a subject's blood glucose levels are lowered by at least 5 mg/dl, or at least 10
mg/dl, or at least 15 mg/dl, or at least 20 mg/dl or between 5 mg/dl to 20 mg/dl. In other
embodiments, the subject's naYve glucose level is greater than 100 ng/dl.
In other embodiments, the administration of COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof is used to treat insomnia by the administration to a subject in need thereof of an
amount less than 20 mg per day of COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
COMPOUND I may be administered in a dose ranging from about 1 mg per day to less than 20
mg per day. In some embodiments, the dose is from about 1 mg per day to about 19 mg per day,
or from about 1 mg per day to about 18 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 17 mg
per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 16 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about
15 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 14 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day
to about 13 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 12 mg per day, or from about 1 mg
per day to about 11 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 10 mg per day, or from
about 1 mg per day to about 9 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 8 mg per day, or
from about 1 mg per day to about 7 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 6 mg per
day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 5 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 4
mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 3 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to
about 2 mg per day. In other embodiments, the dose is about 5 mg per day or about 4 mg per day
or about 3 mg per day or about 2 mg per day. In other embodiments, the subject with from
insomnia suffers from mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease. In other embodiments, the
administration of COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is used to
decrease sleep onset latency. In still other embodiments, the subject with sleep onset latency
also has mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease. In another embodiment, sleep onset latency is
decrease by 1-5 minutes or by 5-10 minutes.
In some embodiments, treatment with COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof reduces the frequency of adverse events in a subject with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's
                                                  26

      WO 2014/055588                                                       PCT/US2013/062964
disease. In some embodiments, the adverse event may include falling, dizziness, confusional
state, and somnolence. In other embodiments, the adverse events may be psychiatric adverse
events. Psychiatric adverse events may include agitation, depression, anxiety, aggression, and
restlessness. COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may be administered
in a dose ranging from about 1 mg per day to less than 20 mg per day. In some embodiments,
the dose is from about 1 mg per day to about 19 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about
18 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 17 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day
to about 16 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 15 mg per day, or from about 1 mg
per day to about 14 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 13 mg per day, or from
about 1 mg per day to about 12 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 11 mg per day,
or from about 1 mg per day to about 10 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 9 mg
per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 8 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about
7 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 6 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to
about 5 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 4 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per
day to about 3 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 2 mg per day. In other
embodiments, the dose is about 5 mg per day or about 4 mg per day or about 3 mg per day or
about 2 mg per day.
In any of the preceding embodiments, the administration of COMPOUND I or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may additionally include treatment with an
acetylcholinesterase inhibitor (AChEI). The AChEI may include donepezil hydrochloride,
galantamine hydrochloride, rivastigmine tartrate, or tacrine hydrochloride. In still other
embodiments, the administration of COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof
may additionally include treatment with memantine. In some embodiments, the subjects may
have been receiving treatment with an AChEI or memantine for at least four months prior to the
administration of COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
Another embodiment of the present invention includes a pharmaceutical composition including
between 1 mg and 20 mg of COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and an
AChEI. In other embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition may include between 1 mg and
20 mg of COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and memantine. The
                                               27

      WO 2014/055588                                                        PCT/US2013/062964
AChEI may include donepezil hydrochloride, galantamine hydrochloride, rivastigmine tartrate,
or tacrine hydrochloride. In some embodiments, the AChEI is donepezil hydrochloride present
between 5 mg and 23 mg. In other embodiments, the AChEI is galantamine hydrochloride
present between 16 mg and 24 mg. In yet other embodiments, the AChEI is rivastigmine tartrate
present between 6 mg and 12 mg. In still other embodiments, the AChEI is tacrine
hydrochloride present at 40 mg. In still other embodiments, memantine is present between 5 mg
and 20 mg. The pharmaceutical composition may include COMPOUND I from about 1 mg per
day to about 19 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 18 mg per day, or from about 1
mg per day to about 17 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 16 mg per day, or from
about 1 mg per day to about 15 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 14 mg per day,
or from about 1 mg per day to about 13 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 12 mg
per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 11 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about
10 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 9 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to
about 8 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 7 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per
day to about 6 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 5 mg per day, or from about 1
mg per day to about 4 mg per day, or from about 1 mg per day to about 3 mg per day, or from
about 1 mg per day to about 2 mg per day.
In other embodiments, treatment with COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof reduces the amount of soluble AP found in the cerebral spinal fluid (CSF). In some
embodiments, the soluble form of AP is isoform 1-40. In other embodiments, the soluble form
of AP is isoform 1-42. In still other embodiments, the soluble form of AP is isoform 1-38. In
still other embodiment, treatment with COMPOUND I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof alters the ratio between the amounts of isoform 1-40 to isoform 1-42 in the CSF.
In some embodiments, an observation was that when subjects in the 20-mg-dose group were
discontinued from treatment, their ADAS-cog scores showed improvement. It is well known that
Alzheimer's disease is a degenerative disease, and patients do not spontaneously remit.
Exploratory analyses confirmed that subjects treated with 20 mg of COMPOUND I showed
changes from baseline at endpoint visits (after treatment was stopped) that were superior to
changes from baseline in the placebo group. This finding is consistent with the hypothesis that
                                                 28

     WO 2014/055588                                                           PCT/US2013/062964
COMPOUND I had beneficial effects on the underlying disease state of the patients. The
symptoms associated with higher concentrations of COMPOUND I, may have masked the
improvement, and when the drug concentrations reduced to more beneficial ranges, the
beneficial effects of the treatment could emerge.
Examples
                                              Example 1
  A Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Randomized, Multicenter Study Evaluating the Efficacy
      and Safety of Eighteen Months of Treatment with COMPOUND I in Participants with
                               Mild-to-Moderate Alzheimer's Disease
The study was designed with three arms: 20 mg/day after a loading dose of 60 mg/day for 6
days; 5 mg/day after a loading dose of 15 mg/day for 6 days, and placebo. The study randomized
N=399 patients with mild-moderate Alzheimer's disease in balanced ratios (1:1:1). The 20-mg
dose group was terminated at an interim analysis. Subsequently, the study was terminated
prematurely based on a futility analysis that was planned in the original protocol.
Statistical analysis of the study included analyses that were planned in the protocol and statistical
analysis plan and also exploratory and investigative analyses. Subsequent to a patient's
termination of study treatment, the patient was instructed to continue attending study visits, and
data continued to be collected. Statistical analysis included datasets that included all available
data (on-treatment and off-treatment) and on-treatment data, where "on-treatment" was defined
as within 28 days of the date of last dose. Off-treatment data reflect the treatment that was given
according to the randomization schedule; therefore, on-treatment and off-treatment analyses that
are based on the randomized population and follow the intent-to-treat principles are valid.
Statistical analysis compared the 5-mg-dose group (n= 131; mean age=74 yr; 530% female) with
the placebo group (n=132; mean age 72 yr; 57% female). Dropout rates in the incomplete study
were 48% and 52% for 5 mg COMPOUND I and placebo, respectively. Performing a standard
                                                  29

     WO 2014/055588                                                          PCT/US2013/062964
intent-to-treat analysis of covariance (adjusting for baseline) on change from baseline to endpoint
in ADAS-cog using last-observation-carried-forward on all randomized patients with on
treatment data resulted in least-squares means of 6.4 and 8.7 (nominal p=0.03). Actual mean
changes from baseline were 6.59 (SD=7.91) and 9.00 (SD=9.21) for groups dosed with 5 mg
COMPOUND I and placebo, respectively. The unadjusted analysis likewise yielded nominal
p=0.03 favoring treatment with 5 mg COMPOUND I.
Additional analysis on observed cases by visit, on percent change from baseline in ADAS-cog,
and proportion of patients showing an increase in ADAS-cog of 7 or more points (responder
analysis) likewise had nominal p-values favoring 5-mg COMPOUND I over placebo at the trend
level or better.
The following table summarizes the planned efficacy analysis designated as primary and the
supportive analyses to ensure robustness of the conclusions of the primary analysis. These
analyses were planned in the study protocol, planned in the statistical analysis plan, and follow
the intent-to-treat principles depicted in ICH E9. A summary of the key results on ADAS-cog at
18 months follows:
                                                  30

     WO 2014/055588                                                    PCT/US2013/062964
Table 1: Summary of planned ITT statistical analysis described in the study protocol
                   Statistic       Treatment Group                  Statistical Analysis
   Analysis                   5-mg dose
                             COMPOUND           Placebo       Methodology           p-value
                                                            ANCOVA with
                                                             MI imputation
                    Sample
                                  69               68          (primary in           0.008
                     size
                                                              protocol and
   Primary                                                         SAP)
   analysis          Mean
 described in                                               Cmlt          ae
                  change to      8.84            11.94      Complete Cases            0.02
 protocol and                                                  ANCOVA
                  month 18
 SAP: mITT
                   Median
                                                                  LOCF
                  change to      6.76            10.34                                0.03
    Report                                                     ANCOVA
                  month 18
   number:
                   Delta in
 2011-06-23-                              3.1                      GEE                0.03
                     mean
      001
                                                             Mixed models
                   Delta in              3.58                    repeated             0.04
                    median                                      measures
                                                            (random effects)
                                             31

      WO 2014/055588                                                          PCT/US2013/062964
                                             Example 2
      Drug effects were more pronounced among patients who presented with less severity of
   Alzheimer's disease than those who presented with greater severity of Alzheimer's disease,
                                 based on the ADAS-cog at baseline.
Entry into the study was based on the MMSE; there was no eligibility criterion based on the
ADAS-cog. Post-hoc analysis examined characteristics of individuals who may have more
pronounced benefit than others. Discriminant analysis suggested that some subgroups of patients
may respond better than others to COMPOUND I.
An observation of the analysis revealed that patients in Study who presented with less severe
Alzheimer's showed better delineation from placebo than those who had more severe disease at
entry, based on the ADAS-cog.
FIG. 1 displays the change from baseline in ADAS-cog for an ADAS-cog subgroup of subjects
presenting with ADAS-cog scores at baseline of less than or equal to 23.
The subjects presenting with mild dementia treated with placebo (dashed line) show greater
increases from baseline in ADAS-cog, indicating worsening of Alzheimer's disease at a greater
rate than subjects presenting with mild Alzheimer's disease who were treated with 5-mg
COMPOUND I (solid line). The sample size varies over time as patients leave the study. This
analysis includes all data on-treatment where on-treatment is defined as date of last dose plus 28
days. The difference between the placebo group and the group treated with COMPOUND I at 5
mg is statistically significant at Month 18 using last-observation-carried-forward to
accommodate missing data.
A responder is one who has not progressed, and progression is an increase of 7 or more points on
the ADAS-cog within 18 months.
FIG. 2 displays Kaplan-Meier curves for the group dosed with placebo and the group dosed with
COMPOUND I at 5 mg where an event is defined as achievement of an increase in ADAS-cog
                                                 32

     WO 2014/055588                                                           PCT/US2013/062964
of 7 or more points at any time. The Kaplan-Meier curves in FIG. 2 show the proportions of
subjects declining in Alzheimer's disease as measured by the ADAS-cog by classifying a subject
as having an "event" at the time of an increase in ADAS-cog of 7 points (reference for 7 points
being progression: Publication by Vellas, et al., "Long-term changes in ADAS-cog: What is
clinically relevant for disease modifying trails in Alzheimer?" (Volume 11, Number 4, 2007;
JournalofNutrition, Health & Aging)). The analysis uses Markov-Chain model conventions
with achievement of an event as an absorbing state. The low dose group (5 mg, indicated by the
solid line) dominates the placebo group (indicated by the dotted line) at all points, and the
distance between the lines indicates superiority of treatment with COMPOUND I relative to
placebo to retard the progression of Alzheimer's disease in patients who present with mild
Alzheimer's disease at baseline.
                                             Example 3
Drug effects were more pronounced among patients with concentrations within identified ranges.
 Concentration levels were highly correlated with bodyweight and with BMI. The optimal dosing
                                 paradigm is concentration-driven.
Blood samples were taken at each study visit to measure trough concentrations of drug levels.
Analysis of drug concentrations correlated with response as assessed by ADAS-cog.
Statistical modeling to identify the concentration range that optimizes the efficacy of the
compound was done using the trough concentrations and the change from baseline in ADAS
cog. Preliminary results showed a range of 7-20 ng/ml where COMPOUND I-treated subjects
had maximal response (smallest changes from baseline in ADAS-cog) among all other groups in
the study. Other analyses resulted in a range of 8 to 15 ng/ml. When analysis was expanded to
include 4 supportive efficacy measures in addition to the ADAS-cog, (MMSE, ADL, CDR-sb,
and NPI), the identified optimal range was 8-13 ng/ml.
For analysis, subjects were categorized into exposure groups by the maximum of the trough
levels during the 18-month trial period. Analysis using tertile cuts, quartile cuts, quintile cuts,
                                                  33

      WO 2014/055588                                                         PCT/US2013/062964
and decile cuts were consistent. PK/PD modeling is ongoing to identify an optimal dosing
paradigm.
FIG. 3 displays bar graphs showing concentration-driven classification of subjects regardless of
dose administered. In FIG. 3, it is shown that concentrations in the range of 0.7 to 12.8 ng/ml
show a nominally statistically significant difference from placebo in the LOCF LSMEAN change
from baseline in ADAS-cog, where higher scores indicate more advanced Alzheimer's disease.
The concentration range in the third bar, which is for pk concentrations of 12.9 to 21.0 ng/ml, is
also statistically superior to placebo in delaying the progression of Alzheimer's disease.
A conclusion of the analysis is that when subjects are dosed with COMPOUND I at either 5 mg
or 20 mg and have a resulting concentration in the range from 8 to 13 ng/ml, inclusive, the
superiority of COMPOUND I over placebo is evident.
The efficacy of COMPOUND I is more pronounced in Alzheimer's disease when the dosing
paradigm is concentration-driven than when fixed dosing is used. Analysis shows that if the
concentrations are too low, the efficacy is not evident. However, if the concentrations are too
high, it appears that efficacy may be masked by side effects. When the concentrations are in the
target interval, the superiority of COMPOUND I over placebo is evident.
FIG. 4 shows line graphs of the profile over time comparing placebo-treated subjects to subjects
in the study whose measured median pk concentrations were in the range 8 to 15 ng/ml.
The subjects treated with placebo (dashed line) show greater increases from baseline in ADAS
cog, indicating worsening of Alzheimer's disease at a greater rate than subjects who were treated
with COMPOUND I with median pk concentrations in the range of 8 and 15 ng/ml (solid line).
The sample size varies over time as patients leave the study. This analysis includes all data on
treatment where on-treatment is defined as date of last dose plus 28 days. The difference between
the placebo group and the group treated with COMPOUND I these concentrations has nominal
statistical significance at Month 18 using last-observation-carried-forward to accommodate
missing data.
                                                  34

          WO 2014/055588                                                       PCT/US2013/062964
     Table 2 provides a summary of statistics delineating between placebo and treatment with
     COMPOUND I beginning with Month 6 and being maintained over the course of the remainder
     of the 18-month study.
                                                    Table 2
          Summary of Mean and Median changes in ADAS-cog over time for subjects treated with
     placebo and those treated with COMPOUND I with median trough concentrations between 8 and
                                                   15 ng/ml.
 0
  Time         Statistic        Placebo       Concentration          Mean                  P-value
                                                 between           Difference         (2-sample t-test)
                                              8 and 15 ng/ml
 baseline       Mean             24.11             24.22              0.11                    0.9
                Median            22.3              22.0
    3        Mean change           1.57             0.73              0.84                    0.3
            Median change          2.0               2.3
    6        Mean change          3.16              1.16              2.00                   0.03
            Median change          2.7               1.3
    9        Mean change          3.95              1.52              2.43                   0.04
            Median change          2.2               1.3
    12       Mean change          6.34              3.31              3.03                   0.02
            Median change          5.5               2.3
    15       Mean change          8.74              4.39              4.35                  0.008
            Median change          7.8               4.7
    18       Mean change          11.32             6.04              5.28                   0.01
            Median change          10.3              4.7
     The data in Table 2 shows that treatment with COMPOUND I in subjects whose measured
     median trough concentrations are between 8 and 15 ng/ml are statistically delineated with
     nominal statistical significance beginning at Month 6. Analysis conclusions indicate that, in
5    certain concentration ranges, the benefits of treatment with COMPOUND I are clear. Analysis of
                                                        35

      WO 2014/055588                                                           PCT/US2013/062964
variations in concentrations resulted in conclusions that bodyweight and BMI affected
concentrations. These analyses support the need for concentration-driven treatment that
incorporates bodyweight or BMI.
FIG. 5 shows the regression analysis regressing concentration on BMI. Regression analysis
regressing concentration (dependent variable) onto BMI and onto bodyweight showed
statistically significant negative correlations in all 4 analyses: subjects who have lower
bodyweight or lower BMI tend to have higher concentration values for the same administered
dose than subjects who have higher bodyweight or higher BMI values. The result was true for
each dose level; therefore, the finding applies to both dose levels. These analyses are based on all
available on-treatment where on-treatment is defined as date of last dose plus 28 days. This
finding translates to a dosing paradigm that incorporates bodyweight or BMI in the dose
administered to produce the desired concentration levels. These findings are consistent with
claims that concentration drives efficacy and bodyweight or BMI drives concentration. This
finding suggests that at low bodyweight and low BMI, lower doses are likely to be more
effective than higher doses.
                                               Example 4
     Decreases in glucose are observed when treated with COMPOUND I at high doses when
                            subjects present with elevated glucose values.
Statistical analysis of data from the study with COMPOUND I concluded that there were
declines in glucose values, particularly for subjects entering the studies with elevated glucose
levels. Lowering elevated glucose benefits patients, while lowering normal or lower level
glucose values could have a detrimental effect.
Statistical analysis showed that in the study, subjects who presented with higher glucose values
had declines when treated with 20 mg of COMPOUND I compared with placebo. Subjects with
lower glucose values at baseline did not show significant decreases in glucose.
                                                   36

    FIG. 6a-d demonstrates the mean change from baseline in glucose is displayed by treatment
    group using all data available at Months 3, 6, and 9. Subgroups were defined by taking all
    subjects with a baseline value of 100 mg/dl or greater, all subjects in the upper third (tertile cut),
    all subjects in the uppermost 25% (quartile cut), and all subjects in the uppermost 20% (quintile
 5  cut (not shown)). FIG. 6-d displays subjects with lower or normal values, where the subgroup is
    defined by a group median cut, and the subgroup is all subjects with baseline values less than the
    group median (lower half). After Month 9, withdrawal rates resulted in data too sparse for
    meaningful analysis. The group treated with high-dose (20 mg) of COMPOUND I showed
    marked declines in glucose which were statistically significant within the treatment group
 0  (p<0.05) and also statistically significantly different from placebo using 2-sample t-tests
    (p<0.05). For subjects who are normal or have low baseline glucose values, there is not a decline
    associated with treatment with COMPOUND I.. The differences among treatment groups at
    baseline are not statistically significant. Comparisons investigating the decreases in glucose
    associated with treatment with COMPOUND I in the subgroups of subjects who presented into
 5  the study with glucose values below the population median for the study are not statistically
    significant (p>O. 15).
                                                  Example 5
          Treatment with 5 mg COMPOUND I delays or reduces the incidence of adverse events.
 10
    Adverse Events
    Adverse events of special interest (AESI) were related to potential cognitive impairment: fall,
    dizziness, confusional state, and somnolence. Reported frequencies for at least one AESI for the
25  groups treated with 20 mg, 5 mg, and placebo, respectively, were 50 (37%), 49 (37%), and 44
    (33%). Specific AESI showed no discernible pattern related to dose of COMPOUND I.
    FIG. 7 displays Kaplan-Meier curves for time to event for adverse event by dose group.
    FIG. 7 shows the time to event curves display the proportions of subjects event-free by study day
    with Kaplan-Meier censoring when subjects withdraw from the study event-free. The analysis
30  uses Markov-Chain model conventions with achievement of an event as an absorbing state. The
                                                       37

    low dose group dominates the placebo group at all points, and the distance between the lines
    indicates benefit of treatment with COMPOUND I at 5 mg relative to placebo to reduce the
    likelihood of having an adverse event.
 5  FIG. 8 displays Kaplan-Meier curves for time for time to event adverse event by concentration
    group. The time to event curves display the proportions of subjects event-free by study day with
    Kaplan-Meier censoring when subjects withdraw from the study event-free. The analysis uses
    Markov-Chain model conventions with achievement of an event as an absorbing state. The group
    with concentrations less than 14.6 ng/dl dominates the placebo group at all points after month 3,
 0  and the distance between the lines indicates benefit of treatment with COMPOUND I at low
    concentrations relative to placebo to reduce the likelihood of having an adverse event.
    Various embodiments of the invention have been described in fulfillment of the various objects
    of the invention. It should be recognized that these embodiments are merely illustrative of the
 5  principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and adaptations thereof will be
    readily apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the
    present invention.
    Throughout this specification and the claims, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
 '0 "comprise" and its variations, such as "comprises" and "comprising," will be understood to
    imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion
    of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
    The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
25  acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that such art forms part of the common general
    knowledge in Australia. Further, the reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and
    should not be taken as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that such art would be
    understood, ascertained or regarded as relevant by the skilled person in Australia.
                                                      38

                                             CLAIMS
We claim:
1.     A pharmaceutical composition comprising between 1 mg and 20 mg of [3-(4-{2-butyl- 1
       [4-(4-chloro-phenoxy)-phenyl]-1H-imidazol-4-yl}-phenoxy)-propyl]-diethyl    amine or a
       pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
2.     The pharmaceutical composition of claim 1, further comprising an acetylcholinesterase
       inhibitor (AChEI).
3.     The pharmaceutical composition of claim 2, wherein the AChEI is selected from the
       group consisting of donepezil hydrochloride, galantamine hydrochloride, rivastigmine
       tartrate, and tacrine hydrochloride.
4.     The pharmaceutical composition of claim 3, wherein the AChEI is:
       - donepezil hydrochloride present between 5 and 23 mg; or
       - galantamine hydrochloride present between 16 and 24 mg; or
       - rivastigmine tartrate present between 6 and 12 mg; or
       - tacrine hydrochloride present at 40 mg.
5.     The pharmaceutical composition of claim 1, further comprising memantine
       hydrochloride.
6.     The pharmaceutical composition of claim 5, wherein the memantine hydrochloride is
       present in an amount between 5 mg and 20 mg.
                                                39

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
