                                             ABSTRACT
A method of deploying an intraocular lens into an eye, comprising providing an intraocular lens
within a delivery device; at least partially plugging a gap disposed radially between the
intraocular lens and an inner surface of the delivery device; and delivering a fluid into the
delivery device to deploy the intraocular lens from the delivery device and into an eye.
                                                 - 24
                                                                             9964780 1 (GHMatters) P97921.AU.1 9/02/2018

              4117
          Roto
                 CD)
      C)~
0
  CD)
                     00
                        00

         INTRAOCULAR LENS DELIVERY SYSTEMS AND METHODS OF USE
                                    RELATED APPLICATION
[0001] This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No. 2013235467,
the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. Most of the disclosure of that
application is included herein. However, reference may be made to the specification of that
application as filed to gain further understanding of the invention claimed herein. \
                CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0002]      This application claims the benefit of U.S. Prov. App. No. 61/613,929, filed March
21, 2012, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.
[0003]      This application is related to and incorporates by reference herein the disclosures of
the following U.S. patent applications: U.S. App. No. 13/180,427, filed July 11, 2011, and U.S.
App. No. 13/427,617, filed March 22, 2012.
                              INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
[0004]      All publications and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein
incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent
application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.
                                          BACKGROUND
[0005]      Intraocular lenses are positioned within a patient's eye, such as in the anterior
chamber or posterior chamber. After making a small incision in the eye, a physician typically
positions a distal opening of a delivery device within or adjacent to the opening. The physician
then delivers the intraocular lens out of the delivery device, through the opening, and into the
target location within the eye. In some procedures, but not all, an intraocular lens is delivered
into a native capsule after the native lens has been removed.
[0006]      Some intraocular lenses, because of their size and/or their configuration, and possibly
the desired incision size, need to be reconfigured and/or have at least a first portion reoriented
with respect to a second portion to be delivered into an eye. When some intraocular lenses are
advanced through a delivery device and/or delivered out of the delivery device, forces on the
intraocular lens can damage the intraocular lens.
[0007]      What are needed are delivery systems and methods of use that can deliver an
intraocular lens without damaging the intraocular lens.
                                                 -1-

                               SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE
[0008]       One aspect of the disclosure is a method of deploying an intraocular lens into an eye,
comprising providing an intraocular lens within a delivery device; at least partially plugging a
gap between the intraocular lens and an inner surface of the delivery device; and delivering a
fluid into the delivery device to deploy the intraocular lens from the delivery device and into an
eye. In some embodiments at least partially plugging a gap reduces the amount of fluid that
flows passed the intraocular lens in the delivery device. In some embodiments at least partially
plugging a gap allow for an increase in fluid pressure in the delivery device proximal to an optic
portion of the intraocular lens. In some embodiments at least partially plugging a gap increase a
pressure differential in the delivery device between a location proximal to an optic portion of the
intraocular lens and a location distal to the intraocular lens. In some embodiments at least
partially plugging a gap comprises at least partially plugging a gap that is disposed radially
between the intraocular lens and an inner surface of the delivery device. In some embodiments
at least partially plugging a gap between the intraocular lens and an inner surface of the delivery
device comprises at least plugging a gap that exists between a trailing haptic and an inner surface
of the delivery device. In some embodiments the method further comprises reconfiguring a
plugging element while delivering the fluid into the delivery device. Reconfiguring the plugging
element can act to form a seal between the plugging element and an inner surface of the delivery
device. Reconfiguring the plugging element can include unrolling the plugging element.
[0009]       In some embodiments delivering a fluid into the delivery device to deploy the
intraocular lens from the delivery device comprises delivering a fluid through a porous material.
[00010]      One aspect of the disclosure is a method of deploying an intraocular lens into an eye,
comprising providing an intraocular lens within a delivery device; at least partially plugging a
gap disposed radially between the intraocular lens and an inner surface of the delivery device;
and delivering a fluid into the delivery device to deploy the intraocular lens from the delivery
device. In some embodiments at least partially plugging a gap disposed radially between the
intraocular lens and an inner surface of the delivery device comprises at least partially plugging a
gap disposed radially between a haptic extending generally longitudinally through the delivery
device and in inner surface of the delivery device.
[00011]      One aspect of the disclosure is a method of deploying an intraocular lens into an eye,
comprising providing an intraocular lens within a delivery device; delivering a fluid into the
delivery device to deploy the intraocular lens from the delivery device; and increasing fluid
pressure proximal to at least an optic portion of the IOL, wherein increasing the fluid pressure is
a step different than delivering the fluid into the delivery device. In some embodiments
                                                  -2-

increasing fluid pressure proximal to at least an optic portion of the IOL comprises plugging a
gap between the IOL and an inner surface of the delivery device.
[00012]      One aspect of the disclosure is an apparatus for deploying an intraocular lens into an
eye, comprising: an intraocular lens delivery device with an intraocular lens disposed therein; a
support device adapted to be disposed within the delivery device, the support device having a
lumen therein adapted to allow to fluid to flow therethrough; and a plug element disposed
relative to the support device such that it is adapted to at least partially plug a gap between an
intraocular lens positioned in the delivery device and an inner surface of the delivery device.
[00013]      In some embodiments the support device is secured to the plug element. The plug
element can have a proximal portion secured to the support device. In some embodiments the
plug element is a tubular element. In some embodiments the plug element is open at a distal end
after deployment. In some embodiments the plug element has a fluid flow restriction proximal
to a distal end of the plug element. In some embodiments the plug element is everted at a distal
end. In some embodiments the plug element is flexible. In some embodiments the plug element
is porous. In some embodiments the plug element is adapted to be reconfigured in response to
fluid flow through the lumen. Only a distal portion of the plug element can be adapted to be
reconfigured. In some embodiments the plug element has a flow restriction proximal to a distal
end of the plug element. The plug element can have a portion distal to the flow restriction that is
adapted to be reconfigured.
[00014]      In some embodiments the plug element is open at a distal end. In some embodiments
the plug element is an ePTEF tube. In some embodiments a distal portion of the support element
is oriented towards an inner wall of the delivery device. In some embodiments a distal portion of
the support element is oriented away from a longitudinal axis of a proximal portion of the
support element. In some embodiments a trailing haptic extends proximal relative to an optic
portion of the intraocular lens. The plug element can be disposed radially between the
intraocular lens and an inner surface of the delivery device. In some embodiments the apparatus
further comprises a vent adapted to vent air from inside the apparatus.
[00015]      One aspect of the disclosure is an apparatus for deploying an intraocular lens into an
eye, comprising: an intraocular lens delivery device and an intraocular lens disposed therein; an
support device adapted to be disposed within the delivery device, the support device having a
lumen therein adapted to allow to fluid to flow therethrough; and a flexible plug element secured
to the support device, the plug element adapted to at least partially plug a gap between an
intraocular lens positioned in the delivery device and an inner surface of the delivery device
when fluid is flowed into the lumen.
                                                  -3 -

[00016]     One aspect of the disclosure is an apparatus for deploying an intraocular lens into an
eye, comprising: an intraocular lens delivery device with an intraocular lens disposed therein; a
support device adapted to be disposed within the delivery device, the support device having a
lumen therein adapted to allow to fluid to flow therethrough; and a vent that is not an intraocular
lens delivery port, the vent adapted to vent air from inside the delivery device when fluid flows
therethrough.
[00017]     One aspect of the disclosure is a method of deploying an intraocular lens into an eye,
comprising providing an intraocular lens within a delivery device; delivering a fluid into the
delivery device to deploy the intraocular lens from the delivery device; and venting air from
within the delivery device through a vent, wherein the vent is not an intraocular lens delivery
port.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00018]     In order that the invention may be more clearly ascertained, embodiments will now
be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawing, in which:
[00019]     Figure 1 illustrates an exemplary accommodating intraocular lens that can be
delivered into an eye using any of the delivery devices herein.
[00020]     Figure 2 illustrates an exemplary intraocular lens delivery device.
[00021]     Figures 3A and 3B illustrate a portion of an exemplary intraocular lens delivery
device.
[00022]     Figure 4 illustrates an exemplary intraocular lens delivery device with an intraocular
lens therein.
[00023]     Figure 5 illustrates an exemplary intraocular lens delivery device with a sealing
element.
[00024]     Figures 6A and 6B illustrate an exemplary sealing element.
[00025]     Figures 7A and 7B illustrate an exemplary intraocular lens delivery device with a
sealing element deployed and loaded.
[00026]     Figures 8A-8C illustrate an exemplary intraocular lens delivery device with a sealing,
or plugging, element delivering an intraocular lens from a distal delivery port.
[00027]     Figures 9A-9C illustrate an exemplary intraocular lens delivery device with a sealing,
or plugging, element delivering an intraocular lens from a distal delivery port.
[00028]     Figures 10A-10C illustrate an exemplary intraocular lens delivery device with a
sealing, or plugging, element delivering an intraocular lens from a distal delivery port.
[00029]     Figures 11 A-1 IC illustrate an exemplary intraocular lens delivery device with a
sealing, or plugging, element.
                                                 -4-

[00030]     Figures 12A and 12B illustrate an exemplary intraocular lens delivery device with a
sealing, or plugging, element.
[00031]     Figures 13A and 13B illustrate an exemplary intraocular lens delivery device with a
sealing, or plugging, element.
[00032]     Figures 14A-14B illustrate an exemplary intraocular lens delivery device with a
sealing, or plugging, element in a loaded configuration.
[00033]     Figure 15 illustrates an exemplary plugging element in a fully deployed
configuration.
[00034]     Figures 16A-16B illustrate an exemplary intraocular lens delivery device with a
sealing, or plugging, element in a deployed configuration.
[00035]     Figures 17A-E illustrate an exemplary delivery process of an intraocular lens with a
delivery device with a plugging element.
[00036]     Figure 18 illustrates venting of air out of a vent that is not a delivery port in an
intraocular lens delivery device.
[00037]     Figures 19A-19C illustrate an exemplary screw drive for advancing fluid through a an
intraocular lens delivery device.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[00038]     The disclosure is related to methods and devices for delivering an intraocular lens
("IOL") into an eye. The systems and methods herein can, however, be used to advance any type
of IOL within a delivery or loading device. The intraocular lens can be accommodating or non
accommodating. The methods and devices herein may be beneficial when the IOL body does
not occupy the entire volume of a section of the delivery device in which the IOL is positioned.
[00039]     An IOL is typically implanted within a patient' s eye to relace or supplement the
function of an eye' s nativelens. The native lens can become diseased (e.g., cataract), or the lens
can lose the ability to accommodate over time (i.e., presbyopia).      In either case, the native lens
can be removed and replaced with an IOL. To deliver the IOL through as small an incision as
reasonable (e.g., about 2.8 mm to about 4.5 mm), the IOL typically undergoes some type of
deformation or reconfiguration during the loading and/or delivery process to reduce the profile of
the IOL. Additionally, some IOLs include components that can be reoriented and/or
reconfigured relative to another component, such as a peripheral portion relative to an optic
portion, and the controlled positioning or deformation of these components during the loading
and/or delivery steps can enhance the loading and/or delivery and reduce the likelihood of
damage to the IOL.
                                                  -5 -

[00040]      In some embodiments the delivery systems can be used to deliver an IOL that have
one or more flowable media therein. For example, the delivery systems can be used to deliver
fluid-filled accommodating IOLs, while in some embodiments the IOL may comprise a low
viscosity polymeric material. The disclosure is not limited by the exemplary IOLs provided
herein. Any suitable IOL that can benefit from the use of the systems and methods of herein can
be delivered as described herein.
[00041]      Figure 1 illustrates an exemplary intraocular lens that is delivered in any of the
method herein. Accommodating intraocular lens 100 includes optic body120 with a fluid
chamber therein that is in fluid communication with fluid chambers in haptic 130 and haptic 140.
Haptics 130 and 140, part of the peripheral portion of the IOL, are responsive to capsular
reshaping, and the IOL is adapted such that flowable media, such as a fluid, is moved between
the haptics and optic in response to capsular reshaping. Additional exemplary details of
accommodating IOL 100 can be found in U.S. App. No. 13/672,608, filed November 8, 2012,
which is incorporated by reference herein.
[00042]      One first aspect of the disclosure is a delivery device adapted to deliver an
accommodating intraocular lens, such as the intraocular lens shown in Figure 1, into the eye.
While the delivery device is described as delivering the lens shown in Figure 1, it is understood
that any other suitable lens can be delivered using the devices, systems, and methods described
herein. Figures 2A and 2B illustrate an exploded view and assembly view, respectively, of an
exemplary delivery device ("device" may be used interchangeably with "system" herein unless
there is a specific indication to the contrary). Figures 3A and 3B illustrate top sectional views of
the assembly, with Figure 3B showing a partial sectional view of a distal portion of the assembly
(only a portion of tray 14 and plunger 12 are shown). Delivery device 10 includes plunger 12,
tray 14, and cartridge 16. Tray 14 is adapted to interact with plunger 12 and cartridge 16,
allowing an intraocular lens to be delivered from within cartridge 16 into an eye. Tray 14
includes plunger guide 22 extending through a proximal portion that is adapted to receive
plunger 12 therein (see Figure 3A). Plunger 12 includes stop 20 that is configured to engage a
complimentary stop feature on the tray to prevent further distal movement of plunger 12 within
tray 14. Plunger 12 includes lumen 32 extending from its proximal end to its distal end, allowing
material, such as viscoelastic fluid, to be advanced from the proximal end of plunger into the
cartridge. Plunger 12 also includes sealing members 18 in the form of O-rings that engage with
an inner surface of cartridge 16 and provide a fluid seal between the distal end of plunger 12,
cartridge 16, and tray 14. Cartridge 16 includes stabilizing elements 23 that are adapted to
secure the cartridge with respect to tray 14 by engaging corresponding stabilizing elements 24 on
tray 14. As seen in Figures 3A and 3B, when plunger 12 is fully advanced within tray 14, and
                                                  -6-

when cartridge 16 is interfacing tray 14, the distal end of plunger 12 is within the proximal end
of channel extending through cartridge 16. This allows a material such as a viscoelastic fluid, or
other material, to be delivered from the proximal end of the plunger into the cartridge, pushing
the loaded intraocular lens (not shown) from within the cartridge out the distal tip 28 (shown
with a bevel) and into the patient' s eye. The tapering cartridge will previously have been placed
through an incision in the eye allowing the lens to be delivered into the eye.
[00043]      Figures 4A and 4B illustrate the exemplary intraocular lens from Figure 1 already
loaded into the cartridge lumen 30. The intraocular lens can be advanced from a staging area in
the tray (referred to generally as 34 in Figure 2A) into the cartridge by any suitable loading
technique. In one approach, the intraocular lens is positioned within staging area 34 in a
configuration such that leading haptic 36 is positioned generally distal to optic 38, while trailing
haptic 40 is positioned generally proximal to optic 38. From this staged configuration, the lens
can be advanced into cartridge. For example, the lens can be loaded into the cartridge with any
suitable plunger by being pushed into the cartridge. The lens could also be hydraulically loaded
into the cartridge using a fluid. The loading device and approach can vary and is not limited
herein. In some embodiments the system includes a plunger that is both adapted to load the lens
from the tray into the cartridge, and is also adapted to deliver the lens from the cartridge into the
eye as described below. Additional exemplary loading devices can be found in U.S. Provisional
Application No. 61/467,352, filed March 24, 2011, the disclosure of which is incorporated by
reference herein.
[00044]      After the lens is loaded into the cartridge as shown in Figure 4A, a viscoelastic fluid,
or other type of fluid, is delivered from a syringe and into lumen 32 of plunger 12 (see Figure
4B). The viscoelastic fluid is delivered from the distal port of plunger 12 and into contact with
the intraocular lens, forcing the lens distally within cartridge and out the distal end 28 of the
cartridge. In general, the delivery of the intraocular lens from the cartridge relies on
development of pressure differential in the viscoelastic over the lens to move it down the
reducing section of the cartridge (shown as surface 42 in Figure 4B) and into the eye. The
configuration of the lens in general and/or the configuration that the intraocular lens assumes
when loaded into the proximal region of the cartridge, however, creates some gaps, which
provide a path for some of the viscoelastic to leak past the optic portion, as shown by the flow
arrows in Figure 4B. Ideally, none (or substantially none) of the viscoelastic fluid flows past the
optic body portion. Ideally, all or substantially all of the viscoelastic remains proximal to at least
the optic body portion, building up pressure and forcing the lens to be deployed from the distal
end of the cartridge. When the viscoelastic does flow past the lens body it can create drag on the
leading haptic that is efficiently filling the tip of the cartridge (Figure 4B). The advancing
                                                   -7-

leading haptic can create a high strain at the connection between the haptic and the optic body,
possibly causing damage at the connection point. Any intraocular lens that may be susceptible to
damage while being delivered may benefit from the systems and methods described herein.
[00045]      One approach to preventing the fluid from flowing past the optic body and reducing
the risk of damage to the lens is to create an efficient seal behind the lens body to reduce the flow
of viscoelastic around the lens body. In one specific embodiment the device includes a plunger
that includes at least one component that creates a seal behind the lens body. The component
preferably does not restrict the deployment of the trailing haptic from the cartridge during the
last portion of the delivery process. Additionally, the component(s) preferably do not exit the
distal end of the cartridge into the eye at the end of the delivery process. While the sealing
component is described as part of the plunger herein, it is understood that the sealing component
could be a part of the tray, the cartridge, or other part of the delivery device.
[00046]      Figures 5A-5C (side views of the device shown in Figures 2A-4B) show a portion of
a delivery sequence of the lens in which the delivery device includes a sealing component, or
plug, in the form of a compliant filament of material that is introduced into the viscoelastic
stream. The filament is adapted to flow toward and into the location at which the viscoelastic
fluid is flowing past the lens body. Once impeded by a restriction, the filament collapses and
further obstructs the fluid flow path. This develops a soft sealing mechanism behind the lens
body that also follows the lens while moving for delivery. Figure 5A illustrates the device
including sealing component 52 in the form of a filament attached to the distal end of plunger 12
at attachment point 50. As shown in Figure 5A, filament 52 is initially disposed within lumen 32
of plunger 12, with the filament distal end extending in the proximal direction within the lumen.
As the viscoelastic fluid is advanced through lumen 32 from the proximal end of the plunger, as
shown by the arrow in Figures 5A-C, filament 52 is carried by the fluid in the distal direction, as
shown in Figure 5B. The filament flows toward the location at which the viscoelastic fluid is
flowing past the lens body and creates a seal, as shown in Figure 5B. In Figure 5B the filament
is shown plugging up a space adjacent the trailing haptic 130, creating at least a substantial seal.
Once the seal is formed, the force of the viscoelastic fluid on the lens body will properly cause
both the leading haptic and the optic portion to be advanced distally within the cartridge. Figure
5C shows the leading haptic partially deployed from the cartridge while the optic body has been
properly advanced through the cartridge. As the fluid continues to be advanced through the
plunger and into the cartridge, the lens is advanced further through the cartridge until the leading
haptic 140, optic body 120, and trailing haptic 140 are delivered, in that order, from the cartridge
and into the eye. Once delivered the lens will inherently revert toward its original configuration,
which is generally shown in the sectional view of Figure 1. The deployment occurs without
                                                  -8-

damage to the lens, particularly at the attachment point between the leading haptic and the optic
body.
[00047]     Figures 6A and 6B illustrate an exemplary embodiment of filament 56 with slit 58
formed therein extending along substantially the entire length of filament 56. The slit forms two
filament segments 60 extending along the length of filament 56. The length of the segments 60
is substantially greater than the width of the segments. Filament 56 from Figure 6A is then
folded to bring two ends 62 together, as shown in Figure 6B. Figures 7A and 7B illustrate the
folded filament attached to plunger 12. The filament is secured to the distal region of the
plunger by compressing the two filament end regions under the two o-rings 18 that are a seal to
the cartridge, as discussed above. To prepare the device for use, the segments 60, in the form of
loops, are tucked within the plunger lumen and ready for deployment during the delivery, as
shown in Figure 7B. In use, the filament loops extend and roll out of the lumen in the
viscoelastic stream and flow into an open volume behind the lens buttress and adjacent the
trailing haptic as discussed above in the embodiment in Figures 5A-5C. The filament bunches
into that area until sufficiently plugging the flow at which time the lens body moves forward.
When the lens moves sufficiently forward to plug the tip completely and there is substantially no
viscoelastic flow by the lens body, the filament will be left behind.
[00048]     If, during the delivery, the optic body stops moving in the cartridge and the
viscoelastic is leaking past the optic body again, the filaments are adapted to again move to the
area of leakage to act as a plug to the viscoelastic and move the lens out of the cartridge. The
filaments as described herein as therefore adapted to repeatedly, as may be necessary, find or
seek out the region where fluid is flowing past the optic body, move to that location, and plug the
leak.
[00049]     The embodiment in Figures 5A-7B illustrate embodiments in which the proximal end
of the filament is attached to the distal region and the exterior of the plunger, and the filament is
considered to roll out of the plunger during delivery of the lens. This allows the filament to slide
out of the plunger past the attachment location and the first contact with the lens will be with a
region of the filament that is near the proximal end of the filament. The filament repositions into
suitable plugging orientation. There are, however, a number of variations in attachment points of
the filament to the plunger (or other portions of the delivery device) yielding variations in
deployment of the filament.
[00050]     Figures 8A-8C illustrate an alternative embodiment in which the proximal end of the
filament is attached to the distal region of the plunger, but is attached at a location on the interior
of the plunger (i.e., within the plunger lumen). As indicated in Figure 8A, the plunger has a
proximal lumen section with a larger diameter bore than a distal tip section. Filament 70 is
                                                  -9-

attached to stopper 72 at its proximal end. Filament 70 extends from stopper 70 towards the
distal end of the plunger. The reduced diameter distal section acts as a lumen restriction and
prevents stopper 72 from advancing further distally, as shown in Figure 8C. This prevents the
filament from flowing out of the distal tip of the cartridge. As the viscoelastic is delivered
through the lumen, stopper 72 is advanced distally within the lumen, and filament 70 flows
straight out of the lumen and does not double back (or fold) back on itself as in the previously
described embodiments above. The filament is adapted to flow towards the flow leakage as
described elsewhere herein.
[00051]      Figures 9A-9C illustrate sectional views of an alternative embodiment in which the
proximal end of the filament 80 is secured to the proximal region of the plunger interior using
press-ring filament capture 78, which is shown in greater detail in Figure 15. Filament 74
includes a coiled or stretchable section 76 that is adapted to uncoil or stretch as the viscoelastic is
delivered. The uncoiling or stretching of the filament effectively lengthens the filament,
allowing the filament to be advanced into the cartridge to plug up any leaks, but is prevented
from flowing out of the distal end of the cartridge. Figure 9B shows the filament finding the
leaking area and plugging it.
[00052]      The embodiment shown in Figures 9A-9C includes a plunger with a distal tip region
that has a reduced diameter relative to the proximal region. This feature can be incorporated into
any the embodiments herein. The reduced diameter can create a relatively higher flow rate of
fluid from the plunger distal tip, which helps pull the filament out of the distal end of the
plunger. The increased flow rate minimizes tangles and compaction of the filament in the
proximal end of the plunger as the viscoelastic is delivered.
[00053]      Figures 10A-10C illustrate an alternative embodiment similar to that in Figures 9A
9C in that the proximal end of the filament 82 is attached to an internal proximal region of the
plunger 84. In this embodiment the filament 82 is a material that has a stretching property to it,
such as a material that is perforated in such a way that it compresses efficiently in the plunger
lumen (see Figure 1OA) and yet stretches to a static length when deployed (see Figure 10C). In
this embodiment the filament is an axially compressed perforated tubing. The filament is
secured at its proximal end 845, and the plunger has a fluid channel radially outward from the
attachment point. This is shown in Figure 1OB, in which the fluid flow is indicated the arrows.
The fluid causes the perforated tubing to stretch as shown in Figure 1OB. This plunger design,
with the distal reduced diameter, provides for a low velocity flow region and a high velocity flow
region in the distal region. Figure bOB illustrates the plunger sealing the leak, and Figure 1OC
illustrates the leading haptic being deployed from the cartridge.
                                                - 10 -

[00054]      The filament material and design should be selected to enable the filament to seal the
fluid flow as described above. An optimization of material structure and properties will
generally provide a filament that is best suited to seal the fluid flow and allow for the intraocular
lens to be delivered undamaged. It is envisioned, however, that in some instances it may be
desirable to have some amount of fluid that does pass the optic body, after which the sealing
should occur. The filament material can theoretically be selected that will provide that
functionality to the system.
[00055]      The properties of the filament will influence how it responds during the delivery
process. Properties that can be modified to accomplish the specific goal include without
limitation, compliance, coefficient of friction, and elasticity. In embodiments described above,
properties that have been shown to influence performance include compliance, a low coefficient
of friction, and in some cases elasticity. It is understood that not all of these need to be
optimized, and there may be other properties that can be controlled to achieve a desired result.
[00056]      In some embodiments the filament has a degree of deformability and elasticity that
allows it to be pulled from the plunger and seal the leak. In some particular embodiments
expanded PTFE, an expanded Teflon material, is used. In some embodiments the filament
comprises an open cell foam. For example, a low durometer open cell silicone foam with a
single strand form can be used in both the straight out method (e.g., Figures 8A-8C) and roll out
methods (e.g., Figures 5A-5C). In some embodiments PVA bio-absorbable type foams that
provide good open cell performance can also be used. In some embodiments light wall (e.g.,
0.004in) low durometer (e.g., 20-35shoreA) silicone tubing can be used, particularly with the
roll-out method. In some embodiment electro-spun or non-woven materials are used, and
materials that allow for compaction of the mat under low pressures can be used in a straight out
method with a relatively large cross section. It is understood that other suitable materials can be
used to accomplish the intended goal.
[00057]      The filaments can be further manipulated to control the performance characteristics.
For example, one or more slits formed in the filament can provide desired functionality. Radial
and axial slits have been shown to increase compliance and bending of the filament to optimize
sealing performance to the lens. One or more slits can be formed in the filaments. The one or
more slits can take on any configuration within the material.
[00058]      In some embodiments the filament is a monofilament ePTFE material. The material
can be formed with one or more loops (see Figures 6A-7B), and in some embodiments between
one and three loops to optimize cross section in the plunger lumen relative to the tip plunger
lumen size.
                                                  - 11 -

[00059]      While specific embodiments have been described herein that focus on the use of a
filament, other material can be incorporated into the delivery device to accomplish the goal. For
example, any suitable material that can be used to seal off the gaps can be used. Other
deformable or flexible materials, for example, that are not described herein could theoretically be
suitable or adapted to function as a sealing element as described herein.
[00060]      In alternative embodiments, the sealing element is a sealed porous tube of PTFE that
is filled with viscoelastic or other fluid. The porous tube is adapted to allow viscoelastic to pass
through the tube, or "weep" through the pores. In this alternative all of the viscoelastic fluid
delivered into the system is pushed through the porous tube. The tube is adapted to seal off the
fluid leaks as described above. The pore size can be varied to control the flow rate.
Additionally, different viscoelastic fluids have different viscosities and flow properties, and thus
the fluid can be varied to modify the flow rate as well.
[00061]      Figures 11 A-1 IC and 12A and 12B illustrate an embodiment that includes a plug
component that is a flexible porous tube 200 sealed on its distal end. The tube is sheathed over a
hypo-tube support 202 that is sealed to the interior lumen of the proximal end of the plunger 204.
The porous tube 200 is long relative to the length of the support tube 202 to be able to extend to
the tip of the cartridge when deployed. In a packaged state, the porous tube 200 is packed onto
the support 202 to decrease the length. The support tube 202 communicates with the proximal
end 206 of the plunger to allow for the passage of viscoelastic (not shown) to be delivered
directly to the tip 208 of the sealed porous tube 200. With flow of viscoelastic through support
tube 202 and into the porous tube 200, the porous tube 200 will pressurize slightly and extend off
of the support tubing 202 to move into a region behind the lens that both seals, as described
above, and is able to transmit axial force mechanically to the lens. When the lens moves forward
in the tapering cartridge and creates an efficient seal, the sealing and mechanical action of the
porous tube will lend less influence to its functionality and it will transition in performance to
simply pass viscoelastic therethrough (via the pores), which will move the lens forward with
pressure differential. The functionality of the porous tubing can be modified as needed by
modifying the properties of the tubing. For example, with a low porosity (i.e., small pore size)
material, the tube will generally develop a higher internal pressure while the viscoelastic tubing
is flowing, which will allow it to function more as a mechanical hydraulic piston applying force
to the lens when contacted. With a relatively higher porosity construction (i.e., larger pore size),
the tube will behave more similarly to the filament structures described above, acting more
prominently as a sealing element to seal off any leaking fluid. The porosity (or other property of
the tube) can therefore be modified as needed to achieve the desired functionality of the porous
tubing.
                                                 - 12 -

[00062]     Figures 13A and 13B illustrate an alternative exemplary embodiment of an IOL
delivery system adapted to deliver an IOL into an eye of a patient. The system includes cartridge
301, tray 302, and plunger 303. Figure 13B shows the assembled system, which figure 13A
shows the disassembled system components. In other embodiments one or more of the three
components may be integrally formed rather than separate parts.
[00063]     In the assembly of Figure 13B, cartridge 301 is positioned with respect to tray 302
such that cartridge 301 and tray 302 are in secured engagement. In some embodiments cartridge
301 and tray 302 are integrally formed such that cartridge 301 is not adapted to be disassociated
from tray 302. Tray 302 is adapted to receive a distal portion of plunger 303 therein. The distal
end 306 of plunger 303 is sized and configured to be disposed within proximal opening 305 in
cartridge 301 when assembled. Plunger 303 includes seals 307 in the form of O-rings. Seals
307 are adapted to create a seal between an inner surface of cartridge 301 when distal portion
306 of plunger is advanced into opening 305 of cartridge 301. Tray 302 facilitates the
interaction between the cartridge and the plunger.
[00064]     Plunger 303 has a proximal portion that is adapted to interact with a fluid delivery
device, such as a syringe, so that fluid can be advanced from the fluid delivery device and into an
inner lumen within plunger 303. Distal end 306 of plunger 303 is disposed within the cartridge,
and thus the fluid is delivered to a location that is radially and axially within the lumen, even if it
does not exit the plunger.
[00065]     Cartridge 301 and tray 302 are in secure engagement as described in U.S. App. No.
13/427,617, filed March 22, 2012, which is incorporated by reference herein. Tray 302 includes
two clips 361 with locking elements 365, wherein the clip are adapted to interface with camming
surfaces 363 on plunger. Clips will splay outward as plunger 303 is advanced in tray 302, and
locks 367 on plunger will lock with locks 365 on tray 302.
[00066]     Figures 14A and 14B illustrate top section views of the assembled system from
Figure 13B (IOL not shown for clarity). As can be seen, the distal portion 306 of plunger 303 is
disposed within a proximal portion of lumen 310 of cartridge. While not shown, an IOL will
also be disposed within lumen 310 and positioned to be deployed out of the distal end 311 of
cartridge 301.
[00067]     Plunger 303 includes outer shell 313, on which seals 307 are disposed. As can be
seen, seals 307 create a seal between outer shell 313 and an inner surface of lumen 310. Plunger
303 also includes plug subassembly 321 within a lumen of plunger 303. The plug subassembly
is also shown in greater detail in Figure 15. Plug subassembly 321 includes support tube base
316, in which support tube 314 is disposed and secured thereto, and plug element 317. Plug
element 317 is sheathed over and secured to the outer surface of support tube 314 at location 308
                                                 - 13  -

(see Figure 15). In one embodiment a heat shrunk collar secures plug element 317 to support
tube 314 at location 308. The distal end of support tube 314 extends from the distal end of base
316, and is configured with an orientation to one side. That is, the distal portion of tube 314
does not extend along the longitudinal axis of plunger 303. This helps direct support tube 314
and plug 317 away from the trailing haptic. Plug element 317 is long relative to the length of the
support tube 314 such that the distal end of plug element 317 is disposed at the tip of the
cartridge when the plug is fully deployed. In a packaged, or loaded, state (see Figures 14A and
14B), plug element 317 is packed onto support tube 314 to decrease its relative length. Support
tube 314 communicates with the proximal end of plunger 303 to allow for the passage of a fluid
such as viscoelastic (not shown) into plug element 317. Plug subassembly 321 also include seal
315 adapted to create a seal between plug subassembly 321 and an inner surface of outer shell
313 of plunger 313.
[00068]      In this embodiment, plug element 317 is a tubular structure secured to the distal end
of support tube 314 as shown in Figure 15.     In this embodiment plug element is a flexible and
porous material but need not necessary be porous. In one exemplary embodiment plug element
is tubular ePTFE. In this embodiment the tubing is open-ended at both ends and is tied in a knot
327 along its length, with distal section 309 of plug 317 extending distally from knot 327. Knot
327 acts as a flow restrictor, and also helps stabilize the plug on the support tube. In this
embodiment plug element 317 includes one or more optional perforations 325 just proximal to
knot 327. The flow restrictor can be, for example, tied, glued, crimped, or swaged.
[00069]      To load the plug subassembly into outer shell 313, distal section 39 of plug element
317 is rolled back, or folded back, towards the proximal end of the subassembly, in the direction
of arrows shown in Figure 15. It is everted until flow restrictor 307 is substantially at the distal
end of the plug element 317. The distal portion of plug element 317, in a loaded configuration,
thus has an everted section of material at its distal end. Plug assembly 321 is then advanced
distally through open end 312 of outer shell 313 of plunger 303 until it is in the loaded position
shown in Figures 14A and 14B. The open distal end of plug element 317, in its everted
configuration, is retained within the lumen of outer shell 313, maintaining the eversion. Figure
14A illustrates the biased configuration of the distal end of support tube 314. Figure 14B is a
side section view of the plug subassembly in a loaded configuration and position within outer
shell 313 of plunger 303.
[00070]      Figures 16A and 16B illustrate a fully deployed configuration of plug element 317
within cartridge 301, as is also shown in Figure 15 outside of a cartridge. For clarity, this is
illustrated without showing the IOL. A method of use with an IOL is shown below. As
described in more detail below, after the plug is loaded (as shown in Figures 14A and 14B), a
                                                 - 14 -

fluid is delivered through support tube 314 to initiate the deployment of plug element 317. As
plug element 317 continues to be deployed, the everted section 309 remains everted until the full
extension of the proximal portion of the plug element 317, at which time everted section 309
begins to unroll, and ultimately plug element 317 assumes the general elongate configuration
shown in Figures 16A and 16B. The distal end of plug element 317 is substantially at the tip of
cartridge 301 when fully deployed.
[00071]      Figure 17A illustrates an IOL comprising optic 120 and haptics 130 and 140
positioned (e.g., such as the IOL shown in Figure 1) within cartridge 301. The IOL has been
loaded into cartridge 301, and exemplary methods of loading the IOL into cartridge are described
below. The disclosure herein is not intended to be limited to the manner in which IOL becomes
positioned into cartridge 301. In the IOL' sloaded configuration shown in Figure 17A, leading
haptic 130 has been reoriented from an at-rest orientation (see Figure 1) and extends distally
from optic 120. Trailing haptic 140 has also been reoriented from an at-rest orientation (see
Figure 1) and extends relatively proximally from optic 120 within cartridge.
[00072]      In general, the delivery of the IOL out of the cartridge relies on development of a
pressure differential in the cartridge to move the IOL distally through the cartridge and into the
eye. The configuration of the IOL in general and/or the configuration that the IOL assumes
when loaded into the cartridge, however, creates some gaps between the IOL and the inner
surface(s) of the cartridge. That is, the IOL does not occupy the entire volume defined by the
inner surfaces of the cartridge. The gaps, or voids, provide a path for some of the fluid to leak
past the optic portion as fluid is advanced during the delivery. Ideally, none (or substantially
none) of the fluid flows past the optic body portion. Ideally, all, or substantially all, of the fluid
remains proximal to at least the optic body portion, building up pressure and forcing the IOL to
be deployed out of the distal end of the cartridge. When fluid does flow past the lens body it can
create drag on leading haptic 130 that is efficiently filling the tip of the cartridge. The advancing
leading haptic can create a high strain at the connection between the leading haptic and the optic
body, possibly causing damage at the connection point. Any IOL that may be susceptible to
damage while being delivered may benefit from the systems and methods described herein.
[00073]      An exemplary method of assembling the system includes placing cartridge 301 in tray
302, loading the IOL into cartridge 301, and then positioning plunger 303 relative to tray 302
such that it extends into cartridge 301, as shown in Figure 17A. In Figure 17A, plug
subassembly 321 is in the same loaded position and configuration within cartridge 301 as shown
in Figures 14A and 14B. In this configuration the plug element 317, and specifically everted
portion 309, is positioned adjacent trailing haptic 140. Plug element 317 is disposed in a gap
that exists between trailing haptic 140 and the inner surface of cartridge 301. As described
                                                 - 15 -

above, this distal end of support tube 314 is oriented away from trailing haptic 140, which
disposes the plug element 317 in the position shown in Figure 17A, which is radially adjacent to
trailing haptic 140. The support tube distal end is therefore adapted to avoid damaging the IOL
when positioned in the cartridge. In this configuration plug element 317 acts like a plug to fill in
the gap, or a substantial portion of the gap, to obstruct the flow of fluid, thereby minimize the
amount of fluid that flows passed the trailing haptic 140 during the delivery. Plug element 317
may or may not be in contact with the IOL at this time. As described below, plug element 317
reduces the volume of fluid that flows past the optic during delivery, increasing the pressure
differential, and thus reducing the risk of damage to the lens. Plug element 317 can also be
thought of as creating a seal, or a substantial seal, behind the IOL body to reduce the flow of
viscoelastic around the IOL. "Plug" or "seal" are not limited to mean a completely fluid tight
seal is created. These terms are used herein to mean that fluid flow around the IOL is reduced
from what it would be without the plug or seal element. The plug element can also be any of the
components described above as creating a seal behind the optic.
[00074]      After the plug subassembly is positioned as shown in Figure 17A, a fluid, such as a
viscoelastic, is advanced through support tube 314 using a fluid delivery device such as a syringe
(not shown). With the flow of viscoelastic through support tube 314 and into plug element 317,
plug element 317 will pressurize slightly and reconfigure off of the support tube 314 to move
more fully into a region behind the lens that plugs the gap and is able to transmit force
mechanically to the lens. As the IOL moves forward in the tapering cartridge inner lumen and
creates an efficient, or substantial, seal, the sealing and mechanical action of the porous tube will
lend less influence to its functionality and it will transition in performance to pass viscoelastic
therethrough (via the pores, or other perforation constructs), which will move the lens forward
with pressure differential. The functionality of the porous tubing can be modified as needed by
modifying the properties of the tubing. For example, with a low porosity (i.e., small pore size)
material, the tube will generally develop a higher internal pressure while the viscoelastic is
flowing, which will allow it to function more as a mechanical hydraulic piston applying force to
the lens when contacted. With a relatively higher porosity construction (i.e., larger pore size),
the tube will behave more similarly to the filament structures above, acting more prominently as
a plug element to seal off leaking fluid. The porosity (or other property of the tube) can
therefore be modified as needed to achieve the desired functionality of the plug element.
[00075]      As the fluid exists the distal end of support tube 314, the fluid pressure within the
everted portion 309 of plug element 317 causes the distal end of plug element 317 to be released
from the distal end of outer shell 313 of plunger 303. As the free distal end of the plug is
released from the inner lumen of the plunger, it begins to at least partially seal against the inner
                                                  -  16 -

walls of the cartridge, further reducing the volume of fluid that flows past the IOL. The plug
element also at least partially plugs the gap that exists radially between adjacent trailing haptic
140 and the inner wall of the cartridge. This plugging action minimizes the volume of fluid that
can flow passed trailing haptic and therefore passed optic portion, increasing the pressure
differential in the cartridge.
[00076]      As fluid continues to be advanced through support element 314, as shown in Figure
17C, the everted plug element continues to follow the IOL, still plugging the gap between
trailing haptic 140 and the cartridge. As the optic is advanced closer to the distal port, as shown
in Figure 17D, the size of the port and the volume that the optic occupies cause the optic to begin
to self-seal, or substantially create a seal in the distal port. In Figure 17D the IOL begins to
move distally relative to plug element 317, or outrun the plug element 317. In Figure 17E the
optic has been delivered out of the cartridge and trailing haptic 140 is rolling off of everted
portion 309. This causes the everted portion of the plug element to unroll, as shown in Figure
17E. The everted portion 309 of the plug element reduces drag on trailing haptic 140 between at
least Figures 17D and 17E, when it is unfurling, or unrolling. A static plug element, unlike
everted portion 309, can cause the trailing haptic to get stuck against the wall of the cartridge due
to the radial expansion of the plug and static friction between the plug and the haptic. When the
plug element includes a feature that can contact and unfurl with the trailing haptic, drag on the
trailing haptic is reduced, preventing it from sticking against the cartridge wall and not deploying
properly. This also reduces the likelihood of damage at the junction between the optic and the
trailing haptic.
[00077]      In the embodiment in Figures 17A-17E, plug 317 is a porous ePTFE material. The
porous material is adapted to allow viscoelastic to pass through the tube, or "weep" through the
pores. In embodiments herein plug 317 also includes optional perforations 325 (two shown in
the embodiment in Figures 17A-17E) in the plug material just proximal to the knot location 327.
In one particular embodiment the perforations are created with a 32G surgical needle about 1mm
proximal to the knot. The perforations act as an over-pressure relief for the viscoelastic material
(or other fluid). The porosity of the ePTFE (or other porous material) can be variable, and in
some cases, which may depend on the viscoelastic material used, the material may fully contain
the viscoelastic without allowing for effective weeping. If this occurs the plug element may
disengage from the support tube 314 due to pressure at the end of extension. The perforations
can thus serve as an over-pressure relief to prevent this possibility. In a secondary roll, the
perforation can also direct fluid into the everted section of the plug to facilitate its release from
the plunger and thus sealing against the inner surface of the cartridge.
                                                   - 17 -

[00078]     The porosity of the plug allows viscoelastic to lubricate the interfaces between the
moving plug and other system components. The porosity also allows the continued flow of the
fluid when the plug is at full deployment and the IOL is moving due to a hydraulic seal at the tip.
[00079]     The pore size can be varied to control the flow rate. Additionally, different
viscoelastic fluids have different viscosities and flow properties, and thus the fluid can be varied
to modify the flow rate as well. In an exemplary embodiment the plug element is ePTFE and the
intermodal distance (i.e., the distance between the nodes), which determines the porosity, is 100
[tm. ePTFE with other internodal distances can also be used.
[00080]     The embodiment shown in Figures 13A, 13B, 14A, 14B, 16A, 16B, and 17A-17E are
also adapted to purge trapped air in the system that, if not purged, can interfere with the delivery
process. Figure 18 illustrates a side section view of the assembled device shown in Figure 14B
(IOL not shown for clarity), illustrating the purging of air from the plunger. As described herein,
fluid travels from a syringe (not shown) through support tube 314 and exits in proximity of the
trailing haptic of the IOL within the plug element (everted section 309 labeled). A fluid front
travels both distally in the "D" direction shown, filling the plug element, and rearward in the "P"
direction, which evacuates dead volume air through vent 330 in the direction of arrow "A." The
vent will not pass viscoelastic so is able to maintain pressure when fully evacuated. This effect
purges the air from the back of the system to reduce spring effects of trapped air during the
release of the IOL during delivery. In some instances if the air is not purged the air can
forcefully push the IOL forward during delivery, without operator action/input, possibly
damaging the IOL or the capsule in the eye, and can even cause the IOL to be delivered outside
of the capsule. The purging of air is important for a smooth, controlled delivery of the IOL.
Some IOLs may not require as much control in the delivery, and thus venting of air may not be
required.
[00081]     In some embodiments the delivery system includes a vent and does not include a
plug, or sealing element. In these embodiments fluid such as viscoelastic is delivered towards
the lens as part of the delivery process. Air venting to increase control during delivery while
decreasing the volume of air bubbles that are moved forward through the tip into the eye
provides a significant advantage even in the absence of a plug element. In an alternative
embodiment, the device is similar to the delivery device in Figures 14A and 14B but does not
include a plug element 317.
[00082]     Figures 19A-19C illustrate an exemplary way of driving fluid such as viscoelastic
from within a delivery device into the support tube 314. In this embodiment the delivery
assembly, including cartridge 301, tray 302, and plunger 303, with syringe 360 secured thereto,
are mounted into screwdrive assembly 370. Screwdrive assembly 370 includes base 390 with
                                                 - 18 -

end posts 372 over which slots in tray 302 are aligned. The delivery assembly self-aligns with
screw 380. Screw 380 is advanced until it touches the plunger of the syringe, as shown in Figure
19C. Screw 380 is then turned to cause the syringe plunger to be advanced, which drives the
fluid from the syringe and into support tube 314. The screwdrive assembly can be modified to
more finely control the force applied to the syringe, and can include a pressure gauge.
[00083]      As set forth herein, an IOL can be positioned, or loaded, into the cartridge using any
suitable technique. For the specific IOL described herein, the loading process includes changing
the orientation of the haptics with respect to the optic, such that the haptics generally extend
away from the optic. In general this process of reorienting the haptics is referred to herein as
splaying the haptics. The loading process, for the IOL herein, also includes reconfiguring at
least one portion of the IOL, such as the optic. Exemplary loading techniques include without
limitation, hydraulically loading the IOL, as is set forth in U.S. App. No. 12/178,565, filed
July 23, 2008. Alternatively, the IOL can be mechanically loaded, such as is described in U.S.
App. No. 13/427,617, filed March 22, 2012. Another example of mechanical loading includes
using forceps to pick up the IOL, reorient one or more haptics, and advance the IOL into the
cartridge.
[00084]      The IOL can be loaded into the cartridge and stored, such as for packaging, or loading
can occur just prior to implantation.
[00085]      The devices and methods herein are able to deliver an IOL through an incision that is
between about 2.8 mm to about 4.5 mm. In some embodiments the incision is about 4 mm. The
devices and methods can be modified if needed to deliver an IOL through a bigger or smaller
incision.
[00086]      While the disclosure focused on a tubular member for the plug, other sealing
mechanisms can also be inserted into the cartridge to help create at least a partial seal between
the IOL and cartridge to aid in the delivery of the IOL.
[00087]      The IOL to be delivered need not have one or more dedicated "haptics" as described
herein. The IOL can more generally include a peripheral portion.
[00088]      Modifications within the scope of the invention may be readily effected by those
skilled in the art. It is to be understood, therefore, that this invention is not limited to the
particular embodiments described by way of example hereinabove.
[00089]      In the claims that follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except
where the context requires otherwise owing to express language or necessary implication, the
word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
that is, to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition
of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
                                                  - 19 -

[00090]    Further, any reference herein to prior art is not intended to imply that such prior art
forms or formed a part of the common general knowledge in any country.
                                               - 20 -

                                               CLAIMS
1.      A method of deploying an intraocular lens into an eye, comprising
        providing an intraocular lens within a delivery device;
        at least partially plugging a gap disposed radially between the intraocular lens and an
inner surface of the delivery device; and
        delivering a fluid into the delivery device to deploy the intraocular lens from the delivery
device and into an eye.
2.      The method of claim 1 wherein at least partially plugging a gap reduces the amount of
fluid that flows passed the intraocular lens in the delivery device.
3.      The method of claim 1 wherein at least partially plugging a gap allow for an increase in
fluid pressure in the delivery device proximal to an optic portion of the intraocular lens.
4.      The method of claim 1 wherein at least partially plugging a gap between the intraocular
lens and an inner surface of the delivery device comprises at least plugging a gap that exists
between a trailing haptic and an inner surface of the delivery device.
5.      The method of claim 1 further comprising reconfiguring a plugging element while
delivering the fluid into the delivery device.
6.      The method of claim 5 wherein reconfiguring the plugging element acts to form a seal
between the plugging element and an inner surface of the delivery device.
7.      The method of claim 5 wherein reconfiguring the plugging element unrolls the plugging
element.
8.      The method of claim 1 wherein delivering a fluid into the delivery device to deploy the
intraocular lens from the delivery device comprises delivering a fluid through a porous material.
9.      An apparatus for deploying an intraocular lens into an eye, comprising:
        an intraocular lens delivery device with an intraocular lens disposed therein;
        a support device adapted to be disposed within the delivery device, the support device
having a lumen therein adapted to allow to fluid to flow therethrough; and
                                                 - 21 -

         a plug element secured to the support device such that it is adapted to at least partially
plug a gap between an intraocular lens positioned in the delivery device and an inner surface of
the delivery device.
10.      The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the plug element is a tubular element.
11.      The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the plug element is open at a distal end after
deployment.
12.      The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the plug element has a fluid flow restriction proximal
to a distal end of the plug element.
13.      The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the plug element is everted at a distal end.
14.      The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the plug element is porous.
15.      The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the plug element is adapted to be reconfigured in
response to fluid flow through the lumen.
16.      The apparatus of claim 9 wherein only a distal portion of the plug element is adapted to
be reconfigured.
17.      The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the plug element has a flow restriction proximal to a
distal end of the plug element.
18.      The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the plug element has portion distal to the flow
restriction that is adapted to be reconfigured.
19.      The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the plug element is open at a distal end.
20.      The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the plug element is an ePTEF tube.
21.      The apparatus of claim 9 wherein a distal portion of the support element is oriented
         towards an inner wall of the delivery device.
                                                - 22 -

22.     The apparatus of claim 9 wherein a distal portion of the support element is oriented away
        from a longitudinal axis of a proximal portion of the support element.
23.     The apparatus of claim 9 wherein a trailing haptic extends proximal relative to an optic
portion of the intraocular lens.
24.     The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the plug element is disposed radially between the
intraocular lens and an inner surface of the delivery device.
25.     The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising a vent adapted to vent air from inside the
apparatus.
26.     An apparatus for deploying an intraocular lens into an eye, comprising:
        an intraocular lens delivery device with an intraocular lens disposed therein;
        a support device adapted to be disposed within the delivery device, the support device
having a lumen therein adapted to allow to fluid to flow therethrough; and
        a vent that is not an intraocular lens delivery port, the vent adapted to vent air from inside
the delivery device when fluid flows therethrough.
27.     A method of deploying an intraocular lens into an eye, comprising
        providing an intraocular lens within a delivery device;
        delivering a fluid into the delivery device to deploy the intraocular lens from the delivery
device; and
        venting air from within the delivery device through a vent, wherein the vent is not an
intraocular lens delivery port.
                                                 - 23 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
