                                         ABSTRACT
         The present invention provides a water mixer comprising a mixer body and an
  adjustable flow regulator mounted within the mixer body, which adjustable flow regulator
  is operable to adjustably restrict flow of mixed water exiting the mixer body, the
5 adjustable flow regulator including a control element that is accessible from outside the
  mixer body.

                   Water mixer including an adjustable flow regulator
                                         Field of the invention
            The present invention relates to water mixers that include flow regulators. A
    common applictaion of water mixers may be those having a lever to control rate of flow,
  5 such as basin mixer taps, kitchen mixer taps, or bath/shower mixers.
                                    Background of the invention
            Flow regulators are designed to be inserted into water lines to control the rate of
    flow of water through the water line, and particularly, to restrict the rate of flow to a
     predetermined flow rate.
 10         U.S. patent publication no. 2014/0332097 and International patent publication no.
    WO 2010/075943 disclose generally circular in-line flow regulating elements comprising
    an elastically deformable material and having an annular channel or valve adapted to
     regulate the flow of water therethrough. Under the pressure of inflowing water, the
    elastic channel or valve is caused to deform from an open position to a partially closed
 15  position to thereby restrict the flow of water. Such in-line flow regulating elements suffer
    from various deficiencies including not being readily accessible for maintenance or
     replacement. Additionally, such in-line flow regulators are limited to restricticting the flow
    of water to a non-adjustable predetermined flow rate.
            The present invention is directed to overcoming or at least ameliorating one or
20   more deficiencies of known in-line flow regulators.
            Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or
    suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any
    jurisdiction or that this prior art could reasonably be expected to be understood,
     regarded as relevant, and/or combined with other pieces of prior art by a skilled person
25   in the art.
                                                        1

                                   Summary of the invention
            In an aspect, the present invention provides a water mixer comprising:
                   a mixer body; and
                   an adjustable flow regulator mounted within the mixer body, which
 5 adjustable flow regulator is operable to adjustably restrict flow of mixed water exiting the
   mixer body, the adjustable flow regulator including a control element that is accessible
   from outside the mixer body.
           The water mixer may also include a mixer cartridge operable to mix water from
   respective hot and cold water intakes to a single mixer outlet so as to vary the
10 proportions of hot and cold water exiting the mixer outlet, and a lever handle operably
   coupled to the mixer cartridge, which lever handle is mounted for rotation to left and
   right from a central position to control water temperature and about a transverse axis to
   control rate of flow from the respective hot and cold water intakes. In this embodiment,
   the adjustable flow regulator is preferably disposed in a fluid path between the mixer
15 cartridge and the mixer outlet so as to adjustably restrict the flow of mixed water exiting
   the mixer outlet.
           The adjustable flow regulator preferably further includes a regulator body having
   a fluid inlet in fluid communication with the mixer cartridge to receive mixed water
   therefrom and a fluid outlet in fluid communication with the mixer outlet. In this
20 embodiment, the control element is preferably moveable within the regulator body to
   adjustably restrict the fluid path and thereby the flow of mixed water exiting the fluid
   outlet.
           The control element of the adjustable flow regulator preferably adjustably restricts
   the flow of mixed water by presenting a restriction surface to mixed water within the
25 regulator body, which restriction surface reduces a cross-sectional area of the fluid path.
           The control element is preferably moveable within the regulator body from a fully
   open position in which the restriction surface does not reduce the cross-sectional area
   of the fluid path to a fully closed position in which the restriction surface provides a
   maximum reduction to the cross-sectional area of the fluid path, said maximum
                                                     2

   reduction corresponding to a minimum flow rate that achieves the flow of mixed water
   exiting the mixer outlet.
           The control element preferably has a control surface configured to receive a force
   to thereby move the control element within the regulator body. In an embodiment, the
 5 control element may be moved within the regulator body by a torque force from a
   torque-producing tool, such as a screwdriver. The control surface may include an
   opening dimensioned to receive the tool. In an embodiment, the opening may be a slit
   complementary to a flat-blade screwdriver.
           The control element is preferably threadably received within an opening in the
10 regulator body. In an embodiment, the regulator body may be a generally cylindrical
   elongate body having a central channel adapted to threadably receive the control
   element. In this embodiment, the control element may be an elongate pin having an
   external thread which is threadably received by an internal thread in the central channel
   of the elongate regulator body.
15         A length of the control element is preferably greater than a length of the regulator
   body such that the control surface of the control element is accessible from outside the
   regulator body. Preferably, the adjustable flow regulator is housed within the mixer body
   such that the control surface is accessible outside the mixer body. Advantageously, this
   allows for the control element to be readily adjustable within the body, for example, by
?0 apply a torque force to the control surface to move the control element within the body
   from the fully open position to the fully closed position. Further advantageously, by
   providing a control surface accessible outside the mixer body, the adjustable flow
   regulator is readily adjustable by a person, even when the water mixer is located in situ,
   for example, in a bathroom vanity unit.
25         A flow regulating element is preferably disposed within the fluid inlet of the
   regulator body. The flow regulating element is preferably a typical in-line flow regulating
   element, such as a Neoperl@ flow-volume regulator as described above. The flow
   regulating element is preferably configured to restrict the flow of mixed water entering
   the fluid inlet of the adjustable flow regulator to a predetermined flow rate. In various
30 embodiments, the predetermined flow rate may be 3 to 8 L/min, but is preferably 4
                                                    3

   L/min. The flow regulating element preferably maintains a constant flow rate irrespective
   of supply pressure from the respective hot and cold water intakes.
          Advantageously, when in use, the adjustable flow regulator is adjustable to
   control a landing position, for example in a basin, of mixed water exiting the water
 5 mixer. In an embodiment, this is achieved by restricting the flow rate of mixed water to a
   value between the minimum flow rate that achieves the flow of mixed water exiting the
   mixer outlet and the predetermined flow rate (as provided by the flow regulating
   element). For example, in one embodiment the flow regulating element may provide a
   predetermined flow rate of 4 L/min. In this embodiment, the adjustable flow regulator
10 may be configured to adjust the flow rate between the minimum flow rate and 4 L/min.
   The flow rate of 4 L/min is achieved when the control element is located in the fully open
   position. The minimum flow rate may be, for example, between 0.2 L/min to 2 L/min.
           In an alternative embodiment, the landing position of mixed water exiting the
   mixer outlet may be controlled by adjusting the flow rate of mixed water exiting the
15 mixer cartridge and entering the fluid inlet of the regulator body. Preferably, the flow rate
   of mixed water exiting the mixer cartridge is between 14 to 18 L/min. The landing
   position may be controlled by altering this flow rate as desired. In this embodiment, the
   regulator body may or may not include a flow regulating element as described above.
          Also disclosed herein is an adjustable flow regulator for a water mixer that, when
?0 in use, is disposed in a fluid path between a mixer cartridge and a mixer outlet of the
   water mixer, the adjustable flow regulator comprising:
                 a regulator body having a fluid inlet in fluid communication with the mixer
   cartridge to receive mixed water therefrom, and a fluid outlet in fluid communication with
   the mixer outlet; and
25               a control element moveable within the regulator body;
                 wherein the control element is moveable to adjustably restrict the fluid
   path and thereby flow of mixed water exiting the outlet.
                                                     4

           The control element preferably adjustably restricts the flow of mixed water by
   presenting a restriction surface to mixed water within the regulator body, which
   restriction surface reduces a cross-sectional area of the fluid path.
           The control element is preferably moveable within the regulator body from a fully
 5 open position in which the restriction surface does not reduce the cross-sectional area
   of the fluid path to a fully closed position in which the restriction surface provides a
   maximum reduction to the cross-sectional area of the fluid path, said maximum
   reduction corresponding to a minimum flow rate that achieves the flow of mixed water
   exiting the mixer outlet.
10         The control element preferably has a control surface configured to receive a force
   to thereby move the control element within the regulator body. In an embodiment, the
   control element may be moved within the regulator body by a torque force from a
   torque-producing tool, such as a screwdriver. The control surface may include an
   opening dimensioned to receive the tool. In an embodiment, the opening may be a slit
15 complementary to a flat-blade screwdriver.
           The control element is preferably threadably received within an opening in the
   regulator body. In an embodiment, the body may be a generally cylindrical elongate
   body having a central channel adapted to threadably receive the control element. In this
   embodiment, the control element may be an elongate pin having an external thread
?0 which is threadably received by an internal thread in the central channel of the elongate
   regulator body.
           A length of the control element is preferably greater than a length of the regulator
   body such that the control surface of the control element is accessible from outside the
   regulator body. Advantageously, this allows for the control element to be readily
25 adjustable within the body, for example, by apply a torque force to the control surface to
   move the control element within the regulator body from the fully open position to the
   fully closed position.
           A flow regulating element is preferably disposed within the fluid inlet of the
   regulator body. The flow regulating element is preferably a typical in-line flow regulating
30 element, such as a Neoperl@ flow-volume regulator as described in U.S. patent
                                                    5

   publication no. 2014/0332097. The flow regulating element is preferably configured to
   restrict the flow of mixed water entering the fluid inlet of the adjustable flow regulator to
   a predetermined flow rate. In various embodiments, the predetermined flow rate may be
   3 to 8 L/min, but is preferably 4 L/min. The flow regulating element preferably maintains
 5 a constant flow rate irrespective of supply pressure from respective hot and cold water
   intakes.
           Advantageously, when in use, the adjustable flow regulator is adjustable to
   control a landing position, for example in a basin, of mixed water exiting the mixer
   outlet. In an embodiment, this is achieved by restricting the flow rate of mixed water to a
10 value between the minimum flow rate that achieves the flow of mixed water exiting the
   mixer outlet and the predetermined flow rate (as provided by the flow regulating
   element). For example, in one embodiment the flow regulating element may provide a
   predetermined flow rate of 4 L/min. In this embodiment, the adjustable flow regulator
   may be configured to adjust the flow rate between the minimum flow rate and 4 L/min.
15 The flow rate of 4 L/min is achieved when the control element is located in the fully open
   position. The minimum flow rate may be, for example, between 0.2 L/min to 2 L/min.
           In an alternative embodiment, the landing position of mixed water exiting the
   mixer outlet may be controlled by adjusting the flow rate of mixed water exiting the
   mixer cartridge and entering the fluid inlet of the regulator body. Preferably, the flow rate
?0 of mixed water exiting the mixer cartridge is between 14 to 18 L/min. The landing
   position may be controlled by altering this flow rate as desired. In this embodiment, the
   regulator body may or may not include a flow regulating element as described above.
           As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term
   "comprise" and variations of the term, such as "comprising", "comprises" and
25 "comprised", are not intended to exclude further additives, components, integers or
   steps.
           Further aspects of the present invention and further embodiments of the aspects
   described in the preceding paragraphs will become apparent from the following
   description, given by way of example and with reference to the accompanying drawings.
                                                     6

                                 Brief description of the drawings
           Fig. 1 is a front isometric view of a basin mixer with the lever handle in a central
   off position;
           Figs. 2 and 3 are respective plan and side elevation views of the basin mixer
 5 depicted in Fig. 1;
           Fig. 4 is a vertical axial cross-section of an adjustable flow regulator mounted
   within the basin mixer of Figs. 1 to 3 according to an embodiment of the invention;
           Figs. 5a, 5b and 5c show a sequence of side views showing the manner in which
   the control element of the adjustable flow regulator is moveable to adjustably restrict
10 flow of mixed water exiting the basin mixer; and
           Fig. 6 is a rear isometric view of the basin mixer incorporating the adjustable flow
   regulator.
                              Detailed description of an embodiment
           The adjustable flow regulator of the present disclosure is described in relation to
15 its use in a basin mixer. Nonetheless, a skilled person will appreciate that the present
   adjustable flow regulator may be utilised in other water mixer designs, for example,
   other basin or kitchen mixers or bath/shower mixers.
           The illustrated basin mixer 10, as seen in its normal in situ orientation in Figs. 1
   to 3, includes a mixer body 20 configured to define a hollow upright post 22 and, at the
20 top of the post, a laterally protruding arm 24. The upper edge of the mixer body 20 is
   defined by a rim 25 comprising parallel sides and semi-circular ends about a
   transversely concave shallow recess or channel 26. The inner end of recess 26 opens
   into the hollow interior of post 22. The end of rim 25 opposite arm 24 snugly receives
   one end of a lever handle 30 including a relatively thin blade 31.
25         From above, blade 31 exhibits parallel sides and semi-circular ends and snugly
   fits within rim 25 but is shorter than the rim at the outer end of the arm 24. As seen in
   the side view of Fig. 3, when lever handle 30 is in its central lowermost position blade
   31 has a horizontal portion 31a atop post 22 that is substantially flush with rim 25. Blade
   31 also has an upwardly turned grip portion 31b that is inclined at an angle between 200
                                                     7

   and 250, for example 220, to the horizontal so as to leave a comfortable space between
   its underside and recess 26 in which to place a finger to manipulate the handle.
            In operation, lever handle 30 is rotated vertically (i.e. about a transverse
   horizontal axis) to control the rate of flow of water from respective hot and cold water
 5 intakes to a mixer outlet and onto the outer part of recess 26. Lever handle 30 is also
   rotated left or right from a central position (Fig. 2) to control water temperature by
   varying the hot/cold water mix from the hot and cold water intakes.
            In the conventional manner, the internal water control element of the mixer is a
   mixer cartridge 40 mounted within post 22 with an upwardly projecting mixer control
10 element 42 pivoted to the cartridge body at a horizontal axis 43 (Fig. 4). The rate of flow
   of water from respective hot and cold water intakes 45 is adjustable by pivoting the
   mixer control element 42 from a vertically aligned off position (Fig. 4) to a forwardly
   inclined fully on position (not shown). The proportions of hot and cold water entering the
   mixer cartridge 40 are varied by rotating the mixer control element 42 about the vertical
15 axis of the mixer cartridge 40 and post 22 to vary the proportions of hot and cold water
   delivered from the respective hot and cold water intakes 45. Mixer outlet 15 opens onto
   the recess 26 so that the mixed water flows along the recess and over its front lip 29. In
   this manner, the recess 26 and front lip 29 form a single mixer outlet or spout.
           The adjustable flow regulator of the present disicosure will now be described in
?0 relation to its use in the basin mixer 10. The illustrated basin mixer 10 is of the type
   disclosed in International patent publication no. WO 2015/061846, the entire contents of
   which is hereby incorporated by reference. As described previously, the present
   adjustable flow regulator has application in other water mixers, and the structure of the
   illustrated basin mixer is merely exemplary only.
25         As shown in Fig. 4, a portion of the adjustable flow regulator 50 of the present
   invention is disposed in a fluid path F between the mixer cartridge 40 and the mixer
   outlet 15 of the basin mixer 10. The adjustable flow regulator 50 is housed or retained in
   the post 22 by a threaded engagement. A plurality of seals 51 are positioned around the
   regulator body 52.
                                                    8

           The adjustable flow regulator 50 comprises a generally cylindrical elongate
   regulator body 52 having, at its upper end adjacent the mixer cartridge 40, a fluid inlet
   defined by a vertical opening 54 in fluid communication with an outlet of the mixer
   cartridge 40 to receive mixed water therefrom. The elongate body 52 further comprises
 5 a fluid outlet defined by a generally horizontal opening 56 generally adjacent to, but
   disposed lower than, the fluid inlet 54. Fluid outlet 56 may be any suitable opening (for
   example, a slit), but in the illustrated embodiment the outlet 56 comprises a pair of
   opposed generally rectangular openings. In use, mixed water exiting the mixer cartridge
   40 travels along fluid path F, enters the fluid inlet 54 of the elongate body 52, and
10 thereafter exits the elongate body via the fluid outlet 56. Fluid outlet 56 is in fluid
   communication with the mixer outlet 15 such that water exiting the adjustable flow
   regulator 50 is caused to exit the mixer outlet 15 and travel along recess 26 to lip 29.
           Disposed within the fluid inlet 54 of the elongate body 52 is a flow regulating
   element 58. The flow regulating element 58 is a typical in-line flow regulating element,
15 such as a Neoperl@ flow-volume regulator, configured to restrict the flow of mixed water
   entering the adjustable flow regulator 50 to a predetermined flow rate, such as 4 L/min.
   The flow regulating element with an appropriate flow rate is preselected by the
   manufacturer of the basin mixer. The flow of mixed water exiting the mixer outlet 15 can
   then be adjustably restricted by the mechanism of the flow regulator according to the
?0 present invention, as outlined below.
           The elongate body 52 of the adjustable flow regulator further defines a central
   longitudinal channel 49 with an internal thread 53 at its upper end, which threadingly
   retains a rotatable control element in the form of a generally cylindrical pin 60.
   Cylindrical pin 60 includes, along a portion of its length, an external thread which is
25 received by the internal thread 53. The arrangement is such that the cylindrical pin 60 is
   rotatable within the central channel 49 of the body 52, and therefore, moveable in a
   longitudinal direction relative thereto. The cylindrical control pin 60 is configured such
   that its upper end 60a presents a restriction surface 62 (Fig. 5a) to mixed water within a
   space or void 55 in the fluid path F defined between the fluid inlet 54 and fluid outlet 56
30 of the body 52. The restriction surface 62 acts to reduce a cross-sectional area of the
   fluid path F by impinging into the void 55, and as a result, reduces or restricts the flow of
   mixed water exiting the fluid outlet 56 (and ultimately the mixer outlet 15).
                                                    9

           The control element or pin 60 is moveable within the body 52 from a fully open
   position (Fig. 5a) to a fully closed position (Fig. 5c). In the fully open position the pin 60
   does not impinge into void 55 and does not reduce the cross-sectional area of the fluid
   path F. In the fully closed position the restriction surface 62 impinges substantially into
 5 the void 55 providing a maximum reduction to the cross-sectional area of the fluid path
   F (but does not completely close the fluid path). The maximum reduction corresponding
   to a minimum flow rate that achieves the flow of mixed water exiting the mixer outlet. As
   described above, by adjustably reducing (or increasing) the cross-sectional area of the
   fluid path F, the flow of mixed water exiting the fluid outlet 56 is correspondingly
10 reduced (or increased). Practically, by adjustably restricting the flow of mixed water
   exiting the mixer outlet 15, a landing position of the mixed water, for example in an
   underlying basin, is able to be controlled. As shown in Fig. 5c, when the adjustable flow
   regulator 50 is fully closed, the landing position of the mixed water is closer to the mixer
   body 20 than in the fully open position shown in Fig. 5a. The adjustable flow regulator
15 50 of the present invention is capable of adjusting the rate of flow of mixed water exiting
   the mixer outlet to a value between the minimum flow rate that achieves the flow of
   mixed water exiting the mixer outlet (i.e., some finite non-zero flow rate, for example,
   0.5 L/min) and the predetermined flow rate as provided by the preselected flow
   regulating element 58 (e.g., 4 L/min).
?0         Conveniently, a lower end 60b of the control pin 60 defines a control surface 64
   configured to receive a torque force. The control surface 64 includes an opening in the
   form of a central vertical slit 66 which is dimensioned to be complementary to a
   standard flat-blade screwdriver 67 (Fig. 6). The screw driver 67 is rotated to translate
   the control pin 60 vertically within the regulator body 52 between the fully open and fully
25 closed positions (and plural positions therebetween).
           As shown in the figures, a length of the control pin 60 is greater than a length of
   the elongate regulator body 52 and the mixer post 22 such that the control surface 64 is
   accessible from outside the regulator body 52, and importantly outside the mixer body
   20. Advantageously, this allows for the control pin 60, and therefore the adjustable flow
30 regulator 50, to be easily adjusted by a person when the water mixer 10 is located in
   situ, for example, in a bathroom vanity unit. To adjustably restrict the flow of mixed
   water exiting the water mixer 10, and thereby control the landing position of the mixed
                                                     10

    water, a person can simply rotate the control pin 60 via a screwdriver 67 received in the
    vertical slit 66 of the control surface 64 as shown in Fig. 6. Access to the control pin 60
    can be obtained from within the bathroom vanity unit.
            The control pin 60 has a stepped diameter, such that the diameter at the upper
  5 end 60a is greater than the lower end 60b and the central portion 60c. The lower step
    61 b is positioned to abut against the lower end of the regulator body 52. The upper step
    61a is positioned to abut against a corresponding step 57 on the inside of the channel
    49. These stop points allow the uppermost position of the control pin 60 to be set, such
    that a minimal cross-sectional area of the fluid path F can be maintained.
 10         The adjustable flow regulator of the present disclosure may be manufactured
    from any suitable material known to those skilled in the art, but preferably comprises
    brass.
            The present disclosure provides an adjustable flow regulator that can be readily
    accessed and adjusted to suit the environment during installation or after installation by
 15 a non-skilled person.
            It will be understood that the invention disclosed and defined in this specification
    extends to all alternative combinations of two or more of the individual features
    mentioned or evident from the text or drawings. All of these different combinations
    constitute various alternative aspects of the invention.
20
                                                     11

                                              CLAIMS
   1.      A water mixer comprising:
           a mixer body; and
           an adjustable flow regulator mounted within the mixer body, which adjustable
 5 flow regulator is operable to adjustably restrict flow of mixed water exiting the mixer
   body, the adjustable flow regulator including a control element that is accessible from
   outside the mixer body.
   2.      The water mixer of claim 1, further including:
           a mixer cartridge operable to mix water from respective hot and cold water
10 intakes to a single mixer outlet so as to vary the proportions of hot and cold water
   exiting the mixer outlet; and
           a lever handle operably coupled to the mixer cartridge, which lever handle is
   mounted for rotation to left and right from a central position to control water temperature
   and about a transverse axis to control rate of flow from the respective hot and cold
15 water intakes;
           wherein the adjustable flow regulator is disposed in a fluid path between the
   mixer cartridge and the mixer outlet so as to adjustably restrict the flow of mixed water
   exiting the mixer outlet.
   3.      The water mixer of claim 2, wherein the adjustable flow regulator further includes:
20         a regulator body having a fluid inlet in fluid communication with the mixer
   cartridge to receive mixed water therefrom, and a fluid outlet in fluid communication with
   the mixer outlet;
           wherein the control element is moveable within the regulator body to adjustably
   restrict the fluid path and thereby the flow of mixed water exiting the fluid outlet.
25 4.      The water mixer of claim 3, wherein the control element adjustably restricts the
   flow of mixed water by presenting a restriction surface to mixed water within the
   regulator body, which restriction surface reduces a cross-sectional area of the fluid path.
                                                       12

   5.      The water mixer of claim 4, wherein the control element is moveable from a fully
   open position in which the restriction surface does not reduce the cross-sectional area
   of the fluid path to a fully closed position in which the restriction surface provides a
   maximum reduction to the cross-sectional area of the fluid path.
 5 6.      The water mixer of any one of claims 3 to 5, wherein the control element has a
   control surface configured to receive a force to thereby move the control element within
   the regulator body.
   7.      The water mixer of claim 6, wherein a length of the control element is greater
   than a length of the regulator body such that the control surface is accessible from
10 outside the regulator body.
   8.      The water mixer of claim 7, wherein the control surface is accessible from outside
   the mixer body.
   9.      The water mixer of any one of claims 6 to 8, wherein the control surface includes
   an opening dimensioned to receive a tool that produces the force.
15 10.     The water mixer of any of claims 3 to 9, wherein the control element is threadably
   received within a channel in the regulator body.
   11.     The water mixer of any one of claims 3 to 10, wherein the fluid inlet includes a
   flow regulating element that is configured to restrict flow of mixed water entering the
   fluid inlet to a predetermined flow rate.
20 12.     The water mixer of any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein, in use, the adjustable flow
   regulator is adjustable to control a landing position of mixed water exiting the mixer
   body.
                                                      13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     1/4

                        2/4
<removed-date>
                                                        10
                                  30
                                              15
<removed-apn>
                                                                       42
                                                                   43
                                                                   F
              29             F
                                                                  54
                   58                                                   40
                                                                        57
                        56
                        60a                                        51
                        60
                                                                   20
                        52
                                                                        22
                                  60c
                                                                        49
                                                             45
                             50
                                        60b
                                                   64
                    FIG. 4

                                                          3/4
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                          54          62
                             54                                                         54
              58                             58                                               58
                                  62
                                                                               F
                   56                            F
                   F
                                                                                                  56
              60a                                                   60a
                                            56
                                                                                                  60a
                                  F
              51
                                                                                                       52
                                                                          52
                                       52
                                            60                                                     60
                   60
                        50                           50                            50
                        FIG. 5a                           FIG. 5b                       FIG. 5c

                         4/4
<removed-date>   30                       10
<removed-apn>
                                       20
                   66            60b
                                 64
                                 67
                        FIG. 6

