                                           25
ABSTRACT
A device or system useful for temporarily reducing the appearance of cellulite and
increasing local circulation, including a base with an array of protrusions having a
size, shape, durometer and spacing selected to indent a user's skin under pressure.
A user may position the device such that the protrusions are in contact with skin or
separated from the skin by thin fabric, and then apply pressure to cause the
protrusions to indent but not penetrate the skin.

            517
 1C1
     0x
      N-x
N-        x     xx

                                            1
                CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION(S)
[0001] This is a conversion of, and claims a benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional
Application No. 61/728,468, filed Nov. 20, 2012, entitled "PORTABLE MAT USEFUL
FOR      TEMPORARILY        REDUCING       APPEARANCE        OF     CELLULITE     AND
INCREASING       LOCAL CIRCULATION," which is fully incorporated herein by
reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002] This disclosure relates generally to portable mat(s). More particularly,
embodiments disclosed herein relate to a new type of portable mats suitable for use
in temporarily improving local circulation, reducing the appearance of cellulite,
relieving minor aches and pain, and relieving minor muscle spasms.
BACKGROUND OF THE RELATED ART
[0003] Studies have shown that a significant percentage of women and some men
may have cellulite and that cellulite is genetic and may become more noticeable with
age or can be affected by diet, lack of exercise, hormonal changes and/or changes
in weight. Cellulite is more commonly seen in the abdomen, buttocks and thighs, but
can also be seen in other parts of the body. The cellulite, under the skin, gives the
skin a non-uniform appearance sometimes likened to the appearance of cottage
cheese. It is a general notion that the dimpled appearance of skin due to the
presence of cellulite is unbecoming.
[0004] It is understood that the appearance of cellulite can be temporarily reduced or
eliminated by mechanical massage which has the effect of stimulating the local
circulation to the area and promoting lymphatic drainage of excess fluids present in
fat cells. Both of these effects of mechanical massage may lead to the temporary
appearance of a reduction in the appearance of cellulite.
[0005] With this understanding, a number of approaches have been proposed to
temporarily reduce the appearance of cellulite. For example, one approach may
involve a user using creams such as those containing Caffeine or Aminophylline to
temporarily reduce the appearance of cellulite. However, such creams are messy,

                                             2
with no immediate results (in fact, most see no reduction in the appearance of
cellulite for 4 to 6 weeks with daily use), maintenance is difficult to achieve and even
harder to maintain, and even when results are good, and the recurring costs can be
quite expensive. Furthermore, many of the lotions and creams that are applied
topically can require multiple applications per week, can require the use of drugs or
chemicals, can be irritating to the skin and must be used consistently over time to
achieve then maintain desirable results.
[0006] As another example, hand held therapeutic massaging devices designed to
temporarily reduce the appearance of cellulite require active use and significant time
requirements       on  the  part   of   the    user. Furthermore,      undergoing   such
services/procedures, such as those used in endermologie or cellulaze treatments,
requires the user to schedule an appointment to a specialist's office and have no 'at
home' utility. Many office procedures may offer similar results in reducing the
appearance of cellulite. However, these office procedures require multiple visits to a
specialist's office, which are costly and usually more invasive and time consuming,
all for a temporary result. In addition, the more invasive the procedure, the more
technical skill required by the medical provider and the more dependent the results
are on the technician. These more invasive procedures have risks of bruising, bad
results and can be painful.
[0007] Example devices and methods for the reduction of cellulite can be found in
the following patent documents.
[0008] U.S. Pat. No. 6,517,499 (Pereira) discloses a massage device with rotating
elements. This is a hand held device complete with a suction enclosure. A
reciprocating linear motion is communicated to massage applicator rollers to
facilitate massaging human tissue in the treatment of cellulite.
[0009] U.S. Pat. No. 6,511,445 (Sivan et al.) is directed to a hand-held cellulite
massage system with a gel dispenser. The device applies suction to an area of the
body to massage that area and applies gel to treat the skin.
[0010] U.S. Pat. No. 6,443,914 (Costantino) is directed to an apparatus and method
for preventing and treating cellulite. Tissues are generated or strengthened by
applying radiation or an appropriate frequency to disrupt or otherwise destroy cells.

                                            3
[0011] U.S. Pat. No. 5,820,573 (Ramos) is directed to a body contour massage
device and method. The device consists of a rigid flat base which, when configured
with contoured modules and rigid pressure nibs or blades, contours the length of an
adult human body. The device operates by arranging the massage elements
including buttocks, back, shoulder, and neck modules. With pressure nibs or blades
to match the contoured surface of the backside of a person. The person then lies
upward facing on the device with the device applied across the entire body for the
desired therapeutic effect.
[0012] U.S. Pat. No. 5,402,545 (Jolley) teaches an orthopedic seat cushion for
permitting free circulation and protecting the user's coccyx. A cushion with numerous
protrusions is disclosed.
[0013] U.S. Pat. No. 5,628,079 (Kizemchuk et al.) is directed to a seat cushion with
projections. The seat cushion has a flexible substrate and pads. The pads have a
pattern of projections thereon in a spaced, parallel relationship. Here, it is indicated
that the cushion provides a massage of a person's buttocks or thighs to help alleviate
cellulite.
[0014] U.S. Pat. No. 5,250,067 (Gelfer et al.) is directed to a body treatment pad
having a multiple number of sharpened skin-penetration protuberances. The pad
includes a flexible backing sheet having a multiplicity of similarly constructed rigid
blocks at spaced points along the sheet surface. Each block has at least one tapered
protuberance extending away from the sheet. When the pad is held under pressure
against person's body, the sharpened protuberances act as acupuncture elements to
stimulate nerve endings under the skin, thereby increasing the blood circulation and
relieving pain.
[0015] U.S. Pat. No. 5,170,778 (Jamis) is directed to a body massaging device which
permits a user to massage his back by placing the device between his back and the
flat surface.
[0016] U.S. Pat. No. 5,134,735 (Rose) is directed to a mattress cushion with multiple
zones. Each of the cushion's three separate zones has a different compression
modulus such that when a person presses down on the zones, support proportional
to the boy's weigh is achieved.

                                             4
[0017] U.S. Des. Pat. No. 294,212 (Sias et al.) is directed to a design of a seating
pad having upwardly extending protuberances.
[0018] U.S. Pat. No. 4,614,000 (Mayer) is directed to patient undersheet for
preventing bed sores that utilizes upwardly extending protuberances.
[0019] U.S. Pat. No. 4,086,922 (Henderson) is directed to a method and apparatus
for treating cellulite containing areas of the human body. This is a hand-held device
that uses a base that supports closely spaced balls. The apparatus is hand-held for
massaging and kneading areas of the human body.
[0020] U.S. Pat. No. 3,970,078 (Rogers, Jr.) is directed to a hand roller massage
device that is grasped by hand and uses massage rollers to massage areas of
cellulite on a human body.
[0021] U.S. Pat. No. 6,988,979 (Trainor) is directed to a method of using an exercise
bench for performing exercises for the reduction of cellulite which includes a textured
surface on top portions of the bench.
[0022] U.S. Pat. No. 5,639,145 (Alderman) is directed to a portable, flexible, hinged
cushion with material features and vibrators that can be advantageous for persons
afflicted with blood circulation problems, strained muscles, etc.
[0023] U.S. Pat. No. 5,820,573 (Ramos) is directed to a massaging device with
modules that fit the entire length of the human body creating a massaging effect
when the user lies upward facing on the device.
[0024] U.S. Pat. No. 6,153,207 (Pugliese) is directed at a garment for treating skin
through the release of chemicals bound to inside surface of the garment.
[0025] U.S. Pat. No. 4,829,987 (Stewart) is directed a method of treating the human
body with a mineral solution and a body wrap to aid in the temporary reduction of
cellulite.
[0026] As these examples illustrate, prior approaches to temporarily reducing the
appearance of cellulite, while effective, create user compliance issues that
undermine overall success, including costs, ease of use, portability, allowance for

                                            5
changes in the users body positioning, size of person, size of chair to accommodate
placement of mat, and performance. Consequently, there is ample room for
innovations and improvements.
SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE
[0027] An object of the present disclosure is to provide a portable mat that can aid in
the temporary reduction in the appearance of cellulite, increase of local circulation,
temporary relief of minor muscle aches and pains, and relief of muscle spasm
without the drawbacks existent in prior approaches mentioned above. In some
embodiments, the portable mat can have one or more discrete pads. Each pad can
be used by itself or with one or more pads. When in use, the portable mat provides a
textured surface with protrusions for contacting an area of skin (e.g., the thighs and
buttocks of a user in a seated position, the neck and/or back of a user in a resting
position, etc.) which accomplishes therapeutic massage of the area with minimal to
moderate movement on the part of the user and leaves the user with impressions
from the textured surface on their skin which occasions the increase in local
circulation to smooth the skin's surface in the post-contact period after use.
[0028] In some embodiments, a portable mat may include a base monolithically
made of a thermoplastic elastomer material, having a thickness, and at least a first
surface on a plane. In some embodiments, the thermoplastic elastomer material may
have a thermal conductivity between 0.04-0.52 W*m- 1 *K- 1 .
[0029] In some embodiments, the base may be solid and/or have one or more
openings. In some embodiments, the base may have two halves, each half of the
base may be substantially a mirror image or complementary of the other half of the
base. In some embodiments, the base can have a thickness between approximately
1.27 centimetres and approximately 1.59 centimetres. In some embodiments, the
base may have a first thickness of approximately 1.27 centimetres near an edge and
a second thickness of approximately 1.59 centimetres near the center of the base.
[0030] In some embodiments, the first surface of the base has a plurality of
protrusions arranged in close proximity or adjacent to each other, forming a textured
surface for the portable mat. The plurality of protrusions may have the same or
similar geometric configuration, with each protrusion having a tip. In some

                                              6
embodiments, each protrusion may have a height between approximately 0.25
centimetres and 0.76 centimetres. In some embodiments, the plurality of protrusions
may have a hardness or resilience between 10-150 Shore A on the Durometer scale.
The plurality of protrusions thus configured can cause non-transdermal temporary
indentation when the portable mat is in use.
[0031] Specifically, when a user uses an embodiment of a portable mat disclosed
herein by sitting or resting on it, the application of the user's body weight against the
portable mat's textured surface produces an effective therapeutic massage, leaving
the user with an 'imprint' on the surface of their skin mirroring the textured surface of
the portable mat. After a short period of time (e.g., within 15 minutes) of use, the
user may feel a slight sensation of warmth. This verifiable increase in the user's skin
temperature corresponds to an increase in local blood circulation caused by the
user's body reacting to the portable mat's imprinting effect. After removal of the
portable mat (e.g., after one half hour of use), the increased local blood circulation
acts to smooth out the 'imprinted' skin surface (e.g., within an hour). The user may
benefit from a temporary reduction in the appearance of cellulite in the 'massaged'
area, temporary relief of minor muscle aches and pains, and/or relief of muscle
spasm.
[0032] In some embodiments, the portable mat may be part of a kit which includes,
for instance, a case for storing and transporting the portable mat.
[0033] Numerous other embodiments are also possible.
[0034] Embodiments disclosed herein can provide many advantages over the prior
approaches mentioned above. For example, the portable mat can be used anywhere
and the cost can be a fraction of that of the office procedures or the recurring cost of
maintenance of other products or services. Furthermore, the effects produced by the
use of a portable mat disclosed herein do not require drugs or chemicals, do not
involve office visits and/or expensive device/equipment/creams/locations, and have
been shown to occur immediately within one hour of use. Embodiments can be used
as frequently (or infrequently) as desired. Usage can be tied to one's daily routine of
sitting for thirty minutes.

                                            7
[0035] These, and other, aspects of the disclosure will be better appreciated and
understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the
accompanying drawings. It should be understood, however, that the following
description, while indicating various embodiments of the disclosure and numerous
specific details thereof, is given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many
substitutions, modifications, additions and/or rearrangements may be made within
the scope of the disclosure without departing from the spirit thereof, and the
disclosure    includes  all  such    substitutions, modifications, additions    and/or
rearrangements.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0036] The drawings accompanying and forming part of this specification are
included to depict certain aspects of the disclosure. A clearer impression of the
disclosure will become more readily apparent by referring to the exemplary, and
therefore non-limiting, embodiments illustrated in the drawings. Wherever possible,
the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the
same or like features (elements). The drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale.
[0037] FIGS.     1A-1D   depict top, cross-sectional, and close-up views of one
embodiment of a portable mat;
[0038] FIG. 2 depicts a close-up perspective view of a portion of one embodiment of
a portable mat;
[0039] FIG. 3 depicts a side view of one embodiment of a portable mat;
[0040] FIG. 4 depicts another side view of one embodiment of a portable mat;
[0041] FIGS. 5 and 6 depict side views of embodiments of a portable mat; and
[0042] FIGS. 7-9 depict top views of various embodiments of a portable mat system.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION

                                             8
[0043] Embodiments disclosed herein provide a portable mat, system, and kit that
may be useful for temporarily reducing the appearance of cellulite, temporarily
increasing local circulation, temporarily relieving minor muscle aches and pains, and
temporarily relieving muscle spasm. Other uses may also be possible, such as relief
of minor back aches or muscle spasms to the upper and lower spinal areas.
[0044] In some embodiments, the portable mat can be made of a flexible material
such as thermoplastic elastomer. Other materials are also possible. For example, the
portable mat can be made of rubber, plastic, glass, fiberglass, metal, bamboo, wood,
hard plastic, or a composite material. As a non-limiting example, the portable mat
may be made of a material having a sufficiently high durometer (e.g., 10-150 Shore
A) so that the protrusions are not substantially compressed by the user's weight and
can leave a visible pattern or 'imprint' on the skin after use, ensuring that the
indentations they create are the intended shape and size. The portable mat has a
form factor that allows it to be used in various positions such as sitting or when the
user is lying on the side, on the back, or face down.
[0045] In some embodiments, a portable mat disclosed herein can be made
monolithically out of a single piece of material. In some embodiments, a portable mat
disclosed herein can be made using an injection molding process. In some
embodiments, a portable mat disclosed herein can be nonporous and have no
seams or holes. These features protect the portable mat from being penetrated by
bodily fluids, dirt, chemicals, and/or high pressure water. Hence, it is easy to clean in
a dishwasher.
[0046] In some embodiments, a portable mat may include one or more pads, each
with a pattern of protrusions positioned thereon. In some embodiments, each of the
protrusions (also referred to as protuberances) can be a three dimensional (3D)
shape. As a non-limiting example, the 3D shape can be a tetrahedron or a pyramid.
Other geometric 3D shapes are also possible, so long as each protrusion has a tip
configured to create a desired impression in the skin and contact, but not penetrate,
the skin when a person sits on the mat. These protrusions can be identical or
substantially identical across all protrusions. Further, in some embodiments, the
protrusions can be equally spaced from one another. In some embodiments, the
protrusions can have the same height or varying heights. The number of protrusions

                                           9
per pad may vary from implementation to implementation, depending upon the size
and/or shape of the underlying pad, as well as the size and/or shape of the individual
protrusions.
[0047] A measurement of protrusions per unit area of the mat may be referred to as
the protrusion density for the mat. A protrusion density may be selected such that a
distance between two adjacent protrusions (e.g., as measured between their tips,
edges, and/or bases) does not exceed a maximum threshold. This maximum
threshold may vary depending upon individual users (e.g., age, gender, skin
thickness, skin sensitivity, etc.) such that the protrusions of a portable mat can
support a user's weight and that contact between the user's skin and any one
protrusion does not cause damage or excessive pain to the user by that protrusion.
[0048] The protrusion density for a mat may also vary depending upon the hardness
of each protrusion, the shape of each protrusion, the shape of the tip of each
protrusion, and/or some other characteristic. In one embodiment, the protrusion
density for a mat having pyramidal or frustro-pyramidal protrusions with a hardness
of approximately 80 Shore A is between approximately 2-3 protrusions per 6.45
square centimetres (which is an example of a unit area). However, more or fewer
protrusions per 6.45 square centimetres may be possible, depending on how much
spacing is present between adjacent protrusions, the size and/or shape of the base
for each protrusion, the height of each protrusion, etc. For example, a mat having
rounded protrusions may have a lower protrusion density than a mat having angled
protrusions, a mat with protrusions having hardness of 100 Shore A may have a
higher protrusion density than a mat with protrusions having a hardness of 50 Shore
A, a mat having protrusions that extend 1.27 centimetres may have a lower density
than a mat with protrusions that extend only 0.64 centimetres, etc.
[0049] In some embodiments, a portable mat disclosed herein can have two or more
discrete pads, each having a pattern of protrusions positioned thereon. These pads
may have the same or different patterns of protrusions and may be made of the
same or different materials. These pads may have the same or different shapes. In
one embodiment, a portable mat can be made of two symmetrically shaped pads. In
one embodiment, the pads are rectangular. Other shapes are also possible and
anticipated. For example, the pads can have oval, irregular, square, circular,

                                            10
octagonal shapes or the like. The pads can be used separately or together at the
same time. The mat size can be extended to include sufficient skin contact to
effectuate a full body mat surface contact area.
 [0050] The pads of a portable mat disclosed herein can be permanently or
temporarily attached to each other using a variety of attachment mechanisms. For
example, in one embodiment, two or more pads may be removably attached to each
other via a hook and loop arrangement. As another example, in some embodiments,
one or more flexible cables or cords of same or different lengths may be used to join
two or more pads to form a portable mat. Other attachment mechanisms may also
 be possible.
 [0051] The ability to separate and attach multiple pads as desired allows a user to
 position and/or align the pads with the contour of their individual body. For example,
a user may position two pads, each under a thigh and joining at a corresponding
corner to form a "V" pattern when the user sits on the mat placed on an office chair.
The same user may arrange the same pads in parallel to form a "|1"pattern when the
user sits on the mat placed on a seat in an airplane. In this example, the airplane
seat is a lot smaller and hence more restrictive than the user's office chair. However,
the user can still adjust the orientation of the pads to fit the seat and the position at
which it is used. The portable mat disclosed herein can therefore accommodate
differences in user size, use position, seat restrictions, etc.
[0052] In some embodiments, the protrusions on a pad can taper down toward one
or more sides of the pad. For example, the height of the protrusions on a pad can
taper down toward a side of the pad that is designed to be positioned under the thigh
just above the knee (popliteal fossa). The reduced height of the protrusions in this
area can minimize pressure to the knee pit, allowing better blood circulation and
lymphatic drainage and alleviating the possibility of limiting blood flow. Another
example can be that the height of the protrusions on a pad can taper to the
anatomical structure of the pelvis and allow for more comfort in the area of contact
between the pads and the ischial spines. Another example can be that the pad itself
can be constructed to be ergonomic forcing the user to tend to lean/sit in a more
forward position when using the pad.

                                               11
[0053] These protrusions are configured to enable a reduction in the appearance of
cellulite when the skin is placed in contact with a surface of the mat patterned or
otherwise textured with the protrusions for a period of time, for instance, in the range
of an hour, more or less. The patterned surface promotes keeping the skin in contact
with the surface relatively fixed against the surface of the mat such that fat tissue is
also thus fixed relative to the textured surface. The mat can leverage a user's body
weight against the textured surface as well as when there is slight movement of the
body, such as shifts in the body's positioning with normal desk-type activity.
[0054] More specifically, the pattern of protrusions can be configured or otherwise
arranged such that when the mat is placed under the buttocks and thighs of a user,
the protrusions can impress upon the user's skin. When the mat is sat on by the
user, the user's own body weight and natural motion (passive massage) can drive
the protrusions into, but not breaking, the skin, pushing the fluids out from where the
skin is impressed with the indentations and creating a mechanical massage. The
pressure from the protrusions can also cause impressions to occur in the skin and
the user's body naturally reacts by increasing blood flow to the area (erythema) to
counter the indentations caused by the protrusions. The non-porous material used
also enhances a warming effect and the skin temperature of the user increases
during the use period. After sitting on the mat for a period of time, for instance, about
half an hour, once or twice per day, the mat is separated from the user (e.g., the user
stands up from sitting or lying on the mat). The indentations gradually disappear from
the skin and the blood circulation to the local area begins to subside, both effects
leaving an effect of temporary reduction in the appearance of cellulite.
[0055] Embodiments of a portable mat disclosed herein can have a form factor and
weight comparable to a tablet computer, making them easy to carry, transport, and
store. As a non-limiting example, a mat encompassing a set of two discrete pads can
weigh about two pounds or less and easily accommodate carrying pads for use in a
car seat, office chair, or typical sitting situations at home or at a restaurant.
[0056] Embodiments of a portable mat disclosed herein can incorporate design
elements such that their actual function is not readily apparent, making it possible for
users who may have concerns about revealing their purpose can carry them around

                                           12
without the concern that others will notice. For example, the materials can be colored
using impregnating dye(s) and/or surface paint(s).
[0057] Embodiments of a portable mat disclosed herein can conform to most seating
surfaces without being damaged and/or without damaging the seating surfaces.
[0058] Embodiments of a portable mat disclosed herein can be easy to clean. For
example, the portable mat may be cleaned in a common household dishwasher or
washed by hand. The heat of the dishwasher will not damage the integrity of the mat
for repeated uses and the mat can tolerate extremes of heat, such as leaving it in the
car in hot temperatures.
[0059] Embodiments of a portable mat disclosed herein can provide a low risk
solution to temporarily reduce the appearance of cellulite, temporarily increase local
blood circulation, temporarily relieve minor muscle aches and pains, and/or relax
muscles locally. The invention and the various features and advantageous details
thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non-limiting embodiments that
are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following
description. Descriptions of well-known manufacturing techniques, components and
equipment are omitted so as not to unnecessarily obscure the invention in detail. It
should be understood, however, that the detailed description and the specific
examples, while indicating preferred embodiments of the invention, are given by way
of illustration only and not by way of limitation. Various substitutions, modifications,
additions and/or rearrangements within the spirit and/or scope of the underlying
inventive concept will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this
disclosure.
[0060] FIGS.      1A-1D  depict top, cross-sectional, and close-up views of one
embodiment of a portable mat (device 100). As depicted in one or more of FIGS. 1A
1D, device 100 may be formed with base 120 having edges with lengths L1 and L2.
Base 120 may have a single thickness (e.g., T1) or base may vary in thickness and
have two or more thicknesses (e.g., T2 and T3). Device 100 may be formed as a
single piece, or portions of device 100 may be formed and then mechanically,
chemically or thermally bonded or joined to form device 100. In one embodiment, T1
may be 0.318 centimetres. In one embodiment, T1 may be 0.419 centimetres. In one

                                            13
embodiment, T2 may be 0.318 centimetres and T3 may be 0.419 centimetres. Other
values for T1, T2, and T3 may also be possible.
[0061] Base 120 may be formed from material selected for desired characteristics
relating to use, transport, storage, or cleaning. For example, device 100 may be
formed with base 120 being solid or having one or more openings (not shown) for
ease of handling during use and/or transport. Device 100 may also be formed with a
material having one or more characteristics including, but not limited to, anti
microbial surfaces, low thermal conductivity, flexibility, light weight, latex free,
odorless, non-toxicity, color, texture, and hardness/resilience (e.g., as measured on
a durometer scale).
[0062] Base 120 may be formed of flexible material based on use, transport or
storage. In some embodiments, base 120 may be formed with a flexibility to conform
to the user's body to ensure a maximum number of protrusions contact the user's
skin, or to avoid contact with an area. For example, a user might want the maximum
number of protrusions contacting the gluteus area and roll device 100 inward (i.e.,
may wrap device 100) around that area, or the user might want to avoid the back of
the knee and may roll device 100 outward (i.e., turn out device 100) to ensure no
contact with that area. In some embodiments, base 120 may be formed with a
flexibility to conform to most seating surfaces without being damaged by the seating
surface and without damaging the seating surface. In some embodiments, base 120
may be formed with a flexibility to enable a user to position device 100 in a desired
configuration, such as for use in an airline seat, a bus seat, or the like. In some
embodiments, base 120 may be formed with a flexibility to allow a user to roll device
100 for easier transport or more compact storage.
[0063] In some embodiments, base 120 may be formed from a material with a low
thermal conductivity. When base 120 is in contact with human skin, low thermal
conductivity may help retain heat near the skin. Retaining heat near the skin may
advantageously cause local body temperatures to increase. In some embodiments,
base 120 may increase local body temperatures by one degree (Fahrenheit), and
may increase local body temperatures between 3-5 degrees (Fahrenheit). Increasing
local body temperatures may cause blood circulation to increase in those areas.

                                           14
[0064] In some embodiments, base 120 may be formed from a material that is anti
bacterial, bacteria-resistant or otherwise inhibit or decrease the likelihood of
transmitting germs. In some embodiments, base 120 may be dishwasher safe to
allow a user to easily clean device 100 between uses.
[0065] In some embodiments, device 100 may be formed from a polyurethane
elastomer product such as PMC 780 Dry and Wet available from Smooth-On, Inc. of
PA. The composition provides a nearly impervious surface, is easy to clean by hand
or in a dishwasher, has a low thermal conductivity, can be formed to have a desired
flexibility and hardness, does not stain, and can be formed in a variety of colors.
Other materials and compositions may be possible.
[0066] Device 100 may be formed having edges 102 a, 102 b, 102 c and 102 d, with
lengths L1 and L2. In one embodiment, L1 may be 34.03 centimetres. In one
embodiment, L1 may be 34.71 centimetres. In one embodiment, L2 may be 22.54
centimetres.    In one embodiment,      L2 may be 23.60 centimetres.        In some
embodiments, at least one edge has a length L1 or L2 between 25.40-60.96
centimetres. Other values for L1 and L2 may also be possible.
[0067] Edges of device 100 may be straight or curved. At least one edge may have
length L1 or L2 to allow a person to sit on device 100 and have substantially all of
the person's buttocks or thighs supported by device 100.
[0068] Device 100 may be formed with base 120 having array 110 of protrusions 101
protruding from a top or first surface lying on a plane of base 120. Each protrusion
101 may have a geometric configuration with an angular surface, such as a pyramid,
or may have a curved surface, such as a cone. Protrusions 101 may be formed
having surfaces with varying slopes. In some embodiments, each protrusion 101
may be formed with a blunt (not sharp) tip or point. A blunt tip may be formed with a
first slope near the base and a second slope that is less steep than the first slope
near the tip. For example, a first slope may equate to a 45 degree angle, and a
second slope may equate to a 30 degree angle. A pyramidal frustum and a conical
frustum are examples in which the second slope may be substantially zero. As
illustrated in FIG. 1D, each protrusion 101 may be defined by a width W, a height H,
and an angle A relative to the top side of base 120. In some embodiments, H may be

                                            15
between 0.673 and 0.658 centimetres. In some embodiments, W may be between
1.27 and 1.91 centimetres. In some embodiments, A may be between 120-150
degrees. In some embodiments, width W may correspond to width X or width Y such
that protrusions 101 contact other protrusions.
[0069] Protrusions 101 may be formed with a particular hardness that can be
measured using a durometer. A durometer measures the hardness of a material. In
this case, hardness may be defined as a material's resistance to permanent
indentation. The durometer scale is typically used as a measure of hardness in
polymers, elastomers, and rubbers. One or more of the height H, width W, angle A or
hardness may be selected such that, in use, the tip of any protrusion 101 may leave
an indentation or impression in a user's skin but protrusions 101 do not pierce,
penetrate or otherwise cause permanent damage to the skin. In some embodiments,
protrusions 101 may have between 10-150 Shore A hardness on the durometer
scale.
[0070] Protrusions 101 may be formed as part of array 110. In some embodiments,
array 110 may be formed having columns and rows. The number of protrusions 101
in any row or column may vary. For example, as depicted in FIG. 1A, array 110 may
be shaped to have a desired appearance, and protrusions 101 may be positioned
and spaced accordingly. The number of protrusions 101 in array 110 may vary
based on the size, spacing and shape of protrusions 101. Array 110 may be formed
with protrusions 101 proximate other protrusions 101. In some embodiments,
protrusions 101 may contact other protrusions 101.
[0071] FIG. 2 depicts a close-up perspective view of a portion of one embodiment of
a portable mat (device 200). Device 200 may have array 210 of protrusions 201.
Array 210 of protrusions 201 may be an embodiment of array 110 of protrusions 101
described above. Like protrusions, protrusions 201 may be shaped, sized, and
spaced to meet desirable anatomical or physiological differences in soft tissues.
These differences may allow protrusions 201 to force or otherwise cause fluid to go
out of soft tissues, increase blood circulation in the area, cause irritation to inhibit or
discourage fluid from building up in soft tissues, or provide some other physiological
difference resulting in a decreased appearance of cellulite in the area.

                                             16
[0072] Array 210 may comprise columns and rows of protrusions 201. Each
protrusion 201 may be close to other protrusions 201 in array 210 or may contact
other protrusions 201 in array 210. Each protrusion 201 may have blunt tip or point
205 shaped and sized to prevent damage to skin. As used herein, the term "tip" may
refer to a portion of protrusions 201 configured for non-transdermal, non-penetration
contact with skin. Tips 205 of protrusions 201 may be sized and shaped to cause
indentations in skin after contact with the skin, but do not damage nerves, blood
vessels, lymph nodes, bones, or other tissues. Embodiments may prevent or avoid
damage to the skin such as nerve damage, a buildup of scar tissue, and the like. For
example, tips 205 or protrusions 201 may be shaped, spaced and sized such that a
user may sit on or otherwise contact skin with device 200 for a period of time (e.g., 5
minutes, 10 minutes, 30 minutes, etc.) and the pressure will cause protrusions 201 to
leave indentations in the skin, but the indentations smooth out and disappear within
a short time period (e.g., 5-45 minutes) after device 200 is disengaged from
contacting the skin. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the size, shape and
spacing of indentations will be affected by other factors which may include, but are
not limited to, the person's weight, gender, body type, absence or degree of
appreciable cellulite and age.
[0073] FIG. 3 depicts a side view of one embodiment of a portable mat (device 300),
illustrating different configurations of protrusions on a base. Device 300 may be an
embodiment of device 100 described above. In this example, base 320 may have a
thickness that remains substantially constant across base 320, but profiles of
protrusions on base 320 may vary across base 320. As depicted in FIG. 3, base 320
may have a first thickness T1, and protrusions 301 may vary in size (e.g., height)
from a first edge to a second edge opposite the first edge, from a first edge to an
area near the middle, or some combination. For example, in one embodiment, the
height of array 310 of protrusions on device 300 can taper down toward a first edge
such that D1 for protrusion 302 is less than D2 for protrusion 301. Advantageously,
this taper or reduction in height may allow device 300 to be used under the thigh with
the tapered portion proximal to the knee. The reduced height of protrusions 301 in
this area can minimize pressure to tissues in the knee pit, allowing better blood
circulation and lymphatic drainage and alleviating the possibility of limiting blood
flow.

                                              17
[0074] FIG. 4 depicts another side view of one embodiment of a portable mat (device
400). Device 400 may be an embodiment of device 300 depicted in FIG. 3, rotated
90 degrees. As illustrated in FIG. 4, array 410 of protrusions may span from a first
edge to a second edge opposite the first edge. The protrusions may vary in height
between two edges, as exemplified by D3 and D4. Combined with the example
shown in FIG. 3 in which the protrusions may also vary in height (D1 and D2)
between two edges, FIG. 4 shows an example embodiment in which array 410 of
protrusions may vary in height toward the edges, as illustrated by protrusions 401,
402, 403, and 404. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that D1, D2, D3 and D4
may differ from implementation to implementation as needed and/or desired.
[0075] FIGS. 5 and 6 depict side views of embodiments of a portable mat. As
depicted in FIG. 5, device 500 may include base 520 having array 510 of protrusions
501 protruding from a first side of base 520 and array 515 of protrusions 501
protruding from a second side of base 520. As depicted in FIG. 6, device 600 may
include base 620 having array 610 of protrusions 601 protruding from a first side of
base 620 and array 615 of protrusions 616 protruding from a second side of base
620.
[0076] As exemplified in FIG. 6, protrusions 601 may be angular, such as pyramidal,
and protrusions 616 may be curved, such as semi-spherical, or otherwise have a
shape that is different than protrusions 601. Advantageously, having two sides with
each side having protrusions with different shapes, hardness, sizes, etc., may allow
a user to control and/or choose effects of device 600. For example, a user may
tolerate sitting on a first side for a longer amount of time, a user may like the results
associated with one side rather than the other side, or some other reason.
[0077] FIGS. 7-9 depict top views of various embodiments of a portable mat system.
Specifically, system 770 may include two halves 700, 700'. Each half 700, 700' may
have array 710, 710' of pointed protrusions 701, 701'. As depicted in FIG. 7, halves
700, 700' may be symmetric. In some embodiments, halves 700, 700' may be
complementary, identical, asymmetric, or mirrored. Halves 700, 700' may be shaped
to maximize the number of protrusions 701, 701' in contact with the thighs or
buttocks of a seated user. As depicted in FIG. 7, halves 700, 700' may have a first
edge that is substantially straight and a second edge that has a curvature based on

                                           18
a profile of a user's buttocks and thighs. Having an edge that is substantially straight
allows a user to position halves 700, 700' in a "V" or "II"configuration in which both
halves 700, 700' are positioned relative to a single limb of a user to treat a greater
surface area of the limb, or in which both halves 700, 700' are positioned on the
outside of each thigh or buttock. Having an edge that is curved may allow a user to
conform each half 700, 700' to optimize contact with protrusions 701, 701' or to avoid
contact with protrusions 701, 701'. System 770 may form part of a kit (not shown),
which may also include a carrying case, cleaning materials, belts or straps to assist a
user in positioning system 770 or retaining system 770 in a desired position, or other
tools.
[0078] FIG. 8 depicts one embodiment of system 880 having two halves 800, 800'.
Each half 800, 800' may have array 810, 810' of cone shaped protrusions 801, 801'.
As depicted in FIG. 8, halves 800, 800' may be symmetric and each may have an
elongated shape such as oval or rectangular. Other shapes for the base of a
portable mat may also be possible. In some embodiments, halves 800, 800' may be
complementary, identical, asymmetric, or mirrored. Halves 800, 800' may be shaped
to maximize the number of protrusions 801, 801' in contact with the thighs or
buttocks of a seated user. As depicted in FIG. 8, halves 800, 800' may have a first
edge that is substantially straight and a second edge that has a curvature based on
a profile of a user's buttocks and thighs. Having an edge that is substantially straight
allows a user to position halves 800, 800' in a "V" or modified "V" configuration in
which both halves 800, 800' are positioned relative to a single limb of a user to treat
a greater surface area of the limb, or in which both halves 800, 800' are positioned
on the outside of each thigh or buttock. Having an edge that is curved may allow a
user to conform each half 800, 800' to optimize contact with protrusions 801, 801' or
to avoid contact with protrusions 801, 801'. System 880 may form part of a kit (not
shown), which may also include a carrying case, cleaning materials, belts or straps
to assist a user in positioning system 880 or retaining system 880 in a desired
position, or other tools.
[0079] Embodiments may include other variations as well. FIG. 9 depicts one
embodiment of system 980 having bases 920, 920', each of which may constitute
half of a kit (not shown). Base 920, 920' may have array 910, 910' of pointed

                                           19
protrusions 901, 901'. As depicted in FIG. 9, base 920, 920' may be circular, and
pointed protrusions 901 may be semispherical, angular, or conical. Those skilled in
the art will appreciate that other shapes or combinations of shapes may also be
possible.
[0080] In some embodiments, devices and systems described above may be
attached together for transport or storage. In some embodiments, devices and
systems may attach together for transport, storage or use. A connection between
two devices, bases, etc., may include a fixed connection, a hinged connection, or
some other form of connection. A connection may be permanent, or devices, bases,
etc., may be connected and separated as desired. Advantageously, the ability to
separate components or modify configurations may allow embodiments to treat
people having various body types, weights, etc.
[0081] These, and other, aspects of the disclosure and various features and
advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the
exemplary, and therefore non-limiting, embodiments illustrated and described herein.
It should be understood, however, that the detailed description and the specific
examples, while indicating some embodiments, are given by way of illustration only
and not by way of limitation. For example, in some embodiments, a portable mat
may have two pads of the same or similar shape and size attached along a length of
the mat such that the pads can fold up to form a carrying case for items, including
but not limited to a laptop, paperwork, or magazines. As another example, in some
embodiments, a portable mat may have two halves connected with a flexible material
that allows the two halves to be placed in various but limited arrangements and
distances in relation to each other.
[0082] Furthermore, descriptions of known materials and manufacturing techniques
may be omitted so as not to unnecessarily obscure the disclosure in detail. Various
substitutions, modifications, additions and/or rearrangements within the spirit and/or
scope of the underlying inventive concept will become apparent to those skilled in
the art from this disclosure.
[0083] As used herein, the terms "comprises," "comprising," "includes," "including,"
"has," "having," or any other variation thereof, are intended to cover a non-exclusive

                                             20
inclusion. For example, a process, product, article, or apparatus that comprises a list
of elements is not necessarily limited only those elements but may include other
elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process, process, article, or
apparatus.
[0084] Furthermore, the term "or" as used herein is generally intended to mean
"and/or" unless otherwise indicated. For example, a condition A or B is satisfied by
any one of the following: A is true (or present) and B is false (or not present), A is
false (or not present) and B is true (or present), and both A and B are true (or
present). As used herein, including the accompanying appendices, a term preceded
by "a" or "an" (and "the" when antecedent basis is "a" or "an") includes both singular
and plural of such term, unless clearly indicated otherwise (i.e., that the reference "a"
or "an" clearly indicates only the singular or only the plural). Also, as used in the
description herein and in the accompanying appendices, the meaning of "in" includes
"in" and "on" unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The scope of the present
disclosure should be determined by the following claims and their legal equivalents.
[0085] Throughout this specification, including the claims, the term "monolithically" is
defined to mean "cast as a single piece; formed or composed of material without
joints or seams; consisting of or constituting a single unit".
[0086] Throughout this specification, including the claims, the term "blunt tip" is
defined to mean "a tip that is not sharp and that is configured for causing temporary
indentation in the flesh, without transdermal penetration".
[0087] Throughout this specification, including the claims, the term "square pyramid
shape with triangular side faces" is defined to mean a "pyramid with a square
polygonal base, which base is contiguous with triangular sides having a common
vertex at the tip, the tip being furthermost from the base."
[0088] Throughout this specification, including the claims, the term "pyramidal
frustum" is defined to mean a "truncated pyramid; the part that is left when a cone or
pyramid is cut by a plane parallel to the base and the apical part is removed".

                                             21
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1.      A mat comprising:
        a base monolithically comprising a thermoplastic elastomeric material and
having at least a first surface on a plane of the base; and
        a plurality of protrusions, each of the protrusions consisting of a square
pyramid shape with triangular side faces, said plurality of protrusions protruding from
the first surface of the base, each of the plurality of protrusions contiguous with at
least one other of the plurality of protrusions on the first surface of the base, wherein
each of the plurality of protrusions comprises a blunt tip that is not sharp and that is
configured for causing temporary indentation in the flesh of a user, without
transdermal penetration, when the mat is in use.
2.      The mat of claim 1, wherein a density of the protrusions is equal to or greater
than one protrusion per 6.5 square centimetres and less than or equal to four
protrusions per 6.5 square centimetres and said plurality of protrusions protrude from
the first surface of the base in the direction of intended contact with the flesh of the
user.
3.      The mat of claim 1, wherein each edge between said triangular side faces, is
beveled.
4.      The mat of claim 3, wherein the beveled edges are uniformly beveled from
said first surface to said blunt tip.
5.      The mat of claim 1, wherein the base has a first thickness at a first outermost
edge of the base and a second thickness at an opposed second outermost edge of
the base, the second thickness being greater than the first thickness.
6.      The mat of claim 1, wherein the protrusions of the plurality of protrusions vary
in height from a first edge of the base to a second edge of the base.

                                              22
7.      The mat of claim 1, wherein the thermoplastic elastomeric material has a
hardness of between 10-150 Shore A on a durometer scale.
8.      The mat of claim 1, wherein the thermoplastic elastomeric material has a
thermal conductivity between approximately 0.04-0.52 W*m-1*K1.
9.      The mat of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of pointed protrusions
protruding from a second opposed surface of the base.
10.     The mat according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein each of the
protrusions are pyramidal frustums.
11.     A system configured for causing non-transdermal temporary indentation in the
flesh of a user by concentrating pressure on localized points on the flesh during low
energy, sustained contact when in use, the system comprising:
        a set of bases, each base of the set of bases monolithically comprising a
thermoplastic elastomeric material and comprising:
               at least a first surface on a plane of the base; and
               a plurality of protrusions, each of the protrusions consisting of a square
  pyramid shape with triangular side faces, said plurality of protrusions protruding
 from the first surface of the base, each of the plurality of protrusions contiguous with
  at least one other of the plurality of protrusions on the first surface of the base,
 wherein each of the plurality of protrusions comprises a blunt tip that is not sharp
  and that is configured for causing temporary indentation in the flesh of a user,
 without transdermal penetration.
12.     The system of claim 11, wherein a density of the protrusions is equal to or
greater than 1 protrusion per 6.5 square centimetres and less than or equal to 4
protrusions per 6.5 square centimetres on the base and said plurality of protrusions
protrude from the first surface of the base in the direction of intended contact with the
flesh of the user.
13.     The system of claim 11, wherein each edge between said triangular side
faces is beveled.

                                              23
14.     The system of claim 13, wherein the beveled edges are uniformly beveled
from said first surface to said blunt tip.
15.     The system of claim 11, wherein the set of bases comprises two halves and
each said half is substantially a mirror image of the other half and said each base
has different thicknesses at opposed outermost edges.
16.     The system of claim 11, wherein the protrusions of the plurality of protrusions
have a height that tapers from a first height at a first edge of the base to a second
height at a second edge of the base, the first height being greater than the second
height, each said protrusion having a height between approximately 0.25 centimetres
and 0.76 centimetres.
17.     The system of claim 11, wherein the thermoplastic elastomeric material has a
thermal conductivity between approximately 0.04-0.52 W*m-1*K1.
18.     The system of claim 11, wherein each base is defined by and bounded by two
straight edges intersecting orthogonally and a curvilinear edge joining the two
straight edges.
19.     The system of claim 11, further comprising a plurality of opposed protrusions
protruding from an opposed, second surface of said base, each of said plurality of
opposed protrusions being semi-spherical in shape.
20.     The system of any one of claims 11 to 19, wherein each of the protrusions are
pyramidal frustums.
21.     A kit configured for causing non-transdermal temporary indentation in the
flesh of a user when in use, the kit comprising:
        at least one base, each base of the at least one base comprising:
               at least a first surface on a plane of the base; and
               a plurality of protrusions, each of the plurality of protrusions consisting
  of a square pyramid shape having each edge between triangular side faces of said

                                            24
 square pyramid shape being beveled, protruding from the first surface of the base in
 the direction of intended contact with the flesh of the user, each of the plurality of
 protrusions contiguous with at least one other of the plurality of protrusions on the
 first surface of the base, wherein each of the plurality of protrusions comprises a
 blunt tip, and wherein a density of the protrusions is equal to or greater than one
 protrusion per 0.65 square centimetres and less than or equal to four protrusions
 per 0.65 square centimetres on the base, wherein the beveled edges are each
 uniformly beveled from said first surface to said tip, and wherein each of the
 protrusions are pyramidal frustums; and
               a case for storing and transporting the at least one base.
 22.    The kit of claim 21, wherein the base is monolithically made of a thermoplastic
elastomeric material with a thermal conductivity between approximately 0.04-0.52
W*m*K.

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013348209, is current as of 2018-06-18 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013348209, is current as of 2018-06-18 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013348209, is current as of 2018-06-18 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013348209, is current as of 2018-06-18 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013348209, is current as of 2018-06-18 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013348209, is current as of 2018-06-18 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013348209, is current as of 2018-06-18 21:00 AEST

