MULTIPURPOSE ENERGY CONCENTRATOR
ABSTRACT
A multipurpose energy concentrator comprising a reflector (1) in the form of at least a part of
the surface of a solid of revolution, and a radiation source or a receiver (3), provided as a
distributed system of a plurality of respective active or passive elements (2), each of which
elements (2) is positioned at an identical distance from the reflector (1) equal to 0.3 to 0.5 of the
radius of curvature thereof.

                                                    1
MULTIPURPOSE ENERGY CONCENTRATOR
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2015252067, the
content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002] The invention relates to antenna design and can be used in a variety of devices operating
within a wide waveband range, including visible, UV, IR, shortwave, UHF, and VHF.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003] Various prior art devices are used to concentrate energy. In particular, the radiation
concentrator described in Patent SU 1,819,488 published on May 20, 1995, is designed as a
paraboloid having a back surface that reflects radiation in the direction of the device axis and a
hemispherical lens recessed in the front surface of the device, and an emitting crystal in a
common focus of the lens and reflector. Another radiant energy concentrator described in
Inventor's Certificate SU 945,839 published on July 23, 1982 comprises a linear source and a
curved reflector.
[0004] The prior are concentrators are disadvantageous because of their relatively low
efficiency.
[0005] The device of Patent RU 2,206,158 published on June 10, 2003 is the closest related
prior art of the claimed invention in the combination of essential features. The device comprises
a main and an additional concentrator and an energy converter. The prior art device is
disadvantageous because of its limited functionalities and low efficiency.
[0006] It is common knowledge that there is a sustained trend in world practice today to replace
powerful, wasteful, and short-lived lamps with distributed systems consisting of a plurality of
light emitting diodes in the visible, ultraviolet, and infrared wavebands and a plurality of solid
state UHF elements in radar and communication systems in various electromagnetic and sonic
wavebands.

                                                    2
 [0007] It is desirable to develop a multifunctional small-size, long-lived, economical, and
efficient device capable of illuminating, irradiating, heating or hearing a broad sector of up to
 1200 in both planes at the same time.
OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
 [0008] It is an object of the present invention to at least substantially satisfy the above desire.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 [0009] The present invention provides a multipurpose energy concentrator comprising a
reflector in the form of at least a part of the surface of a solid of revolution, a radiation source or
a receiver, as a distributed system of active and/or passive elements, respectively, positioned at
an identical distance from the reflector equal to 0.3 to 0.5 of the radius of curvature thereof.
 [0010] The practical technical result is a small-size, multipurpose, and multifunctional device of
a size similar to that of existing headlights, searchlights, lamps, communication antennas,
radars, and other lighting, irradiating or receiving systems operating within a sufficiently narrow
directivity pattern. The device emits light and radiation, or receives both, within a wide
directivity pattern up to 120'x 120' at a sufficiently high antenna amplification factor (antenna
gain) in each direction.
 [0011] Further, the reflector may be a cylindrical surface or a segment thereof, or a spherical
surface or a truncated segment thereof, or the cross-section of the reflector in one, first plane
may be an arc of a circle, and in the planes normal to the first plane it is formed by second-order
curves, or an offset part of a sphere or parabola may be used in the vertical plane. Also, the
reflector surface may be a solid of revolution that is represented in cross-section by two ellipses
joined in such a manner that one focus of each sector is at the axis of the solid of revolution, the
distributed system of active or passive elements being placed in the other focus of the ellipse.
 [0012] The above technical result may also be achieved in a distributed system having active
elements of different power ratings. Continuously operating irradiators or receivers may be
used as active or passive element therein. Besides, the device may further be provided with at
least one reflector and at least one radiation source or receiver; the radiation source or receiver
may rotate; and the reflector and radiation source or receiver may rotate simultaneously.

                                                   3
[0013] As a rule, the reflector or the antenna is designed as an area of a truncated spherical
surface, or a complex surface that is a cylindrical surface in one plane and a parabolic or
elliptical surface in the other plane. In some devices, a cylindrical reflector may be used.
Another shape may also be used in either of the planes to produce the desired directivity pattern.
[0014] An actually continuous line of active or passive elements (light-emitting diodes in the
visible, UV, and IR wavebands, solid-state UHF elements, IR radiation and ultrasonic radiation
sources, microphones, and so on) may be used as radiation sources or receivers. A continuous
line having a single transceiver or receiver may be used to facilitate simultaneous operation in a
wide directivity pattern in the UHF waveband. In the IR waveband, a continuous radiation
source may be used in place of a line of elements. The active or passive elements having
specified dimensions are positioned at a specified distance somewhat closer to the antenna or
reflector than half of the radius of a sphere or cylinder and in the parabola or ellipse focus to
produce an effective antenna aperture for each element.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0015] Preferred embodiments of the invention will be described hereinafter, by way of
examples only, with reference to the accompanying drawings.
[0016] FIG. 1 is a general view of the device;
[0017] FIG. 2 is a general view of the device with a reflector or antenna in the shape of a
truncated spherical surface, and with radiation sources or receivers in the form of a line of
elements;
[0018] FIG. 3 is a general view of the device using an offset part of a sphere or a parabola;
[0019] FIG. 4 is a general view of the device comprising three antennas of an omnidirectional
receiver, or an omnidirectional device to receive and transmit information, or a device having a
circular directivity pattern;
[0020] FIG. 5 is a general view of the device having a rotary vertical cylindrical antenna and an
active phased antenna line;

                                                   4
[0021] FIG. 6 is a general view of the device having a fixed vertical cylindrical antenna and
three rotary active phased antenna lines; and
[0022] FIG. 7 illustrates calculation of the focal distance of a concave spherical or cylindrical
antenna.
DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0023] The device is operated as follows:
[0024] A practically continuous line of active or passive elements, respectively, are placed at a
minimum distance from one another at a distance from the reflector or antenna equal to 0.3 to
0.5 of the radius of the antenna surface curvature, each of said elements emitting to, or receiving
from, a part of the sphere or cylinder 1.
[0025] The number of active or passive elements may be sufficiently large, in which case a
sufficiently large part of the spherical or cylindrical antenna will be used as many times as there
are such elements.
[0026] When the device is used for concentrating X-ray, UV, visible, IR, UHF, VHF,
shortwave, ultrasonic or sonic radiation, it is preferable to use an antenna in the shape of a
truncated part of a spherical surface, or a cylinder in one plane and a parabola or an ellipse in the
other plane, or ordinary cylinders having a radius of 20 mm to several hundred meters. The
antenna sector in both planes may range from 200 to 360'. Active or passive elements in the
sonic, ultrasonic, shortwave, VHF, UHF, IR, visible, UV or X-ray wavebands may be used as
such line. A line of individual elements may also be replaced with a single continuous element
connected to one active or passive emitter or receiver in any waveband. Several lines of
individual elements or several continuous linear elements, or any other configuration may be
used in place of a single line in a reflector and an antenna of certain dimensions. Elements of
different power ratings may be used to achieve a desired directivity pattern in a horizontal plane,
and another shape intermediate between a sphere, parabola or ellipse and a straight line in the
case of a cylinder may be used to achieve a desired directivity pattern in either of the planes.
[0027] FIG. 7 illustrates calculation of a focal distance FP of a concave spherical or cylindrical
antenna of a radius R for a beam striking the antenna in parallel with the principal optical axis

                                                  5
thereof at a distance a therefrom. The geometrical configuration of the problem is clear from the
drawing. In an isosceles triangle AOF, the side OF is easily represented as base OA = R and its
           OF =      R
angle c:          2 Cos
          The right-angled triangle OBA gives:
                                                              2
                                              AB      R 2 -ia
                                                   R    1
                                                        R
         In which case
          OF =.
                2JR 2 _
         The unknown focal distance from point F to pole P:
          FP=R-OF=R1-                R
[0028] This is an equation for the focal zone of a cylindrical or spherical antenna. The longer
the distance from the principal optical axis to the parallel beam a, the farther the focus moves
toward the antenna. Where an active or a passive element has definite geometrical dimensions,
it may be placed closer to the antenna at a calculated distance from half-radius, depending on the
size of the radius and geometrical dimensions of the element. The above formulae apply to a
single principal optical axis. In a cylinder or sphere, as is the present case, there may be a
multitude of principal optical axes from the center of a cylinder or sphere to the surface within
the angular aperture of an antenna.
[0029] Radiation or reception by each individual active or passive element of the line to or in its
area of a spherical or cylindrical antenna having its own principal optical axis permits a wide fan
directivity pattern to be produced in one of the planes in which each element operates in its
sector independently from another in an area of the reflector or antenna equal approximately to
the radius of the sphere or cylinder. By analogy with a traditional radar having a single UHF
irradiator and a single antenna, for example, the claimed device having a cylinder radius of
250 mm, a height of 250 mm, and frequency of 9 GHz can take around 20 irradiators measuring
14 mm, each engaging a part of the sphere or cylinder measuring approximately 250 x250 mm.
A 250x250 mm antenna will, therefore, be used at least 20 times. If 20 antennas are used, each
measuring 250x250 mm and having a separate element placed in the focus thereof and a
directivity pattern approximately 8" each in a horizontal plane, a combined 1200 sector will be

                                                   6
illuminated with an overlap. The antenna will in this case have an overall size of 5x0.25 m,
while the antenna of the claimed device will only measure 0.5x.25 m, or 10% as large, and
show approximately the same performance.
[0030] Where it uses light-emitting diodes in the visible, UV, and IR wavebands, the claimed
device can be used effectively in searchlights, streetlamps, industrial and household lamps,
lamps for plant growing, and other lighting devices intended for uniform illumination or heating
of large areas when the reflector is in the shape of a cylindrical surface (with a lighting aperture
of up to 120'x 1200), or for concentrated illumination in a sector of up to 120' in a horizontal
plane and a sufficiently narrow directivity pattern in a vertical plane (for example, in control
systems, sweep searchlights, low-beam headlights of automobiles, sea and river buoys and
lighthouses in the visible waveband, devices for disinfecting water, air, and seeds, and sunrooms
in the UV waveband, and systems for heating water, heating, and backlighting in the IR
waveband, and in systems for mixing, cleaning, laundering, and processing liquids in the
ultrasonic waveband), when the reflector is in the shape of the truncated part of a spherical
surface, or a cylindrical surface in one plane and a parabolic or elliptical surface in the other
plane.
[0031] When used in the UV waveband, this device permits uniform concentrated radiation to
be directed at the target (human, running water, air flow, seeds, and so on) from three or four
directions, using concentrated radiation of distributed lines of economical and long-lasting light
emitting diodes in the UV waveband in place of powerful, wasteful, and unreliable UV lamps.
A similar device having a distributed continuous IR radiation source in place of a line can be
used for heating running water in the IR waveband.
[0032] Several antennas can be replaced with a single circular antenna in the shape of a full or
truncated sphere, or a common cylinder, or a cylinder in one plane and a parabola or an ellipse
in the other plane. In this case, the line of emitters or a continuous emitter will be 360' circular
as well. Where a parabola is used, the line is to be positioned a little closer than the half-radius
of a cylinder and in the parabola focus, and when an ellipse is used, it is placed in either of the
ellipse foci, and the other focus thereof is placed in the cylinder center. In this case, a high
concentration of UV and IR radiation, or radiation in any other wavebands is reached in the
central part of the device where an object to be treated is placed.

                                                    7
[0033] To further increase radiation concentration for the same small size, three circular
antennas with three lines of elements as described above can be used, provided that the elements
are arranged along the coordinate axes in all three planes. As a result, the common focal zone
will consist of three intersecting focal zones in three planes.
[0034] A device having a single antenna and a continuous IR radiation source in place of a line
can be used in heating systems, and where it is a line of IR diodes of desired wavelength, it can
be used for infrared backlighting within a wide waveband of up to 1200. Where a line of
photosensitive elements in the IR, UV or X-ray waveband is placed in the antenna described
above, the result is a small-size night-vision device operating within an up to 1200 wide sector in
the horizontal plane.
[0035] In the sonic waveband, a line of sensitive microphones placed in the focal zone of the
line produces a long-range sound sensor operating within an up to 1200 wide horizontal sector
capable of detecting with sufficient accuracy the direction of the sound source and processing
each channel separately.
[0036] In the ultrasonic waveband, where a line of vibrators is used in the focal zone, its
concentrated radiation can be used in systems for preparing homogeneous mixtures, cleaning,
laundering, and liquid processing, and in devices for scaring off animals and insects, and so on.
[0037] Where this technology is used in lamps for growing plants, three lines of light-emitting
diodes - two red lines and one blue line - may be used to produce mixed light most effective for
plant growth.
[0038] Where the claimed device is used in low-beam headlights of an automobile, it permits
the driver to see ahead, which is normal for one-lamp system having a reflector that is used in a
majority of present-day automobiles, and produces side lighting in a sector up to 1200 wide. By
selecting the power of light-emitting diodes in the line, a preferred directivity pattern in the
horizontal plane can be obtained, with the high-powered light-emitting diodes for lighting
directly ahead, less powerful diodes for lighting at the right, and very low-powered LEDs for
lighting at the left (in right-side traffic). The above technology can improve significantly road
traffic safety in darkness. A similar device can be used in radar systems that will be installed on
automobiles or any other moving objects to automate traffic safety monitoring. In this case, too,

                                                   8
a desired radar directivity pattern can be obtained by selecting the power of solid-state UHF
elements.
[0039] Where this device is used in sea and river buoys and lighthouses, three reflectors may be
used to produce a circular pattern in the horizontal plane and a sufficiently narrow pattern in the
vertical plane. Since the light output of this design is higher than that of light-emitting diodes
alone, the total required power is lower, which is an important advantage because a majority of
buoys and lighthouses are fully autonomous.
[0040] It is an important advantage of the claimed device when it is used in radar systems
because the radar can irradiate continuously in a pattern up to 1200 wide, offering an opportunity
to illuminate a target within the pattern. In turn, the Doppler component of the signal reflected
from the target can be processed more thoroughly and information accumulated for a
considerable length of time. Where rotating or scanning radars having a narrow directivity
pattern and, especially, radars having a pencil pattern such as phased arrays are used, the radar
beam locks on the target for a very limited time that is not always enough for information to be
accumulated and the Doppler component of the signal processed. The radar of the aforesaid
design is very efficient in detecting moving targets, particularly targets moving at a low speed.
In this case, there is enough time to process thoroughly the Doppler component of the signal
from a target, for example, to detect individual specifics (such as the difference between the
steps of a man and a woman). This thorough processing cannot be done by a fast scanning
beam. The energy potential of a radar of the above-described design compares well with a
scanning radar of the same power because the target irradiation time is in direct proportion to
radiation power, and the effective total area of the antenna system is larger. Radar systems can
use the offset part of a parabola or sphere to remove the emitters from the antenna aperture.
[0041] The existing antennas of cellular network base stations are sufficiently large vertically
and small horizontally because they have to provide a wide directivity pattern of up to 1200 in
the horizontal plane and a sufficiently narrow pattern of around 100 in the vertical plane. The
antenna gain in this case is sufficiently low, around 30. Where a device comprising three
antennas in the form of the truncated part of a spherical surface, or cylindrical in the horizontal
plane and parabolic in the vertical plane 1 is used at cellular network base stations for circular
scanning, the antenna gain is many times larger, up to 350. This gain will, in turn, increase
significantly the transmission and reception range. The antenna may have a size of

                                                    9
approximately 1x2 meters for a 1200 sector. The antenna will then have a general pattern of
120'x 100, similar to existing antennas, but the active antenna aperture in each direction is
approximately lxi meters large and have a pattern of approximately lOx10 degrees. A longer
communication range may reduce the number of base stations required and cut cellular network
deployment costs.
[0042] The claimed device can be used to receive satellite television signals and in satellite
communications without requiring an antenna to be positioned accurately. A satellite antenna
having a directivity pattern of up to 120'x 1200 may be in the form of a cylinder. In this case,
there is no need at all, or the need is reduced significantly, for very expensive gyrostabilizers to
be used with an antenna installed on moving objects. An antenna of this type may also be very
efficient on communication or Internet satellites in low orbits. Three antennas of this type used
with a single receiver or transceivers having a continuous reception or reception-transmission
line are enough for omnidirectional reception of satellite television programming and
omnidirectional satellite communication, including the satellite Internet, independently from the
satellite and only requiring the reception frequency to be changed. A device of this type
provided on a stationary or moving object is particularly efficient when the satellite Internet uses
low-orbit fast-speed satellites, with the line of sight changing continuously.
[0043] The claimed device may also be used on stationary and moving objects in ground
wideband communication systems such as Wi-Max, in ground digital television, and other
systems.
[0044] If produced in quantity, these antenna devices, even those comprising three antennas,
will be sufficiently inexpensive.
[0045] In another application in radar, the device is used in the form of a common cylinder in a
vertical plane 1 placed at a distance of 0.3 to 0.5 of the radius of its active phased antenna line
(APAL) 2 comprising individual solid-state UHF receiver-transmitter modules (RTM) placed at
a distance of around a half wavelength from one another. They permit electron scanning of the
directivity pattern in the vertical plane to control RTM phases and the system as a whole can be
rotated in the horizontal plane. In this case, a three-coordinate radar is produced.

                                                  10
[0046] In another embodiment, a system has a fixed cylinder 1 and an APAL 2 moving along a
path more than a half of the cylinder radius. Where the cylinder has a geometry permitting 120'
radiation in the horizontal plane, three APALs 2 can be arranged over the circumference thereof
at an angle of 120', and when the system obtained is rotated slowly in one direction it provides a
continuous view of the space in front of it within a 1200 sector. This design is most
advantageous in decimeter wavelength radars (wavelength of 30 centimeters or more), and
particularly in the meter waveband. A large number of RTMs is required to set up active phase
antenna arrays (APAA), at a high cost and with attending cooling and other problems, within
these wavebands to achieve good resolution and a high antenna gain. The claimed device can
achieve a high antenna gain and good resolution with a small number of RTMs at relatively low
costs. Moreover, no special cooling devices are required, even if the RTMs have a power
several times that of an APAA. An RTM is in operation for only 7% of the time at an on-off
ratio of 5 because one of the three APALs operates for only a third of the time and is passive for
the rest of the time (2400).
[0047] For a wavelength of, for example, 30 cm, 64 RTMs will have to be provided in a single
APAL to achieve a 2'x2' resolution, or 192 RTMs in three APALs. This arrangement gives a
2'x2' pencil pattern rotating in the horizontal plane and providing electron phase scans in the
vertical plane. The radius of a cylindrical vertical antenna in this case is around 10 m,
approximately 15 m high, APAL height of 10 m, and radius of APAL rotation a little over 5 m.
In comparison, 3,500 RTMs for an APAA will be needed to obtain this resolution and antenna
gain.
[0048] Where a      x 1 resolution is to be achieved, 128 RTMs have to be placed in a single
APAL (384 RTMs in three APALs in all) on a 20 m length, the radius of the cylindrical antenna
increased to 20 m, its height to 30 m, and APAL radius of revolution be in excess of 10 m. An
APAA of this size would require almost 14,000 RTMs that would take in too much material
and, as a result, be inefficient.
[0049] The claimed device is inferior to an APAA in total peak power, and yet, as is known, an
increase in the antenna gain influences the total energy potential of radar doubly as efficiently as
the power increase.

                                                 11
[0050] The cylinder may have a radius of up to 100 m in the meter waveband. Antennas for use
in this waveband may also be designed as nets. A device having three APALs may rotate on
rails placed in a circle.
INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY
[0051] The invention may be used in various visible waveband devices such as searchlights,
headlights, streetlamps, household lamps, and lamps for growing plants; or for disinfecting
water and seeds and in sunrooms in the UV waveband; in heating and drying systems, water
heating, and infrared backlighting systems in the IR waveband; in the UHF and VHF
wavebands, in radar and communication technologies, in particular, for satellite television and
the Internet, in base stations of cellular communication systems, in ground wideband
communication systems of the Wi-Max type, in ground digital telecasting; in the UV, IR, and
X-ray waveband in night-vision devices; in the sonic waveband in remote sound sensors; in the
ultrasonic waveband in homogeneous mix preparation, cleaning, laundering, and liquid
treatment systems; in devices to scare away animals and insects, and in many other devices in
any electromagnetic, ultrasonic, and sonic wavebands. A small-size device, the invention may
be used for irradiation within a broad sector of up to 1200 vertically and horizontally at a
sufficiently large antenna gain in each direction.

                                                     12
CLAIMS
1.       A multipurpose energy concentrator comprising:
         a reflector in the form of at least a part of the surface of a solid of revolution; and
         a radiation source or a receiver, provided as a distributed system of a plurality of
respective active or passive elements, each of which elements is positioned at an identical
distance from the reflector equal to 0.3 to 0.5 of the radius of curvature thereof.
2.       The multipurpose energy concentrator of claim 1, wherein the reflector is a cylindrical
surface or a segment thereof.
3.       The multipurpose energy concentrator of claim 1, wherein the reflector is a spherical
surface or a truncated segment thereof.
4.       The multipurpose energy concentrator of claim 1, wherein a cross-section of the reflector
in one first plane is an arc of a circle, and wherein the cross-section curves in a plane normal to
the first plane.
5.       The multipurpose energy concentrator of claim 1, wherein the surface of the solid of
revolution is an offset part of a sphere or parabola in a vertical plane thereof.
6.       The multipurpose energy concentrator of claim 1, wherein the surface of the reflector is a
solid of revolution consisting, in cross-section, of two ellipses joined together such that each of
the ellipses has one of its foci at an axis of the solid of revolution, and wherein a distributed
system of a plurality of active or passive elements is arranged at the other focus of the ellipse.
7.       The multipurpose energy concentrator of claim 1, wherein the active elements of the
distributed system have different power ratings.
8.       The multipurpose energy concentrator of claim 1, wherein continuous-action irradiators
or receivers are used as the respective active or passive elements.
9.       The multipurpose energy concentrator of claim 1, having more than one reflector, each
said reflector having at least one radiation source or receiver.

                                               13
10.     The multipurpose energy concentrator of claim 1, wherein said radiation source or
receiver are rotatable.
11.     The multipurpose energy concentrator of claim 1, wherein the reflector and radiation
source or receiver can rotate simultaneously.
                                      Quantrill Estate Inc
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig.1                        1/7

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig.2                        2/7

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig.3                        3/7

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig.4                        4/7

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig.5                        5/7

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig.6                        6/7

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 7                        7/7

