                                      ABSTRACT
  The invention relates to methods and compositions for improving wound healing and
  in particular for preventing scar formation and thus loss of function that can occur in
5 injured tissues during the natural wound healing process. Particularly, although by no
  means exclusively, the invention relates to the healing of chronic wounds such as
  diabetic ulcers.
  10085781_1(GHMatters)P86131.AU.2

                                               WOUND HEALING
 5 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   The invention relates to methods and compositions for improving wound healing and
   in particular for preventing scar formation and thus loss of function that can occur in
   injured tissues during the natural wound healing process. Particularly, although by no
10 means exclusively, the invention relates to the healing of chronic wounds such as
   diabetic ulcers.
   BACKGROUND
15 A wound is a disruption of tissue integrity that is typically associated with a
   degenerative or traumatic loss of biological substance.               Simple wounds include cuts
   and scrapes to the skin whilst deeper injuries to the muscle tissue, skeletal system or
   the inner organs are defined as complicated wounds'.
20 Every wound undergoes a similar reparative process independent of the wound type
   or the degree of tissue damage 1 ,            2, 3. Three distinct phases of wound healing are
   recognised.             Firstly the inflammatory or exudative phase for the detachment of
   deteriorated tissue and for wound cleansing; secondly a proliferative phase for the
   development of granulation tissue; and thirdly a differentiation or regeneration phase
25 for maturation and scar formation'.
   The inflammatory phase is characterised by hemostasis and inflammation.                     After
   injury to tissue occurs, the cell membranes, damaged from the wound formation,
   release thromboxane A 2 and prostoglandin 2-alpha, potent vasoconstrictors. This
30 initial response helps to limit haemorrhage.               Capillary vasodilation then occurs and
   inflammatory                cells (platelets, neutrophils,   leukocytes,  macrophages,    and   T
   lymphocytes), migrate to the wound site. In particular, neutrophil granulocytes play a
   central role in wound cleansing via phagocytosis. The next cells present in the wound
   are the leukocytes and macrophages. The macrophages in particular, are essential for
                                                        1
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   wound healing. Numerous enzymes and cytokines are secreted by the macrophage,
   including collagenases, which debride the wound; interleukins and tumor necrosis
   factor (TNF), which stimulate fibroblasts (to produce collagen) and promote
   angiogenesis; and transforming growth factor (TGF), which stimulates keratinocytes 2.
 5 This step marks the transition into the process of tissue reconstruction, i.e. the
   proliferation phase.
   The proliferation phase is characterised by epithelialisation, angiogenesis, granulation
   tissue formation, and collagen deposition.       Angiogenesis stimulated by multiple
10 factors, such as TNF alpha, is essential to deliver nutrients into and around the wound
   site and is critical for efficient wound healing.    Granulation tissue formation is a
   complex event involving leukocytes, histiocytes, plasma cells, mast cells, and in
   particular fibroblasts, that promote tissue growth through the production of collagen.
   The exact steps and mechanism of control of the proliferation phase are unknown.
15 Some cytokines involved include platelet derived growth factor (PDGF), insulin like
   growth factor (IGF) and epidermal growth factor (EGF).            All are necessary for
   collagen formation 2.
   The final phase of the classical wound healing cascade is the differentiation phase.
20 The wound undergoes contraction and the granulation tissue becomes increasingly
   depleted of fluids and blood vessels, begins to strengthen, and undergoes remodelling
   to form scar tissue. Where the wound involves damage to the skin, the final stage in
   wound healing is epithelialisation, whereby epidermal cells migrate to resurface the
   denuded area. Where a wound includes damage to skeletal muscle, new muscle cells
25 are laid down (in addition to granulation tissue in the proliferative phase) via satellite
   cells which differentiate to form myoblasts 4 . In the final stage of wound healing the
   myoblasts differentiate to form myotubes which mature and are incorporated into
   muscle fibres. Whilst this process results in the gain of some muscle function at the
   wound site, muscle wounds invariably result in loss of muscle tissue, scarring and loss
30 of original muscle function.
   In some large open wounds, such as in chronic wounds and ulcers, the normal
   reparative process is interrupted and the healing process is prolonged or incomplete.
                                               2
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   Many factors can contribute towards poor wound healing, including local causes such
   as wound infection, tissue hypoxia, repeated trauma, the presence of debris and
   necrotic tissue and systemic causes such as diabetes mellitus, malnutrition,
   immunodeficiency, and the use of some medications.
 5
   For example, diabetic ulcers are the most common cause of foot and leg amputation.
   In patients with type I and II diabetes, the incidence rate of developing foot ulcers is
   approximately 2% per year and as such ulcers are prone to infection and notoriously
   difficult to heal.
10
   Current treatments for acute and chronic tissue wounds include methods of improving
   circulation and thus oxygen and nutrient delivery to a wound site to improve healing
   times. This may be achieved mechanically, such as by using ultrasound treatment,
   magnetic and electrical simulation, whirlpool therapy and oxygen therapy. However,
15 whilst these therapies are effective in stimulating and even accelerating the wound
   healing process, they still result in functional and/or cosmetic impairment at the
   wound site 5.
   New therapies are currently being investigated using cytokines and growth factors
20 such as TGF-beta, EGF and IGF-1. TNF agonists and antagonists may also be useful
   in modifying angiogenesis, thus providing significant potential to improve the healing
   process directly. However, to date growth factors have had a limited role in clinical
   practice. The only currently available commercial product is PDGF (Regranex) which
   has been shown in some but not all studies to provide a modest improvement in
25 healing time, but which has not been successful in improving the cosmetic or
   functional properties of healed tissue2.
   Thus, there is a need to provide new wound healing therapies which are able to
   control the wound healing process in both acute and chronic wounds so that new
30 tissue would replace damaged tissue with no functional or cosmetic impairment.
   It is an object of the present invention to go some way towards fulfilling this need
   and/or to provide the public with a useful choice.
                                               3
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   Surprisingly, proteins secreted by choroid plexus (CP) cells have been shown for the
   first time to be useful in accelerating the wound healing process, particularly in
 5 reducing scarring in full thickness wounds and in the healing of chronic wounds.
   Accordingly, the present invention provides a therapeutic composition comprising
   isolated or purified CP secreted proteins, wherein the CP secreted proteins are isolated
   or purified from CP conditioned media.
10
   The       present          invention also provides   a therapeutic composition  comprising
   encapsulated CP cells secreting proteins useful for wound healing.
   The present invention also provides a therapeutic composition comprising CP
15 conditioned media.
   The present invention also provides                a cosmetic   composition comprising CP
   conditioned media.
20 The present invention also provides a cosmetic composition comprising encapsulated
   CP cells.
   The therapeutic and cosmetic compositions of the present invention may be combined
   with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient to provide pharmaceutical
25 compositions.
                                                      4
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   The compositions of the invention may additionally comprise one or more compounds
   to give an additive or synergistic effect, wherein the compounds are selected from the
   group consisting of glucocorticosteroids, such as prednisone and methylprednisone,
   nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), growth factors (PDGF, EGF, IGF,
 5 VEGF, TGF-Beta, and others), antibiotics, trophic or tropic compounds, peptides,
   mimetics, oligonucleotides, antibodies, inhibitors, as well as first and second
   generation anti-TNFa agents.
   The compositions of the invention may be formulated for topical, cutaneous,
10 subcutaneous,                intradermal, oral,   intranasal, intraperitoneal, intramuscular,
   intraosseous, intraocular, or intravenous administration. Preferably, the composition
   is formulated for topical administration.
   The present invention also provides a method of improving tissue wound healing
15 comprising the step of administering an effective amount of the compositions of the
   invention to a patient in need thereof. The present invention also provides a method
   of treating a wound in a patient comprising the step of administering an effective
   amount of the compositions of the invention to a patient in need thereof The present
   invention also provides a method of promoting wound healing comprising the step of
20 administering an effective amount of the compositions of the invention to a patient in
   need thereof. The present invention also provides a method of modulating the
   accumulation of fibroblasts at a wound site in a patient comprising the step of
   administering an effective amount of the compositions of the invention to a patient in
   need thereof.               The present invention also provides a method of modulating the
25 accumulation of collagen at a wound site in a patient comprising the step of
   administering an effective amount of the compositions of the invention to a patient in
   need thereof The invention may be useful in both animal and human wound healing.
   Wound healing is improved in a human or animal patient via one or more of the
30 following mechanisms:
               (a) a decrease in the time of wound recovery;
                                                        5
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

               (b) a restoration of advanced dermal or epidermal features
               (c) an acceleration and increase in the inflammatory response; and
               (d) a decrease or inhibition of scar tissue formation,
   thereby resulting in improved functionality and cosmetic appearance of the treated
 5 tissue.
   The proteins expressed by the CP of the invention comprise a mixture (e.g., two or
   more; any combination thereof) of VEGF, CTGF, PDGF, BMP-7, FGF-2, TGF-3,
   TGF-a, IL8/CXC chemokines, IGF-2, Cystatin, beta-2-microglobulin, Pleiotrophic
10 factor P, PTHLH and other growth factors and extracellular matrix factors.
   The present invention also provides for the use of CP secreted proteins isolated or
   purified from CP conditioned media, in the manufacture of a medicament for
   improving wound healing in a patient in need thereof.
15
   The present invention also provides the use of CP secreted proteins isolated or
   purified from CP conditioned media, in the manufacture of a medicament for a
   cosmetic treatment of skin.
20 The present invention also provides for the use of CP conditioned media in the
   manufacture of a medicament for improving wound healing in a patient in need
   thereof.
   The present invention also provides for the use of CP conditioned media in the
25 manufacture of a medicament for a cosmetic treatment of skin.
   The present invention also provides for the use of encapsulated CP cells, in the
   manufacture of a medicament for improving wound healing in a patient in need
   thereof.
30
                                                    6
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   The invention further provides for the use of encapsulated CP cells, in the
   manufacture of a medicament for a cosmetic treatment of skin.
   The medicament may be formulated for local or systemic administration, for example,
 5 the medicament may be formulated for topical administration to an external wound
   site, or may be formulated for injection to an internal wound site. For cosmetic
   treatments, the medicament is preferably formulated for topical administration.
   Anotehr embodiment is a therapeutic composition comprising two or more isolated or
10 purified choroid plexus (CP) secreted proteins (e.g., those delineated herein), and a
   clinically acceptable superficial wound treatment article (e.g., negative pressure
   therapy devices, bandages, films, adhesives, and the like).
   The present invention further provides isolated or purified CP secreted proteins, CP
15 conditioned media or encapsulated CP cells for use in a method of improving wound
   healing, or for cosmetic skin treatment, in a patient in need thereof.
   The present invention also provides a method of manufacturing a composition
   comprising CP secreted proteins, comprising the steps:
20             a)            culturing CP cells in vitro;
               b)            extracting CP conditioned media;
               c)            lyophilizing the CP conditioned media; and
               d)            optionally dialysing CP conditioned media, either before or after step
                             c).
25
                                                          7
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   The lyophilized (and optionally dialysed) CP conditioned media may be combined
   with a suitable pharmaceutical carrier or excipient to produce a pharmaceutical
   composition.
 5 The present invention also provides a composition manufactured by the method of the
   invention (e.g., those delineated herein).
   The present invention further provides a method of modulating the composition of the
   proteins secreted by CP cells in vitro to increase the amount of proteins that are
10 effective at increasing wound healing, said method comprising the steps:
               a)           culturing CP cells in vitro in suitable basal media;
               b)           adding media containing matrix proteins in an amount sufficient to
                            initiate the formation of CP capsuloids,
   wherein said capsuloids comprise a significantly higher levels of protein secretory
15 vesicles when compared to CP cells grown in basal media alone (e.g., without further
   steps, without further additional agents, without step (b)). .
   The CP conditioned media extracted by this method contains a higher amount of
   VEGF and other CP secreted proteins useful in accelerating wound healing.
20
   The present invention also provides compositions comprising CP proteins secreted by
   CP capsuloids containing modulated levels of secreted proteins, said capsuloids
   prepared by the methods of the invention.
25 The invention will now be described in more detail with reference to the figures of the
   accompanying drawings in which:
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
                                                          8
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   Figure 1                         shows the wound healing effect of CP secreted proteins on a
                                    compromised fibroblast monolayer in vitro;
   Figure 2                         shows the wound healing effect of CP secreted proteins on a
                                    compromised keratinocyte monolayer in vitro;
 5 Figure 3                         shows the wound healing effect of CP conditioned media on an in
                                    vitro fibroblast wound model in vitro;
   Figure 4a                        shows the amount of VEGF produced by the choroid plexus of
                                    donor pigs;
   Figure 4b                        shows the estimated minimum daily therapeutic daily dose of
10                                  VEGF produced by donor pigs;
   Figure 5                         shows the various manufacturing processes of CP conditioned
                                    media to produce a therapeutic composition of the invention;
   Figures 6a-6e                    shows the effect of proteins secreted from encapsulated CP cells
                                    on fibroblast, smooth muscle cell and inflammatory cell migration
15                                  (figures 6a and 6d control; figures 6b, 6c and 6e encapsulated CP
                                    cells);
   Figure 7                         shows the effect of CP conditioned media in reducing the wound
                                    area of a chronic wound model in vivo;
   Figure 7a                        Part I:   shows evidence of healing of a chronic wound using
20                                  lyophilised   CP conditioned     media   in vivo versus    control
                                    lyophilisedd ENDO-SFM);
                                    Part 2: shows wound traces based on the presence of hair follicles
                                    to demonstrate evidence of full thickness wound healing;
   Figure 7b                        shows a cross section of tissue from the chronic wound of CP
                                                           9
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

                                    conditioned media in treated or non-treated animals at 5x
                                    magnification;
   Figure 7c                        shows the tissues of figure 6b at 1Ox magnification;
   Figure 8                         shows the wound strength of tissue wounded by simple incision
 5                                  and either treated with CP conditioned media (treated) or with
                                    control media (untreated);
   Figure 9a-9d                     shows the effect of CP conditioned media on the healing of a
                                    chronic wound in vivo in treated (figures 9a, 9b, 9c) and control
                                    animals (figure 9b) at low magnification (x4), and between treated
10                                  and control animals at higher magnification (figure 9d)
   Figure 10                        shows a transmission electron microscopy of normal CP clusters
                                    cultured in vitro;
   Figure 11                        shows a CP capsuloid in vitro produced by culture with media
                                    containing matrix proteins;
15 Figure 12a                       shows the CP capsuloids of figure 9 at low magnification (x10);
   Figure 12b                       shows the CP capsuloids of figure 9 at very low magnification
                                    (x4);
   Figure 13                        shows VEGF secretion in vitro from CP conditioned media
                                    extracted from normal CP cultured cells and from cultured CP
20                                  capsuloids at 7 and 14 days;
   Figures 14a-14b                  shows increased protein secretory vesicles in CP capsuloids
                                    cultured in ENDO-SFM          media (figure    14b) compared     to
                                    capsuloids cultured in RPMI-CNP media (figure 14a);
   Figure 15                        shows the expression level changes of CP capsuloids cultured in
25                                  ENDO-SFM or ECM composite compared to normal CP cells
                                                           10
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

                                    cultured in RPMI-CPN after 3 days (figure 15a and figure 15b) or
                                    16 days (figure 15c and figure 15d);
   Figure 16                        shows the coulter particle analysis of PLGA-CPCM nonspheres;
   Figure 17                        shows     a  scanning    electron  microscope    of PLGA-CPCM
 5                                  nanospheres; and
   Figure 18                        shows a schematic drawing of the wound healing process;
   Figure 19                        shows HUVEC co-cultured with CP capsuloids (19A and 19B);
   Figure 20                        shows HUVEC co-cultured without CP capsuloids.
   Figure 21                        shows tissue handling devices:     (A) histology fixture containing
10                                  control tissue; (B) histology fixture containing LCM-treated
                                    tissue; (C) explanted skin around incision placed in sampling
                                    fixture for tensiometry. Clamping mechanism ensured centering
                                    of incision in jig and even tissue sampling. An aluminum block
                                    was placed on top of the razor blades, and then a press was used
15                                  to cut through the tissue.
   Figure 22                        shows initial tissue culture of digested choroid plexus clusters.
                                    (Top) Clusters were counted over the first 8 days in separate
                                    samples each containing 2 CP equivalents.       Values shown are
                                    mean + S.E.M.       (Bottom) Light microscopy of CP clusters in
20                                  RPMI-CPN tissue culture medium at 2 and 8 days post-isolation.
                                    Scale bar = 250 m.
   Figure 23                        shows VEGF output as measured by ELISA in separate collection
                                    flasks normalized per CP equivalent, as aliquoted at the initiation
                                    of the experiment. Values represent mean +/- S.E.M.
25 Figure 24                        shows percent reduction of areas in the in vitro scratch assay
                                    containing NHEK cells (Top) and NHDF               cells (Bottom).
                                    Encapsulated CP was separated by Transwell membranes from
                                    cultured monolayers at the doses indicated on the x-axis, which
                                    represent the number of encapsulated CP clusters per well per mL
30                                  basal culture medium.        Values represent mean percent area
                                                            11
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

                                    reduction ([starting area - final area] / [starting area]) +/- S.E.M.
   Figure 25                        shows selected images of open wounds processed for H&E
                                    histology.    (A) normal rat skin that was never injured, (B)
                                    bacitracin-treated open wound, (C) open wound treated with LCM
 5                                  in bacitracin, and (D) open wound treated with DLCM in
                                    bacitracin. Wounds were treated for 10 days and sampled 4 days
                                    later. Scale bar = 200 tm.
   Figure 26                        shows central morphometry of open wounds. Values show mean
                                    + S.E.M.     (A) Epidermal appendages were counted across the
10                                  entire central cross sections. (B) Nuclear counts within the central
                                    portion mid-way through the wound, and (C) Area of the wound
                                    mid-way through the tissue block.
   Figure 27                        shows    treatment    of linear    incisions with      lyophilized  CP
                                    conditioned media in bacitracin ointment. Representative macro
15                                  photos are shown after 8 days of treatment. (A) Control ENDO
                                    SFM, (B) LCM, and (C) DLCM.
   Figure 28                        shows    treatment    of linear    incisions with      lyophilized  CP
                                    conditioned media in bacitracin ointment. Representative images
                                    following 10 days of treatment and an additional 4 days of
20                                  healing. (A) Control ENDO-SFM, (B) LCM, and (C) DLCM.
                                    Scale bar = 100 tm.
   Figure 29                        shows    treatment    of linear    incisions with      lyophilized  CP
                                    conditioned media in bacitracin ointment. Peak break strength in
                                    1-cm wide sections of skin, centered at the incision, as measured
25                                  by Instron tensiometry.(**p<0.01).
   DEFINITIONS
   "Wound" as used throughout the specification and claims means damage to one or
30 more tissues, including open wounds such as cuts, scrapes, surgical incisions and the
   like, both acute and chronic, as well as internal wounds, for example, bruises,
   haematomas, fascia or soft tissue damage, hernia, abdominal wall damage, and the
   like as well as burns. "Wounds" may refer to tissue damage that occurs by trauma, or
                                                            12
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   damage to tissue resulting from pathological sequelae, for example ischemia, that is
   exhibited due to overlying disease. The present invention is particularly useful in the
   healing of chronic open wounds such as ulcers, and diabetic ulcers in particular.
 5 "Isolated" or "purified" as used herein refers to secreted CP proteins that have been
   extracted from the CP conditioned media. Such extraction may include dialysis to
   remove salts from the media before lyophilising, or the CP conditioned media can be
   lyophilised directly.
10 In this disclosure, "comprises," "comprising," "containing" and "having" and the like
   can have the meaning ascribed to them in U.S. Patent law and can mean " includes,"
   "including," and the like; "consisting essentially of' or "consists essentially" likewise
   has the meaning ascribed in U.S. Patent law and the term is open-ended, allowing for
   the presence of more than that which is recited so long as basic or novel
15 characteristics of that which is recited is not changed by the presence of more than
   that which is recited, but excludes prior art embodiments.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
20 The present invention shows for the first time that CP conditioned media comprises a
   cocktail of proteins that can be used in accelerating wound healing. In particular, this
   protein cocktail appears to be useful in all of the three characteristic phases of wound
   healing, i.e. the inflammatory phase, the proliferation phase, and the differentiation
   phase.
25
   For example, when wounds are treated with CP conditioned media there is an increase
   in the number of macrophages and an earlier migration of macrophages to the wound
   site (inflammatory phase), less collagen is deposited (proliferation phase) and there is
   a significant reduction in scar tissue formation (differentiation phase).
30
                                                13
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   Thus, CP secreted proteins appear to be a powerful regulator of the wound healing
   process and can be manipulated to prevent scar formation and resulting loss of
   function that would normally occur in injured tissue during the natural wound healing
   process. Lack of scarring is also important for cosmetic purposes, especially when the
 5 wound affects external portions of the body which are easily seen, such as the face,
   neck, hands etc.
   The choroid plexus (CP) are lobulated structures comprising a single continuous layer
   of cells derived from the ependymal layer of the cerebral ventricles. One function of
10 the choroid plexus is the secretion of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Cerebrospinal fluid
   fills the four ventricles of the brain and circulates around the spinal cord and over the
   convexity of the brain.          The CSF is continuous with the brain interstitial
   (extracellular) fluid, and solutes, including macromolecules, are exchanged freely
   between CSF and interstitial fluid. In addition to the production of CSF, the choroid
15 plexus has been associated with the formation of the CSF-blood barrier.        However,
   its broader function is the establishment and maintenance of baseline levels of the
   extracellular milleu throughout the brain and spinal cord, in part by secreting a wide
   range of growth factors into the CSF. Studies have reported the presence of numerous
   potent trophic factors within choroid plexus including TGFb, GDF-15, GDNF, IGF2,
20 NGF, NT-3, NT-4, BDNF, VEGF, and FGF27' 8
   The CP secreted factors have been previously described for use in the treatment of
   neurological disorders (WO 00/66188) and in the treatment of autoimmune disorders
   (WO 2006/132548), however, there has been no disclosure or suggestion of CP
25 secreted proteins being useful in the treatment of wounds, and in particular for
   treating chronic wounds, such as ulcers. In particular, whilst it is known that the CP
   secretes VEGF8 , which is known to be involved in angiogenesis, ie in the proliferation
   stage of wound healing, as the CP also secrets a myriad of additional factors, mainly
   involved in CSF integrity, it was highly surprising that a composition including all of
30 the CP secreted proteins would be highly effective at improving wound healing, and
   especially in improving the healing of chronic wounds.
                                                14
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   The present invention is thus directed to a therapeutic composition comprising
   purified or isolated CP secreted proteins for use in wound healing. The CP secreted
   proteins are isolated or purified from CP conditioned media.            The therapeutic
   composition comprises a mixture (e.g., two or more; any combination thereof) of CP
 5 secreted proteins including VEGF, CTGF, PDGF, BMP-7, FGF-2, TGF-3, TGF-a,
   IL8/CXC chemokines, IGF-2, Cystatin, beta-2-microglobulin, Pleiotrophic factor         p,
   PTHLH and other growth factors and extracellular matrix factors.
   CP secreted proteins, extracted from CP conditioned media and which are useful in
10 the method of the present invention, may be tested for biological activity in an animal
   model or in vitro model of wound healing, as discussed below, and suitably active
   compositions formulated into pharmaceutical compositions. The pharmaceutical
   compositions of the present invention may comprise, in addition to CP secreted
   proteins described herein, a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient, carrier, buffer,
15 stabiliser or other material well known in the art. Such materials should be non-toxic
   and should not interfere with the efficacy of the active ingredient. The precise nature
   of the carrier or other material will be dependent upon the desired nature of the
   pharmaceutical composition, and the route of administration e.g. oral, intravenous,
   cutaneous, subcutaneous, intradermal, topical, nasal, pulmonary, intramuscular or
20 intraperitoneal.
   Pharmaceutical compositions for oral administration may be in tablet, lozenge,
   capsule, powder, granule or liquid form. A tablet or other solid oral dosage form will
   usually include a solid carrier such as gelatine, starch, mannitol, crystalline cellulose,
25 or other inert materials generally used in pharmaceutical manufacture. Similarly,
   liquid pharmaceutical compositions such as a syrup or emulsion, will generally
   include a liquid carrier such as water, petroleum, animal or vegetable oils, mineral oil
   or synthetic oil.
                                               15
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   For intravenous, cutaneous, subcutaneous, intradermal, intramuscular, intraosseous,
   intraocular, or intraperitoneal injection, the active ingredient will be in the form of a
   parenterally acceptable solution which is pyrogen-free and has suitable pH, isotonicity
   and stability.
 5
   For topical administration, the active ingredient will be dissolved or suspended in a
   suitable emollient and may be formulated in the form of a cream, roll-on, lotion, stick,
   spray, ointment, paste, or gel, and can be applied directly to the wound site or via a
   intermediary such as a pad, patch or the like.
10
   For nasal or pulmonary administration, the active ingredients will be in the form of a
   fine powder or a solution or suspension suitable for inhalation. Alternatively, the
   active ingredients may be in a form suitable for direct application to the nasal mucosa
   such as an ointment or cream, nasal spray, nasal drops or an aerosol.
15
   Therapeutic compositions can include isolated or purified choroid plexus (CP)
   secreted proteins (e.g., two or more of those delineated herein), and a clinically
   acceptable superficial wound treatment article (e.g., negative pressure therapy
   devices, bandages, films, adhesives, and the like). Such devices, bandages, films,
20 adhesives, and the like are known in the art, and include for example, Also within the
   invention is a patch to deliver active chemotherapeutic combinations herein. A patch
   includes a material layer (e.g., polymeric, cloth, gauze, bandage) and the compound of
   the formulae herein as delineated herein. One side of the material layer can have a
   protective layer adhered to it to resist passage of the compounds or compositions. The
25 patch can additionally include an adhesive to hold the patch in place on a subject. An
   adhesive is a composition, including those of either natural or synthetic origin, that
   when contacted with the skin of a subject, temporarily adheres to the skin. It can be
   water resistant. The adhesive can be placed on the patch to hold it in contact with the
   skin of the subject for an extended period of time. The adhesive can be made of a
30 tackiness, or adhesive strength, such that it holds the device in place subject to
   incidental contact, however, upon an affirmative act (e.g., ripping, peeling, or other
                                                16
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   intentional removal) the adhesive gives way to the external pressure placed on the
   device or the adhesive itself, and allows for breaking of the adhesion contact. The
   adhesive can be pressure sensitive, that is, it can allow for positioning of the adhesive
   (and the device to be adhered to the skin) against the skin by the application of
 5 pressure (e.g., pushing, rubbing,) on the adhesive or device.
   In a further embodiment, the invention contemplates the use of one or more additional
   compounds co-administered with the pharmaceutical composition of the present
   invention to give an additive or synergistic effect to the treatment regime. Such
10 compounds will generally be substances aimed at enhancing the rate and quality of
   wound healing. Examples of such substances include glucocorticosteroids, such as
   prednisone and methylprednisone, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS),
   growth factors (PDGF, EGF, IGF, VEGF, TGF-Beta, and others), antibiotics, trophic
   or tropic compounds, peptides, mimetics, oligonucleotides, antibodies, inhibitors, as
15 well as first and second generation anti-TNFa agents.          Such substances may be
   administered either separately, sequentially or simultaneously with the CP secreted
   protein compositions described herein depending upon the type of wound to be treated
   as will be appreciated by a skilled worker.
20 The present invention also provides a method of improving tissue wound healing
   comprising the step of administering an effective amount of the therapeutic
   composition of the invention to a patient in need thereof. The patient is preferably a
   human patient, but the method of the present invention may also be used to improve
   wound healing in non-human animals.
25 Methods delineated herein include those wherein the subject is identified as in need of
   a particular stated treatment. Identifying a subject in need of such treatment can be in
   the judgment of a subject or a health care professional and can be subjective (e.g.
   opinion) or objective (e.g. measurable by a test or diagnostic method). Methods
   delineated herein also include those wherein the subject is successfully treated, their
30 condition/symptom ameliorated or their condition/symptom is improved.
                                               17
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   Wound healing is improved in a human or animal patient via one or more of the
   following mechanisms:
               a) a decrease in the time of wound recovery;
               b) an acceleration and increase in the inflammatory response; and
 5             c) a decrease or inhibition of scar tissue formation,
   thereby resulting in improved functionality and cosmetic appearance of the treated
   tissue.
   A particularly preferred application of the compositions comprising CP secreted
10 proteins described herein, is in the treatment of chronic wounds such as diabetic
   ulcers.
   Another preferred application of the present invention is in the treatment of skin
   wounds.
15
   The ability of the compositions of the invention comprising CP secreted proteins to
   treat superficial or deep skin wounds can be demonstrated according to known
   methods9 , and as exemplified in example 5, below.
20 Another preferred application in the present invention is in the treatment of burns. The
   ability of CP secreted proteins to treat burn wounds can be demonstrated in known
   animal models. For example as described in Yang et al 0 .
   Administration of the pharmaceutical composition of the invention is preferably in a
25 "prophylactically effective amount" or a "therapeutically effective amount", this
   being sufficient to show benefit to the individual. The actual amount administered,
   and rate and time-course of administration, will depend on the nature and severity of
   the type of wound that is being treated. Prescription of treatment, e.g. decisions on
   dosage etc., is within the responsibility of general practitioners and other medical
                                                   18
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   doctors, and typically takes account of the disorder to be treated, the condition of the
   individual patient, the site of delivery, the method of administration and other factors
   known to practitioners. Examples of the techniques and protocols mentioned above
   can be found in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences,           1 6th edition, Oslo, A. (ed),
 5  1980.
   The present invention is also directed to the use of CP secreted proteins in the
   manufacture of a medicament for improving wound healing in a patient in need
   thereof.         The CP secreted proteins may be isolated or purified from CP conditioned
10 media.
   The present invention is also directed to the use of CP conditioned media in the
   manufacture of a medicament for improving wound healing in a patient in need
   thereof.
15
   The medicament may be formulated for local or systemic administration, for example,
   the medicament may be formulated for topical administration to an external or open
   wound site, or may be formulated for injection into an internal or deep wound site, as
   described above.
20
   The medicament may further comprise one or more additional immuno-responsive
   compounds to give an additive or synergistic effect on wound healing, selected from
   the group of immuno-responsive compounds described above. The medicament may
   be formulated for separate, sequential or simultaneous administration of the CP
25 secreted proteins/CP conditioned media and the one or more immuno-responsive
   compounds.
   The present invention is also directed to a method of manufacturing the therapeutic
   compositions comprising CP secreted proteins, said method comprising the steps:
30             a)            culturing CP cells in vitro;
                                                          19
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

               b)            extracting CP conditioned media;
               c)            lyophilizing the CP conditioned media; and
               d)           optionally dialysing CP conditioned media, either before or after step
                            c).
 5
   The CP cells may comprise a purified population of CP cells or they may alternatively
   comprise CP-derived cells selected from the group comprising glial or glial-derived
   cells, epithelial cells, multipotent neuronal precursor cells, proginator cells and cells
   positive for neuronal precursor cell markers (such as Neu-N).
10
   The CP cells may be obtained directly from a suitable mammal donor or may be
   obtained from primary or secondary CP cell culture or from a CP cell line including
   immortalised CP cell lines, or from a combination of any of the above sources. The
   CP cells in culture may have been genetically modified to produce one or more
15 desired proteins useful in promoting wound healing, using genetic modification
   techniques well known in the art. The CP cells obtained directly from a donor, may
   comprise cerebro spinal fluid containing one or more CP cells.                Suitable CP cell
   donors include pigs, sheep, cows, goats, rabbits, mice and primates including rhesus
   monkeys and humans.                  The CP cells may be isolated from donors using known
20 methods in the art, for example, as described in WO 00/66188.
   The CP cells may comprise isolated cells or clusters of cells and may be "naked" or
   encapsulated, for example, in alginate.              Where CP cells are "naked", they may be
   "free" to make direct contact with one another or they may be separated by a
25 biocompatible separation means which allows the diffusion of secreted proteins from
   the CP cells. The encapsulation of the CP cells may function as such a biocompatible
   separation means. CP cells may be encapsulated using methods known in the art (see
   for example WO 00/66188 and US 6322804).
30 The CP cells are cultured in suitable culture media for a period of time and under
                                                        20
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   conditions that allow secretion of the numerous secretion proteins including growth
   factors etc, from the CP cells into the media. The conditioned media is then separated
   from the cells to provide a CP secretory protein rich, cell-free CP preparation.
 5 The CP conditioned media can be prepared by a series of known steps to produce a
   therapeutic composition, including the optional step of dialysis (to remove salts),
   before or after lyophilisation, as set out in figure 5. The processing steps resulted in a
   6-9 times concentration of VEGF in the therapeutic composition, as described in
   example 4. It is also expected that other CP secretory proteins useful in promoting
10 wound healing would also be concentrated in the lyophilised CP conditioned media.
   The lyophilised CP conditioned media may be combined with a pharmaceutically
   acceptable excipient and used in the methods of the invention to promote wound
   healing, as described above.
15
   The present invention also provides a method of manipulating the profile of the
   proteins secreted by CP cells in vitro, said method comprising the steps:
               a)            culturing CP cells in vitro in suitable basal growth media;
               b)           adding media containing matrix proteins in an amount sufficient to
20                          initiate the formation of CP capsuloids,
   wherein the CP capsuloids comprise a significantly higher level of protein secretory
   vesicles when compared to CP cells grown in basal growth media alone (e.g., without
   further steps, without further additional agents, without step (b)).
25 The media containing matrix proteins is a media rich in collagen IV, laminin and
   other ECM components and results in the formation of CP capsuloids, as described in
   example 6.
   Capsuloid formation results in an increase in the number of protein secretory vesicles
                                                          21
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   and a corresponding increase in the level of secreted proteins, particular VEGF. This
   increase in protein secretion is the result of increased protein expression brought
   about by the media composition and capsuloid formation. It is contemplated in the
   present invention that the protein cocktail secreted by the CP capsuloids can be
 5 manipulated to maximise the therapeutic potential.
   Without being bound by theory, it is thought that CP secreted proteins are effective in
   improving wound healing by acting at all three recognised phases of wound healing,
   i.e. the inflammatory phase, the proliferation phase and the differentiation phase
10 described above. Whilst the exact mechanism is unknown, it is likely a result of the
   combination of growth factors secreted by the CP, some of which have been shown
   previously to have been involved in wound healing.          Such factors include VEGF,
   CTGF, PDGF, BMP-7, FGF-2, TGF-3, TGF-a, IL8/CXC chemokines, IGF-2,
   Cystatin, beta-2-microglobulin, Pleiotrophic factor P, PTHLH and other growth
15 factors and extracellular matrix factors. Such a combination has not previously been
   used in wound healing. In addition, a number of other factors secreted by CP, such as
   neurotrophin (NT) factors and transthyretin are not known to be actively involved in
   wound healing and yet other factors, such as retinoic acid, secreted by the CP are
   known to inhibit wound healing (US 5973007).
20
   It is therefore surprising that a cocktail of CP secreted proteins (e.g., comprising those
   delineated in Tables 4 and 5), including retinoic acid and possibly other proteins that
   do not promote wound healing, are extremely effective in improving wound healing,
   and in particular, in enhancing the healing of chronic wounds.
25
   For example, CP secreted proteins in CP conditioned media has a direct effect on
   macrophage recruitment.          In particular, both the number of macrophages and,
   presumably, the migration time to the wound site are increased when animals are
   treated with CP secreted proteins (results not shown). Thus, the first phase of wound
30 healing, the inflammatory phase, is significantly improved and it is expected that this
   will result in faster and more efficient wound cleansing and angiogenesis.
                                                 22
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   In addition, CP secreted proteins in CP conditioned media also result in less collagen
   being deposited in the proliferation phase (results not shown). The protein cocktail
   secreted by the CP is thought to be a chemo-attractant for inflammatory cells,
   fibroblasts, endothelial cells, and epithelial cells, . Thus, use of CP secreted proteins
 5 is thought to result in a proportionate decrease in the relative recruitment of
   fibroblasts to the wound site and thus less overall production of collagen by the
   reduced population of fibroblasts.
   CP secreted proteins are further involved in inhibiting scar tissue formation in the
10 differentiation phase of wound healing.       Specifically, use of CP secreted proteins
   results in a significant reduction in scar tissue formation in a recovered wounded
   tissue. In addition, there was also a significant reduction in loss of functional tissue,
   i.e. use of CP secreted proteins also resulted in improved tissue regeneration, so that
   the recovered tissue was replaced without scarring and thus had little functional or
15 cosmetic impairment. This may be particularly beneficial in cosmetic surgery or in
   treating wounds to portions of the body that are clearly visible, such as face, neck,
   hands etc.
   It is expected that the present invention will be useful to treat all types of wounds such
20 as skin cuts and abrasions, deep wounds extending through the skin and muscle
   (including surgical incisions) as well as internal wounds (for example wounds to
   muscle and tendon caused by sports injury or trauma), bruises, hematomas, , fascia,
   soft tissue damage, hernia, abdominal wall damage, as well as burns and chronic
   wounds such as ulcers, in particular, diabetic ulcers which are very difficult to treat
25 using conventional therapy.
   The described microarray was used to investigate the transcriptome of porcine CP
   epithelium, and then assess the in vitro and in vivo regenerative capability of secreted
   CP products in cell monolayers and full thickness cutaneous wounds. In vitro, CP
30 reduced the void area of fibroblast and keratinocyte scratch cultures by 70% and 33%,
                                               23
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   respectively, compared to empty capsule controls, which reduced the area by only
   35% and 6% respectively.             In vivo, after 10 days of topical application, CP
   conditioned medium lyophilate dispersed in antibiotic ointment produced a 2-fold
   improvement in incision tensile strength compared to ointment alone, and an increase
 5 in the regeneration of epidermal appendages from roughly 50 to 150 features per
   wound.         Together, these data identify the CP as a source of secreted regenerative
   molecules to accelerate and improve the healing of topical wounds and potentially
   other similar indications. Based on the abundance and significance of its components
   within the wound healing process, the simultaneous application of the entire CP
10 cocktail would provide           relevant molecules "as-needed,"   avoiding having to
   orchestrate delivery with the precisely staged action of cells, proteins, and matrix
   elements that occurs in the natural healing cascade. In vitro, hydrogel encapsulated
   porcine CP was co-cultured with scratched monolayers of fibroblast or keratinocytes
   to assess migration and proliferation triggered by CP molecules. In vivo, we used CP
15 conditioned media lyophilate to treat full thickness open wounds and sutured skin
   incisions. Additionally, we collected mRNA from CP used to generate conditioned
   media to identify genes associated with potential regenerative factors expressed in this
   specific culture system.
20 This invention may also be said broadly to consist in the parts, elements and features
   referred to or indicated in the specification of the application, individually or
   collectively, and any or all combinations of any two or more said parts, elements or
   features, and where specific integers are mentioned herein which have known
   equivalents in the art to which this invention relates, such known equivalents are
25 deemed to be incorporated herein as if individually set forth.
   The invention consists in the foregoing and also envisages constructions of which the
   following gives examples only.
30 EXAMPLES
   Materials and Methods
                                                  24
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   Choroid Plexus Isolation
   Neonatal Yorkshire pigs aged 7-10 days were induced with ketamine (500 mg/kg) and
   xylazine (0.15mg/kg), and then maintained on 3% isoflurane during controlled
   exsanguination. Following craniotomy, the brain was removed and hemisected along
 5 the midline to expose the CP in the lateral ventricles. The CP were extricated and
   placed in Hanks Balanced Salt Solution (HBSS, 0-4'C) supplemented with
   ciproflaxocin (Sigma, USA, 3ptg/ml), 2% human serum albumin and digested as
   previously described (Borlongan, C. V.; et al. Neuroprotection by encapsulated
   choroid plexus in a rodent model of Huntington's disease. Neuroreport 15:2521-2525;
10 2004; Emerich, D. F. et al., Extensive neuroprotection by choroid plexus transplants
   in excitotoxin lesioned monkeys. Neurobiol. Dis. 23:471-480; 2006).           Briefly,
   following mechanical disruption with scissors, CP epithelial clusters were released
   after light enzymatic digestion over 20 minutes (Liberase HI, Roche, New Jersey).
   Epithelial clusters were washed and maintained in RPMI-1640 (Sigma, St. Louis,
15 MO) with 2% neonatal porcine serum and 3 ptg/mL ciproflaxocin (RPMI-CPN) and
   placed in non-adherent flasks at 37'C with 5% CO2. Half of the media was removed
   and replaced with fresh media after 24 hours, 48 hours and every other day thereafter.
   After 0, 2 and 8 days in RPMI, clusters were counted and separated into individual
   flasks. After 10 days, the media was replaced with serum-free endothelial cell culture
20 medium (ENDO-SFM, Gibco, USA), which was used throughout the experiment for
   generation of conditioned media over intervals of 24, 72 or 96 hours as previously
   described (Thanos, C. G.; et al., The in vitro expression and secretion of vascular
   endothelial growth factor from free and alginate-polyornithine encapsulated choroid
   plexus epithelium. Tissue Eng. 13:747-756; 2007).
25
   Isolation of RNA and Gene Array
   RNA was isolated from cultured CP clusters after 3 or 16 days in ENDO-SFM tissue
   culture medium (N=3). Cell clusters were disrupted and homogenized in buffer RLT
   using a QlAshredder (Qiagen, USA). Briefly, 700 pl of cell lysate was loaded onto
30 the QlAshredder, centrifuged at 30,000 x g, and RNA was purified using an RNeasy
   Mini spin column (Qiagen, USA). Purified, high-quality RNA was eluted in RNase
   free water (Gibco, USA). Single-stranded cDNA was synthesized by priming with a
                                            25
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   T7 Oligo(dT) primer, and then converted into double-stranded DNA templates for
   transcription by employing DNA polymerase and RNase H for simultaneous
   degradation of RNA and synthesis of the second cDNA strand. The cDNA was
   purified and cRNA was subsequently synthesized and amplified using in vitro
 5 transcription. After final purification of the cRNA, sample integrity was confirmed
   on electropherograms acquired from a Bioanalyzer 2100 (Agilent Technologies,
   USA).         Once samples were confirmed to be suitable for array analysis, a whole
   genome porcine microarray (Affymetrix, USA) was used to characterize the entire pig
   genome. Genes with log2 expression levels < 7.5 were excluded from the analysis.
10 Genes with relevance to the wound healing process were included in Table 5 based on
   their relative magnitude of expression and statistical significance (independent t-test,
   p<0.05).         Genes that were differentially expressed over time were included in Table 6
   based on the magnitude of change ( > +/- 1.85-fold) and statistical significance
   (independent t-test, p<0.05).
15
   In Vitro Bioactivity: Scratch Assay
   CP        clusters           were encapsulated  in   alginate-polyornithine-alginate  (APA)
   microcapsules after 10 days in culture as previously described at 50,000 clusters/mL
   using a coaxial air jet system (Emerich, D. F.; et al. Extensive neuroprotection by
20 choroid plexus transplants in excitotoxin lesioned monkeys. Neurobiol. Dis. 23:471
   480; 2006) 600 ptm diameter capsules were produced and were incubated in RPMI
   CPN for 5 days prior to transfer to fibroblast or keratinocyte cultures. A sample was
   pulsed in fresh RPMI-CPN for 24 hours to quantify secreted VEGF. Normal human
   dermal fibroblasts (NHDF, Cambrex, USA) or normal human epidermal keratinocytes
25 (NHEK, Cambrex, USA) were expanded in T75 flasks in supplemented cell culture
   medium. NHEK cells were grown in Keratinocyte Growth Medium (KGM, Cambrex,
   USA) supplemented with epidermal growth factor, insulin, and hydrocortisone.
   NHDF cells were growth in Fibroblast Growth Medium (FGM, Cambrex, USA)
   supplemented hFGF-B and insulin. After several passages, cells were seeded into 24
30 well plates at 5,000 cells/well (N=8 per treatment group), and grown to 95%
   confluency. To initiate the scratch assay, the culture medium was removed, the cells
   were washed with HBSS three times, and a defect (approximately 9 mm 2 ) was created
                                                     26
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   with the tip of a 20 ptL pipette. The HBSS was aspirated several times to loosen the
   cells surrounding the defect, and then replaced with basal culture medium.         The
   defects were then photographed at 4X magnification. Transwell inserts with a pore
   size of 10 ptm were placed on top of the wells, and encapsulated CP were added for an
 5 equivalent dose of 500, 1500, 2500, or 5000 CP clusters per well. Empty capsules
   served as controls and were also incubated in RPMI-CPN for 5 days, and then added
   to wells at the peak dose range of the encapsulated cell group, corresponding to a 100
   ptL volume of capsules. Cultures were allowed to incubate for 7 hours (NHEK) or 14
   hours (NHDF), the capsules and inserts were removed, and the defects were
10 photographed again at 4X magnification. Calibrated image analysis software (Motic,
   China) was used to measure the scratched area prior to and following exposure to
   encapsulated CP.
   Collection and Preparation of CP Proteins for Topical Application
15 CP conditioned medium (CM) was collected at 96 hour intervals in ENDO-SFM from
   flasks containing roughly 100,000 CP clusters in 28 mL medium.           Following the
   initial culture period in RPMI-CPN and subsequent transition to ENDO-SFM, CM
   was collected repeatedly for a period of 2 months. Briefly, cell clusters were allowed
   to sediment by gravity, and then conditioned media was aspirated and replaced with
20 fresh ENDO-SFM warmed to 37'C. The CM was collected in 50-mL tubes and
   immediately flash-frozen in liquid nitrogen. In some cases, the CM was dialyzed
   against distilled water in a 1000 Da MWCO membrane to remove salts prior to
   freezing. An aliquot was also taken prior to processing for measuring VEGF content.
   Frozen CM was lyophilized for 96 hours (Virtis, USA) and stored at -80'C prior to
25 use. Fresh medium was processed in parallel for use in control animals.
   Lyophilized CM (LCM), or dialyzed lyophilized CM (DLCM) was prepared for
   topical administration immediately prior to application by mixing the lyophilate in
   bacitracin ointment (Johnson & Johnson, USA) at roughly 50 mg LCM / 350 mg
   ointment for the high dose, and roughly 17 mg LCM / 350 mg for the low dose. The
30 actual amounts were calculated based on the amount of VEGF measured during the
   media collection period, with the final doses normalized to a VEGF dose of 6 ng at
   the low dose, and 20 ng at the high dose.
                                              27
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   Detection of Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) using ELISA
   VEGF was measured in culture supernatants as a surrogate marker of potency as
   previously described (Thanos, C. G.; et al., The in vitro expression and secretion of
   vascular endothelial growth factor from free and alginate-polyornithine encapsulated
 5 choroid plexus epithelium. Tissue Eng. 13:747-756; 2007).                   After 96 hours of
   incubation (37'C, 5% C0 2 ), the supernatant was removed and frozen for subsequent
   analysis. Thawed samples were analyzed in triplicate using a human VEGF ELISA
   (Quantikine*, R&D Systems, USA).                  Sequence homology between porcine and
   human VEGF is greater than 90% (24). Samples of conditioned media (200 piL) were
10 combined with assay diluent (50ptL) and the optical density was measured at 450 nm
   on a Beckman Coulter DTX-880 spectrophotometer after development.                    The value
   obtained was compared to a standard curve of recombinant human VEGF using a
   logarithmic curve fit. Values were expressed as pg/mL.
15 In Vivo Evaluation of CPCM Formulations
   CPCM          was         evaluated in full-thickness    wounds    in  male   Long-Evans   rats
   approximately 3 months old and weighing between 250-350 g housed in pairs in a
   temperature controlled environment with a 12:12 hour light-dark cycle.               All study
   groups consisted of 8 animals. All procedures met or exceeded NIH guidelines and
20 were approved in advance by the Brown University IACUC governing body.
   Immediately prior to surgery, rats were anesthetized with isoflurane (3-4%) and
   placed in a nose cone in a prone position. Prior to the creation of the skin defect,
   animals were clipped and the skin around the area was disinfected with betadine.
25 Following the surgery, animals were treated with an analgesic (buprenorphine, 0.02
   mg/kg subcutaneous) and observed until fully recovered from anesthesia.                Animals
   were euthanized using carbon dioxide gas, and explanted tissue was removed as
   indicated          for histological processing.       Briefly, after fixation  in isotonic 4%
   paraformaldehyde for 2-3 days, tissue segments were transversely embedded in
30 paraffin for cutting 4 ptm-thick sections, which were subsequently stained with either
                                                      28
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   hematoxylin and eosin (open wound tissue), or Masson's trichrome stain (incision
   wounds).           Morphometry on healing wounds was carried out using image analysis
   software (Motic, China) to measure the healing area within the margin of hair growth,
   and statistics were calculated with Prism software (GraphPad, USA), using a one-way
 5 ANOVA with a 95% confidence interval and post-hoc Dunnet's test for comparison
   against the control group.
   (Open Wound)
   An 8-mm Keyes dermal punch was used to completely remove patches of skin to
10 create full-thickness skin defects to the depth of subcutaneous tissue between the
   shoulder blades.                 Topical CM ointment was applied for 10 days following the
   procedure, and animals were sacrificed at day 14 for tissue harvesting. A control
   group lyophilizedd ENDO-SFM in bacitracin ointment, N=5) and 2 treated groups
   (high dose LCM in bacitracin ointment, N=7, and high dose DLCM in bacitracin
15 ointment, N=7) were observed. At the conclusion of the study, following euthanasia
   with CO 2 gas, large sections of skin containing the wounded area were removed and
   centered in devices consisting of 2 plastic rings held under tension by a series of
   peripherally located screws.               The devices were created to overcome histological
   artifact associated with skin deformation during the fixation process (Figures 2 1A and
20 21B).        The skin was kept relaxed during insertion into the devices, preventing
   additional artifact caused by tension in the wound. Devices with skin samples were
   immersion fixated in isotonic 4% paraformaldehyde overnight and were subsequently
   processed for histology and morphometry, which included measurement of cross
   sectional wound area, nuclear counts within the central 2mm 2 area, and counts of
25 epidermal appendages within the entire wound area.
   (Incision)
   A 6 cm linear full thickness incision was made between the shoulder blades with a
   fresh size 15 scalpel through a plastic template designed for uniformity of straightness
30 and length. The incision was immediately closed with 8 interrupted stitches using 6-0
                                                       29
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

    silk equipped with a PC-3 cutting needle.        Based on prior experience within our
    group, silk was chosen to minimize interference in the healing of the wounds caused
   by irritancy of other bristle-like materials.    For the next 10 days, wound sites were
    treated topically topically once daily in the following groups: a control group
 5  lyophilizedd ENDO-SFM in bacitracin ointment, N=5) and 2 treated groups (LCM in
   bacitracin ointment, N=5, and DLCM in bacitracin ointment, N=5). After 14 days, the
    entire 6 cm wound strip was removed following euthanasia with carbon dioxide gas.
   After shaving the area and removing the sutures, an area of 7 x 3 cm was excised
    around the wound and processed for histology and tensiometry. Because pilot studies
10  demonstrated inter-sample variability related to skin harvesting, a specialized
    instrument was engineered to create uniform 1-cm width strips of skin centered
    horizontally at the incision with fresh razor blades (Figure 21c). A total of 5 strips of
    tissue were created per wound size by excluding the outer 0.5 cm on each side. The
    area of skin was placed onto slabs of dental wax that were visually centered onto the
15 jig, and 6 fresh razorblades were inserted into the positions shown in the picture. A
   press was used to exert force on an aluminum block resting on top of the blades,
    creating an evenly distributed force completely perpendicular to the plane of tissue,
    and resulting in precise 1-cm wide tissue segments for histological and physical
    analysis. For each animal, the central 1-cm segment was processed for histology,
20 while the outer 2 on each side were analyzed for tensile strength at break using an
    Instron tensiometer (Instron, USA).     Skin samples were immediately transported on
    ice on their wax backing material to the instrument. Samples were removed from the
   wax, any residual panniculus carnosus was moved from the underside of the wound,
    and the tissue was placed in the serrated jaws of the instrument under maximum
25  clamping pressure. With a 50N load cell in place, the tissue was pulled at a rate of 8
    mm/ min until breakage occurred. Statistics were calculated using Prism software
    (GraphPad, USA), using a one-way ANOVA with a 95% confidence interval and
   post-hoc Dunnet's comparison.
30  Example 1: Characterisation of the in vitro wound healing potential of choroid
    plexus conditions medium in suitable wound models
                                                30
    10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   Neonatal porcine choroid plexus, isolated from Yorkshire swine, was isolated and
   maintained in culture as previously described in Thanos et a18. After 7-10 days,
   choroid plexus clusters were encapsulated in alginate and held for another 7 days.
 5
   Monolayers of cell types relevant to wound healing were created in 6-well plates
   using standard tissue culture techniques to create previously described in vitro wound
   models.           Adult human dermal fibroblasts or kertinocytes were grown to 95%
   confluency, whereupon the monolayer was physically disrupted with a specialised
10 tool to create a defect on the order or 10-20 mm 2 . Following the creation of the
   defect, cultures were washed with HBSS, photos were taken for image analysis, and
   the appropriate basal medium was returned to the plate. In the first experiments,
   transwells            were       used to suspend CP-containing    capsules (500-5000    eCP
   equivalents/well) so that the respective cell type would have direct access to secreted
15 proteins. Later, CP conditioned media was collected separately and added at various
   concentrations along with other media types in an attempt to titrate the effect. After
   the proper exposure time, treatment was removed and photos were again taken for
   image analysis. Wound area was measured using Motic software, and % healing was
   calculated by (areainitial - areainitial).
20
   Encapsulated choroid plexus, when separated by a transwell membrane insert, showed
   a dose dependent increase in healing of both fibroblast (figure 1) and keratinocyte
   (figure 2) compromised monolayers. The keratinocyte model revealed that CP at a
   dose of 2500 eCP/mL improved healing relative to the empty capsule control by
25 almost 30%.
   Example 2: Effect of CP conditioned media in vitro
   CP conditioned medium was collected for 96 hours after 7 days of culture of CP cell
   culture and then added to fibroblast culture medium. The therapeutic effect of CP
30 conditioned media and fibroblast wound model is shown in figure 3. Each group
   containing conditioned media (CM) along with nutrients showed an improvement
   compared to the basal medium control.               Significantly, CM is likely depleted of
                                                    31
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   essential nutrients required to maintain healthy cell cultures, especially compared to a
   fresh fibroblast basal growth medium (FBM). Still, CM provided benefit in each
   condition, particularly those that supplement a minimal amount of nutrients.
 5 Example 3: Assessment and optimisation of the long-term production of VEGF
   (indicator of wound healing potential) in cultures with daily or 2/week media
   changes
   Based on previous work demonstrating that the secretion of VEGF by CP was
   enhanced in serum-free endothelial growth media', CP clusters were maintained in
10 ENDO-SFM culture for up to 3 months for the continuous collection of therapeutic
   media for wound studies. In this process, an aliquot of most media collections was
   kept for VEGF analysis by ELISA. The results, shown in Figure 4a demonstrate the
   long-term stability of VEGF secretion. Based on a minimum therapeutic dose of 2
   ng/day, the equivalent dose production potential is shown in Figure 4b, averaging
15 about 25 doses produced each day by each donor pig CP. Importantly, this signifies
   that the issue of sourcing is exponentially reduced by choroid plexus secretory factors
   due to their robustness and stability in long-term cultures.
   Example 4: Preparation of a therapeutic composition of CP secreted proteins
20 CP conditioned medium was formulated for therapeutic use by either dialyzing out
   salts and lyophilizing, or lyophilizing directly.     The extracted CP proteins were
   subjected to processing and analysed for VEGF using ELISA. The following specific
   processing groups tested are set out in figure 5.
25 Each final product was reconstituted at 10.8 mg/mL and analysed with the VEGF
   ELISA:
   Group                            Osmolarity (mOsM)           [VEGF] (ng/mL)
   I                                306                         722
                                                32
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   II                                     484                        4,659
   III                                    319                         6,310
   IV                                     311                         6,860
   V                                      316                         5,381
   Controls                               287                        ND
   As demonstrated here, processing of conditioned media was not associated with any
   significant drop in VEGF level. Group I, essentially neat conditioned medium, was
   concentrated roughly 6-9X in each of the other groups, II-V.
 5
   Example 5: The effect of choroid plexus proteins secreted from encapsulated CP
   cells on macrophage, collagen, smooth muscle cells and endothelial cell migration
   in vivo.
   Encapsulated choroid plexus clusters (50K / mL) or empty capsules were loaded into
10 Matrigel          HC         (BD Biosciences),  diluted by   50% with    saline, at 0.1:1.0
   capsules:matrigel for a total injection volume of 1.1 mL. The injectate was kept on
   ice prior to injection, which occurred through a 16-gauge needle into the subcutaneous
   space between the shoulder blades of long-evans rats (Male, 250-300 g) under
   isolflurane anesthesia at 2-3%. 2 weeks later, subcutaneous gel slabs were explanted,
15 fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde, and processed for H&E histology.
   In general, explants containing encapsulated choroid plexus were associated with
   increased angiogenesis, collagen removal, and structural organization                of the
   surrounding tissue.              This included remodeling as shown by the near complete
   destruction of the matrigel matrix. In comparison, empty capsule implants showed
20 very minor fibroblast infiltration, with fully intact matrigel matrix and little evidence
   of angiogenesis or chemotaxis.               The contrast between the two groups is clear in
   Figure 6, where an empty capsule implant (Figures 6A and 6D) is shown next to an
   implant contaning encapsulated choroid plexus (Figures 6B and 6E). The granular
                                                      33
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   eosinic material in Figure 6A is the matrigel vehicle, which is largely absent in the
   encapsulated CP group (Figure 6B). Also apparent is the minimal cellular infiltration
   in the empty control group compared to encapsulated CP, which apparently caused
   migration of fibroblasts, macrophages, endothelial cells, smooth muscle cells, and
 5 other regenerative cell types to the area. Figure 6C, a high magnification view of the
   encapsulated CP group, shows further evidence of enhanced angiogenesis around the
   periphery of the capsule with loss of implanted matrigel and stratified cellular
   organization.
10 Example 6: The effect of concentrated or formulated choroid plexus proteins in
   vivo, in two animal models of full-thickness wounds
   Choroid plexus conditioned media was collected as described in example 2, above,
   and lyophilized as described in group II of figure 5, discussed in example 4, above.
   The lyophilised CP conditioned media was reconstituted in distilled water for
15 treatment of full thickness wounds or dispersed in hydrophobic ointment for topical
   application in 6 cm incision wounds.
   In long-evans rats, a type of full thickness chronic wound via skin autograft was
   created using an 8-mm biopsy punch down to the level of subcutaneous tissue. 2
20 groups containing 10 animals each was used containing a treatment lyophilisedd CP
   conditioned media) and control lyophilisedd ENDO-SFM). On each animal, bilateral
   defects were made, and the excised skin was transplanted to the contralateral side to
   assess viability of engrafted hair as well as to provide a biologic enclosure for
   containment of the injection. Due to the black and white spotting pattern of this rat
25 strain, areas selected so that opposing colours were implanted in juxtaposition to
   optimise detection of surviving hair follicles. 8 interrupted sutres (6-0 silk) were used
   to hold the flaps in place.      25 mg lyophilised CM was injected daily for 14 days in
   200 iL dH20 for a total of roughly 6 ng VEGF/day, administered directly to the
   wound site. Macro photography was used daily to assess and measure wound area.
30 After 4 weeks, animals were euthanized and wound areas were collected for
   histology.
                                                34
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   Separately in the same strain, straight 6-cm incisions were created with fresh size 15
   scalpel blades. Incisions were immediately closed with interrupted stitches of 6-0
   silk, and animals were allowed to recover in separate cages. Each day for 10 days,
   250 mg ointment was mixed with lyophilised CP conditioned medium to produce a
 5 viscous pink paste containing roughly 18 ng VEGF.                At day 14, animals were
   euthanized and the area around the 6-cm wound was excised and cut into 5 1-cm wide
   strips for instron tensile strength measurement.
   In the chronic wound model, a statistically significant decrease in wound area was
10 observed in the group treated with CP conditioned media on the order of 2.5-fold
   (figure 7 and figure 7a, part 2). The wounds, shown in figure 7a, part 1, contained
   areas of counter-coloured hair and were much smaller and healthier in general. The
   histology, shown in Figures 7b and 7c, shows that a very healthy and organised skin
   morphology was achieved in the treatment group, whereas the controls (or untreated
15 wound) presented mostly as fibrous masses devoid of neovascularisation with no
   evidence of normal skin structure. This level of healing is typically associated with
   much longer durations, on the order of months, while this was achieved within only
   30 days with the CP protein treatment.
20 Incisional healing was also greatly accelerated in the presence of CP secreted proteins.
   In particular, wounds treated showed nearly a 2-fold increase in strength compared to
   those treated with ointment alone (figure 8). This level of strength improvement and
   wound acceleration is unique to the CP protein cocktail.
25 Example 7: Topical treatment of a full thickness critical defect using a purified
   CPCM
   Choroid plexus conditioned media was collected as described in example 2, above,
   purified by dialysis against a 1000 Da MWCO cellulose membrane, and lyophilized
   as     described            in group II of figure   5, discussed  in example   4,  above.
                                                    35
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   In long-evans rats, a critical defect was created using an 8-mm biopsy punch down to
   the level of subcutaneous tissue without bandage or autograft. 2 groups containing 10
   animals included a treatment (dialyzed conditioned media) and control lyophilisedd
 5 ENDO-SFM).                  On each animal, defects were made between the shoulder blades and
   the excised skin was removed.                  Animals received a perioperative injection of
   buprenex and were monitored during recovery.                    Both groups received topical
   applications of either dialyzed, lyophilized ENDO-SFM tissue culture medium, or
   dialyzed lyophilized CP-conditioned medium (DLCM) with dose based on a VEGF
10 loading of approximately 20 ng VEGF. Treatments were applied daily for 10 days,
   and wounds were explanted on day 14 for histological characterization.                 Macro
   photography was used daily to assess and measure wound area.                  After 4 weeks,
   animals were euthanized and wound areas were collected for histology.
15 Image analysis of macro photography revealed that both treated and control groups
   contained wounds that decreased in diameter during wound contraction, although a
   slight significant improvement was noted in the treatment group (Figure 9A). Gross
   histologic examination, shown in Figures 9B and 9C, however, reveals a significant
   increase in subdermal organization in the treated group, including developing hair
20 follicles, vessels, and follicle-associated epithelium. The wounds in the control group
   (Figure 9B ) contain areas that are either inflamed or show severe fibrosis and
   scarring.          At higher magnification (1OX) shown in Figure 9D, the full extent of
   healing can be realized. The left panel shows a section of normal skin adjacent to a
   control wound, the middle a section of DLCM treated skin, and the right panel shows
25 the control. One obvious aspect of the extent of healing, as noted at the macro level,
   is the extent of organization and infiltration of advanced remodeling cell types in the
   middle panel caused by treatment, compared to the far right panel, which contains
   high levels of fresh                 collagen and fibroblasts,  along with   a modicum of
   neovascularization. The treated group differs mainly from normal tissue in that the
30 hair has not yet emerged through the epidermis, and exists in earlier stages of follicle
   development. The keratinocyte layer in the extreme top of each section also shows
   advanced healing, as the control exists with a very shallow, flat layer, compared to the
   thicker ridges morphology in the treated and normal groups.
                                                        36
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   Example 8:               Modulation of the cocktail of proteins produced by the choroid
   plexus, by manipulating culture media composition
 5 Choroid plexus clusters were isolated and cultured with RPMI-CPN, ENDO-SFM or
   in RPMI-CPN within a matrix material rich in Collagen IV, laminin and other ECM
   components.               CP clusters normally appear as balls of epithelium with outwardly
   oriented cilia and attached internally to a matrix composed of connective tissue and
   other cell types (Figure 10). Cells around the perimeter are rich in tight junctions and
10 show a modicum of secretory vesicles associated with protein release.
   Using an extracellular matrix composition, this morphology was manipulated such
   that hollow vesicles, or capsuloids, were formed with inward oriented cilia and
   mirovilli surrounding a fluid-filled internal pocket (Figure 11).           These capsuloids
15 varied in size in accordance with the size of the original CP clusters, and enlarged
   over a 6-10 day timecourse (Figures 12a and 12b). In this process, the epithelium
   reorganised to form a distinct layer replete with tight junctions, while contaminating
   cells such as fibroblasts were separated within the matrix. In this configuration, more
   than twice the level of VEGF was secreted in (Figure 13) and when supplemented
20 with ENDO-SFM, even higher levels of protein vesicle formation was observed
   (Figure 14b), than in a control capsuloid (Figure 14a). Further, at the level of gene
   expression, microarray has revealed thousands of changes compared to typical CP
   culture in RPMI media containing serum.                Changes were observed in expression
   levels related to media composition (Table 2) and capsuloid formation from day 3
25 (Figure 15a and Figure 15b) to day 16 (Figure 15c and Figure 15d), and as set out in
   Table 1 below:
                                                  TABLE 1
    CAPSULOID GENE CHANGES - RPMI Medium (Changes with respect to CP
30                                         clusters in RPMI-CPN)
    Description                                                                Fold Chan2e
    putative aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C4                             8.50
                                                       37
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

 GTP binding protein overexpressed in skeletal muscle         5.93
 T-cell receptor alpha chain mRNA C-region, 3' end of cds     5.55
 glutathione S-transferase                                    5.02
 prepro-beta-defensin 1                                       4.31
 carboxypeptidase Al precursor                                4.22
 Antithrombin III                                             3.94
 neuron-derived orphan receptor-i alfa                        3.70
 Ribosomal protein S17                                        3.31
 v-myc myelocytomatosis viral oncogene homolog (avian)        3.11
 Heat shock protein 70                                        3.05
 cytochrome P450 1A1                                          3.02
 Palate, lung and nasal epithelium carcinoma associated       2.95
 Serine hydroxymethyltransferase                              2.82
 Kruppel-like factor 4                                        2.77
 plasminogen activator inhibitor I                            2.75
 Polo-like kinase 2 (Drosophila)                              2.71
 stefin Al                                                    2.57
 T-cell receptor alpha chain mRNA C-region, 3' end of cds     2.48
 motilin                                                      2.47
 glutathione S-transferase                                    2.46
 adrenomedullin                                               2.37
 Regulator of G-protein signalling 2, 24kDa                   2.30
 Sp 1 transcription factor                                    2.29
 growth arrest and DNA-damage-inducible, alpha                2.27
 involucrin                                                   2.26
 Hypothetical protein (5'; clone 2F 11)                       2.26
 polo-like kinase 3 (Drosophila)                              2.24
 lectin-like oxidized LDL receptor-i                          2.22
 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) receptor IF                  2.21
 activated leukocyte cell adhesion molecule                   2.20
 EFNAl                                                        2.19
 Thymosin beta-4                                              2.19
 paired box gene 3 (Waardenburg syndrome 1)                   2.18
 Hypothetical protein (5'; clone 7H1)                         2.18
 Orosomucoid 1                                                2.17
 metallothionein-IlI                                          2.16
 olfactory receptor                                           2.14
 Hoxa 10-like mRNA, partial sequence /// Homeobox protein A10 2.14
 psoriasis susceptibility 1 candidate 2                       2.13
 Estrogen sulfotransferase                                    2.13
 T-cell receptor alpha chain mRNA C-region, 3' end of cds     2.13
 T, brachyury homolog (mouse)                                 2.12
 collagen, type IV, alpha 3 (Goodpasture antigen)             2.12
 olfactory receptor                                           2.11
 T-cell receptor gamma and delta constant region              2.11
 elastase 2, neutrophil                                       2.11
 CMP-N-acetylneuraminate monooxygenase                        2.11
 Hypothetical protein (5'; clone 7A4)                         2.11
 sodium channel, voltage-gated, type II, alpha subunit        2.11
                                           38
10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

 CD28 antigen                                                 2.09
 Rho family GTPase 3                                          2.09
 Glycerine aldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH)         2.08
 cytochrome P450 2C36                                         2.07
 oxytocin receptor                                            2.07
 glutathione S-transferase                                    2.07
 Fatty acid binding protein 5                                 2.07
 angiopoietin-like 4                                          2.07
 Tumor-associated calcium signal transducer 1                 2.06
 T-cell receptor alpha chain mRNA C-region, 3' end of cds     2.06
 thioredoxin                                                  2.04
 Complement ClqC                                              2.03
 matrix metallopeptidase 7 (matrilysin, uterine)              2.03
 calcitonin receptor-stimulating peptide-3                    2.03
 Chemokine                                                    2.02
 T-cell receptor alpha chain mRNA C-region, 3' end of cds     2.01
 T-cell receptor alpha chain mRNA C-region, 3' end of cds     2.01
 ribosomal protein, large, P1                                 2.00
 Brain multidrug resistance protein                           2.00
 SH3 mRNA, 3' UTR                                             2.00
 sodium/hydrogen exchanger isoform 3                          1.99
 T-cell receptor alpha chain mRNA C-region, 3' end of cds     1.99
 T-cell receptor alpha chain mRNA C-region, 3' end of cds /// 1.99
 TCR-a mRNA for T ce
 short type I interferon                                      1.99
 arachidonate 15-lipoxygenase                                 1.98
 acidic fibroblast growth factor                              1.98
 Sp 1 transcription factor                                    1.98
 Cytochrome P450 19A3                                         1.98
 Unc-5 homolog C (C. elegans)                                 1.98
 deiodinase, iodothyronine, type II                           1.97
 sarcoendoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase                    1.97
 Annexin Al                                                   1.97
 T-cell receptor alpha chain mRNA C-region, 3' end of cds     1.97
 somatostatin receptor subtype 3                              1.97
 Chromosome 17 clone pkmCon86, mRNA sequence                  1.97
 Microsomal glutathione S-transferase 1                       1.97
 CD28 antigen                                                 1.96
 pancreatic polypeptide receptor 1                            1.96
 bone morphogenetic protein 15                                1.96
 tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-4                      1.96
 DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) box polypeptide 4                     1.96
 Pregnancy-associated glycoprotein 6                          1.96
 amphiregulin (schwannoma-derived growth factor)              1.96
 interleukin 1, beta                                          1.96
 integrin, alpha M                                            1.95
 Tyrosinase-related protein 1                                 1.95
 hairless                                                     1.94
 titin                                                        1.94
                                           39
10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

 CD80 molecule                                                      1.94
 chymosin                                                           1.92
 protein kinase C, beta 1                                           1.92
 proteasome (prosome, macropain) subunit, beta type, 10             1.92
 Tropomodulin 3 (ubiquitous)                                        1.92
 Matrix metallopeptidase 1 (interstitial collagenase)               1.92
 olfactory receptor                                                 1.92
 heme oxygenase                                                     1.91
 fucosyltransferase 1 (galactoside 2-alpha-L-fucosyltransferase, H  1.91
 blood group)
 Tropomyosin 3                                                      1.91
 Leydig insulin-like hormone                                        1.91
 Creatine kinase, muscle                                            1.90
 peptidoglycan recognition protein S isoform                        1.90
 T-cell receptor alpha chain mRNA C-region, 3' end of cds           1.90
 uroplakin 3                                                        1.89
 Hypothetical protein (5'; clone 2C4)                               1.89
 POU                                                                1.89
 ribosomal protein, large, P1                                       1.89
 Rearranged T-cell receptor delta-chain/Vdelta5. 1-Ddeltas-Jdelta 1 1.89
 TCR-a mRNA for T cell receptor alpha chain, clone:PTA014           1.89
 paraoxonase 3                                                      1.88
 fatty acid binding protein 5                                       1.88
 phosphodiesterase 4A, cAMP-specific (phosphodiesterase E2          1.88
 dunce homolog, Drosoph
 malic enzyme 1, NADP(+)-dependent, cytosolic                       1.88
 calcitonin receptor-stimulating peptide-2                          1.88
 Fc fragment of IgG, low affinity IlIb, receptor (CD16b)            1.88
 interleukin- 17                                                    1.88
 Interleukin 1, beta                                                1.87
 FETUIN protein                                                     1.87
 Immunoglobulin VDJ region                                          1.87
 CD14 antigen                                                       1.87
 T-cell receptor alpha chain mRNA C-region, 3' end of cds           1.87
 CD69 molecule                                                      1.87
 transcription factor Sp1                                           1.87
 Antithrombin III                                                   1.86
 UPF3 regulator of nonsense transcripts-like protein B              1.86
 Palate, lung and nasal epithelium carcinoma associated             1.86
 myoglobin                                                          1.85
 low density lipoprotein receptor                                   1.85
 chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 3                                   1.85
 Transthyretin                                                      1.84
 T-cell receptor alpha chain mRNA C-region, 3' end of cds           1.84
 pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A                              1.84
 neuropeptide Y receptor Y2                                         1.84
 killer cell lectin-like receptor subfamily A, member 1             1.84
 sulfotransferase family, cytosolic, 2A, dehydroepiandrosterone     1.84
 (DHEA)-preferring
                                             40
10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

 T-cell receptor beta chain mRNA C-region, 3' end of cds        1.84
 RNA helicase                                                   1.84
 transforming growth factor, beta 3                             1.84
 CD3d molecule, delta (CD3-TCR complex)                         1.83
 Soluble angiotensin-binding protein (sABP), SINE senquence     1.83
 insulin-like growth factor binding protein 1                   1.83
 gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor                        1.83
 T-cell receptor gamma and delta constant region                1.83
 Hypothetical protein (5'; clone 7A4)                           1.83
 calsequestrin                                                  1.82
 olfactory receptor                                             1.82
 Cytochrome P450 19AI                                           1.82
 olfactory receptor                                             1.82
 cholinergic receptor, muscarinic 1                             1.82
 T-cell receptor alpha chain mRNA C-region, 3' end of cds       1.82
 Prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 1                          1.81
 T-cell receptor alpha chain mRNA C-region, 3' end of cds       1.81
 ficolin                                                        1.81
 myxovirus (influenza virus) resistance 2 (mouse)               1.81
 Ribosomal protein L12                                          1.81
 chemokine (C-X-C motif) receptor 6                             1.81
 Serum amyloid A2                                               1.81
 somatostatin receptor subtype 4                                1.80
 Mox2 protein                                                   1.80
 GATA binding protein 4                                         1.80
 Isolate K8253 TCR-delta chain CDR3 region (TCRD)               1.80
 carbonyl reductase 1                                           1.80
 interferon-gamma                                               1.80
                                 DOWNREGULATED GENES
 Description                                                    Fold Chan2e
 Amylase, alpha 2B (pancreatic)                                 -13.75
 Eukaryotic translation elongation factor 1 gamma               -11.59
 Complement ClqC                                                -10.16
 Tropomodulin 3 (ubiquitous)                                    -9.86
 solute carrier organic anion transporter family, member 1A2    -8.75
 protein phosphatase 1 catalytic subunit gamma isoform          -7.94
 Acyl-CoA oxidase                                               -7.36
 Nuclear factor of activated T-cells, cytoplasmic, calcineurin- -7.27
 dependent 1
 complement component 1, q subcomponent, B chain                -7.17
 interleukin 13 receptor, alpha 1                               -7.13
 Caveolin 1                                                     -6.14
 Putative membrane steroid receptor                             -6.11
 Optineurin /// Tumor-associated calcium signal transducer 1    -6.08
 Putative aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C4                -5.88
 Arginyl-tRNA synthetase                                        -5.88
                                            41
10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

 Hypoxia-inducible factor 1, alpha subunit (basic helix-loop-helix -5.86
 transcription
 protein phosphatase 1, catalytic subunit, beta isoform            -5.76
 Ribosomal protein L10                                             -5.47
 Optineurin                                                        -5.45
 coxsackie-adenovirus-receptor homolog                             -5.13
 caspase 3, apoptosis-related cysteine peptidase                   -4.72
 Histone H1.3-like protein                                         -4.67
 Finkel-Biskis-Reilly murine sarcoma virus (FBR-MuSV)              -4.62
 ubiquitously
 expressed (fox
 Sterol-C4-methyl oxidase-like                                     -4.61
 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) receptor 2C                       -4.61
 radixin                                                           -4.49
 Insulin induced gene 1                                            -4.44
 zinc finger protein 313                                           -4.37
 connective tissue growth factor                                   -4.34
 Protein phosphatase 1, regulatory (inhibitor) subunit 12A         -4.33
 RAB14, member RAS oncogene family                                 -4.31
 Calpain, small subunit 1                                          -4.14
 solute carrier organic anion transporter family, member 1A2       -4.10
 FGF receptor 2111c                                                -3.88
 Palate, lung and nasal epithelium carcinoma associated            -3.87
 Eukaryotic translation elongation factor 1 alpha 1                -3.83
 Eukaryotic translation elongation factor 1 gamma                  -3.79
 Collagen, type III, alpha 1 (Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type IV,      -3.78
 autosomal dominant)
 Calcitonin receptor-like                                          -3.66
 glutamate-ammonia ligase (glutamine synthetase)                   -3.58
 zinc finger protein 265                                           -3.58
 Destrin                                                           -3.52
 lipoprotein lipase                                                -3.51
 Palate, lung and nasal epithelium carcinoma associated            -3.50
 Insulin induced gene 1                                            -3.48
 protein phosphatase 1, catalytic subunit, beta isoform            -3.47
 guanylate cyclase 1, soluble, beta 3                              -3.45
 Transmembrane protein 59                                          -3.42
 caveolin 1                                                        -3.42
 Eukaryotic translation elongation factor 1 gamma                  -3.38
 Neuropeptide Y receptor Y1                                        -3.37
 Putative aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C4                   -3.32
 glutaminase                                                       -3.28
 UDP-GlcNAc:betaGal beta-1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase       -3.26
 5
 cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor lB (p2 7 , Kip1)                -3.24
 lysozyme                                                          -3.23
 AMP-activated protein kinase alpha 2                              -3.22
 succinate dehydrogenase complex, subunit A, flavoprotein (Fp)     -3.20
 Thioredoxin                                                       -3.19
                                            42
10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

 splicing factor, arginine/serine-rich 11                           -3.19
 Tubulin alpha                                                      -3.19
 Actin-related protein 3                                            -3.17
 alveolar macrophage-derived chemotactic factor-I                   -3.14
 Coxsackie-adenovirus-receptor homolog                              -3.08
 actin, beta                                                        -3.07
 Cofilin 2                                                          -3.05
 Tyrosine 3-monooxygenase/tryptophan 5-monooxygenase                -3.05
 activation protein, zeta pol
 Tropomodulin 3 (ubiquitous)                                        -3.04
 Palate, lung and nasal epithelium carcinoma associated             -2.99
 actin, beta                                                        -2.99
 son3 protein                                                       -2.98
 double stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase                       -2.92
 Insulin-induced membrane protein 2 (INSIG2)                        -2.92
 Protein phosphatase 1, regulatory (inhibitor) subunit 12A          -2.91
 Coxsackie-adenovirus-receptor homolog                              -2.91
 extracellular related kinase 3                                     -2.84
 Solute carrier family 35 (UDP-N-acetylglucosamine (UDP-            -2.83
 GlcNAc)
   transporter), mem
 exportin 1 (CRM1 homolog, yeast)                                   -2.82
 calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (CaM kinase) II        -2.78
 delta
 Coxsackie-adenovirus-receptor homolog                              -2.77
 Scavenger receptor class B member 2                                -2.77
 O-linked N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) transferase                  -2.76
 (UDP-N-acetylglucosamine:polyp
 tropomyosin 1 (alpha)                                              -2.75
 Endothelial PAS domain protein 1                                   -2.75
 Inhibin, beta A (activin A, activin AB alpha polypeptide)          -2.71
 aquaporin 1                                                        -2.71
 Tropomodulin 3 (ubiquitous)                                        -2.70
 vascular cell adhesion molecule                                    -2.69
 similar to tigger transposable element derived 4                   -2.68
 amylase, alpha 2B (pancreatic)                                     -2.68
 protein phosphatase 2 (formerly 2A), catalytic subunit, alpha      -2.67
 isoform
 polypeptide chain elongation factor lalpha                         -2.67
 transforming growth factor, beta 2                                 -2.66
 Hypothetical protein LOC733658                                     -2.66
 Calcineurin A protein                                              -2.65
 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase/HMG-CoA            -2.64
 reductase
 Splicing factor, arginine/serine-rich 6                            -2.63
 complement component 1, q subcomponent, A chain                    -2.61
 Cell division cycle 42                                             -2.61
 secreted phosphoprotein 1 (osteopontin, bone sialoprotein I, early -2.61
   T-lymphocyte
                                           43
10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

 polypyrimidine tract-binding protein                           -2.60
 Vitamin D3 25-Hydroxylase                                      -2.59
 Somatostatin                                                   -2.59
 protein kinase, cAMP-dependent, regulatory, type II, alpha     -2.59
 CD59 molecule, complement regulatory protein                   -2.59
 pleiotrophic factor beta                                       -2.59
 PRAl family protein-like protein                               -2.58
 Tubulin alpha                                                  -2.58
 Tropomodulin 3 (ubiquitous)                                    -2.57
 High-affinity copper uptake protein                            -2.56
 solute carrier family 7 (cationic amino acid transporter, y+   -2.51
 system),
   member 1
 Rho family GTPase 3                                            -2.51
 RAP2A                                                          -2.50
 Splicing factor, arginine/serine-rich 6                        -2.50
 keratinocyte growth factor receptor                            -2.49
 O-linked N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) transferase              -2.49
 (UDP-N-acetylglucosamine:polyp
 Calumenin                                                      -2.48
 microphthalmia-associated transcription factor                 -2.48
 mitogen-activated protein kinase 9                             -2.47
 Melanoma cell adhesion molecule                                -2.47
 Eukaryotic translation elongation factor 1 alpha 1             -2.47
 rab geranylgeranyltransferase, beta subunit                    -2.46
 Transmembrane protein 59                                       -2.44
 Tumor-associated calcium signal transducer 1                   -2.44
 high-affinity copper uptake protein                            -2.44
 Quaking homolog, KH domain RNA binding (mouse)                 -2.42
 Calpain, small subunit 1                                       -2.42
 actin-related protein 3                                        -2.40
 Nuclear receptor coactivator 1                                 -2.39
 ID4                                                            -2.39
 caveolin 1                                                     -2.39
 Protein phosphatase 1, regulatory (inhibitor) subunit 12A      -2.39
 ATP synthase, H+ transporting, mitochondrial FO complex,       -2.38
 subunit G
 connexin 43                                                    -2.37
 interferon-related developmental regulator 1                   -2.37
 PRAl family protein-like protein                               -2.36
 Ribosomal protein L23                                          -2.33
 Tropomodulin 3 (ubiquitous)                                    -2.33
 Calpain, small subunit 1                                       -2.33
 Radixin                                                        -2.32
 glutamine-fructose-6-phosphate transaminase 1                  -2.32
 protein phosphatase 1 catalytic subunit alpha isoform          -2.31
 Collagen, type I, alpha 1                                      -2.31
 Disintegrin-metalloproteinase precursor                        -2.31
 Immunoglobulin alpha heavy chain constant region (IgA C alpha) -2.31
                                           44
10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

 Collagen, type III, alpha 1 (Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type IV,   -2.31
 autosomal dominant)
 Tropomodulin 3 (ubiquitous)                                    -2.31
 pinin, desmosome associated protein                            -2.31
 Gi-alpha-3 protein                                             -2.30
 inositol(myo)-1(or 4)-monophosphatase 1                        -2.30
 Eukaryotic translation elongation factor 1 gamma               -3.29
 Cytochrome P450 21-hydroxylase                                 -2.29
 Tubulin alpha                                                  -2.28
 Caveolin 1                                                     -2.28
 amylase, alpha 2B (pancreatic)                                 -2.28
 FBXO 32                                                        -2.28
 Palate, lung and nasal epithelium carcinoma associated         -2.27
 Karyopherin alpha 3                                            -2.26
 Palate, lung and nasal epithelium carcinoma associated         -2.26
 Tubulin alpha                                                  -2.26
 Succinyl-CoA:alpha-ketoacid coenzyme A transferase             -2.25
 O-linked N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) transferase              -2.24
 (UDP-N-acetylglucosamine:polyp
 Finkel-Biskis-Reilly murine sarcoma virus (FBR-MuSV)           -2.23
 ubiquitously
   expressed (fox
 Membrane cofactor protein                                      -2.22
 Splicing factor, arginine/serine-rich 11                       -2.22
 peroxisome proliferator activated receptor,gamma,coactivator 1 -2.22
 Tropomodulin 3 (ubiquitous)                                    -2.22
 Lipoprotein lipase                                             -2.21
 mothers against decapentaplegic homolog 1                      -2.21
 protein kinase, cAMP-dependent, catalytic, beta                -2.21
 pinin, desmosome associated protein                            -2.21
 Ras-related protein Rab-1 1A                                   -2.20
 Chromosome 17 clone pkmCon73, mRNA sequence                    -2.18
 solute carrier family 22 (organic anion transporter), member 8 -2.18
 Low density lipoprotein receptor                               -2.17
 proteasome (prosome, macropain) activator subunit 3 (PA28      -2.17
 gamma; Ki)
 Cytochrome P450 17AI                                           -2.16
 Transcription factor A                                         -2.16
 UPF3 regulator of nonsense transcripts-like protein B          -2.15
 claudin-1 protein                                              -2.15
 Palate, lung and nasal epithelium carcinoma associated         -2.15
 cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein                                  -2.15
 Inhibin, beta A (activin A, activin AB alpha polypeptide)      -2.15
 splicing factor, arginine/serine-rich 11                       -2.15
 HPCA                                                           -2.15
 Tubulin alpha                                                  -2.14
 Putative membrane steroid receptor                             -2.14
 insulin-like growth factor 2 (somatomedin A)                   -2.13
 alpha-1,3-galactosyltransferase                                -2.13
                                           45
10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

 sterol-C4-methyl oxidase-like                                    -2.12
 0-linked N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) transferase                -2.11
   (UDP-N-acetylglucosamine:polyp
 splicing factor, arginine/serine-rich 11                         -2.11
 Extracellular related kinase 3                                   -2.10
 90-kDa heat shock protein                                        -2.10
 Protein S                                                        -2.09
 TrkB protein                                                     -2.09
 Fatty acid synthase                                              -2.09
 acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4                   -2.08
 Nuclear factor of activated T-cells, cytoplasmic,                -2.07
 calcineurin-dependent 1
 guanine nucleotide binding protein (G protein), alpha inhibiting -2.07
 activity polype
 hypothetical protein LOC733652                                   -2.06
 ribose 5-phosphate isomerase-like protein                        -2.06
 Integral membrane protein                                        -2.06
 Claudin-2                                                        -2.06
 RAP2A                                                            -2.05
 myosin VI                                                        -2.05
 Tropomodulin 3 (ubiquitous)                                      -2.04
 fibroblast growth factor 2                                       -2.04
 ROD 1 regulator of differentiation 1                             -2.03
 Finkel-Biskis-Reilly murine sarcoma virus (FBR-MuSV)             -2.03
 ubiquitously
 expressed (fox
 Calpain, small subunit 1                                         -2.03
 Calmodulin                                                       -2.03
 tropomodulin 3 (ubiquitous)                                      -2.03
 Superoxide dismutase 2, mitochondrial                            -2.03
 Polymerase (RNA) II (DNA directed) polypeptide B, 140kDa         -2.02
 Occludin                                                         -2.01
 Glutathione S-transferase                                        -2.01
 Optineurin                                                       -2.01
 RABIB, member RAS oncogene family                                -2.01
 vascular endothelial growth factor                               -2.01
 Tropomodulin 3 (ubiquitous)                                      -2.01
 Activated leukocyte cell adhesion molecule                       -2.00
 Eukaryotic translation elongation factor 1 gamma                 -2.00
 complement component 3                                           -1.98
 splicing factor, arginine/serine-rich 1 (splicing factor 2,      -1.98
 alternate splicing f
 SLA-2 mRNA for MHC class I antigen, partial cds, allele:         -1.97
 SLA-2*03
 Optineurin                                                       -1.97
 Tropomodulin 3 (ubiquitous)                                      -1.97
 Eukaryotic translation elongation factor 1 alpha 1               -1.97
 Splicing factor, arginine/serine-rich 6                          -1.97
 acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4                   -1.96
                                             46
10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

 Eukaryotic translation elongation factor 1 gamma                 -1.96
 Unidentified hepatic protein mRNA                                -1.95
 Eukaryotic translation elongation factor 1 gamma                 -1.95
 Albumin                                                          -1.95
 Transcription factor A                                           -1.95
 Optineurin                                                       -1.94
 insulin-like growth factor 2 (somatomedin A)                     -1.93
 Palate, lung and nasal epithelium carcinoma associated           -1.93
 alpha-1,3-galactosyltransferase                                  -1.93
 Glutathione S-transferase                                        -1.93
 Hn-RNA, clone b3155                                              -1.92
 Calponin 2                                                       -1.92
 Collagen, type III, alpha 1 (Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type IV,     -1.91
 autosomal dominant)
 Tropomodulin 3 (ubiquitous)                                      -1.91
 PNAS-4 protein                                                   -1.91
 Sterol regulatory element binding protein 2                      -1.91
 Tubulin alpha                                                    -1.91
 Karyopherin alpha 2                                              -1.91
 ID4                                                              -1.91
 Epoxide hydrolase                                                -1.91
 HLA-B associated transcript 1                                    -1.90
 Optineurin                                                       -1.90
 RABIB, member RAS oncogene family                                -1.90
 Ribosomal protein L10                                            -1.90
 Optineurin                                                       -1.89
 TNF receptor-associated factor 6                                 -1.89
 stearoyl-CoA desaturase                                          -1.89
 Protein kinase, cAMP-dependent, catalytic, beta                  -1.89
 Eukaryotic translation elongation factor 1 gamma                 -1.88
 sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic-reticulum Ca(2+) pump gene 2            -1.88
 fatty acid binding protein 4, adipocyte                          -1.88
 adenylate kinase 5                                               -1.87
 Tubulin alpha                                                    -1.87
 COX7C1 (COX7C1)                                                  -1.87
 ATPase, Ca++ transporting, plasma membrane 1                     -1.87
 Glycerol-3 -phosphate dehydrogenase                              -1.87
 putative inhibitor of apoptosis                                  -1.86
 Ubiquitin-activating enzyme El                                   -1.86
 RAN, member RAS oncogene family                                  -1.86
 Eukaryotic translation elongation factor 1 alpha 1               -1.86
 Inhibin, beta A (activin A, activin AB alpha polypeptide)        -1.85
 Rho family GTPase 3                                              -1.85
 Voltage-dependent anion channel 2                                -1.85
 ATPase, Na+/K+ transporting, beta 1 polypeptide                  -1.85
 Splicing factor, arginine/serine-rich 11                         -1.85
 fatty acid desaturase 2                                          -1.84
 Splicing factor, arginine/serine-rich 10 (transformer 2 homolog, -1.84
 Drosophila)
                                            47
10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   secretory carrier membrane protein 1                             -1.84
   Optineurin                                                       -1.84
   insulin-like growth factor 2 (somatomedin A)                     -1.84
   Abhydrolase domain containing 5                                  -1.84
   Complement component 1, r subcomponent                           -1.84
   insulin-like growth factor 2 (somatomedin A)                     -1.84
   Heparin binding protein                                          -1.83
   Splicing factor, arginine/serine-rich 10 (transformer 2 homolog, -1.83
   Drosophila)
   Proliferating cell nuclear antigen                               -1.83
   fibrillin 1                                                      -1.83
   Glutathione S-transferase                                        -1.83
   Tumor-associated calcium signal transducer 1                     -1.83
   Transthyretin                                                    -1.83
   SARla gene homolog 2                                             -1.82
   calpastatin                                                      -1.82
   voltage-dependent anion channel 1                                -1.82
   transcription factor TZP                                         -1.81
   son3 protein                                                     -1.81
   Chromosome 17 clone pkmCon24, mRNA sequence                      -1.81
   Tubulin alpha                                                    -1.81
   Phosphoglucomutase 1                                             -1.80
   transcription factor TZP                                         -1.80
   integrin beta-I subunit                                          -1.80
   Glutathione S-transferase                                        -1.80
   Calpain, small subunit 1                                         -1.80
   tissue factor                                                    -1.80
                                          TABLE 2
   GENE CHANGES - ENDO-SFM Containing Clusters (Changes with respect to
5                                  clusters in RPMI-CPN)
   Description                                                      Fold Chan2e
   Haptocorrin                                                      43.16
   fatty acid binding protein 4, adipocyte                          23.21
   ATP1A2 mRNA, 3'UTR, allele 1                                     12.90
   Tropomodulin 3 (ubiquitous)                                      8.37
   galectin-1                                                       7.35
   Tyrosinase-related protein 1                                     6.37
   lipoprotein lipase                                               5.99
   matrix Gla protein                                               5.30
   Tropomodulin 3 (ubiquitous)                                      5.25
   Collagen, type III, alpha 1 (Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type IV,     5.22
   autosomal dominant)
                                               48
  10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

 Lipoprotein lipase                                           5.18
 Group VII phospholipase A2                                   5.11
 Tropomodulin 3 (ubiquitous)                                  4.92
 haptocorrin                                                  4.82
 Tropomodulin 3 (ubiquitous)                                  4.79
 pigment epithelium-derived factor                            4.55
 Tubulin alpha                                                4.50
 caveolin 1                                                   4.26
 Beta-2-microglobulin                                         4.20
 caveolin 1                                                   4.15
 complement component 5                                       4.11
 Chemokine                                                    3.95
 Na,K-ATPase alpha 2 subunit                                  3.86
 Fatty acid binding protein 5                                 3.80
 Tubulin alpha                                                3.67
 fatty acid binding protein 5                                 3.66
 alpha-1,3-galactosyltransferase                              3.55
 Chemokine                                                    3.54
 TrkB protein                                                 3.49
 fibroblast growth factor 2                                   3.47
 collagen, type III, alpha 1 (Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type IV, 3.47
 autosomal dominant)
 alpha-actinin-2-associated LIM protein                       3.41
 odd homeobox 1 protein                                       3.41
 chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 1                             3.31
 Tropomyosin 3                                                3.29
 caveolin 1                                                   3.28
 alpha-1,3-galactosyltransferase                              3.21
 Collagen, type I, alpha 1                                    3.16
 Fatty acid binding protein 5                                 3.14
 Chromosome 17 clone pkmCon46, mRNA sequence                  3.05
 Thioredoxin interacting protein                              3.01
 alpha-1,3-galactosyltransferase                              2.98
 Somatostatin                                                 2.94
 Lipoprotein lipase                                           2.90
 Lipoprotein lipase                                           2.90
 cathepsin K                                                  2.83
 Fibronectin                                                  2.80
 UDP-Gal:beta-GlcNAc beta-1,3-galactosyltransferase 3         2.69
 connexin 43                                                  2.55
 Membrane-associated protein 17                               2.39
 metallothionein-IlI                                          2.38
 complement component 1, s subcomponent                       2.35
 Occludin                                                     2.29
 putative aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C4              2.29
 Inhibin, beta A (activin A, activin AB alpha polypeptide)    2.28
 glutathione S-transferase                                    2.28
 chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 2                             2.25
 transforming growth factor, beta 2                           2.25
                                           49
10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

 Calpain, small subunit 1                                        2.23
 Collagen, type III, alpha 1 (Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type IV,    2.22
 autosomal dominant)
 fatty acid binding protein 3, muscle and heart (mammary-derived 2.21
 growth inhibitor
 acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4                  2.20
 pro-melanin-concentrating hormone                               2.19
 CD163 molecule                                                  2.19
 oculocutaneous albinism II (pink-eye dilution homolog, mouse)   2.16
 Inhibin, beta A (activin A, activin AB alpha polypeptide)       2.16
 Allograft inflammatory factor 1                                 2.12
 Isocitrate dehydrogenase 2 (NADP+), mitochondrial               2.10
 Collagen, type III, alpha 1 (Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type IV,    2.07
 autosomal dominant)
 tenascin C                                                      2.07
 procollagen-proline, 2-oxoglutarate 4-dioxygenase (proline 4-   2.06
 hydroxylase), alpha
 Polymerase (RNA) II (DNA directed) polypeptide B, 140kDa        2.06
 Cathepsin L                                                     2.05
 lipoprotein lipase                                              2.05
 Tumor-associated calcium signal transducer 1                    2.05
 acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4                  2.03
 scavenger receptor for phosphatidylserine and oxidized low      2.03
 density lipoprotein
 cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 3                             2.01
 calponin 1, basic, smooth muscle                                2.01
 Occludin                                                        2.01
 Gelsolin                                                        2.00
 bestrophin 1                                                    1.98
 laminin, beta 1                                                 1.97
 proteasome (prosome, macropain) subunit, beta type, 10          1.97
 transcription factor PU. 1                                      1.95
 DNase X                                                         1.95
 dopa decarboxylase                                              1.95
 propionyl Coenzyme A carboxylase, beta polypeptide              1.94
 glutaminase                                                     1.92
 Chromosome 17 clone pkmCon20, mRNA sequence                     1.91
 occludin                                                        1.91
 Histone H1.3-like protein                                       1.88
 cathepsin D                                                     1.87
 Coxsackie-adenovirus-receptor homolog                           1.86
 vascular endothelial growth factor                              1.85
 Tropomodulin 3 (ubiquitous)                                     1.84
 pyridoxal (pyridoxine, vitamin B6) kinase                       1.83
 38 kDa heparin-binding glycoprotein                             1.83
 2',5'-oligoadenylate synthetase 1, 40/46kDa                     1.82
 tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-3                         1.82
 calcium channel, voltage-dependent, beta 4 subunit              1.82
 aminoacylase 1                                                  1.80
                                           50
10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

 Heat shock protein 47                  1.80
 fatty acid binding protein 7, brain    1.80
 interleukin 6 (interferon, beta 2)     1.80
                                     51
10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

                                   DOWNREGULATED GENES
   Description                                                      Fold Chan2e
   Estrogen sulfotransferase                                        -4.03
   tumor-associated calcium signal transducer 1                     -3.59
   alveolar macrophage-derived chemotactic factor-I                 -3.14
   porcine inhibitor of carbonic anhydrase                          -2.71
   carboxypeptidase Al precursor                                    -2.50
   Fibrinogen-like 2                                                -2.48
   v-myc myelocytomatosis viral oncogene homolog (avian)            -2.47
   Polo-like kinase 2 (Drosophila)                                  -2.46
   Endogenous retrovirus Tsukuba-1 mRNA, complete sequence          -2.46
   fibrinogen-like 2                                                -2.41
   phosphogluconate dehydrogenase                                   -2.41
   Alpha-2-macroglobulin                                            -2.37
   fibrinogen-like 2                                                -2.35
   glutamine-fructose-6-phosphate transaminase 1                    -2.33
   interleukin 13 receptor, alpha 1                                 -2.32
   lysozyme                                                         -2.14
   fibrinogen-like 2                                                -2.11
   similar to tigger transposable element derived 4                 -1.99
   glutamine-fructose-6-phosphate transaminase 1                    -1.97
   CD74 antigen                                                     -1.97
   metallothionein isoform                                          -1.92
   Interleukin 13 receptor, alpha 1                                 -1.92
   complement component 1, q subcomponent, B chain                  -1.90
   antileukoproteinase                                              -1.90
   stathmin- 1                                                      -1.89
   high-affinity copper uptake protein                              -1.89
   insulin-like growth factor 2 (somatomedin A)                     -1.89
   lactotransferrin                                                 -1.89
   Antithrombin III                                                 -1.87
   solute carrier family 7 (cationic amino acid transporter, y+
   system), member 1                                                -1.82
  Table 1 shows the fold changes in genes from capsuloids grown for 3 days in RPMI
  CPN media compared to CP clusters grown in the same media, and Table 2 shows the
5 fold changes in genes in CP clusters grown for 3 days in ENDO-SFM media
  compared to CP clusters grown in RPMI-CPN media. Table 3 below highlights some
  of the genes upregulated in the presence of ENDO-SFM that are implicated in wound
  healing.
                                             52
  10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

                                                    TABLE 3
                      GENE EXPRESSION LEVEL CHANGES IN ENDO-SFM:
                                  Upregulated Primary Regenerative Candidates
                                      Gene      with     Wound  Fold Change
                                      Healing Potential         in     ENDO
                                                                SFM
                                      Haptocorrin               +43.16
                                      Tropomodulin 3            +8.37
                                      Matrix GLA Protein        +5.30
                                      Type III Collagen         +5.22
                                      PEDF                      +4.55
                                      p-2-microglobulin         +4.20
                                      FGF-2                     +3.47
                                      Type I Collagen           +3.16
                                      Somatostatin              +2.94
                                      Fibronectin               +2.80
                                      TGF-  P                   +2.25
                                      Laminin P1                +1.97
                                      VEGF                      +1.85
                                      11-6                      +1.80
 5
   Example 9: Nanoencapsulation of lyophilised choroid plexus conditioned media
   and demonstration of protein integrity as assessed by ELISA
   Poly(lactide-co-glycolide) was used to encapsulate micronised, lyophilised Choroid
   Plexus conditioned media (LCPCM). LCPCM described previously was reconstituted
10 in a super saturated solution of distilled water (236.72 mg in 2 mL). Separately, 25
   mL ethyl acetate was added to 413 mg PLGA (Resomer@ RG503H, Boehringer
   Ingelheim), a biodegradable polyster with 50:50 copolymer ratio and a weight
                                                        53
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   average molecular weight of 9 kDa, considered relatively fast-degrading.        The two
   solutions were vortexed vigorously and probe-sonicated to create a microemulsion,
   which was rapidly frozen in liquid nitrogen and subsequently lyophilised. Due to the
   poor miscibility of ethyl acetate and water in combination with the aggressive mixing
 5 techniques employed, very small droplets of CPCM were frozen with the lipophilic
   polymer-chloroform matrix. After lyophilisation to complete dryness, this yielded a
   solid matrix of PLGA surrounding micronised particulates of lyophilised conditioned
   medium.
10 This micronisation technique was employed to improve the homogeneity of the
   formulation, to reduce the overall size of the microspheres, and to enhance solubility
   due to the larger surface area to volume ratio of the resulting therapeutic particulates.
   This polymer-CPCM combination was then dissolved in 40 mL ethyl acetate, which
   thoroughly dissolved the PLGA component but retained the micronised CPCM as
15 insoluble microparticlates.      The solution was rapidly dispersed into 2 L heptane,
   causing rapid precipitation of polymer around the micronised CPCM. The resultant
   therapeutic microspheres consisted of 36.5% (W/W) loading of CPCM, or roughly
    127 pg VEGF/mg microsphere formulation.
20 Microspheres were characterised using scanning electron microscopy for surface
   morphology, Coulter particle size analysis for size distribution, and organic extraction
   to determine if one of the CPCM proteins, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)
   remained detectable and potentially active following exposure to the solvents
   employed.
25
   Extraction of VEGF was accomplished by dissolving 20 mg microspheres in ethyl
   acetate, extracting proteins into an aqueous buffer, and measuring VEGF using an
   ELISA. In this manner, it was determined that 20mg microspheres contained 1,509
   +/- 65 pg VEGF, or 75.5 pg/mg microspheres. This correlates with 40% VEGF losses
30 due to processing or inefficient extraction.
                                                54
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   Coulter particle size analysis and scanning electron microscopy revealed that
   microspheres were roughly 300 nm in size, with aggregation occurring within the
   dispersion to create clusters with mean diameters of approximately 4 and 10 microns
   respectively, (Figure 16 and 17).
 5
   Example 10:                   Analysis of the Transcriptome of CP in cultures generating
   condition media
   Microarray analysis of the cells secreting the CP conditioned lyophilised media
10 produced using ENDO-SFM media, as described in example 8, above, was carried out
   and the level of expression of secreted proteins measured.             Of the over 24,000
   expression values returned from the porcine microarray, some genes involved in the
   wound healing process are summarized below in Table 4.                Each of the secreted
   proteins encoded by these genes has been implicated in the steps that make up the
15 wound healing process.
                                                    TABLE 4
         GENE                        Log2       Angiogenic  Migration    Trophic    Tissue    Inflam
                                  Expression                    and               Remodeling   mation
                                    Values                 Proliferation
                                (ENDO-SFM)
   Transthyretin               15.12 +/- 0.03                               V/
   Ubiquitin C                 14.67 /- 0.01
   Clusterin                   14.15 /- 0.04
   Connective                  14.01 /- 0.01
   Tissue Growth
   Factor
   Osteonectin                 14.01 +/- 0.06       1            1
   Beta-2-                     13.98 +/- 0.02
   microglobulin
   Insulin-like                13.65   - 0.01                                          /
   Growth Factor
   Binding
   Protein
                                                        55
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

Cystatin C                  13.31 +/-0.04             V/
Aquaporin 1                 13.30!- 0.01       V
Optineurin                  12.73  /- 0.03
Neurolysin                  12.70 +-0.01   V
COFILIN                     12.60   - 0.01          V
protein
Secreted                    12.59   - 0.04      V
Folate Binding
Protein
Growth                      12.50   - 0.01      V
Associated
Protein 43
Cellular                    12.45 +/- 0.01      V   V
Retinol
Binding
Protein     1
TIMP                        12.40 +-0.01            V
metallopeptida
se inhibitor 1
MIF2                        12.28  /-.0.03
suppressor
Neuronal                    12.27   - 0.01        V
Protein 3
TIMP-2                      12.01   - 0.10          V
TrkB Protein                12.01   - 0.01        V
Thioredoxin                 11.93  /-0.06           V
Interacting
Protein
Osteoclast                  11.82   - 0.03        V
Stimulating
Factor
Insulin                     11.78   - 0.04        V
induced gene 1
Vascular                    11.66 +-0.03   V
endothelial
growth factor
Collagen III                11.47 /-0.01            V
Interferon                  11.41  /-0.05  V
Regulatory
Factor 3
Transforming                11.39 +-0.07        V   V V
Growth Factor
Beta 2
                                             56
10085781_1(GHMatters)P86131.AU.2

Insulin-like                11.26!- 0.04
growth factor
2
Fibromodulin                11.19   - 0.03        V
Pro-melanin                 11.11+- 0.06         V
concentrating
hormone
Pigment                     11.07+/-0.01   V    V
epithelium
derived factor
                                             57
10085781_1(GHMatters)P86131.AU.2

Parathyroid                 10.97 +/- 0.03
hormone-like
hormone
Bone                        10.96 /- 0.01
morphogenetic
protein 7
Antithrombin                10.87    - 0.01      /
III
Neuronal                    10.85 +/- 0.04       /
endocrine
protein
Metallothionei              10.85 +/- 0.03
n-III
Caveolin 1                  10.79    - 0.06      /
CXCL-14                     10.79    - 0.05 /
Chemokine
Smooth                      10.49    - 0.01      /
Muscle
Protein           22
alpha
Monoamine                   10.64 +/- 0.05
Oxidase B
Matricin                    10.49    - 0.02            /
ICAM-1                      10.27 +-0.09             /
Somatostatin                10.03    - 0.03      /
Calpain, small              10.14    - 0.01          /
subunit 1
Fibronectin                 9.94   - 0.02            /
Adrenomedulli               9.75 +/- 0.02
n
Interleukin 6               9.67 +/- 0.07        /   V
Axotrophin                  9.66 +/- 0.08            V
Connexin 43                 9.50   - 0.03        /
Tissue Factor               9.50   - 0.01   /
Collagen Type               9.08   - 0.10            /
VIII
Interleukin 1               8.82 +/- 011         / /
Transforming                8.51 +/- 0.05        /
Growth Factor
Alpha
                                              58
10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   Integrin Alpha              8.27 +- 0.13
   V
   Interleukin 15              8.26 /- 0.05
   Collagen Type               8.19 +/- 0.07
   V
   Vascular Cell               8.10 +/- 0.11
   Adhesion
   Molecule
   Monocyte                    7.29 +/- 0.05
   Chemoattracta
   nt Protein      1
   Example 11: Endothelial Tube Formation In Choroid Plexus Co-Cultures
   Choroid plexus epithelial clusters isolated from Yorkshire swine were incubated in a
 5 growth-factor rich three-dimensional hydrogel for 7 days in RPMI 1640 tissue culture
   medium containing 2% fetal bovine serum (2500 clusters / cm 2 ). The morphology of
   the clusters, as described elsewhere, transitioned from a solid spheroidal cell mass to a
   hollow capsuloid.                Separately, human umbilical vascular endothelial cells (HUVEC,
   Invitrogen) were grown to 95% confluency in t75 flasks in Medium 200 (Invitrogen).
10 The medium was changed daily. HUVEC were then trypsinized and added to the
   wells of 3-D choroid plexus cultures at a density of 2.5 x 101 cells / cm 2 ) in RPMI
    1640 / FBS, or to wells containing the matrix alone. After 24 hours of incubation,
   IUVEC co-cultured with CP capsuloids demonstrated a change in phenotype from
   ovoid, epithelial cells to tubular structures as shown in Figure 19A and 19B below.
15 Importantly, the network formed by the endothelial tubes appears to be guided by the
   placement of CP capsuloids, as nearly each cell mass serves as a node in the vascular
   network. In contrast, HUVEC cultured under the same conditions but without choroid
   plexus remained undifferentiated (Figure 20). This behavior is indicative of exposure
   to an angiogenic stimulus, which is secreted in the cocktail of growth factors provided
20 by the choroid plexus.
   Example 12: CP Isolation and Culture
                                                        59
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   CP was successfully isolated from neonatal pigs and digested into CP clusters ranging
   in size from approximately 50-250 ptm. After culturing the clusters in non-adherent
   flasks in RPMI-CPN for 8 days, manual counting revealed that the yield per piglet
 5 decreased from 128,854  16,159 to 50,962  5,690 CP clusters. This is consistent
   with the temporal loss of non-epithelial clusters of cells due to attachment or death, in
   addition to gradual coalescence of small aggregates into larger clusters (Figure 22).
   After the transition to serum-free media after 10 days, CM was collected in parallel
   with fresh medium held under the same conditions. VEGF levels were measured in
10 aliquots taken from CM generated throughout the experiment (Figure 23) as well as
   control medium.                  10 days after isolation, daily levels of VEGF secreted per CP
   increased from approximately 41 ng to around 70 ng at 2 weeks, and remained
   relatively stable thereafter.            Following processing of the conditioned medium to
   generate a pooled purified lyophilate, VEGF levels were verified to ensure that the
15 molecule was conserved throughout the process.
   Example 13: CP Gene Array
   CP cohorts from the same animal group were cultured, after 10 days in RPMI-CPN, in
   ENDO-SFM for an additional 3 or 16 days specifically for microarray analysis.
20 Whole genome porcine arrays were performed to characterize the CP expression
   pattern as well as to evaluate the plasticity of the CP transcriptome over the first 16
   days following media transition. The microarray data were selected and sorted based
   on the potential of mRNAs to transcribe for secreted molecules, relevance in tissue
   regeneration, expression levels, and statistical significance. Shown in Table 5 is a list
25 of those factors that could play a role in wound healing, along with a descriptive
   matrix of their potential roles.             As expected (Thanos, C. G.; et al., The in vitro
   expression and secretion of vascular endothelial growth factor from free and alginate
   polyornithine encapsulated choroid plexus epithelium. Tissue Eng. 13:747-756; 2007;
   Thouvenot, E.; et al. The proteomic analysis of mouse choroid plexus secretome
30 reveals a high protein secretion capacity of choroidal epithelial cells. Proteomics
   6:5941-5952; 2006), transthyretin was expressed at extremely high levels in tissue
   culture, and a number of other factors were expressed at similarly high levels. In
   general, the regenerative genes listed encode for growth factors, angiogenic factors,
                                                        60
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   extracellular matrix remodeling components, and other factors with regenerative
   properties.            The regenerative factor compliment expressed by the CP clusters in
   ENDO-SFM was significant, and included several relevant factors (see table for
   abbreviations): CTGF (14.01), VEGF (11.66), TGF-3 (11.39), IGF-2 (11.26), PEDF
 5 (11.07), BMP-7 (10.96), PDGF (10.59), Somatostatin (10.03), 11-6 (9.67), Tissue
   Factor (9.50), WISP-i (8.85), FGF-2 (8.79), TGF-a (8.51), Wnt-10B (8.27), EGF
   (7.57) and others. The difference in expression levels of most of these regenerative
   components between day 3 and 16 was nearly indistinguishable, with most factors
   remaining within a very narrow range, except for CXCL-14 chemokine and
10 adrenomedullin, which decreased by 3.58-fold and 2.08-fold respectively. The entire
   array database was subsequently sorted to compare statistically significant changes
   greater than 1.8-fold in all expression levels between day 3 and day 16, the output of
   which is shown in Table 6.               These genes that exhibit the highest variability in
   temporal expression could be involved in the acclimation of CP to tissue culture, and
15 do not include major regenerative candidates.
   Example 14: Monolayer Scratch Assay
   Cultured monolayers of neonatal human keratinocytes and fibroblasts were disrupted
   and incubated with different doses of encapsulated CP in basal culture medium. In
20 both cell types, the wounded area decreased during the incubation period and was
   significantly smaller in groups treated with > 1500 encapsulated CP. The data, shown
   in Figure 24, demonstrate that the chemotaxic effect was dose-dependent and the peak
   effect was associated with a 35.2% area reduction over control in NHDF cultures, and
   a 27.9% area reduction over control in the NHEK cultures. In NHEK cultures, 2500
25 encapsulated CP was associated with the smallest wound area, while the NHDF cells
   showed an increased response up to the maximum dose of 5000 encapsulated CP. To
   gauge the levels of VEGF secreted by the encapsulated CP, samples of 2500 (N=9)
   were assessed as described (Thanos, C. G.; et al., The in vitro expression and
   secretion of vascular endothelial growth factor from free and alginate-polyornithine
30 encapsulated choroid plexus epithelium. Tissue Eng. 13:747-756; 2007). At the dose
   of 2500 encapsulated CP / well, roughly 2.4 ng VEGF was secreted over 24 hours.
                                                    61
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   Example 15: Full Thickness Open Wounds
   Uncovered open wounds were treated daily for 10 days with no sign of infection. By
   day 3, scabs formed on all wounds with no obvious difference between groups; after 8
   days, the scabs began to detach as the underlying wounds contracted. After 2 weeks,
 5 wound surfaces appeared relatively smooth with little evidence of scab remnants.
   Superficially, all wounds looked well healed by this time point, with some variability
   in the presence of hair follicles evident in the central wounded area. Figure 21 shows
   explanted skin containing the wounded area, with a control treatment (Figure 21A)
   and LCM treatment (Figure 21B), which contains more follicles within the wounded
10 area. This observation is more apparent histologically, as shown in Figure 25. Here,
   a series of representative sections are shown located 1/3 into the width of the wound.
   In Figure 25A, normal skin is shown, which contains epidermal appendages including
   hair follicles associated with sebaceous glands, dense collagen, and distinctly formed
   epidermal rete pegs. By comparison, a wound treated with bacitracin alone, shown in
15 Figure 25B, contains densely packed fibroblasts within the dermis, replete with newly
   formed vessels, and an epidermis of a thin, flat layer of keratinocytes.        Wounds
   treated with LCM (Figure 25C), contain tissue with a higher level of organization,
   containing forming epidermal appendages, a lower cell density, and a more ridged
   profile suggestive of epidermal rete pegs. Similarly, DLCM-treated wounds (Figure
20 25D) were rich in epidermal appendages, including sebaceous glands, which
   occasionally extended through the epidermis manifesting as visible hair.          These
   wounds also resembled the morphology of normal tissue in the density and ratio of
   cells to collagen. As shown in Figure 26, wounds treated with CP products contained
   a significantly higher density of epidermal appendages (5- and 5.8-fold higher for
25 DLCM and LCM respectively) and an overall smaller cross-sectional area. However,
   central cell density was morphometrically indistinguishable between groups.
   LinearIncisions
   6-cm incisions were treated topically with ointments for 10 days prior to skin harvest
30 4 days later, at day 14.         All wounds healed completely during the study, with
   complete closure occurring after 8 days (Figure 27).         Incisions treated with CP
                                               62
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   proteins showed a marked improvement in the cosmetics of the incisions, with LCM
   (Figure 27B) and DLCM (Figure 27C) appearing more symmetric, with narrower
   margins than the control group (Figure 27A). This finding was consistent with the
   histology, which showed much thinner bands of fibrosis in the center of the wound,
 5 along with a greater density of epidermal appendages at the margins (Figure 28). The
   control group (Figure 28A) had a large area of fibrosis in the healing incision, while
   both LCM (Figure 28B) and DLCM (Figure 28C) reduced this area dramatically.
   Interestingly, LCM demonstrated the strongest effects, with the width of the central
   scar reduced roughly 2-fold over the DLCM treatment, and roughly 5-fold over the
10 control group. As demonstrated with end-to-end tensiometry, this improved cosmetic
   performance carried over to the strength of the tissue. As shown in Figure 29, both
   groups treated with CP proteins were associated with a statistically significant
   improvement in peak break strength over the control. LCM increased strength over
   the control group from 3.7 +/- 0.5 N to 7.7 +/- 0.8 N, while DLCM was associated
15 with a further increase in force to 9.5 +/- 1.6 N.
   Discussion
   The CP secretes proteins useful in maintaining the health and function of the brain
20 and CNS.                Such secreted proteins can help in treating neurological diseases.
   Surprisingly, the current results demonstrate that CP secreted proteins are also
   involved in regulating the inflammatory response and in improving wound healing
   and reducing scar tissue formation.           As part of the normal wound healing process
   macrophages infiltrate the wound site soon after wounding and by release of
25 chemokines contribute              to key processes   in healing   such as regulation of
   epitheliasation, tissue remodeling and angiogenesis in skin" and other tissues.         A
   schematic diagram of the wound healing process is set out in Figure 18.
   In the present examples, histological data demonstrates that there is increased and
30 accelerated infiltration of macrophages and fibroblasts into the wound area resulting
   in the laying down of fibrotic scar tissue (Figures 7b and 7c - control). In CP secreted
                                                    63
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   protein treated wounds, the accumulation of fibrotic connective tissue is reduced
   (Figure 7b and 7c - treated) and tissue function maintained as evidenced by improved
   break strength (Figure 8). During wound healing the injured necrotic area is invaded
   by small blood vessels, mononuclear cells and activated macrophages.                    These
 5 activated lymphocytes simultaneously secrete several cytokines and growth factors,
   which are critical in chemotaxis and subsequent wound healing processes.                   CP
   secreted proteins also comprise numerous cytokines and growth factors and appear to
   accelerate tissue repair by enhancing the wound healing process leading to accelerated
   healing.         Perhaps this is due to a synergistic effect of the endogenous growth factors
10 and the exogenous growth factors supplied by the administration of CP secreted
   proteins. The result seen in the present examples is not due to the presence of VEGF
   alone.        A composition comprising CP secreted proteins was             more effective at
   accelerating wound healing than recombinant VEGF alone (results not shown).
15 Our results show that lyophilized CP conditioned media is a potent stimulator of the
   wound healing process resulting in increased wound strength and reduced wound
   scarring.
   Fibrosis is a part of the wound healing processes but excess fibrosis leads to scarring
20 and reduced function of tissues. Fibroblasts play a major role in deposition of collagen
   and thus scar formation in wounds. Studies have previously correlated the extent of
   fibroblast accumulation with scarring in skin bum woundsO. It is anticipated that CP
   secreted proteins acts to reduce scarring by decreasing the accumulation of fibroblasts
   at a wound site with a consequent decrease in scarring in the healed wound.
25 Importantly, the data presented here shows that the administration of CP secreted
   proteins to a wound site in vivo leads to decreased collagen accumulation and scarring
   in tissue that has undergone wound healing. Evidence for this is already available in
   example 7 above and figure 9. Collagen has been found to be the major pathological
   finding in a number of fibrotic diseases 12 , but at the same time is an extremely
30 important early component of non-fibrotic tissue regeneration.            This fine balance of
   extracellular matrix production, chemotaxis, and mitogenesis in wound healing
   therapy can only be achieved by concomitant or staged delivery of a multitude of
                                                     64
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   individual factor therapies, whereas in this work it is apparent that the CP-derived
   cocktail provides all aspects.
   The studies presented here demonstrate the ability of factors secreted by the CP to
 5 intervene in the wound healing process.              In vitro, this activity was manifested by
   encapsulated CP co-cultured with scratched monolayer cultures of human fibroblasts
   and keratinocytes as an accelerated wound area reduction due to chemotaxis or cell
   proliferation.             In these models, there was an increase in the amount of healing
   associated with the dose of VEGF in the conditioned medium. In vivo, open wounds
10 treated with CPCM in ointment showed a 5- to 6-fold increase in replenishment of
   epidermal appendages after 14 days compared to the control, along with a significant
   reduction in cross-sectional wound area. And surgically closed incisions treated with
   CPCM were associated with a greater than 2-fold increase in the tensile strength of
   the healed tissue, and an overall better cosmetic appearance with reduced central
15 scarring and better preservation and / or repopulation of epidermal appendages
   surrounding the wound margins.
   While the precise healing mechanism associated with CP proteins remains unclear,
   without wishing to be bound by theory, it is likely related to the synergistic activity of
20 a combination of expressed factors. The transcriptome of CP contains a number of
   genes encoding for mediators of the natural wound healing response.                While it is
   unknown if the full compliment of these factors is secreted from CP in the tissue
   culture system described here, proteomic analysis of mouse CP supports an
   abundance of secreted proteins (Thouvenot, E.; et al. The proteomic analysis of mouse
25 choroid plexus secretome reveals a high protein secretion capacity of choroidal
   epithelial cells. Proteomics 6:5941-5952; 2006). VEGF, chosen as a surrogate marker
   of potency in these studies, was delivered at biologically efficacious levels (Ozawa, C.
   R.; et al. Microenvironmental VEGF concentration, not total dose, determines a
   threshold between normal and aberrant angiogenesis. J. Clin. Invest. 113:516-527;
30 2004), and is capable of up-regulating intrinsic factors such as PDGF (Galiano, R. D.;
   et al. Microenvironmental VEGF concentration, not total dose, determines a threshold
   between normal and aberrant angiogenesis. Am. J. Pathol. 164:1935-1947; 2004),
                                                      65
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   bFGF (Galiano, R. D.; et al. Microenvironmental VEGF concentration, not total dose,
   determines a threshold between normal and aberrant angiogenesis. Am. J. Pathol.
    164:1935-1947; 2004), TGF- 31 (Li, Z.-D.; et al. VEGF induces proliferation,
   migration, and TGF-1 I expression in mouse glomerular endothelial cells via mitogen
 5 activated protein kinase and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase. Biochem. Biophys. Res.
   Commun. 334:1049-1060; 2005), and others that are involved in wound healing.
   Still, it is likely that the overall effect of the CP cocktail extends beyond VEGF alone,
   as there are a number of other highly expressed factors contained within the CP
   transcriptome that act at similarly high levels.
10
   CTGF, for example, is expressed by CP at levels nearly as high as transthyretin, the
   factor with the highest expression level in gene array (Thanos, C. G.; et al., The in
   vitro expression and secretion of vascular endothelial growth factor from free and
   alginate-polyornithine encapsulated choroid plexus epithelium. Tissue Eng. 13:747
15 756; 2007) and proteomic analysis (Thouvenot, E.; et al. The proteomic analysis of
   mouse choroid plexus secretome reveals a high protein secretion capacity of choroidal
   epithelial cells. Proteomics 6:5941-5952; 2006).              CTGF promotes chemotaxis and
   proliferation of fibroblasts, the formation of granulation tissue, re-epithelialization,
   and matrix remodeling (Igarashi, A.; et al. Regulation of connective tissue growth
20 factor gene expression in human skin fibroblasts and during wound repair. Mol. Biol.
   Cell 4:637-645; 1993).              While the primary role of CTGF in wound healing is to
   promote tissue reconstruction through fibrosis, it has also been shown to regulate
   VEGF-mediated angiogenesis through negative feedback (Jang, H. S.; et al. A novel
   ex vivo angiogenesis assay based on electroporation-mediated delivery of naked
25 plasmid DNA to skeletal muscle. Mol. Ther. 9:464-474; 2004), and is angiogenic on
   its own in models of corneal neovascularization (Shimo, T.; et al. Connective tissue
   growth factor induces the proliferation, migration, and tube formation of vascular
   endothelial cells in vitro, and angiogenesis in vivo. J. Biochem. 126:137-145; 1999).
   TGF-P, also highly expressed by the CP, is one of the most well known mediators of
30 cutaneous wound healing, and is involved from the inflammatory phase through tissue
   remodeling               and re-epithelialization (Barrientos, S.; et al. Growth factors and
   cytokines in wound healing. Wound Repair Regen. 16:585-601; 2008).                     It has
   demonstrated therapeutic potential in topical application to venous stasis ulcers
                                                       66
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   (Robson, M. C.; et al. Safety and effect of transforming growth factor-beta(2) for
   treatment of venous stasis ulcers. Wound Repair Regen. 3:157-167; 1995), and has
   been used to increase the strength of incisional wounds (Wright, T. E.; et al. The
   effect of TGF-beta2 in various vehicles on incisional wound healing. Int. J. Surg.
 5 Investig. 2:133-143; 2000). IGF-2, BMP-7, PDGF, FGF-2, EGF, and other factors
   expressed by CP and listed in Table 5 also have potential wound healing effects as
   cited in the literature and as indicated in the table.
   One of the most intriguing observations in these studies is the increased density of
10 hair follicles within the wound margin following CP factor administration. While it is
   unclear if the follicles were generated de novo in both models, it is likely that follicles
   present in the healed open wounds were a result of neogenesis.           These follicles,
   varying in their maturity but appearing in healing tissue prior to 2-weeks, may have
   developed as a result of Wnt-dependent signaling involving WntlOb, which is
15 expressed at moderate levels by CP.              In vivo, Wnt10b is important in the
   differentiation of skin epithelium and formation of hair follicles (Ito, M.; et al. Wnt
   dependent de novo hair follicle regeneration in adult mouse skin after wounding.
   Nature 447:316-320; 2007), and recent work using recombinant Wnt10b has
   demonstrated positive effects on hair shaft growth and follicle formation in vitro
20 (Ouji, Y.; et al. Wnt-10b, uniquely amount Wnts, promotes epithelial differentiation
   and shaft growth. Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 367:299-304; 2008). Perhaps as
   a component of the CP cocktail, Wnt10b works in concert with factors that are
   involved in the earlier stages of wound healing, e.g. PDGF, VEGF, CTGF, TGF- P,
   and others, to guide epithelial differentiation concurrent with angiogenesis and
25 migration of fibroblasts and keratinocytes, effectively providing developmental cues
   as in embryogenesis.
   Still, the effects observed in these studies support the role of therapeutic CP-products
   outside of the central nervous system. They are a ready source of various factors that,
30 when applied as individual molecules, are associated with improvements in wound
   healing. Recombinant PDGF, for example, has been studied extensively on its own to
   treat diabetic ulcers (Robson, M. C.; et al. Platelet-derived growth factor BB for the
   treatment of chronic pressure ulcers. Lancet 339:23; 1992), and is approved by the
                                                 67
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   FDA for topical use. TGF-32 has also been tested clinically (Robson, M. C.; et al.
   Effects of Transforming Growth Factor B2 on Wound Healing in Diabetic Foot
   Ulcers: A Randomized Controlled Safety and Dose-Ranging Trial. JARCET 2(2);
   2002), and remains a fertile area of product development. The application of these
 5 and other factors simultaneously, to be used as required by the healing tissue, would
   address issues related to targeting just one aspect of the wound healing cascade, and
   decrease the impact of delivery kinetics and the regulation of factors via feedback in
   the wound. Such a combination of factors could also prove useful in more severe
   wounds, such as deep ischemic ulcers, that would require a more coordinated
10 rebuilding of tissue beginning with a restoration of blood supply and ending with
   superficial reconstruction.
   Factors from the CP, delivered in a biologically determined ratio and composition as
   shown here, could be used to improve the healing of cutaneous wounds. Because of
15 the potentially widespread effect imparted by the CP cocktail, ranging from
   angiogenesis to tissue rebuilding, there may be other indications that are also suitable
   for investigation. A therapeutic benefit has already been described in animal models
   of neurodegenerative disease, and other potential indications include diseases where
   staged intervention is required to treat tissues suffering from ischemia and necrosis,
20 such as diseases of the cardiovascular system, muscle wasting and repair, hair
   regrowth, antiwrinkle treatment, cartilage repair, and other similar areas.
   Conclusion
25 Therapeutic compositions comprising CP secreted proteins, have been shown here to
   increase the rate of wound healing by acceleration and enhancement of several key
   processes. The application of CP secreted proteins has also been shown to result in
   decreased deposition of collagen at the final healed wound site which prevents loss of
   tissue function (strength) or cosmetic damage due to scarring.
30
   It is not the intention to limit the scope of the invention to the abovementioned
   examples only.                  As would be appreciated by a skilled person in the art, many
                                                       68
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

variations are possible without departing from the scope of the invention (as set out in
the accompanying claims).
                                           69
10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

                         Trntht                    sc.640.L.Sl at     15.12  O03  [15.14 0..0O2 L01     TTR
           Clusterin                              Ssc.II99I.A1 as     14.15*0.04    1420*0.01 1.04       CLU
           Connective Tiae GrowthFactor           Sac.8562.3.AI at    14.01 0.01    14.000.01 -. 01      CGF
           Ostemnecti                             SSac.1458.3.Al a at 14.01+0.06   14.20 0.05 1.14      SPARC
              2-Micr lobulin                      Ssc.1234,1.SI at    13.98 0.02    1406 0.02       1A6 B2M
               CtatinC                            Ssc.9029.LS1 at     1331  *0.04 1316*0.02       -1.11 CST3
           Celluiar Retinal Biadia Protein 1      Sac.5563.2.81 & at  12.45 t0.01   12.770.02      1.25 CRBP1
           T issue  Ihibitor ofMetalloptidas I    Ssc.11784.1.S at    12.40+0.01    12.35 0.02    -1.04 TIMP1
           Tissue ihibior of Mctalloptidas 2      Ssc.1082.1.81 at    12.01 t 0.10  11.81 A0.03.   Il15 TIMP-2
                  Isanr
                      Endothelial Orowth Factor   Sac.15740.l.52 at   11 66 0.03    11,26 0.02    -L32 VEGFA
           Col     en 111                         Ssc.11302.2.SI at 11.47 0.01      11.55   0.03    106 COL3A1
           Traa&nanGrowthFaetor                   Ssc.92..S1 at       11390.07     11.34&0.08    -1.04 TGFB2
           Insulin-like Crowth Factor 2           Sc.9365.3S1 a at 11.26 0.04       10.97*0.03    -122 10F2
           Fibromodulin                           Ssc.43491.Al at     11.19 +0.03   11 18 0.01    -LO1 FMOD
           MelaninConcenating Hormone             Ssc.3287.1S1 at     11.11 *0.06   10.35 001     -1.69  PMCH
           Pi        tBitbeiun-Derived Factor     Sac.10451.1SI at 11.07 0.01       11.04 0.03    -1.02  FEHDF
           Parathyroid Hormone-Like Hermone       Ssc.9991.1. 1St     10.97+0.03    11.0310.04     1.04 PTHLH
           Bone MoRhogenatic Protein7             Ssc.21774.ISI at 10.96+0.01       10.94 0..01   -1.01  BMP7
           Neuronal AEdorie Protei                SS.155.LSI at       1.85*0.04    10.82 *0-01   -142   7B2
           CXCL-14 Chemekinte                     Ssc.4984..S1 at     10.79 * 0.05 8.95t&0.03     -3.58 CXCL14
           Plaele-Derived GOmwth Factor           Ss.25067.S.91 at    10.590.05 10.45  0.03 -10LD PDGF
           Matriin                                Ssc.902.1:SI a at   10.49 0.02 10.78 0.07        1.22 LOC396883
           Smatosftdn                             Ssc.1920,1.AI at    10.03 +0.03  9.90*0.3.2     -L09   SST
           Fibronectin                            Ssc.16743.1.81 at   9.940.02    9.51 0.07      -1.35  FN1
           Adrenomedullm                          SFc.314.1.S1 at     9.75 0.02    8.69 t0.05     -2.08  ADM
           Interleukin 6                          Ssc.62.2.S1 a at    9.67 0.07    9.41 *0.01     -1.2D  IL6
           AxSohn                                  asc.3684.t31 at    9.66*1.08    9.310.3 O        1,05
           Tisuefaorf                             Ssc.19907,1.Sl a:   9.50*0,03    9-79*0.01        L22  LOC396677
           VascularEndothelialGrowthFactor2       Ssc.25045.I.S at    9.28 0.05    9.26A0.09      -L01   VBGF2
           CollagenType V11                       Ssc.16132.2.1 aL    9.08*0.10    9.65L0.07       1I   COLSAI
           Wmt-1 Induible SiAlin Pathway Pttehi 1 Sc.16434 1A I at    B.85 0.02    9.03 &0.11       1.13 WISP-1
           Pibroblast Growttcor 2                 Sc.17772.1.1 at     8,79*0,11    1.81 *0.03       101   GF2
           Interleuidn 1                          Ssc.17573.1.1 at    8.620.11 8.48 +009         -l.1.  ILIB
           Transfning Growth Factor n             Sc.162201 S1 at     8.51 0.05   8.640.08        I 09 TGFA
           Wat-10B                                Suc.26237.1.A    at 8.27   0.01  8.27+0.11       L.00 WNT10B
           Eiktermal rowth Fator                  Ssc.87,1.S1 at      7,57*0,19    7.91 *0.1       1,27 EGF
              Table 5: Selected genes expressed by CP as detected in porcine microarray
 5
10
                                                               70
   10085781_1 (GHMatters)P8613I.AU.2

          Day3     |ay1 |Fol Changel-.iue             Genel D   |eseritIon
            1070      7.17    -11.5        0015       FABP4                             fatty add bIndingmlen4. ndlpocyl
           |11      .
                   ["          109     | 0011 |LC396m73         [Hap..lri
                 3 |5.89       .78         0.043 | TMOD                                       Tmpomoduln 3 (ubiquilnus
            10.85     7.88     -8          0.001      TMOD3                                   Topoodulln 3(ubquculls}
             9.15  1.05        449            l0.00   TMOD3                                   TpomodIo 3 (ubutious)
             8A6      5.93    -581            a0.027
                                                   |CG                                            ComplementC'qC
             814      5.0     -4,76       0.037 LOC396873                                              haptocorrn
             60       4.78 |   -. 08      0.039 |       CR1                               dEmokinb(C-C motil rceptri
            |a3       6.53    -371     |0.004|          cB                      complementcoompont 1, subcomponent, B chain
             7.95     6.18    -3.43        0.017 GP1-PHOX                                NADPH oxidaseheav chain subimt
             |.86     7.33 |  -2.88    |0.040         FLUN                     Platoe lung and msal epitum carncoma associled
            |.03      5.39     -2.71      0.046         [PL                                        Lpapteupin Ilpsse
             9.77 8.40 |        2.59       0.020        LPL                                        Lipope in lipse
             7.27 |5.2     |    2.5        0.017 TYROP                                YROpreln nosn lnase bindingptein
             8.70     7.35 |    2.54       0.01         LPL     [                                   lipcooin lipase
             T|1      6.60    -2.47          .4        CcA                      compIement component 1, qsubcomnponen. A chain
            11.93|10.4        -2.46        0.011|      TNP                                   Thredoxinintercungprotein
             7A|      6.32|   -2.21       0.013        PU.1                                     rnsconfer             PU.1
            12.40 11.33 |      2.11       0.006        C-JUN                                          C-JUN prote.
             9.75     8.70    -2.08        0.019 |AM            |adrenomdullin
            |.21      7.23    -1.97    |al9          FCER1G               Fcfragmen(ofIgE, hih affinlyr    I. cpor orugamma poypeplide
             5.2      5.34 |  -1.88    |0.022 |         C                                                Cyclin B
             7.0      8.53     1.91    | 0.03| PLANH1           [cplao                                  n actor InhIbItr 1
             6,67 7.61           .1    | 0.000         PLAU     |                                psem inog       civ'ator
                                                                                                                 nn
             8,70     9.67     1,9     |0.018|        FABP3     [atved blndkgprein3, muscle and heart mommar.y-Hd rn               thinibIor
             8.24     9.23     1.9        0.013        CD74                                           CD74 nIgen
             53       g.34 |   2.0        c.a      |     AN                              RAN,member RASoncogenmily
             I .      8.27     2.0     | 0.005 |         -                                               ENA
            10.59 11,71        2.18       0,01|      CAPNS1                                    Calpa small subuni1
            11.76 12,91        2.19       0.003       INSIG1                                    Insulin inued        n 1
           |0      | 11.00 |   21         0.022    |    IF                                   Inrlerimn regulatory laalor 1
            10.       11.34|   238     |014|           LLR                                  Lowdensyllpoprotin receptor
          |8.22 |9A.4|         2.38       0.012    |    ALP                                       anlileukoprtinase
             93       10.8     2. 0    |.4         |  RP817[                                    Ribosomul protein 81s
            717       0.05     2.9        0.035       TYRP1     |                             1urmse-eioe prolein 1
               .09 | 9.50      2.0        0.01        INSIG1                                    Insylin Inducd
                                                                                                         .        gen. 1
             8.28     9.80 |   2.88       0.017
                                          .G.      |   GEM                           bindingprotin overexpressd in skeeuI muscle
            |.|       9.42 |   S.91    |.003|         PMAI??|                     phrbol-I2rinyritae-13-aoeetenduced protein I
      Table 6: . Selected CP genes that change between day 3 and 16 in ENDO-SFM
                                                  REFERENCES
   1.   Sedlarik K.M; The Process of Wound Healing.                                  Wung Forum.                Published
 5      on-line: hartmann_online, 1994
   2.   Laurence Rosenberg; Wound Healing, Growth Factors.                                        Published on-line:
        eMedicine. 15 May 2003
   3.   Michael Mercandetti; Wound Healing, Healing and Repair.                                           Published on
        line: eMedicine.            I August 2005
10 4.  Anderson,           J. E. (1998).          Murray L.         Barr Award              Lecture.       Studies of the
        dynamics of skeletal muscle regeneration:                            the mouse came back! Biochem
        Cel Biol 76, 13-26.
   5.   Poor/Slow Wound Healing.                         On-line publication:                Diagnose-me.com.              22
       November 2005.
15 6.  Aleshire SL et al., "Choroid plexus as a barrier to immunoglobulin delivery
        into cerebrospinal fluid." J Neurosurg. 63:593-7, 1985)
                                                             71

   7.          Johanson CE et al. (2000), "Choroid plexus recovery after transient forebrain
               ischemia: role of growth factors and other repair mechanisms." Cell Mol
               Neurobiol. 20:197-216.
   8.          Thanos, CG et al., (2007).   The in vitro expression and secretion of VEGF
 5             from free and alginate-poly-ornithine encapsulated choroid plexus epithelium.
               Tissue Engineering. 13(4) 747-756.
   9.          Gillitzer R. and Goebeler M. (2001).       Chemokines in cutaneous wound
               healing. JournalofLeukocyte Biology 69(4): 513-21.
   10.         Yang L., Scott P. G., Dodd C., Medina A., Jiao H., Shankowsky H. A.,
10             Ghahary A. and Tredget E. E. (2005). Identification of fibrocytes in postburn
               hypertrophic scar. Wound Repair and Regeneration 13(4): 398-404.
   11.         Gillitzer R and Goebeler M, (2001).        Chemokines in cutaneous wound
               healing. Journal of Leukocyte Biology. 69, 513-21
   12.         Bhogal RK, Stoica CM, McGaha TL and Bona CA. Molecular aspects of
15             regulation of collagen gene expression in fibrosis. (2005) Journal of Clinical
               Immunology 25(6) 592-603.
                                     Cited Patent Documents
20 WO 00/66188, WO 06/132548, US 5973007, US 6322804.
   All of the references and cited patent documents are hereby incorporated into the
   present specification by reference.
25 INDUSTRIAL APPLICATION
   The present invention provides a method for improving wound healing by
   administering either systemically or locally a therapeutic composition comprising
   CP secreted proteins. The method provides for improved wound healing time, as
30 well as a reduction in scar tissue formation and reduced loss of tissue function.
   The method will be particularly useful in cosmetic treatments.
                                                  72
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
   reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the
   common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
 5 In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except
   where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising"
   is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not
   to preclude the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the
10 invention.
   The entire disclosure in the complete specification of our Australian Patent
   Application No. 2009271598 and <removed-apn>               are by this cross-reference
   incorporated into the present application.
15
                                                73
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1.          A therapeutic composition comprising isolated or purified choroid plexus
               (CP) secreted proteins, wherein the CP secreted proteins are isolated or
 5             purified from CP conditioned media.
   2.          A therapeutic composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein the CP secreted
               proteins comprise a mixture of at least 2 of the following factors VEGF,
               CTGF,            PDGF, BMP-7. FGF-2,    TGF3,      TGF-a,  IL-6,  IL-8/CXC
               chemokines, IGF-1, Cystatin, a-2microglobulin, Pleiotrophic factor P,
10             NGF, NT, transthyretin, retinoic acid, PTHLH, haptocorrin, tropomodulin
               3, PEDF, P-2-microglobulin, somatostatin, fibronectin, laminin 1 and
               secreted extracellular matrix factors.
   3.          A therapeutic composition as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 further
               comprising one or more immunostimulatory compounds selected from the
15             group consisting of glucocorticosteroids, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
               drugs (NSAIDS), PDGF, EGF, IGF and TNF-a antagonists.
   4.          A therapeutic composition as claimed in any one of claims 1-3, formulated
               for systemic or local administration.
   5.          A therapeutic composition as claimed in claim 4, formulated for oral,
20             intravenous, cutaneous, intradermal,       topical, nasal, intramuscular or
               intraperitoneal administration.
   6.          A cosmetic composition comprising isolated or purified CP secreted
               proteins as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2.
   7.          A cosmetic composition as claimed in claim 6, formulated for topical
25             administration.
   8.          A therapeutic composition comprising encapsulated CP cells for use in
               wound healing.
   9.          A cosmetic composition comprising encapsulated CP cells wherein the
               composition is formulated for topical administration.
30 10.         A method of improving tissue wound healing comprising the steps of
               administering an effective amount of a therapeutic composition comprising
               isolated or purified CP secreted proteins to a human or non-human patient
                                                   74
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

               in need thereof, wherein the CP secreted proteins are isolated or purified
               from CP conditioned media.
   11.         A method as claimed in claim 10, wherein the therapeutic composition
               comprises a mixture of at least 2 of the following factors: CTGF, PDGF,
 5             BMP-7,VEGF, FGF-2, TGF3, TGF-a, IL-8/CXC chemokines, IGF-1,
               Cystatin, a-2microglobulin, Pleiotrophic factor P, NGF, NT, transthyretin,
               retinoic          acid, PTHLH,     haptocorrin,   tropomodulin   3, PEDF,    P-2
               microglobulin,          somatostatin,   fibronectin,  laminin  Pl   and  secreted
               extracellular matrix factors
10 12.         A method as claimed in claim 10 or claim 11 for improving healing of a
               superficial skin wound, including cuts and abrasions;                deep wound
               extending through the skin and muscle, including surgical incisions;
               internal wounds, including wounds to muscle and tendon caused by sports
               injury or trauma, bruises and hematomas; bums; and chronic wounds
15             including diabetic ulcers.
   13.         A method as claimed in any one of claims 10-12, wherein one or more
               additional           immuno-responsive    compounds selected    from the   group
               consisting of glucocorticosteroids, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
               (NSAIDs), PDGF, EGF, IGF, and TNF-alpha antagonists are co
20             administered either separately, sequentially or simultaneously with the
               therapeutic composition to further improve wound healing.
   14.         A method as claimed in any one of claims 10-13, wherein the therapeutic
               composition is formulated for local or systemic administration.
   15.         A method as claimed in claim 14, wherein the therapeutic composition is
25             formulated for oral, intravenous, cutaneous, subcutaneous, intradermal,
               topical, nasal, pulmonary, intramuscular or intraperitional administration.
   16.         A cosmetic method for improving the appearance of skin after superficial
               skin wounds, said method comprising the step of administering an effective
               amount of the composition of any one of claims 6, 7 or 9 to a human or
30             non-human patient in need thereof.
   17.         A use of isolated or purified CP secreted proteins in the manufacture of a
               medicament for improving tissue wound healing in a human or non-human
                                                         75
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

               patient in need thereof
   18.         A use of CP conditioned media in the manufacture of a medicament for
               improving tissue wound healing in a human or non-human patient in need
               thereof.
 5 19.         A use of encapsulated CP cells in the manufacture of a medicament for
               improving tissue wound healing in a human or non-human patient in need
               thereof.
   20.         A use as claimed in any one of claims 17-19, wherein the CP secreted
               proteins, CP conditioned media, and proteins secreted for encapsulated CP
10             cells, comprise a mixture of VEGF, CTGF, PDGF, BMP-7, FGF-2, TGF3,
               TGF-a,           IL-8/CXC      chemokines,    IGF-1,    Cystatin,  a-2microglobulin,
               Pleiotrophic factor P, NGF, NT, transthyretin, retinoic acid, PTHLH,
               haptocorrin,         tropomodulin 3, PEDF, P-2-microglobulin, somatostatin,
               fibronectin, laminin       P11  and secreted extracellular matrix factors.
15 21.         A use as claimed in any one of claims 17-20, for improving healing of a
               superficial skin wound, including cuts and abrasions;                   deep wound
               extending through the skin and muscle, including surgical incisions;
               internal wounds, including wounds to muscle and tendon caused by sports
               injury or trauma, bruises and hematomas; bums and chronic wounds
20             including diabetic ulcers.
   22.         A use as claimed in any one of claims 17-21, wherein the medicament
               further comprises one or more additional immuno-responsive compounds
               selected from the group consisting of glucocorticosteroids, non-steroidal
               anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), PDGF, EGF, IGF, and TNF-alpha
25             antagonists, and wherein the medicament is formulated for separate,
               sequential or simultaneous administration of the CP secreted proteins/CP
               conditioned media and the additional compound.
   23.         A use as claimed in any one of claims 17-22, wherein the medicament is
               formulated for local or systemic administration.
30 24.         A use as claimed in claim 23, wherein the medicament is formulated for
               oral, intravenous, cutaneous, subcutaneous, intradermal, topical, nasal,
               pulmonary, intramuscular or intraperitional administration.
                                                          76
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   25.         A pharmaceutical composition comprising isolated or purified CP secreted
               proteins wherein the CP secreted proteins are isolated or purified from CP
               conditioned media, together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
   26.         A pharmaceutical composition as claimed in claim 25, wherein the CP
 5             secreted proteins comprise a mixture of at least 2 of the following factors:
               VEGF,            CTGF, PDGF,       BMP-7, FGF-2,        TGF3,     TGF-a, IL-8/CXC
               chemokines, IGF-1, Cystatin, a-2microglobulin, Pleiotrophic factor P,
               NGF, NT, transthyretin, retinoic acid, PTHLH, haptocorrin, tropomodulin
               3, PEDF, P-2-microglobulin, somatostatin, fibronectin, laminin 1 and
10             secreted extracellular matrix factors.
   27.         A pharmaceutical composition comprising encapsulated CP cells together
               with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
   28.         A pharmaceutical composition as claimed in any one of claims 25-27, for
               improving healing of a superficial skin wound, including cuts and
15             abrasions; deep wound extending through the skin and muscle, including
               surgical incisions; internal wounds, including wounds to muscle and tendon
               caused by sports injury or trauma, bruises and hematomas; burns; and
               chronic wounds including diabetic ulcers.
   29.         A pharmaceutical composition as claimed in any one of claims 25-28,
20             further comprising one or more compounds to give an additive or
               synergistic effect, wherein the compounds are selected from the group
               consisting           of   glucocorticosteroids,      such    as    prednisone    and
               methylprednisone,            nonsteroidal   anti-inflammatory     drugs    (NSAIDS),
               growth factors (PDGF, EGF, IGF, VEGF,                       TGF-Beta, and others),
25             antibiotics,         trophic    or   tropic    compounds,       peptides,   mimetics,
               oligonucleotides, antibodies, inhibitors, as well as first and second
               generation anti-TNFa agents, wherein the composition is formulated for
               separate, sequential or simultaneous administration with the CP secreted
               proteins.
30 30.         A pharmaceutical composition as claimed in any one of claims 25-29,
               formulated for local or systemic administration.
   31.         A pharmaceutical composition as claimed in claim 30, formulated for oral,
               intravenous,          cutaneous,    subcutaneous,     intradermal,    topical, nasal,
                                                         77
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

               pulmonary, intramuscular or intraperitional administration.
   32.         CP secreted proteins isolated, purified for CP conditioned media, or
               encapsulated CP cells for use in a method of improving wound healing in a
               human or non-human patient in need thereof.
 5 33.         A method of manufacturing a therapeutic composition comprising isolated
               or purified CP secreted proteins, said method comprising the steps:
               a)            culturing CP cells in vitro in basal growth media for a time
               sufficient for the CP cells to secrete proteins into the media;
               b)            extracting the CP conditioned media;
10             c)            lyophilizing the CP conditioned media; and
               d)            optionally dialyzing the CP conditioned media either before or after
               step c).
   34.         A method as claimed in claim 33, further comprising the steps:
               a)            admixing the lyophilized CP conditioned media of step c), or
15             lyophilized and dialysed CP conditioned media of step d) with a
               pharmaceutically acceptable excipient or carrier.
   35.         A therapeutic composition produced by the method of claim 33 or 34.
   36.         A method of manipulating the profile of CP secreted proteins from CP cells
               in vitro comprising the steps:
20             a)            culturing CP cells in a basal growth medium in vitro;
               b)            adding cellular matrix proteins to the culture medium to initiate the
                             formation of CP capsuloids;
               c)            culturing the capsuloids for a time sufficient to increase the number
               of secretory vesicles in the capsuloids; and
25             d)           producing CP conditioned media containing an altered CP secreted
               protein profile compared to CP cells cultured in basal growth media alone.
   37.         CP conditioned media produced by the method of claim 36.
   38.         A therapeutic composition comprising isolated or purified CP secreted
               proteins wherein the CP selected proteins are isolated or purified from the
30             CP conditioned media of claim 37.
                                                         78
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

   39.         A method             of improving wound healing comprising the     step    of
               administering an effective amount of a therapeutic composition of claim 38
               to a human or non-human patient in need thereof
   40.         A use of CP conditioned media as claimed in claim 37 in the manufacture
 5             of a medicament for improving wound healing in a human or non-human
               patient in need thereof.
   41.         A method of treating a wound in a human or non-human patient comprising
               the steps of administering an effective amount of a therapeutic composition
               comprising isolated or purified CP secreted proteins to a human or non
10             human patient in need thereof, wherein the CP secreted proteins are isolated
               or purified from CP conditioned media.
   42.         A method of promoting wound healing in a human or non-human patient
               comprising the steps of administering an effective amount of a therapeutic
               composition comprising isolated or purified CP secreted proteins to a
15             human or non-human patient in need thereof, wherein the CP secreted
               proteins are isolated or purified from CP conditioned media.
   43.         A method of decreasing accumulation of collagen at a wound site in a
               human or non-human patient comprising the steps of administering an
               effective amount of a therapeutic composition comprising isolated or
20             purified CP secreted proteins to a human or non-human patient in need
               thereof, wherein the CP secreted proteins are isolated or purified from CP
               conditioned          media and the composition decreases accumulation      of
               collagen.
   44.         A method of decreasing accumulation of fibroblasts at a wound site in a
25             human or non-human patient comprising the steps of administering an
               effective amount of a therapeutic composition comprising isolated or
               purified CP secreted proteins to a human or non-human patient in need
               thereof, wherein the CP secreted proteins are isolated or purified from CP
               conditioned          media and the composition decreases accumulation      of
30             fibroblasts.
   45.         A therapeutic composition comprising two or more isolated or purified
               choroid plexus (CP) secreted proteins, wherein the CP secreted proteins are
               selected from Table 5 or Table 6, and a pharmaceutically acceptable
                                                    79
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

               excipient.
   46.         A method of improving tissue wound healing in a human or non-human
               patient in need thereof comprising the steps of administering an effective
               amount of a therapeutic composition of claim 45 to the patient.
 5 47.         A use of isolated or purified CP secreted proteins selected from Table 5 or
               Table 6 in the manufacture of a medicament for improving tissue wound
               healing in a human or non-human patient in need thereof
   48.         A method for improving hair growth in a mammal identified as in need
               thereof comprising the steps of administering an effective amount of a
10             therapeutic composition comprising isolated or purified CP secreted
               proteins to the mammal, wherein the CP secreted proteins are isolated or
               purified from CP conditioned media.
   49.         The method of claim 10, wherein the tissue wound is in the abdominal
               cavity, hernia, or fascia.
15 50.         A therapeutic composition comprising two or more isolated or purified
               choroid plexus       (CP) secreted proteins, and a clinically acceptable
               superficial wound treatment article.
                                                  80
   10085781_1(GHMatter) P86131.AU.2

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
