                                        ABSTRACT
         A system for integrating a secondary market into a product retailer website, the
system including a processor and a memory in communication with the processor, the
memory having processor executable instructions stored thereon that when executed by
the processor cause the processor to automatically recognize a client device of a market
participant interacting with the website, retrieve a robust customer profile for the market
participant from the memory, generate a product area on a webpage for the website
based on the robust customer profile for the market participant, render, in the product
area on the webpage, one or more first product listings featuring one or more products
offered by the product retailer, based at least on a description of each first product listing
having characteristics that correlate to customer product preferences stored in the robust
customer profile, each first product listing enabling a user to purchase one or more
products featured in the first product listing, retrieve a market state of the secondary
market from the memory, the market state including a set of product listings
corresponding to products listed on the secondary market, generate a secondary market
area on the webpage based on the market state of the secondary market, render, in the
secondary market area of the webpage, one or more second product listings featuring
one or more products offered by the secondary market, each second product listing
enabling the user to purchase one or more products featured in the second product listing,
wherein selection, via the client device, of a product for purchase in the one or more
second product listings in the secondary market area causes the selected product to be
added to a virtual shopping cart to which products selected for purchase from the one or
more first product listings are added.

        1/6
CoI
a)
     Co
    'a  a  coJ
        a)     CO
                     a)   _)
           z      w~
                            C'43
                     -~~~ 002         a  '
                              u  w a)  0

                                                1
      SECONDARY MARKET INTEGRATION WITHIN EXISTING DATA
                                        FRAMEWORK
CROSS REFERENCE TO REALTED APPLICATION
[0001]       This Application is a Divisional Application of Australian Patent Application
Number <removed-apn> filed 22 September 2016, the content of which is incorporated by
reference herein.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]       In most customer interactions, a customer may be faced with various barriers,
or elements of friction, that may prevent them from proceeding with the interaction, where
the particular barriers may vary from interaction to interaction.        In the context of a
purchase transaction, for example, customers may wonder if they can afford to make the
purchase, or whether they need to make the purchase. For instance, a customer looking
to purchase a pair of designer jeans may assess whether they can afford the purchase
based on their budget or determine whether they have enough space in their wardrobe.
Customers may also face mental barriers regarding a transaction, for example, "shopping
guilt" or for those customers who are environmentally conscious, questions regarding the
sustainability of the product. It is often the case that the mental barriers are subjective in
nature, and may be influenced by various externalities. For example, a customer may
assess whether they truly have a need for a product, or whether they strongly desire the
product. This assessment may involve additional subjective considerations, for example
whether the customer owns the same or similar products. By removing these barriers,
customers are more likely to engage in the interaction (i.e., proceed with the purchase
transaction). For example, if a product is on sale, a customer may be more inclined to
make the purchase.
[0003]       Customers have turned to secondary markets to address some of these
barriers, as secondary markets can allow a customer to off-load or sell certain items. By
way of example, a customer can sell a coat that he/she owns, which can provide
additional funds to the customer as well as free up space in their wardrobe. Increasing a
customer's purchasing power may influence whether the customer is able or willing to
conduct future transactions, e.g., additional purchases. Similarly, a customer may choose

                                             2
to purchase an item from a secondary market because it is being offered at a significant
discount.
[0004]      However, secondary markets themselves present barriers to access, as it is
often time and labor intensive process to participate in the market, which most customers
are simply unwilling or unable to commit to. For example, participating in flea markets is
a time consuming activity and has no guarantee of success.             This is particularly
problematic for customers who are only looking to off-load one or two individual items.
While electronic secondary markets (e.g., eBay and Amazon) allow for more sporadic
access to secondary markets, they still require a significant amount of effort on the part
of the customer, who must prepare a detailed product listing for the product, including a
description, staged photos, and the like. Moreover, existing electronic secondary markets
are difficult to navigate by potential purchasers looking for a particular product,
significantly diminishing the chances for a successful transaction. Furthermore, from the
perspective of a product retailer, secondary markets can be extremely harmful to product
branding, as the product retailer has no control over how products are presented (e.g.,
visually or descriptively) through these secondary markets.

                                              3
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0005]       In one aspect, the present invention provides a system for integrating a
secondary market into a product retailer website, the system including a processor and a
memory in communication with the processor, the memory having processor executable
instructions stored thereon that when executed by the processor cause the processor to
automatically recognize a client device of a market participant interacting with the website,
retrieve a robust customer profile for the market participant from the memory, generate a
product area on a webpage for the website based on the robust customer profile for the
market participant, render, in the product area on the webpage, one or more first product
listings featuring one or more products offered by the product retailer, based at least on
a description of the product listing having characteristics that correlate to customer
product preferences stored in the robust customer profile, each first product listing
enabling a user to purchase one or more products featured in the first product listing,
retrieve a market state of the secondary market from the memory, the market state
including a set of product listings corresponding to products listed on the secondary
market, generate a secondary market area on the webpage based on the market state of
the secondary market, render in the secondary market area of the webpage, one or more
second product listings featuring one or more products offered by the secondary market,
each second product listing enabling the user to purchase one or more products featured
in the second product listing, wherein selection, via the client device, of a product for
purchase in the one or more second product listings in the secondary market area causes
the selected product to be added to a virtual shopping cart to which products selected for
purchase from the one or more first product listings are added.
[0006]       In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a computer-implemented
method of integrating a secondary market into a product retailer website, the method
including automatically recognizing, at a server having a processor and a memory in
communication with the data processor, a client device of a market participant interacting
with the website, retrieving from the memory, a robust customer profile for the market
participant, generating a product area on a webpage for the website by the processor
based on the robust customer profile for the market participant, rendering, in the product
area on the webpage, one or more first product listings featuring one or more products
offered by the product retailer, based at least on a description of each first product listing

                                              4
having characteristics that correlate to customer product preferences stored in the robust
customer profile, each first product listing enabling a user to purchase one or more
products featured in the first product listing, retrieving a market state of the secondary
market from the memory, the market state including a set of product listings
corresponding to products listed on the secondary market, generating a secondary
market area on the webpage by the processor based on the market state of the secondary
market, rendering, in the secondary market area of the webpage, one or more second
product listings featuring one or more products offered by the secondary market, each
second product listing enabling the user to purchase one or more products featured in
the second product listing, wherein selection, via the client device, of a product for
purchase in the one or more second product listings in the secondary market area causes
the selected product to be added to a virtual shopping cart to which products selected for
purchase from the one or more first product listings are added.

                                              5
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0007]     Figure 1 provides an example of the system environment in which the PPR
system may operate.
[0008]     Figure 2 provides an example of an e-commerce website having connections
with the secondary market integrated therein.
[0009]     Figure 3 illustrates an example of a user interface that may be provided on the
mobile device of a customer.
[0010]     Figure 4 provides an example of the system architecture on which the PPR
system may be implemented.
[0011]     Figure 5 illustrates a high-level logic flow that the PPR system may employ
when servicing a mobile application request to interact with the secondary market.
[0012]     Figure 6 illustrates a high-level logic flow that the PPR system may employ
when integrating a secondary market within an e-commerce website.

                                             6
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENT(S) OF THE INVENTION
[0013]      The Peer-to-Peer Resale (PPR) system described below aims to reduce
barriers in customer transactions by providing a platform through which a customer can
interact with secondary markets. The PPR system, for example, may provide a way for
customers to sell, or otherwise offload, products to secondary markets, which may
increase the customer's purchasing power. The customer (i.e., a market participant) may
be able to place items on the secondary market in exchange for currency, credit with a
product retailer, or some combination thereof, which may be stored in a data record
associated with the customer in the PPR system or transmitted to other systems for the
customer's use. In contrast to current secondary markets, the PPR system may facilitate
sales to the secondary market through integration with existing retail channels of a
product retailer. A retailer, for example, may integrate the secondary market into their e
commerce platform.       By integrating the secondary market within an existing sales
channel, the customer may be able to establish a brand connection in the secondary
market that they would not otherwise be able to create. Providing the secondary market
through an existing sales channel of the product retailer, may also increase the likelihood
of a successful sale in the secondary market, as customers looking to purchase the
product from the secondary market may be more readily able to locate products of interest
to them.    From a product retailer's perspective, this may allow the product retailer to
control the sales experience in the secondary market in ways in which they are currently
unable to. The PPR system, for example, may allow product retailers to better control
the branding of their products in the secondary market (e.g., through the presentation of
the product on the retailer's e-commerce platform).
[0014]      The PPR system may also facilitate an effortless sales experience for the
customer, allowing them to easily place items on the secondary market. The PPR system
may leverage information that a product retailer may have regarding the customer in
doing so.    For example, the PPR system may create a virtual product inventory for a
customer based on previous transactions that the customer may have had with the
product retailer, and may allow the user to select items from the virtual inventory to sell
on the secondary market. The PPR system may automatically generate a product listing
based on the selected item, which may be curated in in a manner proscribed by the

                                               7
product retailer, and may place the product listing on the secondary market integrated
within the product retailer's existing sales channel.
[0015]      By integrating the secondary market within a sales channel of the product
retailer, the product retailer may be able to capture transactions in secondary markets
that would otherwise take place outside of their retail ecosystem. This may provide
additional opportunities for customer engagement, which the product retailer may use to
cross-sell or up-sell their retail products. The product retailer may also be able to control
the sales experience in the secondary market for the customer, allowing the retailer to
better engage with their customers.         The PPR system, for example, may promote
discovery of new items by the customer, and may provide a social aspect, through a social
platform, to facilitate this discovery.
[0016]      Figure 1 provides an example of the system environment in which the PPR
system may operate.
[0017]      The PPR system environment may include various customers 110 (e.g.,
customers looking to sell products, referred to as sellers 11 0a, and customers looking to
purchase products, referred to as purchasers 11Ob), social influencers 120, and product
retailers 130, along with a PPR system 150 that may facilitate interaction between these
different entities. The PPR system may facilitate interaction between different customers
110, or between a customer 110 and a social influencer 120. The PPR system may also
promote interaction between the different customers 110 and the product retailers 130.
[0018]      The PPR system 150 may include one or more input/output interfaces 170, a
display 171, one or more communication interfaces 172, and processing circuitry 175.
The processing circuitry 175 may include one or more processors 176, memory 177 and
may be connected with one or more databases 180. The communication interfaces 172
may include, as examples, a wireless communication                interface 172a, a wired
communication interface 172b, and a cellular communication interface 172c, any of which
may support connectivity over any type of network (e.g., WiFi, 4G / LTE, or Ethernet) for
receiving data and transmitting data. The PPR system 150 may receive and transmit
data between the different customers 110, social influencers 120 and product retailers
130 over both private networks (e.g., a network within a given enterprise) and public
networks (e.g., including the Internet).      The PPR system 150 may interface with an

                                               8
existing retail sales channel 131 of the product retailer 130, for example, an e-commerce
website maintained by the product retailer 130, and may facilitate the integration of a
secondary market 135 within the existing sales channel 131.
[0019]       By way of example, in the context of clothing sales, the PPR system may be
used to provide a secondary market 135 for customers 110 in which the customers 110
may be able to purchase and sell clothing and other accessories.               A customer's
purchasing habits may be driven by their own unique style (e.g., bohemian, grunge chic,
preppy), which may be constantly evolving and may be heavily influenced by trends in
the fashion world. In the fashion community, for example, individual stylists and fashion
bloggers (i.e., social influencers 120) may provide inspiration to these customers by
creating different "styled looks" or outfits that customers may wish to replicate for
themselves. In many instances, the customer 110 may be willing to purchase the different
elements of the outfit directly from a fashion retailer 110 at retail prices. In other cases,
customers 110 may turn to secondary markets to make such purchases.
[0020]       For example, some customers 110 may be price conscious and may be looking
to purchase the look at a discount. The PPR system 150 may facilitate this interaction by
connecting purchasers 11 Ob with sellers 11 Oa or with social influencers 120 who are
looking to sell certain products. A seller 11 Oa, for example, may have purchased an item
of clothing but never worn it, or have only worn it to a particular event, and now may want
to sell the product to make additional room in their wardrobe. Similarly, a fashion blogger
may have purchased clothes to style and photograph a particular look, and may be willing
to sell the product at a discount. In another scenario, it may be the case that a product is
difficult to obtain, for example, if the product is currently out of season or if the social
influencer 120 has exclusive access to a product. In such situations a purchaser 11Ob
may be willing to purchase the product directly from other sellers 110a or from the social
influencer 120, respectively, and may even be willing to pay a premium for the product.
[0021]       While the subsequent discussion may make continued reference to the above
described clothing sale example, the invention is not thus limited and may naturally
extend to other products and contexts. For example, in other implementations, the PPR
system may serve to connect consumers of video games (i.e., customers 110) with
professional gamers (i.e., social influencers 120) and video game retailers or video game
studios (i.e., product retailers 130).

                                              9
[0022]     As noted above, the interaction between customers 110, social influencers 120
and product retailers 130 may take place within a secondary market 135 integrated within
an existing sales channel 131 of the product retailer 130 by the PPR system 150.
Customers 110, for example, may be able to access the secondary market 135 through
an e-commerce website or mobile application (i.e., sales channel 131) of the product
retailer 130. Social influencers 120, likewise, may be able to present curated product
descriptions (i.e., a combined product listing) through the e-commerce website or mobile
application, and may choose to list one or more of the products present in the curated
product description on the secondary market 135 as well. The product retailers 130,
through the PPR system 150, may be able to control various aspects of these customer
interactions, and may also be able to directly interact with the customers 110 themselves.
[0023]     Figure 2 illustrates an example of a sales channel 131 of a product retailer 130,
in the form of an e-commerce website, with connections to the secondary market 135
integrated therein. The e-commerce website may present a graphical interface 200 to a
customer 110 with which a customer 110 may interact. Figure 2 illustrates an example
of a home page of an e-commerce site provided by a product retailer 130. The graphical
interface may include a site navigation bar 209, one or more curated product description
areas 219, a secondary market navigation bar 229, and a secondary market listing area
239.
[0024]     The site navigation bar 209 may include various elements that a customer 110
may interact with. As illustrated, for example, the site navigation bar 209 may provide a
browse element 205, a followed styles element 206, and a shopping cart element 207.
The site navigation bar may also include a search element 208, and a home page element
201.   The navigation bar 209 may be provided as part of one or more pages that the
customer 110 may navigate to on the e-commerce website, and the home page element
201, when selected by the customer 110 may return the customer 110 to the home page
of the e-commerce site shown in Figure 2.
[0025]     The browse element 205, when selected by the customer 110, may direct the
customer 110 to information regarding products offered by the product retailer 130.
Additionally, or in the alternative, the browse element 205 may direct the customer 110
to recommended products, which the PPR system 150 may identify based on a robust
customer profile (also referred to as a customer genome), which may provide an

                                             10
indication as to the product preferences of a user (e.g., size, color, style). The PPR
system 150 for instance may be able to match product attributes of the products offered
by the product retailer 130 to the product preferences provided by the customer genome.
The customer genome and systems and methods for constructing and applying the
customer genome are described in U.S. Application No. 14/835,187, filed August 25,
2015,     entitled   SYSTEM        ARCHITECTURE        FOR       CUSTOMER         GENOME
CONSTRUCTION AND ANALYSIS, which is commonly assigned and incorporated
herein by reference in its entirety.
[0026]     In some implementations, the browse element 205, when selected by the
customer 110, may direct the customer 110 to information regarding the different social
influencers 120 who have chosen to present curated product descriptions (e.g., styled
looks) and/or list one or more corresponding products on the secondary market 135
integrated within the sales channel 131 of the product retailer 130. The product retailer
130, through the PPR system 150, may control which social influencers 120 enroll with
the product retailer 130 to present curated product descriptions on the sales channel
and/or list corresponding products on the secondary market 135. The product retailer
130, for example, may allow any social influencer 120 to enroll with the product retailer
130 to present curated product descriptions and/or list products on the integrated
secondary market 135. In other cases, the product retailer 130 may choose to selectively
control the type of social influencers 120 who may be able to enroll with the product
retailer 130, for example, only allowing social influencers 120 who meet certain criteria
(e.g., having a certain number of Facebook, Instagram, or YouTube followers) to enroll
with the product retailer 130, which may allow the product retailer 130 to maintain a quality
standard for the platform. The browse element 205 may additionally, or in the alternative,
direct the customer 110 to information regarding social influencers 120 that the PPR
system 150 may recommend for the customer 110, who the PPR system may identify
using the customer genome. The PPR system 150, for example, may be able to match
a product preference (e.g., a style preference) for the customer 110, provided by the
customer genome, to one or more tags (e.g., runway fashion, avante garde, grunge chic)
associated with a social influencer 120 or one or more tags associated with a curated
product description created by the social influencer 120.

                                              11
[0027]     In other implementations, the browse element 205, when selected by the
customer 110, may direct the customer 110 to information regarding different curated
product descriptions (e.g., styled looks) that have been created by social influencers 120
or the product retailer 130 itself. In some implementations, the PPR system 150 may
direct the customer 110 to information           regarding recommend     curated product
descriptions (e.g., recommended styled looks), which the PPR system 150 may select
using the customer genome. The PPR system 150, for example, may be able to match
a product preference (e.g., a style preference) for the customer 110, provided by the
customer genome, to one or more tags associated with the curated product description.
[0028]     The followed styles element 206, when selected by the customer 110, may
provide the customer 110 with a listing of the different social influencers 120 that the
customer 110 may be following. Customers 110 may follow social influencers 120 in a
variety of ways, and may be assisted by the PPR system 150 in doing so. For example,
the customer 110 may be able to select different social influencers 120 to follow when
browsing information regarding the different social influencers 120, as described above.
The PPR system 150 may also use the customer genome to automatically identify social
influencers 120 who the customer 110 may wish to follow. The customer genome, for
example, may identify social influencers 120 that the customer 110 is following on
external social networks (e.g., Facebook, Instagram, Pinterest), and the PPR system 150
may look to see if the identified social influencers 120 have enrolled to present curated
product descriptions with the product retailer 130.       The PPR system 150 may be
configured to automatically follow social influencers 120 for a customer 110, who may be
identified using the customer genome, and may allow the customer 110 to modify this
after the fact. For example, as noted above, the customer genome may identify social
influencers 120 that the customer 110 is following on external social networks.
[0029]     In some implementations, the customer 110 may be able to follow certain
product categories (e.g., preppy or grunge chic), and the PPR system 150 may identify
curated product descriptions created by the product retailer 130 or social influencers 120
by matching the product categories against the curated product descriptions. The PPR
system 150 may also be configured to automatically follow product categories for a
customer 110, which may be identified using the customer genome, and may allow the
customer 110 to modify this after the fact. The customer genome, for example, may be

                                             12
able to examine the transactional history of the customer 110 to determine product
category preferences. For instance, determining that the customer 110 is interested in
spring dresses based on the seasonal purchase of dresses in the past.
[0030]      The shopping cart element 207, when selected by the customer, may direct
the customer to a virtual shopping cart, which may include products that the customer
110 has chosen to purchase from the product retailer 130 or from other sellers 110a and
social influencers 120 via the secondary market 135. The search element 208 may allow
the user to search the product retailer's 130 e-commerce website for different products
and styles, or curated product descriptions and social influencers by entering search
terms in the search field element 208a and selecting the search button element 208b.
[0031]      The curated product description areas 219 may present a purchaser 11 Ob with
curated product descriptions that have been created by a social influencer 120 or by the
product retailer 130, and may enable the purchaser 11Ob to purchase one or more
products featured in the curated product description. The curated product description
areas 219 may be displayed with a consistent presentation (e.g., having a common
layout), which may include an image of the one or more the products 210, relevant
information regarding the one or more products 215, and a listing of the one or more
products 216 contained within the curated product description. The image of the one or
more products 210 may be created by the social influencer 120 or product retailer 130,
and may present a visually appealing presentation of a product. In this way, the product
retailer 130 may be able to control branding of their products on the secondary market
135. The relevant information regarding the one or more products 215 may similarly be
prepared by the social influencer 120 or the product retailer 130, and may provide relevant
information regarding the one or more products and may describe them in an engaging
way. The relevant information 215 may also include a social influencer identification
element 211, which identifies the social influencer 120 (e.g., Rachel Zoe, Kemal Harris)
who has created the curated product description. The product listing 216 may list each
of the products in the curated product description along with corresponding product
names 213, and may present the purchaser 11Ob with different purchase options 214.
The purchaser 11 Ob, for example, may be able to purchase a product directly from the
social influencer 120 associated with the product listing by selecting the "Direct" interface
element, or purchase the product new from the product retailer 130 by selecting the "New"

                                               13
interface element.     In some instances, a particular product identified in the curated
product description may not be available from either the social influencer 120 or the
product retailer 130. In such cases, the purchaser 110b may be able to select the "Shop
Look" interface element, which may present the purchaser 11 Ob with products available
directly from the product retailer 130 or from other sellers 110a or social influencers 120
on the secondary market 135 that are similar (e.g., having the same color and style) to
the product presented in the curated product description.
[0032]      The curated product description areas 219 that are presented as part of the
home page may be automatically selected by the PPR system. The PPR system 150
may select particular curated product descriptions 219 based on input from the product
retailer 130 (e.g., to promote certain products), or by using the customer genome. The
PPR system, for example, may be able to match a product preference of the customer
110, provided by the customer genome, to one or more tags associated with the curated
product description.
[0033]      The home page may also display products that have been listed on the
secondary market in a secondary market listing area 239, and may include a secondary
market navigation bar 229 that allows customers 110 to navigate the secondary market
135.
[0034]      The market listing area 239 may provide listings for individual products that are
listed on the market. For each individual listing, an image element 230a-g for the product
may be displayed along with relevant information for the product listing, including a
product name element 232a, providing the product name, a listing price element 234a,
providing the listing price, and a seller ID element 231a, providing the seller's name, on
line handle (e.g., "fashionista22") or identification number. A purchaser 11 Ob visiting the
website may be able to select the product image element 230a or the relevant information
(i.e., the product name element 232a, listing price element 234a, or seller ID element
231). The product image element 230a, product name element 232a, and listing price
element 234a, when selected by the customer 110, may direct the purchaser 11 Ob to a
more detailed product listing page, or add the product listing to the purchaser's virtual
shopping cart. The seller ID element 231, when selected by the customer 110, may direct
the purchaser 11 Ob to a page containing information regarding the seller 11 Oa (or social

                                                14
influencer 120), for example, presenting all products that the seller 110a (or social
influencer 120) has listed.
[0035]       The individual product listing may also provide an alternative sellers element
233a, which when selected by the customer, may present the customer 110 with product
listings for the product that are available from other sellers 11 Oa on the secondary market
135 or directly from the product retailer 130. In some implementations, the PPR system
150, in identifying alternate sellers 11 Oa of the product, may be able to leverage a product
data platform of the product retailer 130, which may allow for better identification and
aggregation of closely related products that the purchaser 11 Ob may be interested in. For
example, products that are described by a stock keeping unit (SKU) may identify a
specific product, but may not be used to identify related products in a product family. As
a more specific example, a SKU may identify a particular shirt having a particular style,
color, size, but does not capture the same shirt in a different color or different size. By
using the product data platform of the product retailer 130, which may provide product
data and retail taxonomy information, the PPR system 150 may be able to identify closely
related products (e.g., products in the product family), for example, identifying shirts
having the same style but available in a different color or size. In this way, the PPR
system 150 may allow a purchaser 110b to more easily and effectively locate the product
that they are looking to purchase, when compared to traditional secondary markets. For
instance, in the clothing example, customers may have a preference for a particular size,
or may wish to find the shirt in a more flattering color. The ability to automatically identify
and group these closely related products can increase the likelihood of sales, as the PPR
system is able to present the customer 110 with what they are looking for without the
customer 110 having to browse the entire secondary market 135. It may also promote
direct sales from the product retailer 130, as the customer 110 is able to purchase the
product that they are looking for directly from the product retailer 130 when it may not be
available on the secondary market 135 (e.g., when the secondary market 135 does not
have a dress in the customer's size).
[0036]       As mentioned above, the website may also provide a secondary market
navigation bar 229 that may allow the customer 110 to navigate the secondary market
135. The navigation bar 229, for example, may provide a recent listings element 220,
suggested category elements 221a-b, and a more suggestions element 222.

                                                15
[0037]        The recent listing element 220, when selected by the customer 110, may filter
or adjust the listings provided in the secondary market listing area 239 to display those
products that have been listed most recently on the secondary market 135 or within a
certain time period (e.g., past few hours). For instance, the customer 110 may be able to
filter the listings to show those listings on the secondary market 135 that have been listed
within the past 24 hours or the last ten product listings.
[0038]        The suggested category elements 221a-b, when selected by the customer
110, may filter or adjust the listings provided in the secondary market listing area 239 to
display those products listed on the secondary market 135 that fall within a particular
product category. The more suggestions element 222, when selected by the customer
110, may provide the customer 110 with additional filter elements for additional suggested
product categories. The suggested product categories may be specified by the product
retailer 130 or may be determined by the PPR system 150, using the customer genome,
which may provide product categories that are of greatest interest to the customer 110.
[0039]        Figure 3 illustrates an example of a mobile device 111 that the customer 110
may use to place items for sale on the secondary market 135. The mobile device 111
may include a display 340, input/output interfaces 350, communication interfaces 352,
and device processing circuitry 355. The input / output (I/O) interfaces 350 may include
a touch sensitive display, voice or facial recognition inputs, video and still image cameras,
temperature sensors, vibration sensors, rotation and orientation sensors, buttons,
switches, speakers and other interface elements. The device processing circuitry 355
may be used to implement any of the desired functionality of the mobile device 111. The
device processing circuitry 355 may include any combination of hardware, software,
firmware, or other logic, and may be implemented, for example, with one or more systems
on a chip (SoC), application specific integrated circuits (ASIC), discrete analog and digital
circuits, and other circuitry.
[0040]       The device processing circuitry 355, for example, may include one or more
processors 360 and memory 365. The memory 365, for example, may store control
instructions 366 that the processor 360 executes to carry out desired functionality for the
mobile device 111 along with control parameters 367 that specify configuration and
operating options for the control instructions 366. The memory 365 may also store any
wireless data, Bluetooth data, cellular (e.g., 3G, 4G, LTE) data, or other data 368 that the

                                               16
mobile device 111 may send, or receive, through the communication interfaces 352,
which may include Radio Frequency (RF) transmit (Tx) and receive (Rx) circuitry 353
capable of transmitting and receiving signals through one or more antennas 354. The
memory 365 may also store application data 369 that can be executed to interface with
the PPR system 100. The device processing circuitry, for example, may be capable of
executing an application that presents a graphical user interface 310 to the customer 110
for interfacing with the PPR system 100.
[0041]      As illustrated in Figure 3, the graphical user interface 310 may display various
product tiles 311 that represent products that the customer 110 has previously purchased
from a product retailer 130. The user interface 310 may, for example, display product
tiles 311 for each product in a virtual product inventory of a customer, which may be built
and managed using the customer genome. The customer 110 may be able to select the
individual product tiles 311 through the user interface 310 in order to list the
corresponding product on the secondary market 135. The user interface 310 may also
provide additional listing details 330 when the product tile 311 is selected, for example,
in the form of a pop-up frame or bubble. The listing details 330 may include a suggested
price field 331, which may be populated with a suggested price for listing the product on
the secondary market 135, and may include a price adjustment element or field 332,
which may allow the user to adjust the listing price for the selected product.           The
suggested price field 331 may suggest a value of the product in terms of currency or store
credit, or a combination thereof, which may be determined based on price analytics of the
secondary market 135. The listing details 330 may also include a push-to-market button
333 which the customer may select to automatically generate a product listing and place
the product listing on the secondary market 135. The user interface 310 may also attach
status indicators 315 to products that have been listed on the secondary market 135. In
some implementations, the product retailer 130 may choose to provide the customer 110
with store credits for placing, or actually selling, a product on the secondary market 135,
in order to promote use of the integrated secondary market 135 or promote future sales
directly with the product retailer 130.
[0042]      Figure 4 illustrates an example of the system architecture 400 on which the
PPR system 150 may be implemented. The system architecture 400 may include a PPR
platform service layer 420 that may leverage a customer genome platform 411 and a

                                              17
product data platform 412 provided in the data layer 410, to enable functionality for mobile
applications 431 and e-commerce platforms 432 at the application layer 430. The service
layer 420 may provide state management 421 and price analytics 422 functionality, which
may be exposed to the mobile applications 431 and e-commerce platforms 432 via an
application programming interface (API).        The API (e.g., a Representational State
Transfer (REST) API) may define various function calls that the mobile applications 431
and e-commerce platforms 432 may invoke to request information from the service layer
420.
[0043]      The product data platform 412 may be exposed within the data layer 410, and
to the service layer 420 and application layer 430 via an API (e.g., a REST API), which
may define various function calls which the PPR platform service layer 420 may invoke
to request product information details. The product data platform 412 may include a
database of information for products of the product retailer 130, which for example, may
be used in generating product listings for the secondary market 135. The product data
and retail taxonomy information (i.e., the relationship between UPC /barcode information
and product details (e.g., color, size, etc.)) may enrich the product listings in a way that
traditional secondary markets simply cannot.
[0044]      The customer genome platform 411 may be exposed to the service layer 420
and application layer 430 via an API (e.g., a REST API), which may define various
function calls which the service layer 420 and application layer 430 may invoke to request
information regarding a particular customer 110 (or social influencer 120). For instance,
as described above, the customer genome platform 411 may create a robust customer
profile (or customer genome) for a customer 110, which may provide different preferences
and characteristics for a given customer that may be derived from different data sources.
By way of example, the customer genome may process the transactional history 416 of
a customer 110 to build a virtual product inventory 417 (e.g., a virtual closet) of products
that a customer 110 (or social influencer 120) has purchased from the product retailer
130. The customer genome may make use of the product data platform 412 in building
the virtual product inventory 417, as it may provide additional details regarding a particular
transaction.    In some implementations, the customer genome may be updated in real
time, for example, adding products to the virtual product inventory 417 as soon as they
are purchased from the product retailer or from the secondary market 135. The PPR

                                              18
system 150 may utilize this virtual product inventory 417 to allow customers 110 (or social
influencers 120) to conveniently sell previously purchased products on the secondary
market, e.g., by using a mobile application, as described above.
[0045]     The customer genome platform may also determine various customer product
preferences and purchasing preferences 415 from the transactional history 416 (e.g., a
size or style preference) of a customer. The customer genome may make use of the
product data platform 412 in determining customer product preferences, as it may provide
additional details regarding a particular transaction. For example, a particular transaction
entry may only include a SKU and a purchase price. The product data platform 412 may
be able to provide additional details regarding the product, for example, through
associations between the SKU and product details (e.g., size, color, style, etc.). The
customer genome may also process the transactional history 416 to determine
purchasing preferences for a customer 110 (e.g., price sensitivity information,
engagement channel preferences, etc.), which may be used to perform price analytics by
the service layer 420. For example, the transactional history 416 of a customer may
indicate that a customer often purchases products using gift cards or store credit, and the
pricing analytics performed at the service layer 420 may account for this in providing a
suggested price to the seller 11 0a (e.g., providing more store credit than actual currency).
[0046]      Moreover, by capturing transactions on the secondary market 135, the product
retailer may be able to build a richer profile of individual customers shopping behavior.
Capturing a higher proportion of a customer's transactions (i.e., spending) and tracking
this behavior over time, may lead to different insights for the product retailer.        For
example, by monitoring the listing of products, or sale of the products, on the secondary
market 135, through the customer genome, a product retailer may be able to identify a
demand for a particular product that is no longer in production or for a particular product
price point, and adjust their merchandising strategy accordingly. For instance, a product
retailer 130 may be compelled to bring back the product line if sufficient demand exists,
or may develop a product line targeted towards a different price point.
[0047]     The service layer 420 may manage the secondary market 135, and may track
what products are listed for sale and which products have been sold. Further, as noted
above, the PPR system 150 may build a virtual product inventory for a customer 110 or
for a social influencer 120, and the service layer 420 may manage whether particular

                                              19
products in the virtual product inventory are listed on the secondary market 135. As noted
above, the service layer 420 may provide state management of the secondary market
135, and may maintain state information regarding products in the virtual product
inventory 417.     The state information may include parameters indicating whether a
product in the virtual product inventory 417 is listed on the secondary market 135 as well
as the way the product is listed on the secondary market 135 (e.g., the listing price, listing
date, etc.). When a listing expires, is removed, or the product is purchased, the service
layer 420 may update the state of the product on the secondary market 135 and in the
virtual product inventory 417 of the customer 110 (or social influencer 120).
[0048]     The service layer 420 may also provide price analytics for products on the
secondary market 135, which may look at the historical pricing of products on the
secondary market 135 or from the product retailer 130, as well as the frequency at which
products are listed and sold. The price analytics, for example, may use this information
to model the secondary market 135 and provide suggested pricing information to product
sellers 110a or social influencers 120. The price analytics may determine a suggested
price for a particular product (e.g., based on the product SKU). By way of example, the
suggested price may be calculated based on the retail price, which may be reduced based
on the time since the purchase (e.g., days, months, years), a quality factor of the product,
and any other discount factors. This information may be used to analyze trends within
the secondary market to better understand customers, for example, to determine the
effect that particular social influencers have on the sale of particular products.
[0049]      In some implementations, the PPR system may model the demand for a
particular product by looking at the number of similar products listed on the secondary
market and analyzing the lists for the similar products. For instance, the PPR system
may identify products that are listed, or have previously been listed, on the secondary
market having similar product details (e.g., size, color and style), and may analyze the
associated product listings (e.g., to determine a total number of listings, an average listing
duration, an average listing price and an average sale price).          The PPR system, in
modelling the demand for a particular product, may also identify the potential customers
who are participating in the secondary market, for example, by using the customer
genome to identify customers with related product preferences (e.g., having a preference

                                               20
for products of that size, color and style), and look at the purchasing preferences of those
customers (e.g., their price sensitivity) in determining the suggested price.
[0050]      Figure 5 provides a high-level example of the logic that the PPR system may
perform in facilitating a customer transaction in the secondary marketplace 135, where
the customer is looking to make a product purchase, for example, using a mobile
application 431, as described above. The PPR system 150 may receive a request to
initiate a sales transaction (i.e., participate in the secondary market 135) (501).        In
response, the PPR system 150 may load the customer's virtual product inventory, which
lists the products previously purchased by the customer 110 from the product retailer 130
(502).    The PPR system may determine the market state (e.g., listed/unlisted or
sold/unsold) of the products in the virtual product inventory (503), and present the virtual
product inventory to the customer 110 (504). The customer 110 may select a particular
product for placement on the secondary market (505).           In response to the customer
selection, the PPR system 150 may generate a suggested price for the listing (506), and
may present the suggested price to the customer 110. In doing so, the PPR system 150
may retrieve product details associated with the particular product, including purchase
history data (e.g., a purchase date and price). The customer 110 may optionally adjust
the suggested price (507), and may then decide to place the product on the secondary
market at the suggested price (or adjusted suggested price) (508). The PPR system 150
may generate a curated product listing for the product based on the product details and
the suggested price (or adjusted suggested price), and may adjust the market state for
the product and attach a status indicator to indicate that the product has been placed on
the secondary market (509). Once placed on the market, the purchasing power of the
customer may be adjusted (e.g., increased) in an amount corresponding to the suggested
price (or adjusted suggested price).
[0051]      Figure 6 provides a high-level example of the logic that the PPR system may
perform in integrating a secondary market into a product retailer website.        The PPR
system may automatically recognize a customer interacting with the website through a
client device (e.g., a personal computer or smart phone) (601). In response, the PPR
system may load the robust customer profile (i.e., the customer genome) of the customer
(602). The PPR system may generate a product area for the website which may provide
one or more curated product descriptions (i.e., a combined product listing) that may

                                             21
enable the customer to purchase one or more individual products featured in the curated
product description (603).     In some implementations, the curated product descriptions
that are provided in the product area may be automatically identified using the customer
genome, for example, by identifying one or more products within the curated product
description having characteristics that correlate to customer product preferences that are
stored in the customer genome. In other implementations, the PPR system may identify
a social influencer that the customer is following, and may include curated product
descriptions that are associated with the social influencer (e.g., curated product
descriptions that the social influencer has designed). The curated product descriptions
themselves may be rendered according to a pre-defined layout designed by a social
influencer and/or the product retailer, and may include an image that presents the
products in a visually appealing fashion along with relevant information regarding the
products and a product listing of the different products included in the curated product
description (604).
[0052]       In addition, the PPR system may provide embedded links for each of the
different products, which enable different purchasing options that the customer may be
able to select (605). In doing so, the PPR system may determine whether a particular
product is available directly from the product retailer or via the secondary market and
whether similar products are available from the product retailer or via the secondary
market, by matching product attributes of the particular product against the product
retailer inventory and product listings on the secondary market. The PPR system may
also generate a secondary market area for the website that may display products that are
actively listed on the secondary market (607), and may retrieve a market state of the
secondary market (606) including a set of products listed on the secondary market in
order to do so. Individual product listings may be rendered in the secondary market area
for products that are listed on the secondary market, where the individual product listings
may include a product image, product name, listing price, which the customer interacting
with the website may select in order to purchase the product from the secondary market
(608).    In some implementations, the PPR system may also generate an alternative
sellers element, which may present the customer with a link to product listings for the
same (or similar) products that are available for sale from other sellers or directly from
the product retailer, and may utilize the product data platform (609).

                                              22
[0053]     The logic, circuitry, and processing described above may be encoded or stored
in a machine-readable or computer-readable medium such as a compact disc read only
memory (CDROM), magnetic or optical disk, flash memory, random access memory
(RAM) or read only memory (ROM), erasable programmable read only memory (EPROM)
or other machine-readable medium as, for examples, instructions for execution by a
processor, controller, or other processing device.
[0054]     The medium may be implemented as any device that contains, stores,
communicates, propagates, or transports executable instructions for use by or in
connection with an instruction executable system, apparatus, or device. Alternatively or
additionally, the logic may be implemented as analog or digital logic using hardware, such
as one or more integrated circuits, or one or more processors executing instructions; or
in software in an application programming interface (API) or in a Dynamic Link Library
(DLL), functions available in a shared memory or defined as local or remote procedure
calls; or as a combination of hardware and software.
[0055]      In other implementations, the logic may be represented in a signal or a
propagated-signal medium. For example, the instructions that implement the logic of any
given program may take the form of an electronic, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic,
infrared, or other type of signal. The systems described above may receive such a signal
at a communication interface, such as an optical fiber interface, antenna, or other analog
or digital signal interface, recover the instructions from the signal, store them in a
machine-readable memory, and/or execute them with a processor.
[0056]     The systems may include additional or different logic and may be implemented
in many different ways.           A processor may be implemented          as a controller,
microprocessor, microcontroller, application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), discrete
logic, or a combination of other types of circuits or logic. Similarly, memories may be
DRAM, SRAM, Flash, or other types of memory.            Parameters (e.g., conditions and
thresholds) and other data structures may be separately stored and managed, may be
incorporated into a single memory or database, or may be logically and physically
organized in many different ways. Programs and instructions may be parts of a single
program, separate programs, or distributed across several memories and processors.

                                              23
[0057]     Various implementations have been specifically described.          However, many
other implementations are also possible and may be readily ascertained by a person of
ordinary skill in the art based on the teachings described above. These implementations
and equivalents thereof are illustrated by the examples described above and the scope
of the invention should be determined not by the examples but with reference to the
claims and equivalents appended hereto.
[0058]     Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to mean the inclusion of a stated feature or step, or group
of features or steps, but not the exclusion of any other feature or step, or group of features
or steps.
[0059]     The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
taken as an acknowledgement, or any suggestion that, the prior art form part of the
common general knowledge.

                                              24
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.        A system for integrating a secondary market into a product retailer website, the
system including a processor and a memory in communication with the processor, the
memory having processor executable instructions stored thereon that when executed by
the processor cause the processor to:
        automatically recognize a client device of a market participant interacting with the
website;
        retrieve a robust customer profile for the market participant from the memory;
        generate a product area on a webpage for the website based on the robust
customer profile for the market participant;
        render, in the product area on the webpage, one or more first product listings
featuring one or more products offered by the product retailer, based at least on a
description of each first product listing having characteristics that correlate to customer
product preferences stored in the robust customer profile, each first product listing
enabling a user to purchase one or more products featured in the first product listing;
        retrieve a market state of the secondary market from the memory, the market state
including a set of product listings corresponding to products listed on the secondary
market;
        generate a secondary market area on the webpage based on the market state of
the secondary market;
        render, in the secondary market area of the webpage, one or more second product
listings featuring one or more products offered by the secondary market, each second
product listing enabling the user to purchase one or more products featured in the second
product listing,
        wherein selection, via the client device, of a product for purchase in the one or
more second product listings in the secondary market area causes the selected product
to be added to a virtual shopping cart to which products selected for purchase from the
one or more first product listings are added.
2.      A system according to claim 1, where the processor, in generating the product
area on the webpage for the website based on the robust customer profile for the market
participant, is further operable to:

                                                25
         receive a request from the client device of the market participant for a combined
product listing;
         select a particular combined product listing from a plurality of available combined
product listings , the particular combined product listing including a set of individual
products;
         render the particular combined product listing, in the product area of the webpage,
by rendering a combined product listing image, a combined product listing description,
and a list of the set of individual products, where the combined product listing image and
combined product listing description are rendered based on predefined criteria
established by the product retailer; and
         for each individual product in the set of individual products in the combined product
listing:
                 determine whether the individual product is available from the product
         retailer, and generate a product retailer purchase link when the product is available
         from the product retailer;
                 determine whether the individual product is available on the secondary
         market, and generate a secondary market purchase link when the product is
         available on the secondary market; and
                 determine whether a similar product is available from the product retailer or
         on the secondary market when the product is not available from the product retailer
         or on the secondary market, and generate a similar product purchase link when
         the similar product is available.
3.       A system according to either claim 1 or claim 2, where the robust customer profile
includes product attribute preferences of the market participant, and
         where the processor, in selecting the particular combined product listing, is
operable to match the product attribute preferences of the market participant against one
or more tags associated with each of the plurality of available combined product listings.
4.       A system according to either claim 2 or claim 3, where the robust customer profile
includes social influencer preferences of the market participant, and
         where the processor, in selecting the particular combined product listing, is
operable to match the social influencer preferences of the market participant against a

                                              26
social influencer associated with curating each of the plurality of available combined
product listings.
5.     A system according to any one of claims 2 to 4, where each individual product is
characterized by product attributes and where the robust customer profile includes
product attribute preferences of the market participant,
       where the processor, in determining whether the individual product is available
from the product retailer, is operable to match the product attributes of the individual
product and the product attribute preferences of the market participant against a product
inventory of the product retailer;
       where the processor, in determining whether the individual product is available on
the secondary market, is operable to match the product attributes of the individual product
against the set of product listings for products listed on the secondary market; and
       where the processor, in determining whether a similar product is available from the
product retailer or on the secondary market, is operable to match the product attributes
of the individual product against the product inventory of the product retailer and the set
of product listing for products listed on the secondary market.
6.     A system according to any one of the preceding claims, where the processor, in
rendering one or more individual product listings from the set of product listings, is further
operable to:
        render, an individual product image element and one or more additional
informative elements for each of the one or more individual product listings,
       where each of the individual product image element and each of the one or more
additional informative elements are selectable based on an input received from the client
device to direct the client device to another webpage.
7.     A system according to claim 6, where the processor, in rendering the individual
product listing, is further operable to:
        identify a related product listing in the set of product listings by matching the
product corresponding to the individual product listing with the product corresponding to
the related product listing using a product data platform of the product retailer, and

                                                 27
         render an alternative sellers element, where the alternative sellers element is
selectable based on an input received from the client device to direct the client device to
an alternative sellers webpage in which the related product listing is rendered.
8.       A system according to either claim 6 or claim 7, where the processor, in generating
the secondary market area on the webpage, is further operable to:
         render, in the secondary market area of the webpage, a filter listings element,
where the filter listings element is selectable based on an input received from the client
device to:
                 identify a subset of product listings from the set of product listings; and
                 render one or more individual product listings from the subset of individual
         product listings.
9.       A system according to claim 8, where the robust customer profile includes product
attribute preferences of the market participant, and
         where the processor, in identifying the subset of individual product listings from the
set of product listings, is operable to match the product attribute preferences of the market
participant against the product attributes of the product corresponding to each product
listing in the set of product listings.
10.      A system according to any one of the preceding claims, where the processor is
further operable to:
         receive a request from a second client device of a market participant to participate
in the secondary market;
         retrieve from a database a list of product inventory including products previously
purchased by the market participant;
         determine a market state for a particular product in the product inventory, where
the market state dictates whether the particular product is listed on the secondary market;
         adjust the market state for the particular product based on the request received
from the market participant;
         adjust a purchasing power of the market participant based on the received request;
and

                                                  28
        store the adjusted purchasing power in a data record associated with the market
participant.
11.     A system according to claim 10, wherein the request is a request to sell the
particular product on the secondary market, and where the processor is operable to:
        retrieve product details about the particular product, the product details including
purchase history data for the particular product including a purchase date and a purchase
price; and
        determine a suggested price for listing the particular product on the secondary
market based on an analysis of the secondary market and the product details about the
particular product by:
        calculating an elapsed time period since the purchase date;
        determining a quality factor of the particular product; and
        calculating a demand for the particular product by:
                 identifying potential      market   participants  based     on  related     product
        preferences stored in robust customer profiles of the market participants;
                 determining a number of similar products listed on the secondary market
        based on the product details about the particular product; and
                 analyzing a set of listings for the similar products and determining a number
        of listings in the set of listings, an average listing duration for the set of listings, and
        an average price for the set of listings.
12.     A system according to claim 11, where the processor is further operable to:
        generate a curated listing for the particular product automatically based on the
product details and the suggested price, where the curated listing includes relevant
product information and product images;
        place the curated listing on the secondary market; and
        where the processor is operable to adjust the purchasing power of the market
participant by increasing the purchasing power in an amount of the suggested price.
13.     A system according to either claim 11 or claim 12, where the processor is further
operable to:

                                              29
        adjust the suggested price based on input received from the market participant;
and
        generate a curated listing for the particular product automatically based on the
product details and the adjusted suggested price, where the curated listing includes
relevant product information and product images;
        place the curated listing on the secondary market; and
        where the processor is operable to adjust the purchasing power of the market
participant by increasing the purchasing power in an amount of the adjusted suggested
price.
14.     A computer-implemented method of integrating a secondary market into a product
retailer website, the method including:
        automatically recognizing, at a server having a processor and a memory in
communication with the data processor, a client device of a market participant interacting
with the website;
        retrieving, from the memory, a robust customer profile for the market participant;
        generating a product area on a webpage for the website by the processor based
on the robust customer profile for the market participant;
        rendering, in the product area on the webpage, one or more first product listings
featuring one or more products offered by the product retailer, based at least on a
description of each first product listing having characteristics that correlate to customer
product preferences stored in the robust customer profile, each first product listing
enabling a user to purchase one or more products featured in the first product listing;
        retrieving a market state of the secondary market from the memory, the market
state including a set of product listings corresponding to products listed on the secondary
market;
        generating a secondary market area on the webpage by the processor based on
the market state of the secondary market;
        rendering, in the secondary market area of the webpage, one or more second
product listings featuring one or more products offered by the secondary market, each
second product listing enabling the user to purchase one or more products featured in
the second product listing,

                                                30
         wherein selection, via the client device, of a product for purchase in the one or
more second product listings in the secondary market area causes the selected product
to be added to a virtual shopping cart to which products selected for purchase from the
one or more first product listings are added.
15.      A method according to claim 14, where generating the product area on the
webpage for the website based on the robust customer profile for the market participant
further includes:
         receiving a request from the client device of the market participant for a combined
product listing;
         selecting a particular combined product listing by from a plurality of available
combined product listings, the particular combined product listing including a set of
individual products;
         rendering the particular combined product listing, in the product area of the
webpage, by rendering a combined product listing image, a combined product listing
description, and a list of the set of individual products, where the combined product listing
image and combined product listing description are rendered based on predefined criteria
established by the product retailer; and
         for each individual product in the set of individual products in the combined product
listing:
                 determining whether the individual product is available from the product
         retailer, and generating a product retailer purchase link when the product is
         available from the product retailer;
                 determining whether the individual product is available on the secondary
         market, and generating a secondary market purchase link when the product is
         available on the secondary market; and
                 determining whether a similar product is available from the product retailer
         or on the secondary market when the product is not available from the product
         retailer or on the secondary market, and generating a similar product purchase link
         when the similar product is available.
16.      A method according to either claim 14 or claim15, where the robust customer
profile includes product attribute preferences of the market participant, and

                                              31
        selecting the particular combined product listing includes matching the product
attribute preferences of the market participant against one or more tags associated with
each of the plurality of available combined product listings.
17.     A method according to any one of claims 14 to 16, where the robust customer
profile includes social influencer preferences of the market participant, and
        where selecting the particular combined product listing includes matching the
social influencer preferences of the market participant against a social influencer
associated with curating each of the plurality of available combined product listings.
18.     A method according to any one of claims 14 to 17, where each individual product
is characterized by product attributes and where the robust customer profile includes
product attribute preferences of the market participant,
        wherein determining whether the individual product is available from the product
retailer includes matching the product attributes of the individual product and the product
attribute preferences of the market participant against a product inventory of the product
retailer;
        wherein determining whether the individual product is available on the secondary
market includes matching the product attributes of the individual product against the set
of product listings for products listed on the secondary market; and
        wherein determining whether a similar product is available from the product retailer
or on the secondary market includes matching the product attributes of the individual
product against the product inventory of the product retailer and the set of product listing
for products listed on the secondary market.
19.     A method according to any one of claims 14 to 18, where rendering one or more
individual product listings from the set of product listings further includes:
        rendering an individual product image element and one or more additional
informative elements,
        where the individual product image element and one or more additional informative
elements are selectable based on an input received from the client device to direct the
client device to another webpage.

                                               32
20.    A method according to claim 19, where rendering the individual product listing
further includes:
        identifying a related product listing in the set of product listings by matching the
product corresponding to the individual product listing with the product corresponding to
the related product listing using a product data platform of the product retailer, and
        rendering an alternative sellers element, where the alternative sellers element is
selectable based on an input received from the client device to direct the client device to
an alternative sellers webpage in which the related product listing is rendered.
1a.       A system for integrating a secondary market into a product retailer website, the
system including a processor and a memory in communication with the processor, the
memory having processor executable instructions stored thereon that when executed by
the processor cause the processor to:
       automatically recognize a client device of a market participant interacting with the
website;
        retrieve a robust customer profile for the market participant from the memory;
       generate a product area on a webpage for the website based on the robust
customer profile for the market participant;
        retrieve a market state of the secondary market from the memory, the market state
including a set of product listings corresponding to products listed on the secondary
market; and
       generate a secondary market area on the webpage based on the market state of
the secondary market.
2a.    A system including a processor and a memory in communication with the
processor, the memory having processor executable instructions stored thereon that
when executed by the processor cause the processor to:
        receive a request from a device of a market participant to participate in a secondary
market;
        retrieve from a database a list of product inventory including products previously
purchased by the market participant;
       determine a market state for a particular product in the product inventory, where
the market state dictates whether the particular product is listed on the secondary market;

                                              33
        adjust the market state for the particular product based on the request received
from the market participant;
        adjust a purchasing power of the market participant based on the received request;
and
store the adjusted purchasing power in a data record associated with the market
participant.
3a.     A computer-implemented method of integrating a secondary market into a product
retailer website, the method including:
        automatically recognizing, at a server having a processor and a memory in
communication with the data processor, a client device of a market participant interacting
with the website;
        retrieving, from the memory, a robust customer profile for the market participant;
        generating a product area on a webpage for the website by the processor based
on the robust customer profile for the market participant;
        retrieving a market state of the secondary market from the memory, the market
state including a set of product listings corresponding to products listed on the secondary
market; and
generating a secondary market area on the webpage by the processor based on the
market state of the secondary market.

                                                                                   <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                        ..
                           .3
.
                                                                                                                     ! &
                                                                        ' (
                                                                       2                                             '
                                                      3   * +'
                                                                                                                 !   "   ! #! $!
                                                                      4 -     +
/.
                                                                       25
                                                                                                              ( ' ( ) ( $ *+ '
                                                                                                              -    +   , ..// /0 1
                                                           -' 6
                                                          5.      &         * +'                                     ,
                                                                                                                            %!
     !                 !            '           0.
                                                                                                                            ! "
         '    -                                 0
         66                 !           '       0/
     #        ''       66                   !   0/
     9            66                !           0/3
                   66                   !       0/                                                                          #
              ''                -               05
              '' 7'8                            0
             6 -                                00
             3 '                                :.

                                                                                                                                                                             <removed-apn>                                            <removed-date>
                 /..
                                           /.=
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /.:3                             /.:3
                  ;    4                                                                                                                      ; *'                    * 4 - '         7<   6'8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (       4 /.:
                 /.                                                                                                                            /.5                     /.              /.0
                                                          !          !                                                                                                              !            !
                                                           /                                                                                                                         / 3
                                                                     - 49 +          '             / 5                                                                                           - 49 +             '          / 5
/ =                                                                           / 2                            / 1                                                                                             / 23                          / 13
                 - 49 +                                                                                                                              - 49 +                                                                                                                ! &
                  !6                                                                                                                                  !6
                   / .                                             ! 6    6                                        *                                   / .3                                ! 6           6                                       *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                  /                ! 6    6                        *                                                                            /          ! 6           6                     *
                                                                                                                               /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /      !   "   ! #! $!
                                                  2                ! 6    6                    (       9 +                                                                      2          ! 6           6                 (       9 +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ( ' ( ) ( $ *+ '
//=
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                /
            - 9' 4                   ' 4              -                  ' 4             -                         '   '
           //.                        //                                  // 3                               ///                                                                                                                                                    -    +   , ..// /0 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  %!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ! "
/2=
           /2.                                 /2.3                                      /2.                                   /2.4                         /2.                            /2.                                         /2.
                               /22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  #
 /2
       !         ,         '           !              ,        '                 !             ,         '                 !          ,   '             !         ,      '            !              ,       '                     !         ,       '
       4                                   4                                        4                                      4                            4                             4                                            4
 /2/
                               /21
                                                                                                                                              /

                                                                                               <removed-apn>             <removed-date>
               3       &                                  21.
                                                                     !                !            '            25.
2 5
                   ">! 2 .
                                                                         66                !           '        25/
      & '-                        & '-                               @ @     -
       ( ' 4                       ( ' 4
        4                           4                               ; #9                                       252                         ! &
      2                           2                  22
                                                                    /" 2" 1" 9
                                       ' 4           22/                                                                                   '
                                                                             7'8                               251
                                  4? '               222
      & '-
       ( ' 4
                                  '(         +                           &            ''                   -    255
                                                                                                                              2        !   "   ! #! $!
        4
      2                      9'              ' 22.
2 5
                                                                             '' 7'8                             2 .                 ( ' ( ) ( $ *+ '
                                                                         6 -                                    2 5
      & '-                        & '-                                                                                              -    +   , ..// /0 1
       ( ' 4                       ( ' 4                                      ! '              '                2
        4                           4                                                                                                      ,
      2                           2                                                   6        '                2 0                               %!
                                                                                                                2 :                               ! "
                           22.                                                                                 2 =
                                                                                                                                                  #
                                                                2

                                                                                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
1..
                                                  9 - 12.
                             3                              66
                                 12                         12/
                                                                                                                    ! &
                                                                                                                    '
                                        6                         - '
                                 1/                         1//
                                            &   ' 9 - 1/.                                              1        !   "   ! #! $!
                                                                                                             ( ' ( ) ( $ *+ '
                                                                                                             -    +   , ..// /0 1
      4            ( '
                    '                                                                                               ,
                                                                                                                           %!
            1 5                   '
                                 $' -                               4         6
                                  1
                                                                                                                           ! "
      A            4                                                    1 /
          ! &      -
             1 0
          ' 6 "          6       61
                                                9 - 1 .                                                                    #
                                                     1

                                           !   "   ! #! $!         %!   ! "             #
                              ! &   '   ( ' ( ) ( $ *+ '       ,
                                        -    +   , ..// /0 1
<removed-date>
                                             5
<removed-apn>
                    ! "                                                       ! "           %&
                                                                                                 5
                              )          *                                          #
                          (
                    '                                                                       $
              5..

                                          !   "   ! #! $!         %!   ! "         #
                             ! &   '   ( ' ( ) ( $ *+ '       ,
                                       -    +   , ..// /0 1
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>                             &       -
                                   ,                                         $
                                                                             #         .
                                           *                                            /
                                       '           $ "
                                           ,
                   + ,
                         ,
                         (                     )
                                                              ! "                ! "
              ..

