                            -  16
ABSTRACT
A vehicle compliance monitoring system for detection of
vehicles  in restricted parking areas;   said system
including:
      - at least one video camera module mounted above
      vehicle height for viewing multiple vehicle locations,
      - a first image capture of a vehicle as said vehicle
      enters a said restricted parking area,
      - a second image capture of said vehicle after a
      predetermined time lapse;   and wherein
   said second image capture is made if said vehicle has   not
      exited said restricted parking area within said
   predetermined time lapse;  said monitoring system further
   including analytics reactive to movement of vehicles;
   said analytics derived from video imagery of said vehicle
   moving into and out of said restricted parking area as
   recorded by said video camera module.
Also disclosed is  a smart pole structure for a parking
monitoring system;  said smart pole structure comprising a
base unit and from which extends an extension pole;   mounted
to the top of said extension pole is a camera assembly and
a communication controller;   said camera assembly
communicating image information to said communication
controller for processing and on-communicating to a remote
data processing and database facility.

     F
       L     BMW
c~ ~     C9
            7J1-

                             - 1
VEHICLE COMPLIANCE MONITORING SYSTEM
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]     The present invention relates to traffic
management and, more particularly to monitoring of illegal
parking of vehicles.
BACKGROUND
[0002]     It is known to monitor traffic by means of still
or video imagery. Thus W02012038964A2 describes    a system
for "defining,   monitoring and reporting  incidences of
potential traffic violations, motion or parking"    (abstract)
by means of video clips. Similarly, JP2773135B2 describes    a
system for detecting illegal parking through image
recognition of a vehicle's registration number.
[0003]     Neither of the systems described in the above
patent applications discloses a system of timed image
capture specifically related to the entry and exit of
vehicles at a restricted parking zone.
[0004]     It is an object of the present invention to
address or at least ameliorate some of the above
disadvantages or provide a useful alternative.
Notes
[0005]     The term "comprising"  (and grammatical variations
thereof) is used in this specification in the inclusive
sense of "having" or "including",   and not in the exclusive
sense of "consisting only of".
[0006]     The above discussion of the prior art in the
Background of the invention, is not an admission that any
information discussed therein is   citable prior art or part

                              - 2
of the common general knowledge of persons skilled in the
art in any country.
SUMMARY   OF INVENTION
[0007]      Accordingly, in a first broad form of the
invention, there is provided a parking monitoring system
for detection of vehicles in restricted parking areas;      said
system including:
       - a first image capture of a vehicle as said vehicle
       enters a said restricted parking area,
       - a second image capture of said vehicle after a
      predetermined time lapse;   and wherein
said second image capture made if said vehicle has not
exited said restricted parking area within said
predetermined time lapse.
[0008]      Preferably, said image capture is made by means
of a camera module mounted on a support structure adjacent
said restricted parking area. In a preferred form the
camera module can be mounted in car;    in an alternative form
it can be mounted to any removable item.
[0009]      Preferably, said camera module is provided with a
movement sensor, short range radar, ground loop or camera
analytics;   said movement sensor, short range radar, ground
loop or camera analytics reactive to movement of vehicles
into and out of said restricted parking area.     In a
preferred form movement at the vehicle is     sensed by the
movement sensor. The sensor can be magnetic field based.
Alternatively any other suitable movement sensing
technology can be used to provide the movement sensor
capability to detect movement of the vehicle.

                              - 3
[0010]      Preferably, said camera module includes a
communication system for transmission of image captures;
transmission of said image captures forwarded to a
monitoring authority or secure server.
[0011]      Preferably, said transmission of image captures
include a date and time stamp of each of said image
captures.
[0012]      Preferably, said camera module and said
communication system are provided with power from a solar
voltaic collector mounted at said support structure or from
street power.
[0013]      Preferably, said system further includes one or
more induction loops mounted within said restricted parking
area;   said induction loops responsive to a vehicle moving
within sensing range of a said induction loop;   each said
induction loop in communication with a control micro
processor included in said camera module.
[0014]      Preferably, said system includes two-way
communication between said camera module and said
monitoring authority;   communication from said monitoring
authority providing for adapting said time lapse to any one
of a range of parking restrictions.
[0015]      In another broad form of the invention, there is
provided a method of monitoring a restricted parking area;
said method including the steps of:
       (a) mounting an image capturing module adjacent said
       restricted parking area,
       (b) capturing a first image of a vehicle sensed
       entering  said restricted parking area,

       (c) allowing a predetermined time period to elapse,
and capturing a second image of said vehicle, if no sensed
detection of said vehicle exiting said restricted parking
area has   occurred.
[0016]      Preferably, said image capturing module is
activated in a first instance to capture a first image by a
motion sensor or camera analytics;   said motion sensor
reactive to a vehicle entering said restricted parking
area.
[0017]      Preferably, said image capturing module is
activated in a second instance to capture a second image
when a predetermined time has elapsed from the capture of
said first image and said motion sensor has   not detected
said vehicle exiting said restricted parking area.
[0018]      Preferably, a monitoring authority of said
restricted parking area is   in two way communication with
said image capturing module;   said monitoring authority
enabled to adapt said predetermined time period to any one
of a range of parking restrictions.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0019]      Embodiments of the present invention will now be
described with reference to the accompanying drawings
wherein:
       Figure 1 is a general view of a restricted parking
area with a monitoring system according to the invention,
       Figure 2 is a schematic view of a communications
system for use with the parking monitoring system of the
invention,
       Figure 3 illustrates a pole mounted arrangement suited
for use with the system of figure 1 and/or figure 2,

                               - 5
       Figure 4 illustrates a network topology in accordance
with a preferred embodiment of the system,
       Figure 5 illustrates parking compliance workflow in
relation to the system.
       Figure 6 illustrates parking compliance workflow in
relation to the processing officer.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
First Preferred Embodiment
[0020]      In a first preferred embodiment of a vehicle
monitoring compliance system according to the invention with
reference to figure 1, a restricted parking area 10 is provided
with an image capturing module 12 mounted adjacent to the area 10
on a supporting structure 14. Preferably the supporting structure
14 is mounted to a parking advisory pole 16 and is so placed that
the image capturing module 12 at the top of the supporting
structure is afforded a clear view of the front or back, and
therefore the license plate 18 of a vehicle 20 entering the area
10. The image capturing module 12 and its supporting structure 14
may be one of a plurality of such modules and support structures
arranged along a road or distributed within a parking area for
example.
[0021]      The imaging device  (not shown) of the image capturing
module 18 may be a digital still or video camera. Also included
in the image capturing or IP module 18 is a motion sensor    (not
shown) responsive to movement into and out of the restricted
parking area 10 by vehicles. The motion sensor may be of any
suitable type, including for example, infrared and short range
radar systems or analytics. Furthermore, the module 12 is
provided with a micro-processor and a communication module for at
least transmitting image data over the internet to a monitoring
authority or secure server 36 as shown in figure 2.

                               - 6
[0022]     In a preferred arrangement, the image capturing
modules 18 within a given plurality of modules, are provided with
short range communication modules for transmission of data within
the plurality. One of the plurality of image capturing or IP
modules 18, in addition to its function as an image capturing
module, is a hub module and acts as an edge storage device for
image and analytics data captured by the other image capturing
modules which are part of a given plurality of modules. In this
arrangement, only edge storage equipped image capturing module is
provided with a transmission module for communicating with a
remote monitoring authority.
[0023]     The equipping of the image capturing system of the
invention with local, that is incorporated in each image
capturing module 18 with analytics software to perform at least
some of the initial analysis of the images, time records and
other captured raw data, thereby reducing the amount of relevant
data for transmission to and storage at the hub module. Further
processing at the hub module may reduce the data further thus
minimising the volume and band width required for communication
with the monitoring authority.
[0024]     Preferably, power for the image capturing module and
its sub-systems is provided by a solar voltaic panel 22 and
storage battery  (not shown), or may be supplied from the street
light power system or building power.
Second Preferred Embodiment
[0025]     In a second preferred embodiment of the invention,
still with reference to figure 1, the motion sensor may be
augmented, or replaced by one or more inductive loops 24 or other
vehicle sensor positioned under the surface 26 of the restricted
parking area 10 and in communication with the image capturing
module 12. In this instance, still or short video imagery will be
taken by the imaging device of the module when a vehicle 20 comes
within range of an inductive loop 24.

                                 -7
Third Preferred Embodiment
 [0026] Figure 3 illustrates a  'smart pole' arrangement suited for
use with any of the described embodiments. In this instance    the
pole 50 comprises a base unit 50A which can be anchored by means
of base plate 50B into the pavement 51. A smaller diameter
extension pole 50C extends from the base unit 50A amounted to the
top of the extension pole 50C is a lateral extender 50D to which
is mounted a camera assembly 52. Also mounted to the top of the
extension pole 50C is a solar panel 53. Also mounted to the top
of the extension pole 50C is a logic and communication controller
54.  These components interact with each other so as to provide a
 'smart pole' arrangement. As described above,  these  'smart poles'
may be in communication with all the other smart poles within a
plurality of image capturing modules   and with a hub module which
in turn communicates with the data processing and database
facilities 38 of the monitoring authority.
 [0027] With reference to Figure 4 the camera assembly 52 and
logic and communication controller 54 can be   deployed widely.
They are arranged to communicate over telephone networks 60 and
via the internet 61 to servers 62.   In preferred forms the data
sent from the smart pole arrangement to the servers is sent
securely and the servers managed in a secure environment. In
conjunction with the server 62 a management system 63
orchestrates the release of data to users 64a, 64b, 64c.
Fourth Preferred Embodiment
 [0028] The flow charts of Figures 5 and 6 illustrate steps in
parking compliance followed by local processing steps which can
be  implemented in conjunction with any of the previously
described embodiments.
INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY
 [0029]     Software executed by the micro-processor provides for
a still  or a first short video image to be taken by the imaging
device only when a vehicle 20 is detected as entering the

                                - 8
restricted parking area 10,  either through the triggering of the
motion sensor, infrared or short range radar, analytics, or the
reaction of an inductive loop 24 or other vehicle sensor. The
image captured is date and time stamped and a timer set to to.
If,  at the elapse of a predetermined length of time  (t.) there
has been no detection of movement by the vehicle 20 out of the
restricted parking area 10,  the imaging device is triggered again
to take a second still or video image of the vehicle.
 [0030]     As shown schematically in figure 2, the capture of a
second still or video image causes the micro-processor 30 to
activate the communication system 32 and transmit, via the
internet 34 or to a second unit for transmission via the
internet, the first and second captured imagery to the monitoring
authority 36 of the system. Either manual inspection or image
analysis software may then be used to ascertain the license
number of the vehicle and appropriate action taken with reference
to data processing and database facilities 38 of the monitoring
authority.
 [0031]     Preferably, the system provides for two-way
communication between the monitoring authority and the image
capturing module. By this means the time lapse between to and tx
can be varied as required to adapt the system to any parking
restriction, from "NO PARKING", "NO STOPPING", "DISABLED" or "NO
STANDING" to time specific parking, including variations in time
limits according to time of day and days of the week.

                            -9
CLAIMS
1.  A vehicle compliance monitoring system for detection of
    vehicles in restricted parking areas;   said system
    including:
     - at least one video camera module mounted above
     vehicle height for viewing multiple vehicle locations,
     - a first image capture of a vehicle as said vehicle
     enters a said restricted parking area,
     - a second image capture of said vehicle after a
     predetermined time lapse;  and wherein
     said second image capture is made if said vehicle has
     not  exited said restricted parking area within said
     predetermined time lapse;  said monitoring system
     further including analytics reactive to movement of
     vehicles; said analytics derived from video imagery of
     said vehicle moving into and out of said restricted
     parking area as recorded by said video camera module.
2.  The system of claim 1 wherein said video camera module
    is one of a plurality of video camera modules;   said
    video camera modules mounted on an array of support
    structures adjacent to,  or within a said restricted
    parking area.
3.  The system of claim 2 wherein each said camera module
    is provided with a movement sensor, short range radar
    or ground loop and a short range communication module.
4.  The system of claim 2 or 3 wherein one of said
    plurality of video camera modules is  a hub module;   said
    hub module acting as an edge storage device for
    collected images and analytics data generated by other

                           - 10
    video camera modules of said plurality of video camera
    modules.
5.  The system of claim 2 or 3 wherein a communication
    module of said hub module transmits said image captures
    and analytics data to a remote monitoring authority.
6.  The system of claim 5 wherein said transmission of
    image captures include a date and time stamp of each of
    said image captures.
7.  The system of any one of claims 2 to 6 wherein each
    said video camera module and said communication module
    are provided with power from a solar voltaic collector
    mounted at said support structure or from street power
    or a building.
8.  The system of any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein said
    system further includes one or more induction loops
    mounted within said restricted parking area; said
    induction loops responsive to a vehicle moving within
    sensing range of a said induction loop; each said
    induction loop in communication with a control micro
    processor included in said video camera module.
9.  The system of any one of claims 2 to 7 wherein said
    system includes two-way communication between said
    plurality of video camera modules and said monitoring
    authority; communication from said monitoring authority
    providing for adapting said predetermined time lapse to
    any one of a range of parking restrictions.
10. A method of monitoring a restricted parking area;  said
    method including the steps of:

                            -  11
      (a) mounting an image capturing module adjacent said
     restricted parking area,
      (b) capturing a first  image of a vehicle sensed
     entering   said restricted parking area,
      (c) allowing a predetermined time period to elapse,
    and capturing a second image of said vehicle, if no
    sensed detection of said vehicle exiting said
    restricted parking area has occurred;   said monitoring
    system further including analytics reactive to movement
    of vehicles derived from video imagery recorded by said
    video camera of said vehicle into and out of said
    restricted parking area.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein said image capturing
    module is activated in a first instance to capture a
    first image by a motion sensor;   said motion sensor
    reactive to a vehicle entering said restricted parking
    area.
12.  The method of claim 10 or 11 wherein said image
    capturing module is activated in a second instance to
    capture a second image when a predetermined time has
    elapsed from the capture of said first image and said
    motion sensor has not detected said vehicle exiting
    said restricted parking area.
13. The method of any one of claims 10 to 12 wherein the
    image capturing module is one of a plurality of image
    capturing modules;  each of said image capturing modules
    mounted on a support structure adjacent to,   or within a
    restricted parking area.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein one of the image
    capturing modules provides edge storage of images
    captured and analytics data generated by other ones of

                            -  12
    said image capturing modules in said plurality of image
    capturing modules.
15. The method of any one of claims 10 to 12 wherein a
    monitoring authority of said restricted parking area is
    in two way communication with said image capturing
    module;  said monitoring authority enabled to adapt said
    predetermined time period to any one of a range of
    parking restrictions.
16. The method of any previous claims wherein the
    monitoring system further includes:
    - a monitoring pole structure for the parking
       monitoring system;  said monitoring pole structure
       comprising a base unit from which extends an
       extension pole;
    - a video camera assembly and a communication
       controller mounted to the top of said extension pole;
       said camera assembly communicating image information
       to said communication controller for processing and
       on-communicating to a remote data processing and
       database facility.
17. The method of Claim 14 wherein the montoring pole
    structure further including a lateral extender
    extending from said extension pole to which is mounted
    said video camera assembly.
18. A parking monitoring system as hereinbefore described
    and with reference to the accompanying drawings.
19. A parking monitoring system for detection of vehicles
    in restricted parking areas;   said system including:

                            - 13
     - a first image capture of a vehicle as said vehicle
     enters a said restricted parking area,
     - a second image capture of said vehicle after a
     predetermined time lapse;   and wherein
     said second image capture is made if said vehicle has
     not  exited said restricted parking area within said
     predetermined time lapse;   said monitoring system
     further including analytics reactive to movement of
     vehicles into and out of said restricted parking area.
20. The system of claim 19 wherein said image capture is
    made by means of a camera module mounted on a support
    structure adjacent said restricted parking area.
21. The system of claim 20 wherein said camera module is
    provided with a movement sensor, short range radar or
    ground loop;  said movement sensor, short range radar or
    ground loop.
22. The system of claim 20  or 21 wherein said camera module
    includes a communication system for transmission of
    image captures;  transmission of said image captures
    forwarded to a monitoring authority.
23. The system of claim 22 wherein said transmission of
    image captures  include a date and time stamp of each of
    said image captures.
24. The system of any one of claims 19 to 23 wherein said
    camera module and said communication system are
    provided with power from a solar voltaic collector
    mounted at said support structure or from street power
    or building.

                            -  14
25. The system of any one of claims 19 to 24 wherein said
    system further includes one or more induction loops
    mounted within said restricted parking area;   said
    induction loops responsive to a vehicle moving within
    sensing range of a said induction loop;   each said
    induction loop in communication with a control micro
    processor included in said camera module.
26. The system of any one of claims 19 to 25 wherein said
    system includes two-way communication between said
    camera module and said monitoring authority;
    communication from said monitoring authority providing
    for adapting said time lapse to any one of a range of
    parking restrictions.
27. A method of monitoring a restricted parking area;    said
    method including the steps of:
      (a) mounting an image capturing module adjacent said
     restricted parking area,
      (b) capturing a first  image of a vehicle sensed
     entering   said restricted parking area,
      (c) allowing a predetermined time period to elapse,
    and capturing a second image of said vehicle, if no
    sensed detection of said vehicle exiting said
    restricted parking area has occurred.
28. The method of claim 27 wherein said image capturing
    module is activated in a first instance to capture a
    first image by a motion sensor;   said motion sensor
    reactive to a vehicle entering said restricted parking
    area.
29.  The method of claim 27   or 28 wherein said image
    capturing module is activated in a second instance to

                           -  15
    capture a second image when a predetermined time has
    elapsed from the capture of said first image and said
    motion sensor has not detected said vehicle exiting
    said restricted parking area.
30. The method of any one of claims 27 to 29 wherein a
    monitoring authority of said restricted parking area is
    in two way communication with said image capturing
    module; said monitoring authority enabled to adapt said
    predetermined time period to any one of a range of
    parking restrictions.
31. The method of any one of claims 27 to 30 wherein the
    monitoring system further includes a monitoring pole
    structure for  the parking monitoring system;   said
    monitoring pole structure comprising a base unit and
    from which extends an extension pole; mounted to the
    top of said extension pole is a camera assembly and a
    communication controller;  said camera assembly
    communicating image information to said communication
    controller for processing and on-communicating to a
    remote data processing and database  facility.
32. The method of Claim 31 wherein the monitoring pole
    structure further includes a lateral extender extending
    from said extension pole to which is mounted said
    camera assembly.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
