                                                12
Abstract
An article of street furniture comprises a trigger device integral to the article and receptive
to one or more emergency situation stimuli; and one or more lights controlled by a
processor. The processor is configured to activate one or more of the lights upon the
trigger device receiving the stimulus.

                                5/6
              BIN SURROUND7-c)
                                            Matrix Series
                 04                                        2.
Proximity sensor                           Mattk   des        D
                               FIG. 10
                                       202
              BIN SURROUND
            buildingl
                                       ...
                               ............  ..         w....
     2201
                               FIG. 11

                                                  1
                       Method and System for Lighting Street Furniture
Field of the Invention
[1]      The present invention relates to a method and system for lighting of street furniture
in an emergency event.
Background
[2]      Street furniture has an important role in a streetscape of public places providing
both functional and aesthetic value. Street furniture can also be used to convey identity
and, in the case of panels affixed to bins, seats, shelters and recycling hubs, can convey
visual images on electronic or passive displays mounted to the items of furniture. These
are generally distributed in strategic, accessible and identifiable positions in the street
scape.
[3]      Street furniture includes light poles, planters, bin surrounds, seats, shelters etc. at a
height and position which is able to have some level of interaction with people in the street,
and 'street' in the context of street furniture is intended to broadly be applicable, including
to a mall, airport, shopping centre and general public space, whether owned by
government or privately.
[4]      Emergency events occur from time to time, where there is a need to quickly and
effectively inform the public of the emergency situation and also what to do in the event of
the emergency. For example, emergency services may need an area of a city centre to be
cleared, such as for example in the event of a fire, natural disaster, terrorist or criminal
event or major traffic accident. Currently there are only public address systems and in
some countries emergency (flashing) light system to advise of an event. These systems do
not visually inform the public about specifically what to do in such an event, such as for
instance which direction to evacuate in, or have the ability to dynamically change such an
instruction. Such systems may also be subject to central control, which may be ineffective
in some emergency situations.
[5]      The present invention has been developed in this context and seeks to address at
least some of the above limitations of the prior art.
[6]      Any references to documents that are made in this specification are not intended to
be an admission that the information contained in those documents form part of the
common general knowledge known to a person skilled in the field of the invention, unless
explicitly stated as such.

                                                 2
Summary of the Present Invention
[7]      According to the present invention there is provided an article of street furniture
comprising a trigger device receptive to one or more emergency situation stimuli; and one
or more lights wherein the trigger device is configured to activate one or more of the lights
upon the trigger device receiving the stimulus so as to alert the public of the emergency
situation. The trigger device is integral to the article, that is, not separate from it.
[8]      The article of street furniture also comprises a communicator for communicating
with one or more other articles of street furniture for activation of one or more lights of the
other articles of street furniture upon the trigger device receiving a stimulus in a
coordinated manner to provide an alert of the emergency situation. In an embodiment the
coordinated manner is configured to be in a manner that shows an evacuation
direction/path. Alternatively, or in addition, the communicator is for receiving centralised
lighting coordination signals.
[9]      In an embodiment the communicator and lighting power supply and storage is self
contained in the article of street furniture.
[10]     In an embodiment the lights of one or more of the articles of street furniture are
responsive to a characteristic of or the type of stimulus.
[11]     In an embodiment the response of the one or more lights is one or more of: the
number of lights activated; the colour emitted by the activated one or more lights; the
intensity of emission by the one or more lights; and/or the duration of emission of light by
the one or more lights. In an embodiment there are a plurality of lights activated over an
area. In an embodiment the bounds of the area is determined by the type of stimulus. In
this way a significant stimulus may cause lighting of a larger area, whereas a less
significant stimulus causes lighting of a smaller area.
[12]     In an embodiment the lights are for illumination only. In an embodiment the lights
are not a sign. In an embodiment the lights are not a projection of an image.
[13]     In an embodiment the communicator communicates a delay command to the one
or more other articles of street furniture, such that activation of the one or more lights by
the one or more articles of street furniture is delayed according to the communicated delay
command. In an embodiment the delay command comprises an amount of time to delay

                                                   3
activation of each of the one or more lights by the other one or more articles of street
furniture. In this manner a radiating light pulse can emanate from a number of articles of
street furniture so as to indicate an evacuation direction/path.
[14]     In an embodiment the trigger device is associated with a processor configured to
control the activation of the lights of a plurality of articles of street furniture. In an
embodiment the control is that the activation is in a sequence.
[15]     In an embodiment the processor is configured to activate the lights in coordination
with other lights (such as in or on a building or structure) within a precinct in which the
street furniture is located.
[16]     In an embodiment the processor is configured to control the lights to indicate an
emergency situation warrants being alert to the situation.
[17]     In an embodiment the processor is configured to control the lights to indicate an
evacuation route.
[18]     In an embodiment the processor is configured to control the lights to provide way
finding for emergency services.
[19]     In an embodiment the trigger device is a receiver of a communication from a
control system such that the stimuli comprise a command to activate the one or more lights
of the first article of street furniture.
[20]     In embodiment the communication comprises information indicating the type of
response required of the one or more lights.
[21]     In an embodiment the street furniture comprises shelters, seats, light poles, signs,
and/or bins.
[22]     In an embodiment the one or more lights are one or more of a light in a base of the
article of street furniture, a light in the body of the article of street furniture, a light in a top
of the article of street furniture.
[23]     According to the present invention there is provided an article of street furniture
comprising one or more lights; a communicator for receiving a communication from one or
more other articles of street furniture for activation of the one or more lights.

                                                4
[24]      In embodiment the communication comprises information indicating the type of
response required of the one or more lights when they are activated.
[25]     Throughout the specification and claims, unless the context requires otherwise, the
word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to
imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any
other integer or group of integers.
Description of Drawings
[26]      In order to provide a better understanding of the present invention embodiments
will now be described, by way of example only, with reference to the drawings, in which:
[27]      Figure 1 is a schematic representation of an embodiment of a shelter according to
an aspect of the invention;
[28]      Figure 2 is a schematic representation of an embodiment of a bench seat
according to an aspect of the invention;
[29]      Figure 3 is a schematic representation of an embodiment of a bin according to an
aspect of the invention;
[30]      Figure 4 is schematic plan view of an area with a plurality of items of street furniture
in a first set of conditions, which communicate with a management system;
[31]      Figure 5 is schematic plan view of the same area with the plurality of items of street
furniture in a second set of conditions;
[32]      Figure 6 is a schematic cross-sectional elevation of the bin of Figure 3;
[33]      Figure 7 is a flow chart of an embodiment of a method according to an aspect of
the present invention;
[34]      Figure 8 is a flow chart of an embodiment of a method according to an aspect of
the present invention;
[35]      Figure 9 is a flow chart of an embodiment of a method according to an aspect of
the present invention;
[36]      Figure 10 is a schematic block diagram of an embodiment of a system installed in
an article of street furniture according to an aspect of the present invention;
[37]      Figure 11 is a schematic block diagram of an embodiment of a system installed in
an article of street furniture according to an aspect of the present invention; and
[38]      Figures 12A to 12D are a set of schematic representations, each of an area with a
plurality of items of street furniture, and each being at a different consecutive instance in
time.

                                                5
Detailed Description of Embodiments of the Invention
[39]     Figure 4 shows an area 10 in which there are a plurality of articles of street
furniture (12A, 12B, 12C, 12D, 12E and 12F) at different positions within the area. The
area can be a street block or blocks, a park, a mall, a building etc. Each of the articles has
a communications device for communicating with a management system 16, or with each
other.
[40]     Each of the articles is provided with a controllable light or lights as will be described
in more detail further below.      Articles 12A and 12E are indicated as being inactive (no
lighting). Articles 12B and 12F are indicated as being base lit (horizontal shading) in one
form and articles 12C and 12D are indicated as being lit (vertical shading) in a different
form.
[41]     Figure 1 illustrates one form of article of street furniture, a bus shelter 50. The
shelter 50 may be provided with displays 54 and 56, which may be static or dynamic
screens. The shelter 50 is provided with a communications device 30. The shelter 50 is
provided with a controller device (not shown). The shelter 50 is provided with one or more
lights, in this case each vertical support is provided with a lighting strip 52, although the
lighting can take alternative forms.       Each lighting strip may be for example a colour
controllable LED strip.
[42]     Figure 2 illustrates another form of article of street furniture, a bench seat 60. The
seat 60 is provided with a communications device (not shown). The seat 60 is provided
with a controller device (not shown). The seat 60 is provided with one or more lights, in
this case underneath the horizontal support there is provided five downwardly directed
spot lights (not shown), each of which produce an illuminated area of ground 62. It will be
appreciates that the number of, type of and direction of the lights may change. Each light
may be for example a colour controllable LED spotlight.
[43]     Figure 3 illustrates another form of article of street furniture, a bin surround 70 in
which is housed a rubbish bin. The bin surround 70 is provided with a communications
device (not shown). The bin surround 70 is provided with a controller device (not shown).
The bin surround 70 is provided with one or more lights. In this case there are a set of
lights 72 on the top corners, a set of lights on the base corners 78 and a set of lights in
each vertical edge 76. Each light may be for example a colour controllable LED. The bin
surround has a receiver 74 of a signal from a transmitter device, such as smart device as
will descripted further below.

                                                6
[44]     Other type of street furniture are envisaged, such as light poles, signs, information
stands etc. In an embodiment the street furniture is for interaction with pedestrians.       In
some embodiments the street furniture is for interaction with pedestrians only. In this case
the street furniture may be for pedestrian areas only.
[45]     The bin surround 70 is used to explain components of the articles of street furniture
(whether they be other types of street furniture or not) by way of example with reference to
Figure 6. The bin surround 70 comprises the communications device 34 and controller
device 30.      Communications device 34 enables communication with the management
system 16 and/or on a peer to peer basis communication with other articles of street
furniture 12A to 12F. In an embodiment the communications device 34 is in the form of a
wireless communications device which transmits and receives electro-magnetic signals 36.
Examples include Bluetooth, WIFI, ZigBee, GPRS and other telephone network data
transmission standards. In an alterative the communication could be wired.
[46]     The controller device 30 is preferably a processor, such as a microprocessor, PCL
or other electronic controller circuit. The processor is controlled by logic in the form of
programmed circuit or by way of a computer program comprising instructions for
controlling the operation of the processor. The computer program will typically be stored in
non-volatile storage, such as a FLASH RAM or PROM.
[47]     The bin surround 70 comprises an inside wall 20 and an outside wall 22. On top of
the walls 20 and 22 is a lid for allowing access to the bin inside to surround.
[48]     The bin surround 70 also comprises a trigger device 26 which responds to one or
more stimuli. In an embodiment the trigger device 26 comprises a fire sensor, or a
temperature sensor. The trigger device may be configured to respond to a stimulus that
comprises the characteristic being measured by the sensor reaching a predetermined
level.    For example a pollution level could be over a threshold etc. The stimuli could
include a notification of an emergency, including for example a notification via a Wireless
Emergency        Alert    system     or   the     like, such     as     that    described   by
http://transition.fcc.qov/cqb/consumerfacts/wea.pdf, the contents of which is incorporated
herein by reference.
[49]     The lights of the bin surround 70 can then be used to indicate that the trigger had
occurred.      This can also be communicated to other articles of street furniture, as
appropriate which in turn can indicate this with their lights. For example if there is a fire

                                                 7
detected the bin surround 70 can then communicate the need for the public to beware of
the fire by having other articles of street furniture indicate this, such as with, say for
example, a red light flashing. The lighting can also be used for other purposes.
[50] Different type of things can be indicated on different positions of the articles. Again
using the bin surround 70 as an example, a fire, could be indicated by all of the top lights
being lit or a terrorist event could be indicated by lighting the base.
[51]    When different areas of the articles are available for lighting, these different areas
can be used to indicate different things. Accordingly this can alert a passer-by that action
is required in an area be it evasive or the masking of breathing (in the case of an indication
of smoke) or that, or that the public should be alert to further warnings, or that the streets
should be cleared (go indoors), or that an area should be evacuated in a particular
direction. The size of the area lit can be determined by the type of event. For example, a
more serious event can result in a larger area being lit, whereas a minor event can result in
a smaller area being lit.
[52]    Generally each bin will be allocated an electronically stored serial number and this
can be used as an identifier of the item of street furniture. Alternatively a GPS reading
may be used.
[53]     Referring to Figure 7 there is a method 100 of lighting an area, commencing at 102.
A trigger device receives a stimulus 104. For example the stimulus is a sensor receiving a
signal that meets a criterion, such as in the examples given above, but other criteria are
possible. If the trigger occurs the light in the article of street furniture may be activated in a
pulse. In an embodiment the communication device can be used to communicate either
directly or via the management system 16 to other nearby articles of street furniture that
they should activate their lights over a wider area of recognition. The process ends at 114,
but may repeat back to 102.
[54]     Referring to Figure 8 there is a method 120 of lighting an area, commencing at 122.
A trigger device checks for a stimulus at 124.           When the stimulus is not received it
continues to check.          When the stimulus is received branch 126 activates the
communications device 30 at step 128. The stimulus again may be a sensor receiving a
signal that meets a criterion, such as in the examples given above, but other criteria are
possible. A signal can be sent from the communications device to other articles of street

                                                  8
furniture in the area for activation of their lights at 130. The process ends at 132, but may
repeat back to 122.
[55]     Referring to Figure 9 there is a method 140 of lighting an area, commencing at 142.
A trigger device receives a stimulus. For example trigger device may receive a notification
from an emergency service to the closest article (e.g. GPS location) to an incident. Articles
of street furniture in the vicinity of the location may be provided with a command, such as
from the management system, or directly (peer to peer), to pulse their lights at step 154.
The process ends at 156, but may repeat back to 142.
[56]     Referring to Figure 10, an example system 200 employed by the articles of street
furniture is shown. In this example the article is again a bin 202. The trigger device in this
example is a sensor, which poles for a trigger event. When detected, communications and
processor circuit 206 communicate with other articles of street furniture or other lighting
controlled devices. The communications circuit (of communications device 30)
communicates across a communications network 208 with the management system 16.
The communications circuit (of communications device 30) can in some embodiments
communicate 215 with other articles of street furniture.
[57]     Referring to Figure 11, an example system 220 employed by the articles of street
furniture is shown. In this example system is similar to system 200, except that the
management system 16 communicates with other articles of street furniture, such as seat
224, shelter 226 that there is an emergency proximal to the first article 202. Additionally
other structures, such as building may have controllable lighting, which may be sent
command by the management system 16 in order to control their lighting based on the
trigger event at the first article 202.
[58]     In an embodiment the activation of the lights is responsive by one or more of:
activating a required number of the number of lights; activating the lights to emit a required
colour; activating the lights to emit a required intensity of light; and/or activating the lights
for a required duration.
[59]     In an embodiment the activation of the lights of the other articles of street furniture
is delayed by a required period so as to produce a wave or pulse effect. In an embodiment
the activation of the lights of the other articles of street furniture is in a sequence.

                                                9
[60]     In an embodiment the lights are controlled to indicate information about an
emergency. For example red lights may flash to indicate an emergency in the vicinity. In
an embodiment the lights are controlled to indicate an evacuation route. For example
orange lights may flash in sequence indicating the evacuation route.
[61]     In an embodiment the (for example) blue lights are controlled to provide way
finding to assist emergency personnel to the scene of an incident.
[62]     Referring to Figures 12A to 12D, a method of light sequencing of an area is shown.
In Figure 12A, article 12C receives a trigger event. This could be an emergency incident
has occur nearby, but other trigger events are possible. In Figure 12B the article 12C
lights alerting of the emergency. Then in Figure 12C articles 12B and 12D on either side
of article 12C light showing an evacuation route. Article 12C has stopped its lights. Then
in Figure 12D articles 12A and 12E on either side of articles 12B and 12 D light showing an
evacuation route. Articles 12B and 12D have stopped their lights. This example is in a
simple one dimensional configuration, however an area, such as in Figure 4 could be
sequenced in 2 dimensions. Articles with different heights may also be sequenced to
provide a 3 dimensional sequencing. The sequencing can take account of the different
spacing between the articles. Each article has an identifier, such as a GPS position. When
the trigger event occurs, it can occur at any given one of the articles. The order of the
lighting of the articles then needs to be determined so that they can be lit in the correct
order for the sequence to be correct. This may occur at the management system, which in
turn provides instructions to the light of each location such that the lights will be
commanded to be activated in sequence. The sequence may then repeat from Figure 12A
again.
[63]     The order can be predetermined and stored in a look-up table in the management
system, or it can be calculated on the fly. The calculation should account for differing
distances between the lights and determines a delay between light activations according to
a speed of sequencing and a radial direction of sequencing according to the respective
location of the respective light.
[64]     In an embodiment the method further comprises determining a characteristic of
each light to be activated according to its location and the location of the trigger event, the
nature of the triggering emergency event. In an embodiment the characteristic is one or
more of colour, span of colours, duration, intensity, span of intensity.

                                           10
[65]    Modifications may be made to the present invention within the context of that
described and shown in the drawings. Such modifications are intended to form part of the
invention described in this specification.

                                                11
Claims
1.     An article of street furniture comprising:
       a trigger device integral to the article and receptive to one or more emergency
       situation stimuli; and
       one or more lights controlled by a processor;
       wherein the processor is configured to activate one or more of the lights upon the
       trigger device receiving the stimulus.
2.     An article as claimed in claim 1, wherein the processor controls the lights so as to
       be activated according to a characteristic of or the type of emergency situation
       stimulus.
3.     An article as claimed in claim 2, wherein the processor controls the lights by
       controlling one or more of: the number of lights activated; the colour emitted by the
       activated one or more lights; the intensity of emission by the one or more lights;
       and/or the duration of emission of light by the one or more lights.
4.     An article as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the article of street
       furniture further comprises a communicator for communicating with one or more
       other articles of street furniture for activation of one or more lights of the other
       articles of street furniture in a coordinated manner to provide an alert of the
       emergency situation, upon the trigger device receiving a stimulus, wherein the
       coordination comprises causing the articles of street furniture to activate their lights
       so as to be in a sequence.
5.     An article as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the processor is
       configured to activate the lights in coordination with other lights within a precinct in
       which the article of street furniture is located, wherein the bounds of the area of the
       precinct is determined by a characteristic of or the type of emergency situation
       stimulus.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
