ABSTRACT
An embodiment of the firestopping device 1 has a first portion 2, which may be fastened to an
external object, such as a concrete slab, for example. The device 1 also has a second portion 4
that is separate from the first portion 2 and which can be mated to the first portion 2 such that
together they define the firestopping device 1. At least one service may extend through the
firestopping device 1. Intumescent material 15 is housed within the firestopping device 1.
An extra piece of intumescent material 31 is externally disposed on the device 1. The device
allows for the implementation of an inventive method of constructing a barrier having at least
one service routed there through.

      1 /11
                31
                    3
    3
  2
                  5
            Fig. 1
 112                 10
 11                   13
13
 8                   7
      4
            Fig. 2

                                                   1
                 A FIRESTOPPING DEVICE AND ASSOCIATED METHOD
TECHNICAL FIELD
         The present invention relates to the field of passive fire protection. Embodiments of
the present invention find application, though not exclusively, in the construction of buildings
such as residential apartment buildings and the like.
BACKGROUND ART
           Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has
been included in this specification is solely for the purpose of providing a context for the
present invention. It is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of these matters form part
of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present
invention as it existed in Australia or elsewhere before the priority date of this application.
           In a typical prior art method for constructing a residential apartment building the
walls are constructed prior to installation of the services such as electrical cables, water pipes,
etc. In this prior art method, a hole is made in the wall for each of the services, which
typically must be separated by a standard separation distance, such as 200 mm for example.
This separation distance requires significantly larger overall areas for services, which severely
limits the design options for construction. Additionally, the typical prior art method often
requires ladders and the like to be set up and moved repeatedly. Each of the individual holes
through which the services extend must then be separately sealed in a fire rated fashion, which
can be time consuming and expensive.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         It is an object of the present invention to overcome, or substantially ameliorate, one or
more of the disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
         In one aspect of the present invention there is provided a firestopping device
including: a first portion formed from a metallic material or a thermally insulative material
having formations for fastening of the first portion to an external object; and a second portion
formed from a metallic material or a thermally insulative material being separable from the
first portion and being mateable to the first portion such that the first and second portions,

                                                   2
when mated together, define the firestopping device; wherein the firestopping device has a
first opening at a first end, a second opening at a second end and an internal volume
intermediate the first and second ends, the internal volume and each of the openings being
sized such that at least one service may extend through the firestopping device, and wherein
an intumescent material is housed within the internal volume, the intumescent material being
responsive to heat so as to swell within the internal volume.
         Preferably the first and second portions are mateable to each other without the use of
any tools. In one embodiment the first and second portions are click-lockingly mateable to
each other. In another embodiment the first and second portions are mateable to each other by
means of an interference fit. However, in another embodiment the first and second portions
are mateable to each other by at least one mechanical fastener.
         In one embodiment the first portion is a planar panel defining a pair of opposite sides
each having a side wall extending therefrom and the second portion is U-shaped so as to
define a base connected to a pair of opposed side walls. In this embodiment the pair of side
walls of the second portion are slidingly receivable within the pair of sidewalls of the first
portion. At least one tab is preferably disposed on each of the side walls of the second portion
and slidably receiving the pair of side walls of the second portion within the pair of sidewalls
of the first portion sandwiches the sidewalls of the first portion between the sidewalls of the
second portion and the tabs.
         In one embodiment a piece of intumescent material is externally disposed on the
planar panel of the first portion.
         Preferably wall engaging formations are disposed on an outer surface of the second
portion.
         Preferably the first portion includes at least one redundant formation for fastening of
the first portion to an external object.
         According to another embodiment of the invention there is provided a method of
constructing a barrier having at least one service routed there through, the method including
the steps of: providing a firestopping device as described above; fastening the first portion to
an external object at a position that straddles the proposed positioning of the barrier;
positioning at least one service such that it is adjacent to, or in alignment with, the first

                                                   3
portion; positioning the second portion around the at least one service; mating the first and
second portions to each other such that the at least one service extends through the
firestopping device; and constructing the barrier around the firestopping device.
         Preferably the step of positioning the at least one service includes supporting the at
least one service with at least one fastening device.
         The method preferably further includes the step of placing a first piece of graphite
impregnated foam around the at least one service and packing the first piece of graphite
impregnated foam into the first opening and placing a second piece of graphite impregnated
foam around the at least one service and packing the second piece of graphite impregnated
foam into the second opening.
         Another embodiment of the method includes the step of spraying expanding foam into
the first and second openings, wherein the expanding foam has intumescent and/or fire
retardant properties.
         In one embodiment of the method wall engaging formations are attached to the ceiling
and to the exterior of the second portion immediately prior to construction of the barrier. In
another embodiment of the method wall engaging formations are pre-installed upon an outer
surface of the second portion.
           The features and advantages of the present invention will become further apparent
from the following detailed description of preferred embodiments, provided by way of
example only, together with the accompanying drawings.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE ACCOMPANYING DRAWINGS
           Figure 1 is an upper perspective view of a first embodiment of a firestopping device;
           Figure 2 is a front view of the first embodiment (with the rear view being identical);
           Figure 3 is a plan view of the first embodiment;
           Figure 4 is a side view of the first embodiment (with each side being identical);
           Figure 5 is an upper perspective view of the first portion of the first embodiment;

                                                    4
          Figure 6 is a lower perspective view of the first portion of the first embodiment;
          Figure 7 is an upper perspective view of the second portion of the first embodiment;
          Figure 8 is a front view of the second portion of the first embodiment;
          Figure 9 is a plan view of the second portion of the first embodiment;
          Figure 10 is a side view of the first embodiment showing line A-A;
          Figure 11 is a sectional view of the first embodiment taken through line A-A of
figure 10;
          Figure 12 is a perspective view of the first embodiment showing a pair of graphite
impregnated foam inserts prior to their insertion into the first embodiment;
          Figure 13 is a lower perspective view of the first portion of the first embodiment
shown as attached to a ceiling;
          Figure 14 is a lower perspective view of the first embodiment shown as attached to a
ceiling;
          Figure 15 is a lower perspective view of a wall as constructed in accordance with an
embodiment of the method of the present invention;
          Figure 16 is a lower perspective view of a second embodiment of the firestopping
device;
          Figure 17 is a bottom view of the second embodiment;
          Figure 18 is a front view of the second embodiment; and
          Figure 19 is a side view of the second embodiment.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS OF THE
INVENTION
          The first embodiment of the firestopping device 1 is best illustrated in figures 1 to 4.
It has a first portion 2 illustrated in figures 5 and 6, which is in the form of a planar panel 9

                                                   5
defining a pair of opposite sides each having a side wall 10 and 11 respectively extending
therefrom. Each of the side walls 10 and 11 has a pair of dimples 12 positioned adjacent to
each of their ends. The first portion 2 has formations in the form of holes 3 for fastening of
the first portion 2 to an external object. In typical implementations the object to which the
first portion 2 is likely to be fastened is an overhead concrete slab, although other possibilities
include wooden frame structures, walls, floors, service shafts, etc. Fasteners, in the form of
bolts, screws, or the like, extend through the holes 3 so as to fasten into the concrete slab,
thereby securing the first portion 2 in place.
          As illustrated for example in figures 7 to 9, the firestopping device 1 also has a
second portion 4 that is separate from the first portion 2. The separability of the first and
second portions 2 and 4 allows the firestopping device 1 to be used in the method that is
described in detail below. The second portion 4 is U-shaped so as to define a base 17
connected to a pair of opposed side walls 7 and 8. A pair of outwardly projecting tabs 13 are
disposed on each of the side walls 7 and 8 of the second portion 4. Each of these tabs 13 has
a small inwardly facing projection 14.
           The second portion 4 can be mated to the first portion 2 such that together they
define the firestopping device 1. The first and second portions 2 and 4 are mateable to each
other without the use of any tools, allowing the method outlined below to be performed
quickly and easily. More specifically, the first and second portions 2 and 4 are click
lockingly mateable to each other. In an alternative embodiment (not illustrated), the first and
second portions are mateable to each other by means of an interference fit. Yet other
embodiments make use of direct mechanical fixing for mating of the first portion 2 to the
second portion 4, such as rivets, screws, etc. However, such embodiments are likely to be
less desirable due to the increased effort required to mate the first and second portions 2 and
4.
           Mating of the first and second portions 2 and 4 commences by sliding the pair of side
walls 7 and 8 of the second portion 4 within the pair of sidewalls 10 and 11 of the first portion
2. As best shown in figure 2, this sandwiches the sidewalls 10 and 11 of the first portion 2
between the sidewalls 7 and 8 of the second portion 4 and the tabs 13. The sliding continues
until the projections 14 disposed on each of the tabs 13 respectively align with the four
dimples 12, at which point an inwardly directed force arising from the resilience of the tabs

                                                   6
13 causes each of the projections 14 to be seated into a corresponding dimple 12. This seating
provides the click-locking effect and functions to retain the first and second portions 2 and 4
in the mated configuration. This fixing system advantageously positions the fixings away
from the services (which could include live cabling) so that mating of the first and second
portions 2 and 4 is unlikely to damage any of the services.
          In an alternative embodiment (not illustrated), the outwardly projecting tabs are
disposed on the pair of sidewalls of the first portion. Mating for this embodiment entails
sliding the side walls of the first portion into those of the second portion so as to sandwich the
sidewalls of the second portion between those of the first portion and the tabs.
          As shown in the illustrations, once mated the second portion 4 forms the base 17 and
the majority of the side walls of the firestopping device 1. However, in other embodiments
the second portion mates with the first portion so as to form one of the sides and/or the top of
the firestopping device.
          The firestopping device 1 has a first opening 5 at a first end and a second opening 6
at a second end that is opposite to the first end. An internal volume extends intermediate the
first and second ends 5 and 6. The internal volume and each of the openings 5 and 6 are sized
such that at least one service (not illustrated) may extend through the firestopping device 1.
          Four pieces of intumescent material 15 are housed within the internal volume of the
firestopping device 1. More specifically, with regard to the second portion 4, one piece of
intumescent material 15 is disposed against each of the side walls 7 and 8 and against the base
17. With regard to the first portion, a piece of intumescent material 15 is disposed along the
inner facing side of the planar panel 9. Each piece of intumescent material 15 is retained in
position by a pair of flanges 16, which allows for easy initial installation and subsequent
replacement of the intumescent material 15 for long term maintenance purposes. In the event
of exposure to the heat of a fire, the intumescent material 15 responds by swelling within the
internal volume of the firestopping device 1. This resists the passage of fire and smoke
through the firestopping device 1. As is described in more detail below, the use of ceramic
fibre insulation can further improve the performance of the preferred embodiment.

                                                    7
           Another embodiment makes use of differing specifications of intumescent materials
to provide a two-stage expansion process, which has the potential to improve the performance
of the firestopping device 1.
           If exposed to the heat of a fire, there is a risk that the planar panel 9 of the first
portion may buckle due to heat expansion because the ends of the panel remain bolted to the
external object. Such buckling has the potential to create an air gap between the upper surface
of the planar panel 9 and the object to which it is bolted. This may allow fire and/or smoke to
transfer through the gap. To help guard against this eventuality, an extra piece of intumescent
material 31 is externally disposed on the planar panel 9 of the first portion 4. This allows the
externally disposed intumescent material 31 to respond to heat by sealing off any air gap that
may have formed between the upper surface of the planar panel 9 and the object to which it is
fastened. The external piece of intumescent material 31 is disposed along the centre of the
planar panel 9 with two additional planar panels 32 and 33 being disposed on either side of
the external piece of intumescent material 31. The holes 3 are disposed adjacent to the edges
of these two additional planar panels 32 and 33.
           In the illustrated embodiment the firestopping device 1 (with the exception of the
intumescent material 18) is made from a metallic material such as mild steel, or 1.1 mm
Zincanneal steel sheeting, which is folded on brake presses and turret punched to form the
first and second portions 2 and 4. Special forming tools are used to create the 'clip in'
attachments tabs 13. However, in another embodiment the casing of the firestopping device 1
(i.e. the planar panel 9, the side walls 7, 8, 10 and 11, and the base 17) is made from a
thermally insulative material, such as calcium silicate for example, to resist the thermal
conduction of heat across the firestopping device.
           The second embodiment of the firestopping device 19, as shown in figures 16 to 19,
has wall engaging formations in the form of channels 20 disposed upon outer surfaces of the
side walls 21 and 22 and upon the base 23 of the second portion 24. These channels 20 each
define a pair of surfaces to which a walling material, such as plaster board or the like, may be
attached. Alternatively, if the wall is to be formed by means of formwork, the channels 20
each define a pair of surfaces against which formwork panels may rest.
           The first portion 25 of the firestopping device 19 illustrated in figures 16 to 19
includes a couple of redundant formations for fastening of the first portion 25 to an external

                                                   8
object. More specifically, rather than providing three holes 3 per side for bolting of the first
portion 2 to the external object (as shown for example in figure 1), the second embodiment
provides seven holes 26 on each side of the first portion 25; despite only requiring three bolts
per side. This allows the installer some freedom to re-position a bolt in the event that a first
attempt to fasten the bolt to the object fails, for example due to the bolt hitting steel
reinforcing that may be embedded within a concrete object. If this occurs, the installer can
simply remove the bolt from the failed position and attempt to fasten the bolt through one of
the other available holes. This provides other positions in which to insert the bolt whilst the
first portion 25 remains in a fixed position the relative to the object.
           Either of the above-described embodiments of the firestopping device 1 or 19 may be
used in a method of construction of a barrier having at least one service routed there through.
For the sake of providing an example, we shall assume that the barrier is a wall. The method
commences with the marking of a line 27 on the concrete ceiling 28, which depicts the
proposed centre line of the wall. The installer then fastens the first portion 2 to the ceiling 28
at a position that straddles the proposed positioning of the wall. More specifically, the first
portion 2 is bolted onto the ceiling such that its intumescent material 15 is centred over, and
extends parallel to, the centre line of the proposed wall, as shown in figure 13. Hence the
positioning of the first portion 2 on the ceiling 28 provides a visual guide as to where the
services are to penetrate through the proposed wall.
          Next the installer positions the services (not illustrated) such that they are adjacent
to, or in alignment with, the first portion 2. More specifically, the services are typically
suspended by fastening devices such as clips, clamps, etc., approximately 50 mm below the
ceiling so as to extend below the first portion 2 and generally perpendicular to the
intumescent material 15 of the first portion 2. Typically, the installer will be supported by a
lifting mechanism, such as a scissor lift or the like, whilst running the services. This process
doesn't require the threading of the services through a prior art style of firestopping device,
which helps ease of running the services and minimises the potential for the services to be
damaged by the firestopping device. It is also time efficient and therefore has the potential to
yield cost savings for the construction of the building. It also has the potential to assist
project managers to coordinate the activities of various tradesmen and sub-contractors.

                                                  9
          The reduction in required space for the firestopping of these services allows for
significantly more flexibility in design, and the application of a multi-service firestopping
device provides an "all-in-one" solution, allowing easier certification and compliance
procedures.
          Once the services have been run, the second portion 4 is positioned around the
services. That is, the side walls 7 and 8 of the second portion 4 are positioned on either side
of the services, with the base 17 of the second portion 4 below the services. The second
portion 4 is then slid upwards so as to mate the first and second portions 2 and 4 to each other
as shown in figure 14. Hence, the services now extend through the firestopping device 1.
          It is now possible to construct the wall 30, as illustrated in figure 15, around the
firestopping device 1 using standard barrier building techniques. For example, the wall
installer may now attach wall engaging formations, in the form of a head track, to the ceiling
28 and to the exterior of the second portion 4, to which a barrier material, such as plaster
board for example, may be attached. Additionally, or alternatively, wooden frame work may
be constructed, to which a barrier material, such as plaster board for example, may be
attached. Alternatively, formwork may be positioned to allow the pouring of a concrete wall.
These processes may be assisted with the use of the second embodiment of the firestopping
device 19, as illustrated in figures 16 to 19, to which the wall engaging formations in the form
of channels 20 are pre-installed.
          The resulting wall 30 has the firestopping device 1, and the services (not illustrated),
extending there through. A number of services may extend together through the firestopping
device without requiring the approx. 200 mm separation between each of them that is
applicable to some prior art techniques.
          The next step is to apply sealant around the inner perimeters of the first and second
openings 5 and 6. As best depicted in figure 12, the installer then places a first piece of
graphite impregnated foam 29 around the services and packs the first piece of graphite
impregnated foam 29 into the first opening 5 of the firestopping device 1. Optionally,
additional lengths of thermally insulative wrap, such as ceramic fibre wrap, can be fitted
around the services externally to the firestopping device 1. The thermally insulative wrap
may be held in place by a variety of methods such as the use of metal fixings and/or adhesive
tape. Then a second piece of graphite impregnated foam 29 is placed around the services on

                                                    10
the other side of the wall and packed into the second opening 6. This packing of the graphite
impregnated foam 29 preferably occurs after the wall 30 has been constructed, which helps
avoid the graphite impregnated foam 29 being lost and allows for specialist contractor
involvement in the requisite certification.
           In addition to, or as an alternative to, the use of graphite impregnated foam 29,
another embodiment of the method makes use of sprayable expanding foam that has
intumescent and/or fire-retardant properties. This expanding foam-in-place material is
sprayed into the first and second openings 5 and 6 after all the services have been run and the
first and second portions 2 and 4 mated.
           If, at some point in the future, it is necessary to retro-fit one or more further services
through the wall, it is possible to do so provided that the sizing of the firestopping device
allows for additional services to be accommodated. This is done by removing the pieces of
graphite impregnated foam 29, threading the new services through, and re-installing the
graphite impregnated foam 29. This avoids the need to create any additional penetrations
through the wall.
           While a number of preferred embodiments have been described, it will be
appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations and/or modifications may be
made to the invention without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as broadly
described. The present embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as
illustrative and not restrictive.

                                                11
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.      A firestopping device including:
        a first portion formed from a metallic material or a thermally insulative material
having formations for fastening of the first portion to an external object; and
        a second portion formed from a metallic material or a thermally insulative material
being separable from the first portion and being mateable to the first portion such that the first
and second portions, when mated together, define the firestopping device;
        wherein the firestopping device has a first opening at a first end, a second opening at a
second end and an internal volume intermediate the first and second ends, the internal volume
and each of the openings being sized such that at least one service may extend through the
firestopping device, and
        wherein an intumescent material is housed within the internal volume, the intumescent
material being responsive to heat so as to swell within the internal volume.
2.      A firestopping device according to claim 1 wherein the first and second portions are
mateable to each other without the use of any tools.
3.      A firestopping device according to claim 2 wherein the first and second portions are
click-lockingly mateable to each other.
4.      A firestopping device according to claim 2 wherein the first and second portions are
mateable to each other by means of an interference fit.
5.      A firestopping device according to claim 2 wherein the first and second portions are
mateable to each other by at least one mechanical fastener.
6.      A firestopping device according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the first
portion is a planar panel defining a pair of opposite sides each having a side wall extending
therefrom.
7.      A firestopping device according to claim 6 wherein a piece of intumescent material is
externally disposed on the planar panel of the first portion.

                                                 12
8. A firestopping device according to claim 6 or 7 wherein the second portion is U-shaped so
as to define a base connected to a pair of opposed side walls.
9.      A firestopping device according to claim 8 wherein the pair of side walls of the second
portion are slidingly receivable within the pair of sidewalls of the first portion.
10.     A firestopping device according to claim 9 wherein at least one tab is disposed on
each of the side walls of the second portion.
11.     A firestopping device according to claim 10 wherein slidably receiving the pair of side
walls of the second portion within the pair of sidewalls of the first portion sandwiches the
sidewalls of the first portion between the sidewalls of the second portion and the tabs.
12.     A firestopping device according to any one of the preceding claims wherein wall
engaging formations are disposed on an outer surface of the second portion.
13.     A firestopping device according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the first
portion includes at least one redundant formation for fastening of the first portion to an
external object.
14.     A method of constructing a barrier having at least one service routed there through,
the method including the steps of:
        providing a firestopping device as defined in any one of claims 1 to 13;
        fastening the first portion to an external object at a position that straddles the proposed
positioning of the barrier;
        positioning at least one service such that it is adjacent to, or in alignment with, the first
portion;
        positioning the second portion around the at least one service;
        mating the first and second portions to each other such that the at least one service
extends through the firestopping device; and
        constructing the barrier around the firestopping device.

                                                 13
15.      A method according to claim 14 wherein the step of positioning the at least one
service includes supporting the at least one service with at least one fastening device.
16.      A method according to claim 14 or 15 further including the step of placing a first piece
of graphite impregnated foam around the at least one service and packing the first piece of
graphite impregnated foam into the first opening and placing a second piece of graphite
impregnated foam around the at least one service and packing the second piece of graphite
impregnated foam into the second opening.
17.      A method according to claim 14 or 15 further including the step of spraying expanding
foam into the first and second openings, wherein the expanding foam has intumescent and/or
fire-retardant properties.
18.      A method according to any one of claims 14 to 17 wherein wall engaging formations
are attached to the ceiling and to the exterior of the second portion immediately prior to
construction of the barrier.
19.      A method according to any one of claims 14 to 17 wherein wall engaging formations
are pre-installed onto an outer surface of the second portion.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
