                                          ABSTRACT
There is provided herein a disclosure and specification of invention(s) relating to devices and
methods for percutaneous access and treatment of vascular structures in the rear of the eye,
including treatment for the symptoms related to Wet Age Related Macular Degeneration by
removal of stenosis of the OA, thereby restoring normal, or near normal, blood flow to the
rear of the eye, including the retina and associated structures. Also provided herein is a
disclosure and specification of invention(s) relating to methods and devices for selective
manipulation of Intraocular Pressure (TOP) be means of mechanical force for the purpose of
inducing retrograde flow in the ophthalmic vasculature.

WO 20 14/022866                        PCT/US2013/053670
                            FIGURE 1
                '4                   j
                     ..... . .
                   %        CI
                    M       wM\
                               1/21

                  C O M      P A  N   Y
                                                                                                 5 January 2018
            Our Ref:          P7945AU01:KEL:LSP
            CCID:             4510000537
            TO:                                 THE COMMISSIONER OF PATENTS
            Sir
            Re:                                New Divisional Application
            IN THE MATTER OF:                  New Australian Complete Patent Application
                                               Associated with Australian Patent Application
                                               US 61/679351
                                              Applicant:        Jeff Franco, Michael Calhoun, J.D.
                                                                Franco & Company
           Title:                             "DEVICES AND METHODS FOR TREATING
                                                               OCCLUSION OF THE
                                                               OPHTHALMIC ARTERY"
           We lodge herewith the following documents:
           1.      Request;
           2.      Complete Specification - original - 21 pages;
           3.      Claims -2 pages;
           3.      Abstract - 1 sheet;
          4.       Formal Drawings - 21 sheets;
          5.       Prescribed fee of $370.00.
          Yours respectfully
          for LORD AND COMPANY
          KELVIN E. LORD
          Enc.
 AND COMPANY PATENT AND TRADE MARKS ATTORNEYS
JRO PLACE WEST PERTH 6005 WESTERN AUSTRALIA,AUSTRALIA PO BOX 530 WEST PERTH 6872 WESTERN AUSTRALIA.AUSTRALTA

                                                                                 P/00/001
                                                                               Section 29
                                         AUSTRALIA
                                    PATENTS ACT 1990
                      PATENT REQUEST: STANDARD PATENT
  We, being the persons identified below as the Applicant, apply for the grant of a patent
  for an invention described in the accompanying standard complete specification as a
  divisional application from application no. 2013296195.
 Full application details follow:
 (71)     Applicant:                           J. D. Franco & Company, Jeff Franco,
                                               Michael Calhoun
 (72)    Address:                              300 E. Lombard Street,        Suite 840,
                                               Baltimore, MD 21202 USA
                                               6501 Autumn Wind Circle, Clarksville,
                                              MD 21029 USA
                                              2700 NE 24h Street, Lighthouse Point FL
                                              33064 USA
(54)     Invention Title:                     "DEVICES AND METHODS FOR TREATING
                                              OCCLUSION OF THE OPHTHALMIC ARTERY"
(72)     Names of actual inventors:           Jeff FRANCO, Michael CALHOUN
(74)     Address for service in Australia:   LORD AND COMPANY
                                             Patent and Trademark Attorneys
                                             PO Box 530
                                             West Perth, Western Australia, 6872
                                             AUSTRALIA.
Attorney Code: LD

 ASSOCIATED PARENT APPLICATION DETAILS:
        Complete Patent Application Number 2013296195 filed 5 August 2013.
Drawing Number recommended to accompany the abstract: 1
DATED THIS 5th DAY OF JANUARY 2018.
J.D. Franco & Company, Jeff Franco, Michael Calhoun
By their Patent Attorneys
LORD AND COMPANY
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA

             WO 2014/022866
                                                                                        PCT/US2013/053670
                                    APPLICATION FOR LETTERS PATENT
        TITLE OF INVENTION
        Devices and Methods for Treating Occlusion of the Ophthalmic
                                                                           Artery
       INVENTORS
       Jeff FRANCO
       Michael CALHOUN
      FIELD OF THE INVENTION
      [para 1] The invention relates to medical devices and therapies
                                                                         for treating occlusion of the
     ophthalmic artery, and in particular to novel interventional
                                                                   devices to restoring and/or increasing
     vascular blood flow to the rear of the eye.
    BACKGROUND
    [para 2] Diseases of the eye, specifically Wet
                                                    Age-related Macular Degeneration (WAMD),
    glaucoma, and diabetic retinopathy affect a large percentage
                                                                    of the population. However, current
   therapies are deficient in one or more aspects, necessitating
                                                                   improved approaches. The present
   inventive subject matter addresses some or all of the
                                                           problems found in current therapies.
  SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
  [para 3] There is provided herein a disclosure and
                                                        specification of invention(s) relating to
  devices and methods for percutaneous access and
                                                      treatment of vascular structures in the rear of
 the eye, including treatment for the symptoms related
                                                           to Wet Age Related Macular Degeneration
 by removal of stenosis of the Ophthalmic Artery
                                                     (OA), thereby restoring normal, or near normal,
 blood flow to the rear of the eye, including the retina
                                                          and associated structures. Also provided
herein is a disclosure and specification of invention(s)
                                                           relating to methods and devices for
selective manipulation of Intraocular Pressure (IOP)
                                                         be means of mechanical force for the
purpose of inducing retrograde flow in the ophthalmic
                                                           vasculature.
                                                  1

                  WO 2014/022866
                                                                                               PCT/iS2013/053670
           [para 4] In a preferred embodiment, there
                                                             is provided an apparatus for treating obstruction
                                                                                                                   of the
           ophthalmic artery, comprising an IOP device
                                                                for mechanically applying a force against the
                                                                                                                  front
           of the eye to increase Intraocular Pressure
                                                            (1OP) sufficient to temporarily stop antegrade
                                                                                                               blood
          flow in the ophthalmic vasculature at the
                                                         back of the eye and thereby induce retrograde
                                                                                                             flow in
          the ophthalmic vasculature; an atherectomy
                                                              kit for performing an atherectomy upon
                                                                                                         the
         ophthalmic artery of a patient in need
                                                   thereof; and a debris capture device for
                                                                                                placement within
         the ophthalmic vasculature to capture artherectomy
                                                                       debris.
        [para 5] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                           there is provided wherein the device uses
                                                                                                         mechanical
        force selected from the group consisting
                                                     of hydraulic force, pneumatic force, gravitational
                                                                                                               force,
        spring force, and user-applied force, to
                                                    contact the anterior portion of the eye(s)
                                                                                                  for the purpose
        of lOP manipulation, and wherein the
                                                 apparatus is configured for use on one
                                                                                              eye or on both eyes
       simultaneously.
       [para 6] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                         there is provided wherein the apparatus
                                                                                                     uses
      mechanical force applied to the anterior
                                                   portion either directly, or through the
                                                                                              closed eyelid.
      [para 7] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                        there is provided wherein the apparatus
                                                                                                    contains the
     capability to measure the IOP.
     [para 8] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                       there is provided wherein the apparatus
                                                                                                    may measure
    the IOP using a sensor implanted within
                                                  the vitreous cavity that is capable of assessing
                                                                                                        IOP
   values and transmitting data wirelessly.
   [par 9] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                     there is provided wherein this wireless
                                                                                                  data
  transmission is provided in a continuous
                                                 and real time manner.
  [para 10] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                       there is provided wherein IOP is measured
                                                                                                        with a
  sensor temporarily placed within the vitreous
                                                         cavity via a wired or wireless manner.
 [para 11] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                      there is provided a feedback mechanism
                                                                                                    is provided
 for receiving IOP values (data) and provides
                                                      for monitoring capability.
[para 12] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                     there is provided a feedback mechanism
                                                                                                   that
provides for the general control of the
                                             IOP manipulation such that the IOP may
                                                                                             be increased or
decreased as deemed necessary.
                                                        2

               WO 2014/022866
                                                                                            PCT/US2013/053670
          [para 13] In another preferred embodiment, there is provided
                                                                              a feedback mechanism is
         combined with a control function that allows for the
                                                                   ability to control the rate of increase and/or
         decrease of IOP as deemed necessary.
         [para 14] In another preferred embodiment, there is
                                                                  provided a feedback mechanism combined
        with a control function such the IOP values may be
                                                                 increased, decreased, maintained or cycled as
        necessary.
        [para 15] In another preferred embodiment, there is
                                                                 provided a feedback mechanism combined
       with a control function such the rate of IOP increase,
                                                                  decrease or steady state may be controlled.
       [para 16] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                             is provided a feedback mechanism combined
      with a control function such that specific parameters
                                                                 related to IOP values, rates of force and
      time at force may be specified and controlled.
      [para 17] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                            is provided a feedback mechanism combined
     with a control function such that when specific parameters
                                                                       are not met, the user is informed.
     [para 18] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                           is provided a feedback mechanism combined
     with a control function such that information related
                                                               to the IOP value is displayed for the user to
    see.
    [para 19] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                          is provided a feedback mechanism combined
    with a control function such that the data may be
                                                        displayed, manipulated and/or captured in a
   method for record keeping.
   [para 20] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                         is provided a method of treating obstruction of
   the ophthalmic artery, comprising the steps of:
                                                    inducing retrograde flow in the ophthalmic
  vasculature by applying a mechanical force against
                                                          the front of the eye to increase Intraocular
  Pressure (IOP) sufficient to temporarily stop antegrade
                                                                blood flow in the ophthalmic vasculature
  at the back of the eye; performing an atherectomy
                                                        upon the ophthalmic artery of a patient in need
 thereof during retrograde blood flow; and deploying
                                                           a debris capture device within the
 ophthalmic vasculature to capture atherectomy debris,
                                                              wherein the retrograde flow blocks the
 debris from the atherectomy from flowing downstream
                                                               and causing an ischemic event.
[para 21] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                      is provided wherein the retinal arteries flow in
reverse for a predetermined timeframe.
                                                  3

                WO 2014/022866
                                                                                               PCT/US2013/053670
           [para 22] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                                    is provided wherein intravascular debris within
          the retinal artery flow in reverse for a predetermined
                                                                       amount of time.
          [para 23] In another preferred embodiment, there is
                                                                      provided wherein the ophthalmic arteries
         flow in reverse for a predetermined timeframe.
         [para 24] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                                   is provided wherein intravascular debris within
        the ophthalmic artery flow in reverse for a predetermined
                                                                            amount of time.
        [para 25] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                                  is provided use in conjunction with an
        interventional device placed within the target anatomy
                                                                        for the purpose of tissue removal i.e;
       stenois, lesions, etc.
       [para 26] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                                 is provided wherein debris is captured by
      placement of a capture device placed within
                                                        the target anatomy.
      [para 27] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                                is provided a tissue removal device for treating
      obstruction of the ophthahnic artery, comprising:
                                                               a percutaneously delivered tapered corewire
     ranging in diameter from about 0.19mm to about
                                                              0.88mm, the corewire disposed within a
     delivery sheath, said corewire having a tissue
                                                         cutting element at or near a distal end, said
     corewire having an integral inflatable balloon
                                                         section at the distal end as a protective element,
    and said corewire having an atraumatic tip.
    [para 28] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                              is provided wherein wherein the device is
   configured for percutaneous access of the Internal
                                                              Carotid Artery (ICA).
   [para 29] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                             is provided wherein the device is configured
  for percutaneous access of the Ophthalmic Artery
                                                            (OA).
  [para 30] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                            is provided wherein the device is configured to
 be visible using non-invasive imaging techniques
                                                           (i.e: fluoroscopy).
 [para 31] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                     there is provided wherein the device includes
                                                                                                        distal
 emboli protection.
[para 32] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                    there is provided a flow direction device to aid
                                                                                                         in
the positioning of the device within the target
                                                      anatomy.
                                                      4

             WO 2014/022866
                                                                                        PCT/US2013/053670
        [para 33] In another preferred embodiment, there is provided
                                                                          a flow direction device that uses
       reverse flow to aid in the removal of the device from within
                                                                       the target anatomy during selectively
       induced retrograde flow.
       [para 34] In another preferred embodiment, there is provided
                                                                         a specifically shaped guidewire to
       access the OA from the ICA.
      [para 35] In another preferred embodiment, there is provided
                                                                        a specifically designed guiding
      catheter to access the OA from the ICA.
      [para 36] In another preferred embodiment, there is
                                                              provided a specifically shaped guidewire to
     access the OA from the ICA, through the guiding catheter,
                                                                    once the guiding catheter has transited
     the OA, wherein this guidewire is configured to gain
                                                              further downstream OA access without
     disturbance of vessel physiology due to guidewire tip
                                                               shape.
    [para 37] In another preferred embodiment, there is
                                                             provided a downstream protection element
    for downstream protection in the ICA.
   [para 38] In another preferred embodiment, there is
                                                            provided a method of use of a shaped tip
   guidewire, a straight tip guidewire and a guiding catheter,
                                                                  comprising the steps in which the
   straight tip guidewire is used alone, or in conjunction
                                                             with the guiding catheter to access the OA
  from the ICA, once the OA has been cannulated, the
                                                            shaped tip guidewire is exchanged for the
  straight tip guidewire for the balance of the procedure.
  [para 39] In another preferred embodiment, there is
                                                           provided a method of use as in claim 36 in
  which once the OA has been cannulated, the shaped
                                                          tip guidewire is exchanged with an
 interventional device for the balance of the procedure.
 [para 40] In another preferred embodiment, there is
                                                          provided an apparatus for capturing
 atherectomy debris as it is removed, comprising a single
                                                               hypo tube cut to contain a combination
 atherectomy device and distal protection device.
[para 41] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                      is provided wherein the atherectomy device
portion fits within a delivery sheath such that the fully
                                                            expanded diameter is achieved when
device is moved out of sheath and into the target anatomy
                                                                with that fully expanded diameter at
1.4 mm, which compliance to a vessel as small as .7 mm.
                                                 5

                 WO 2014/022866
                                                                                             PCTUS2013/053670
           [para 42] In another preferred embodiment, there is provided
                                                                                wherein the atherectomy device
           portion fits within a delivery sheath and the fully
                                                                 expanded diameter is achieved when device is
           moved out of sheath, into the target anatomy and a
                                                                   central, slideable corewire is manipulated to
          achieve the final diameter.
          [para 43] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                                 is provided wherein the apparatus is
          constructed of a solid corewire with a mounted atherectomy
                                                                             and distal protection device.
         [para 44] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                                is provided wherein the solid corewire
         contains external geometry specific to the function
                                                                 of performing atherectomy work.
         [para 45] In another preferred embodiment, there is
                                                                   provided wherein the atherectomy portion of
        the apparatus is expandable.
        [para 46] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                               is provided wherein the atherectomy portion of
       the apparatus in non-expandable.
       [para 47] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                              is provided wherein the atherectomy portion of
      the apparatus is non-expandable, but rotatable such
                                                                that rotation induces a diametric increase in
     the apparatus.
     [para 48] In another preferred embodiment, there is
                                                                 provided wherein the atherectomy device
     fits within a delivery sheath such that the fully expanded
                                                                      diameter is achieved when the device is
    moved out of sheath and into the target anatomy.
    [para 49] In another preferred embodiment, there is
                                                                provided wherein the atherectomy device
   portion fits within a delivery sheath such that the
                                                            non expanded diameter is revealed when the
   device is moved out of sheath and into the target anatomy.
   [para 50] In another preferred embodiment, there is
                                                               provided wherein the apparatus is
  constructed of a balloon designed to inflate such
                                                          that contact with the target anatomy is achieved.
  [para 51] In another preferred embodiment, there is
                                                              provided wherein the balloon has external
 materials affixed directly to the balloon surface to facilitate
                                                                       atherectomy.
 [para 52] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                           is provided wherein the balloon has external
emboli protection.
[para 53] In another preferred embodiment, there is
                                                             provided wherein the balloon is a balloon
mounted on a polymer catheter typical of current vascular
                                                                     procedure technology.
                                                      6

                  WO 2014/022866
                                                                                             PCT/US2013/0536    70
            [para 54] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                              there is provided wherein the balloon is a balloon
           mounted on a solid corewire.
           [para 55] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                             there is provided wherein the balloon is mounted
                                                                                                                  on
          a hypotube.
          [para 56] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                            there is provided a device for the removal
                                                                                                         of debris
         by aspiration.
         [para 57] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                           there is provided wherein the apparatus has
                                                                                                           a
         deployed, fully expanded diameter of 1.2
                                                     to 1.4 mm, compressible yet effective at .7
                                                                                                     mm of
        deployed diameter.
        [para 58] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                          there is provided wherein the apparatus has
                                                                                                          a
        deployed, fully expanded diameter of 1.0
                                                    to 1.6 mm, compressible yet effective at
                                                                                                  .7 mm of
       deployed diameter.
       [para 59] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                         there is provided wherein the apparatus has
                                                                                                         a
      balloon shape optimized to affect removal
                                                    of material.
      [para 60] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                        there is provided wherein the apparatus has
                                                                                                        an
     aspiration device for removal of debris by
                                                   aspiration via an external sheath.
     [para 61] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                       there is provided wherein the apparatus is
                                                                                                     made of
    materials selected from nitinol, stainless steel,
                                                          or other materials commonly associated with
    intravascular medical devices.
    [para 62] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                      there is provided a method in which the apparatus
                                                                                                              is
   percutaneously inserted via the ICA and
                                               navigated to the OA.
   [para 63] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                     there is provided wherein the navigation of
                                                                                                     the
  apparatus is guided by use of a non-invasive
                                                     imaging methodology (ie: fluoroscopy).
  [para 64] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                    there is provided the use of distal protection
                                                                                                      is
 provided for the ICA.
 [para 65] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                   there is provided the use of distal protection
                                                                                                     is
provided for the OA.
[para 66] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                  there is provided a method in which removal
                                                                                                      of
debris by aspiration is provided for while
                                              in the OA.
                                                      7

                WO 2014/022866
                                                                                          PCT/US2013/053670
          [para 67] In another preferred embodiment, there is
                                                                  provided a method for providing treatment
         for the symptoms related to Wet Age Related Macular
                                                                    Degeneration, comprising the step of
         removal of stenosis of the OA, thereby restoring normal,
                                                                       or near normal, blood flow to the rear
        of the eye, including the retina and associated structures.
        [para 68] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                              is provided a method for providing a
       pharmaceutical based treatment for the symptoms
                                                              of Wet Age Related Macular Degeneration by
       delivery of a pharmaceutical compound(s) specifically
                                                                   targeted for the treatment of WAMD.
       [para 69] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                             is provided a method for providing a
       pharmaceutical treatment for the medication and/or
                                                               restenosis of a specific section of the
      Ophthalmic Artery by delivery of a pharmaceutical
                                                              compound(s) specifically targeted for the
      treatment of vascular lesions.
      [para 70] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                            is provided a method for providing a
     pharmaceutical treatment for the prevention and/or
                                                             treatment of thrombus or thrombus related
     conditions in a specific section of the Ophthalmic
                                                          Artery by delivery of a pharmaceutical
     compound(s) specifically targeted for the treatment
                                                             of thrombus or thrombus related conditions.
    [para 71] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                          is provided an apparatus for providing a
    pharmeceutical based treatment for the symptoms
                                                          of Wet Age Related Macular Degeneration by
   physical delivery of a pharmaceutical compound(s)
                                                            specifically targeted for the treatment of
   WAMD.
   [para 72] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                         is provided an apparatus for providing a
  pharmaceutical treatment for the medication and/or
                                                           restenosis of a specific section of the
  Ophthalmic Artery by physical delivery of a pharmaceutical
                                                                      compound(s) specifically targeted
  for the treatment of vascular lesions.
 [para 73] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                        is provided an apparatus for providing a
 pharmaceutical treatment for the prevention and/or
                                                         treatment of thrombus or thrombus related
 conditions in a specific section of the Ophthalmic
                                                       Artery by physical delivery of a
pharmaceutical compound(s) specifically targeted
                                                       for the treatment of thrombus or thrombus
related conditions.
                                                   8

                  WO 2014/022866
                                                                                              PCT/US2013/053 6 70
            [para 74] In another preferred embodiment, there
                                                                   is provided an apparatus packaged within a
           single unit, containing a hybrid catheter
                                                       and flow directed balloon.
           [para 75] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                            there is provided an apparatus where the
                                                                                                          OD of
           single unit being 6-9 french at the thicker,
                                                         proximal end of the hybrid catheter/balloon
                                                                                                          with the
          distal 2-5 CM of the apparatus being .12-.19
                                                            mm in diameter of a flow directed guidewire
                                                                                                              with
          the final distal portion of the apparatus
                                                     being 8 to 15 mm of the apparatus being
                                                                                                  a flow directed
         balloon.
         [para 76] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                           there is provided an apparatus where the
                                                                                                        flow
        directed balloon inflates to a maximum
                                                    of 1.4 mm and a minimum of .7 mm.
        [para 77] In another preferred embodiment,
                                                          there is provided an apparatus that coats
                                                                                                       the balloon
       with a drug for delivery and compression
                                                      into the wall of the arterial source with
                                                                                                  the stenotic
       lesion.
      [para 78] BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES
      [para 79] FIGURE IA and IB are each
                                                   a semi-transparent     perspective side view of an
     embodiment of the present inventive
                                               subject matter.
     [para 80] FIGURE 2 is a semi-transparent
                                                      perspective    side view of another embodiment of the
    present inventive subject matter.
    [para 81] FIGURE 3A is a photo showing
                                                     a corewire. FIGURE 3B is a photo showing
                                                                                                       a tapered
    corewire.
   [para 82] FIGURE 4 is side view of another
                                                       embodiment of the present inventive subject
                                                                                                          matter.
   [para 83] FIGURE 5A and 5B are before
                                                   and after side views of another embodiment
                                                                                                     of the
  present inventive subject matter
  [para 84] FIGURE 5C is a side view
                                              of another embodiment of the present
                                                                                         inventive subject
 matter.
 [para 85] FIGURE 6A and 6B are a before
                                                    and after side views of another embodiment
                                                                                                      of the
present inventive subject matter.
[para 86] FIGURE 7 is a series of three
                                                line drawings showing a hypotubem atherectomy
corewire and expanded atherectomy ballon
                                                   with distal protect element.
                                                       9

               WO 2014/022866
                                                                                    PCT/US2013/053670
          [para 87] FIGURE 8 is a two-part side view line drawing of a multicomponent
                                                                                         apparatus of the
         present invention.
         [para 88] FIGURE 9A and 9B are before and after side views of another embodiment
                                                                                                of the
        present inventive subject matter.
        [para 89] FIGURE 10 is a series of three line drawings showing variations in balloon
                                                                                               distal
        elements.
        [para 90] FIGURE II is a series of three sequential line drawings showing use of
                                                                                           shaped and
        straight guide wires.
       [para 91] FIGURE 12 is a side view line drawing of an embodiment having
                                                                                    an inflatable balloon
       and a intravascular positioning device/parachute.
       [para 92] FIGURE 13 is a side view line drawing of an embodiment having
                                                                                   an inflatable balloon
      and a intravascular positioning device/parachute.
      [para 93] FIGURE 14 is a variation of a side view line drawing of an embodiment
                                                                                           having an
     inflatable balloon and a intravascular positioning device/parachute.
     [para 94] FIGURE 15 is a variation of a side view line drawing of an
                                                                            embodiment having an
     inflatable balloon.
    [para 95] FIGURE 16 is a variation of a side view line drawing of an embodiment
                                                                                          having an
    inflatable balloon.
    [para 96] FIGURE 17 is chart showing anatomy and use of an IOP device.
   [para 97] FIGURE 18 is a side view line drawing of the eye showing
                                                                           IOP caused by mechanical
   force.
  [para 98] FIGURE 19 is a front view line drawing of the eye showing
                                                                            IOP caused by
  mechanical force, with a controller unit for interacting in a continuous or
                                                                              periodic manner.
  [para 99] FIGURE 20 is an anatomical drawing of the eye for reference
                                                                             purposes only.
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
 [para 100] Without being limited to any specific theory, the invention is
                                                                             based on the premise
that the primary causative effect for Wet Age-Related Macular Degeneration
                                                                                 (WAMD),
glaucoma and diabetic retinopathy is occlusion of the Ophthalmic Artery
                                                                             (OA) such that normal
                                                   10

                WO 2014/022866
                                                                                             PCT/US2013/053670
          blood flow is restricted (ischemia) to the rear
                                                             of the eye. As a result of this ischemia, hypoxia
          (resulting in neovascularization) is induced in these
                                                                    structures and vision eventually devolves
         into a dysfunctional retina (WAMD). From
                                                           this, we have identified two designs that may
                                                                                                            be
         used to provide a treatment methodology for
                                                            WAMD. Several variations are detailed later
                                                                                                             in this
        specification. These include, 1) a device(s)
                                                          for performing interventional work in the ophthalmic
        artery and surrounding structures to restore/increase
                                                                    vascular blood flow and, 2) a device for
        selectively inducing retrograde blood flow
                                                       in the retinal vasculature via manipulation
                                                                                                      for intra
       ocular pressure (IOP).
       [para 101] Interventional Device
      [para 102] The interventional device is designed
                                                               to gain access to and deliver direct mechanical
      and/or drug therapy to a specific location
                                                    of the anatomy. While the following examples
      specifically detail the necessary components
                                                         for a particular ophthalmic artery (OA) application,
     this technology may be used in any anatomical
                                                            location in which removal of material is desired
     in a luminal environment. This environment
                                                        may be vascular or not and may be used in
                                                                                                        any
    tubal, luminal or other similar anatomical
                                                    structure where removal of material is desired.
                                                                                                         As
    such, the invention can be scaled, modified
                                                      or constructed such that it can provide therapy
                                                                                                         for a
    specific luminal anatomical location/need.
                                                     The general inventive device design is based
                                                                                                       on a
   central wire, hypotube, coil, balloon or combination
                                                                 thereof. The inventive device is made of
   stainless, nitinol, polymer, other materials
                                                   or a combination thereof and designed to
   accommodate specific approaches (carotid,
                                                    subclavian, femoral, endoscopic or laparoscopic).
  For the example given, entrance into the body
                                                        is provided by a vascular access element which
  may be typical, or may be designed specifically
                                                          for use with the inventive device (ie: catheter
  sheath introducer or equivalent). The inventive
                                                          device fits within a sheath, which is designed
                                                                                                           to
 provide a protective element for the device
                                                  as well as to prevent vessel trauma during
                                                                                                  delivery to
 the target site. The distal portion includes
                                                 the ability to provide distal protection in the
                                                                                                   OA, as
 well as an element to provide diametric interference.
                                                                This area of diametric interference is
designed to interface with the target vessel
                                                 segment (eg; lesion) such that specific and
                                                                                                  deliberate
manipulation provides for the ability to selectively
                                                            remove material from the lesion site. The
diametric interference element also provides
                                                   for the ability to compress such that it fits within
                                                                                                          the
                                                     11

               WO 2014/022866
                                                                                                PCT/US2013/05    3 6 70
          device sheath to provide a minimal diametric
                                                             dimension. This diametric portion is
                                                                                                         also referred
         to as an interventional element. Once the device
                                                                 is placed at the target anatomy, the
        interventional element is positioned such
                                                       that it is outside the sheath and it conformally
                                                                                                              fits the
        inner diameter of the target anatomy.
                                                 The interventional element also contains
                                                                                                   a design element
       that allows for tissue removal when manipulated
                                                                in a specific manner. That manner includes
       manual rotation, manual push/pull, mechanical
                                                             rotation, mechanical push/pull, site specific
                                                                                                                  drug
       delivery or a combination of some or
                                                all of those. Additionally, the tissue
                                                                                            removal device and
      conforming element is optionally different
                                                       devices, two devices or different segments
                                                                                                          of the
      same device. Once material removal
                                              is complete, the interventional element
                                                                                              is pulled into the
     sheath, along with the distal protection
                                                 portion (equipped) of the device and
                                                                                              the entire assembly
     removed. It is also possible to remove
                                                the interventional element for cleaning
                                                                                                and to replace and
    continue. Furthermore, this device is
                                              able to deliver drug therapy directly to
                                                                                              the area of
    intervention. For example, delivery
                                            of a pharmaceutical compound to reduce
                                                                                               the rate of
   restenosis may be possible as well as
                                             a variety of other pharmaceutical compounds.
                                                                                                      The device
   is also constructed such that it is able
                                             to provide interventional therapy in the
   delivery. This includes, but is not limited                                               form of energy
                                                  to, laser, ultrasound, cryogenic, radiofrequency
                                                                                                            (RF)
  and/or other energies or combination
                                            thereof. Additionally, there is also the
                                                                                           provision for the
  ability to provide direct optical viewing
                                               of the target site prior to, during and
                                                                                            after administration
  of therapy. There is an ability to combine
                                                   multiple drug therapies for a single condition
                                                                                                           or
 multiple conditions. For example, Sirolimus
                                                     for antiproliferative effect post angioplasty.
 addition to this or separate from this,                                                                   In
                                           a statin may be included and eluted as
                                                                                         lipid like deposits
 called drusen can be concomitant to
                                         Wet AMD. It is presumed that the slow
                                                                                          elution of a statin
would reduce the size and number of
                                          drusen deposits and there by improve
                                                                                        eyesight.
[para 103] Interventional   Device -- Common device
                                                               elements:
      1.Ability to visualize under fluoroscopy
    2.Preferred internal carotid access
                                          (can be done via subclavian or
                                                                                femoral)
    3.Distal protection element in the internal
                                                    carotid artery (ICA)
    4.Distal protection element in the Ophthalmic
                                                         Artery
                                                    12

                WO 2014/022866
                                                                                           PCT/US2013/053 6 70
             5.Works in OA diameter ranges between
                                                          0.7 to 1.4 mm - derived by atmospheric
                                                                                                      pressure
             applied to the conformal element
            6.Working length for OA estimated to
                                                      be about 15 inches, further definitions
            7 .Approaches                                                                        included
                           other than ICA also included
            8.Ability to remove material from the OA and
                                                                transport out of the vasculature
           9. Ability to induce retrograde flow,
                                                    either continuously, or on demand for specific
                                                                                                        time
                periods.
           10. May use of a guiding catheter to cannulate
                                                               the OA from the ICA (combination of GC
               features with sheath to have an 'all in one')
    [para 11] InterventionalDevice_--_SingilaClements(specific
                                                                           toa particular design):
          1. Distal OA protection as an integral
                                                    element of the device
         2. Distal OA protection as a separately
                                                     placed/removed device
         3. Distal CA protection as an integral
                                                   element of the device
        4. Distal CA protection as a separately
                                                    placed/removed device
        5. Distal ICA protection as a integral
                                                 placed/removed device
        6. Distal ICA protection as a separately
                                                    placed/removed device.
       7. Ability to deliver an RF element for
                                                   therapy
       8. Ability to deliver a laser element
                                              for therapy
       9. Ability to deliver an ultrasound element
                                                        for therapy
      10. Ability to deliver a cryogenic element
                                                     for therapy
      11. Ability to deliver drugs via infusion
     12. Ability to deliver drugs via injection
                                                  (bolus - TPA)
     13. Drug delivery capability before, during
                                                      and after material removal
     14. Ability to deliver drugs via micro
                                             needles
[para 12] IA.  Interventional Device
                                   -- Specific Examples:         Solid core    wire based
                                                  13

                  WO 2014/022866
                                                                                                PCTUS2013I05
                                                                                                               3 6 70
            [para 13] FIGURE 1 shows an embodiment of the present
                                                                            invention having an Aspiration Core.
            The design is based on a solid metallic
                                                      corewire with integrated aspiration
                                                                                               capability. The device
           consists of the following elements and features
                                                               as detailed in FIGURE 1:
          I.        Center corewire
          2.       Longitudinal indentations
          3.       Delivery sheath
         4.        Cutting element
         5.       Distal protection element
         6.       Atraumatic tip
        [para 14] FIGURE IA depicts the
                                              device with the delivery sheath (3)
                                                                                       covering the cutting (4)
        and distal protection (5) elements,
                                             which are both mounted on the
                                                                                   central core (1). The tip of the
       device contains an atraumatic tip
                                            (6) to aid in placement of the device.
       [para 15] FIGURE IB (above)
                                          depicts the delivery sheath pulled
                                                                                 back and the cutting and distal
      protection elements both in a deployed
                                                  position. Aspiration is accomplished
                                                                                             by either flushing
      and aspirating using alternate longitudinal
                                                      channels (2) of the corewire, or by
                                                                                              a combination use
      of longitudinal channels and
                                     the delivery sheath, one for flushing
                                                                                and the other for aspiration.
      Once the procedure is complete,
                                         the device is withdrawn back into
                                                                                 the delivery sheath and
     positioned as seen in FIGURE
                                       IA. The device is then safely
                                                                         withdrawn from the anatomy.
     [para 16] Generally, the overall
                                        length of the device is optimized
                                                                               for the anatomical location and
    approach. In a preferred example,
                                           for use within the OA, an overall
                                                                                  length of about 160 cm or
    about 15.00 inches for the device would be used
                                                           in conjunction with an appropriately designed
   sheath. The maximum overall
                                      diameter of the sheath would be
                                                                           in the 1.0 mm range (after
   inflation), with the cutting and
                                     distal protection elements offering
                                                                             a conformal fit capability in
  the deployed range of between 0.7 mm to 1.4
                                                       mrn as dictated by the specific dimensions of
                                                                                                           the
  OA and the lesion site. Of course,
                                         these overall length and diametric
                                                                                  dimensions would be
  adjusted based on the specific
                                    applications and is contemplated
                                                                         as within the scope of the
 invention. In addition, the specific
                                         material composition, formulation
                                                                                  and manufacturing
 parameters of material used would
                                        be refined to address the specific
                                                                               application and is
 contemplated as within the scope
                                       of the invention. This dimensional
                                                                                information applies to all of
the designs disclosed. In one
                                  preferred example, the lesion
                                                                    crossing profile of this device
                                                                                                       is less
                                                     14

                 WO 2014/022866
                                                                                              PCT/US2013/0 53 6 7 0
            than 0.2 mm. A range of appropriate
                                                    profile dimensions is contemplated
                                                                                            as within the scope of
           the invention.
           [para 17] A. Interventional Device-- Specific
                                                                Examples: Plain gre -Non Aspiration Co
          [para 18] The design in FIGURE 2 is based on a solid corewire
                                                                                 and does not have specific
         aspiration capability. The device consists of the following
                                                                            elements and features:
         I.        Center corewire
        2.        Delivery sheath
        3.        Cutting element
        4.        Distal protection element
        5.       Atraumatic tip
       [para 19] This inventive subject matter
                                                    of FIGURE 2 is essentially the same as
                                                                                                the FIGURE 1
       aspiration core with the exception
                                             that the core is note designed to facilitate
      remaining elements of the device are essentially                                     aspiration. The
                                                             similar to the aspiration core design. The
      drawing (above) depicts the delivery
                                                sheath pulled back and the cutting
                                                                                      and distal protection
     elements both in a deployed position. Once the procedure
                                                                       is complete, the device is withdrawn
     back into the delivery sheath and positioned in
                                                          a similar fashion as seen in the aspiration core
    FIGURE IA. The device is then safely withdrawn
                                                               from the anatomy
    [para 20] It should also be noted that
                                               the corewire based design may include
                                                                                          elements that are
   much simpler in design than illustrated in the
                                                        sketch above. These designs could include a
                                                                                                         wire
   with a specific drawn profile that is inserted into
                                                           the anatomy such that movement of the wire
   would allow an interface between the profile
                                                      of the corewire and the anatomy to facilitate lesion
   material removal. These particular
                                           designs could include 1) a straight
                                                                                  'as drawn' wire, 2) an as
  drawn wire with a twist or 3) a
                                      selective combination of the two.
  [Para 21] FIGUR 3A and FIGURE
                                            3B depict drawn wire with a twist
                                                                                   and the distal tip segment
 of our initial corewire based prototype
                                              design.
 [para 22] FIGURE 4 depicts the initial corewire
                                                         based prototype overall configuration
[para 23] B.   Interventional Device  --   votube based
[para 24] Integral elements
                                  - The design in FIGURE 5 is
                                                                   based on a hollow metallic tube.
Aspiration capability is not detailed in this sketch,
                                                          but may be possible with the addition of a
                                                     15

                WO 2014/022866
                                                                                            PCT/US2013/05 3
                                                                                                             6 70
          central flush source. The device consists
                                                         of the following elements and features
                                                                                                  as detailed in
         FIGURE 5A and FIGURE 5B:
              1. Central guidewire      2. Delivery sheath                  3. Hollow tube
             4. Cutting element        5. Distal protection element        6. Abrasives
        [para 25] FIGURE 5A depicts the
                                                device with the delivery sheath (2)
                                                                                      covering the cutting (4)
        and distal protection (5)elements,
                                              which are both cut from the actual
                                                                                    hypotube (3) and as such,
       are integral to the hypotube
       [para 26] An alternative version of
                                               this design would be a hypotube version
                                                                                           with cutting and
      distal protection elements mounted
                                              on the hypotube. There would also
                                                                                     be a provision for an
      element that would be positioned
                                           in the lumen after removal of the
                                                                                guidewire. This element
      would serve to deliver fluid for flushing.
                                                     In this example, aspiration could be
                                                                                           accomplished by
     applying suction to the proximal
                                         hypotube such that fluid is removed
                                                                                  as well as debris while
     flushing is activated. While these
                                           inventions are not sketched, this document
                                                                                          discloses such
     configuration). A guidewire (1) extends
                                                   down the inner lumen of the hypotube
                                                                                            to provide a
    means for navigating the anatomy.
                                            Upon placement within the target
                                                                                 anatomy, the guidewire is
    removed and the sheath is pulled
                                        back, deploying the cutting and distal
                                                                                   protection elements.
   Deployment of the distal elements
                                          is controlled by selective manufacturing
                                                                                       processes which
   preferentially 'train' the elements
                                        to behave in a certain fashion such
                                                                               that they exhibit a condition
  known as 'shape memory". This shape
                                                memory is exhibited by the hypotube
                                                                                         when it is in an
  unrestrained position. Abrasives
                                      (6) mounted, coated or integral with
                                                                               the cutting element may be
  designed to facilitate material removal
                                              and shaping of the lesion.
 [para 27] FIGURE 5B depicts the
                                         delivery sheath pulled back and the
                                                                                 cutting and distal
 protection elements both in a deployed
                                              position. Once the procedure is complete,
                                                                                            the device is
 withdrawn back into the delivery sheath
                                                and positioned as seen in FIGURE
                                                                                      5A. The device can
then be safely withdrawn from the anatomy.
[para 28] FIGURE 5C depicts an
                                       alternative embodiment of the hypotube
example, all elements are similar as in the                                          design. In this
                                                 previous sketch, with the exception of number
                                                                                                   7.
                                                     16

                 WO 2014/022866
                                                                                             PCT/US2013/053670
           Element number 7 details a moveable
                                                     internal core wire, which is joined
                                                                                          with inner distal tip of
           the hypotube such that longitudinal
                                                  movement of the corewire may serve
                                                                                          to either expand
           elements 4 and 5, or compress
                                            them. When the procedure is
                                                                             complete, removal of this device
           would be accomplished in a similar
                                                 fashion as describe in Drawing B,
                                                                                       above.
          [para 29] IC. Interventional  Device - Polymer baed be
         [para 30] FIGURE 6A depicts the
                                                device with the delivery    sheath (2) covering the cutting
        element (4), which is cut from the
                                              polymer tube (3) and as such, are
                                                                                   integral to the tube (Note: an
        alternative version of this design
                                             would include a provision for
                                                                              an element that would be
       positioned in the lumen after removal
                                                  of the guidewire. This element
                                                                                     would serve to deliver
       fluid for flushing. In this example,
                                               aspiration could be accomplished
                                                                                    by applying suction to the
      proximal sheath such that fluid
                                         is removed as well as debris while
                                                                                flushing is activated. While
      this invention is not sketched, this
                                             document discloses such configuration).
      [para 31] FIGURE 6B details
                                        a moveable internal corewire (1)
                                                                               which extends down the inner
     lumen of the tube and is fastened
                                           to the distal tip of the device (5)
     deploying the cutting and distal protection                               to provide a means for
                                                      elements through either expansion or
                                                                                              contraction.
    Abrasives (6) mounted, coated
                                       or integral with the cutting element
                                                                                may be designed to facilitate
    material removal and shaping of
                                         the lesion.
   [para 32] ID.Interventional Deie
   [para 33] FIGURE 7 shows a
                                     Single Hypotube based design in
                                                                            which a "puff/pull" aspiration of
  the atherectomy debris is applied. A single hypotube
                                                                of.12 (.10-.14) mm with a.001"thickness
  is laser cut and set to expand an
                                      atherectomy device and distall
                                                                         protection device. The device
 used by puffing saline or another                                                                         is
                                       inert liquid into the space while
 mechanically) aspirating the disease                                       simultaneous (manually or
                                            area and applying rotational force
                                                                                 (pushing or turning,
 mechanically or manually) on the lesion. When
                                                         fully deployed, the device is 1.4 millimeter in
 maximum diameter.
[para 34]
                                                     17

                WO 2014/022866
                                                                                               PCT/US2013/053
                                                                                                                 670
          [para 35] E. Interventional Device
          [para 36] FIGURE 8 shows a basket like
                                                          atherectomy device, proximal to a POBADE
                                                                                                              Balloon,
         proximal to a distal protection device.
                                                      The basket like atherectomy device
                                                                                              and distal protection
         are deployed distal to the lesion. The device
                                                             is pulled into the catheter, scrapping debris
                                                                                                             into the
        basket. As the balloon passes
                                          the lesion site after atherectomy
                                                                                an angioplasty is applied,
        facilitating a smooth, non-striated
                                               blood interface.
       [para 37] IF. InterventionalDevice
                                                 -- Balloon based
       [para 38] FIGURE 9A depicts
                                            the device with the delivery sheath
      catheter body (2) as well as the cutting                                       (3) covering the balloon
                                                    (6) and distal protection (5) elements,
                                                                                               which are both
      integral with the balloon body
                                         (4). (Note: There would also be
                                                                                a provision for an element that
      would be positioned in the lumen after
                                                   removal of the guidewire. This element
                                                                                                 would serve to
     deliver fluid for flushing. In this example,
                                                        aspiration could be accomplished by
                                                                                                  applying suction
     to the proximal sheath such that
                                          fluid is removed as well as debris
                                                                                  while flushing is activated.
     While this invention is not sketched,
                                               this document discloses such configuration).
    (1) extends down the inner lumen                                                                A guidewire
                                           of the device to provide a means
                                                                                  for navigating the anatomy
    [para 39] FIGURE 9B depicts
                                        placement within the target anatomy,
                                                                                     where the guidewire is
   removed and the sheath pulled
                                      back, exposing the cutting and
   Deployment of the distal elements is                                    distal protection elements.
                                              controlled by use of an inflation device
                                                                                           to fill the balloon
   with fluid. Once the balloon
                                   is inflated, the profile would
                                                                      take shape such that the cutting
  distal protection elements are                                                                          and
                                    deployed. Abrasives (6) mounted,
                                                                              coated or integral with the
  cutting element may be designed
                                        to facilitate material removal
                                                                           and shaping of the lesion.
  Hydrogels or other material (5)
                                     may be integral to the distal protection
                                                                                    element such that material
 is attracted and adheres to it.
 [para 40] FIGURE 10 depicts
                                   some general shapes for the balloon
                                                                               distal elements. These
 sketches serve to provide only
                                  general variation ideas and are
                                                                         not meant to be all inclusive.
[para 41] 1G. Interventional DeviceO-
                                               phthalmic ArteryAss meant
                                                      18

                  WO 2 014/022866
                                                                                                PCT/US2013/053670
            [para 42] FIGURE II shows
                                              the use of a shaped guidewire
                                                                                to access the OA and follow up
           a guiding catheter to position within the entry                                                       with
                                                               to the OA. Once inside, the shaped guidewire
                                                                                                                 will
           be exchanged for either a
                                       straight guidewire or an interventional
                                                                                    device to continue the
          procedure. FIGURE II depicts access of the OA by
                                                                      use of a shaped guidewir, entry into the
          OA by a guiding catheter over the shaped
                                                         guidewire and finally exchange of the shaped
          guidewire for either a straight
                                           tip guidewire or an interventional
                                                                                  device. The guidewire and
         guiding catheter is specifically designed
                                                       for use in the OA and may include a provision
                                                                                                           for
         providing downstream protection.
        [para 43] 1H. terventionalDvice           - Flow Directed I
       [para 44] FIGURE 12 shows
                                          a device that will use the vascular
                                                                                 flow to aid in locating and
      positioning within the QA.
                                      There are several features
                                                                    that are detailed here, but
      common design element in that                                                              all share a
                                           they are specifically designed
                                                                             for the OA anatomy and will
      with the vascular flow to aid                                                                          work
                                       in placement and positioning
                                                                         within the anatomy. An additional
     design provision may include
                                        the ability to work with the
                                                                       IOP device (as detailed in
     In this use, the flow directed                                                                  section 1).
                                     element would take into account
                                                                            the reversal of vascular flow
     would follow that flow accordingly,                                                                    and
                                               which would aid in the removal
                                                                                   of the device from the target
    anatomy. This feature would
                                      simplify the removal of the instrument
                                                                                   by reducing the amount of
    force required to withdraw
                                  the device. There are several
                                                                     examples of this design as
    FIGURE 12.                                                                                     noted by
   [para 45] Int1.
  [para 46] FIGURES 13-16 describe
                                             a simple, flow directed balloon that
                                                                                     is unified with a large
  volume delivery catheter It is a hybrid
                                                guidewire/balloon/aspiration device.
                                                                                          Novelty is found in
 the fact that the flow directed balloon and guidewire
                                                              are a single unit and that the inner diameter
 of the lumen starts out at around 7-8 French
                                                    and narrows dramatically for the last 3-4 cm.
Delivery of the device into the ostium
                                             of the ophthalmic artery may be done by
                                                                                           a catheter, that
has a 90 degree port at the ostium of the
                                                OA. This allows for the very small diameter
                                                                                                  (.19 mm
OD or smaller) balloon guidewire to enter
                                                 into the ophthalmic artery and to be pulled
                                                                                                 into the
                                                     19

                   WO 2014/022866
                                                                                                   PCT/US2013/
                                                                                                                  05 36 7 0
             artery and across the lesion by normal blood
                                                                flow. The larger diameter of the inner diameter
            catheter allows for good
                                       pressure to be maintained
                                                                      proximal to the balloon facilitating
            delivery of contrast agents                                                                        the
                                         in addition to saline for balloon
                                                                               inflation.
           [para 47]
                                                      cription
          [para 48] FIGUpRE 17 depicts the general
                                                          invention behind the device used to
                                                                                                    manipulate intra
          ocular pressures (OP). One element will
                                                         fit the patients eye(s) such that it may be used
                                                                                                                to apply
         pressure to the front of the eye.
                                             The eye portion may be held in
                                                                                   position with a strap, adhesive,
         external member or other method that sufficiently
                                                                   accomplishes the task of keeping the eye
        portion in proper contact with the patient's eye(s).
                                                                   The eye contact portion of the device may be
        designed to cover and manipulate
                                              a single eye, both eyes, one at
                                                                                   a time, two at the same time or
       any combination Pressure manipulation
                                                       of the front of the eye will be accomplished
                                                                                                           by
       applying a specified amount of direct pressure
                                                             to the front (typically coeal) area of the
                                                                                                              eye.
      This may be accomplished in a variety
                                                   of ways, including use of pneumac hydraulic,
                                                                                                           gravity
      and/or other mechanical means of manipulating
                                                              force over an area. There may be need to
     combine these forces in such
                                       away as to optimize the pressure
                                                                               manipulation. Use of mechanical
     force manipulation will provide
                                          the best methodology and
                                                                          control for removal of force
    the op returns to the normal                                                                          such that
                                       steady state post procedure
                                                                        in a repeatable, desirable manner.
   second element will provide                                                                                 A
                                     for the lop measurement of
                                                                       the eye under manipulation.
   be several ways to accomplish IOP                                                                    There may
                                            measurement. These include remote
                                                                                        implantable sensor with
   wired or wireless data transmission capability,
                                                         corneal tonomety non-comeal tonometry
                                                                                                           and/or
  transpalpebral tonometry. In addition,
                                                there may be other ways to accomplish
                                                                                              lop measurements
  such that pressure values are obtained
                                               from the subject eye. A third element
                                                                                            Will provide the
 user physicaln) with the ability to select
                                                 pressure and time for the device to interact
                                                                                                    with the eye
 in the form of an external control feature.
                                                   This external control feature may be in
                                                                                                 the form of a
computer, tablet, smart phone or other
                                              device that provides the user with the
                                                                                           necessary contfl
and feedback information needed to perform
                                                     the oP manipulation. This control feature
                                                                                                        will also
contain a feedback loop which will continuously
                                                         monitor          so that a constant pressure
                                                                                                  aOP may be
maintained. This control mechanism
                                            will also allow for ramp up/ramp down
                                                                                          of pressure, non
                                                     20

                     WO 2014/022866
                                                                                                    PCT/US201 3 /
                                                                                                                   05 3 6 70
              constant pressure, time manipulation
                                                       and/or any combination thereof This
                                                                                                     Capability will likely
              be software driven and will Provide the
                                                          user with the ability to custom tailor an
                                                                                                                 wop
              manipulation profile for a specific patient. We think
                                                                         that the rate or pressure induced, time at
             Pressure and rate ofpressme reduction
                                                         will be important to the success of the
             design the control mechanism                                                             procedure and will
                                              to provide this capability. In addition,
                                                                                           the ability to capture, chart
            and store patient centric data will be an
                                                         element of this control mechanism.
            [para 49] Use of the device elements as
                                                         detailed above will allow for the physician
                                                                                                           to induce
           retrograde vascular flow (for up to
                                                  3 minutes at a time) such that when
                                                                                            the interventional device
           is used, the risk for retinal vasculature embolism
                                                                  is reduced. It is known that at a minilm
          retrograde flow in the central retinal artery can
                                                               be maintained for antithrombotic Protection
                                                                                                                    and
         possibly the ciliary arteries. With Pressure
                                                          put on the front of the eye, the blood volume
                                                                                                                of the
         choroid layers can be forced back, through
                                                          the central retinal artey ciliary arteries
                                                                                                         and possibly
        lacrimal arteries,
        [para 50] FIGURE 18 details how
                                                the force applied to the front of the
                                                                                         eye will translate into
       force flowing through the eye, increasing
                                                       IOP, resulting in retrograde vascular
                                                                                                  flow The
       drawing also details how the removal of force
                                                            will result in a return to the normal pressure
                                                                                                                state
      of the eye. Note the drawing is not
                                                anatomically correct.
      [para 51] FIGURE 19 depicts one
                                              embodiment of a feedback loop utilizing
                                                                                              an implantable lop
     sensor.
     [para 52] FIGURE 20 provides detail associated
                                                              with the posterior vasculatvxe of the eye.
                                                                                                               it is
    for information only.
   [Para 53] The references recited
                                           herein are corporate herein
                                                                              in their entirety, particularly as
  they relate to teaching the
                                   level of ordinary skill in this
                                                                    art and for any disclosure
 the commoner understanding of the subject                                                        necessary for
                                                     matter of the claimed invention. It will be
                                                                                                        clear to a
 person of ordinary skill in the art that the
                                                   above embodiment may be altered or that
                                                                                                     insubstantial
changes may be made without departing from
                                                        the scope of the invention. Accordingly, the
                                                                                                            scope
of the invention is determined by the scope
                                                    of the following claims and their equitable
Equivalents.
                                                      21

   We claim:
   1.      A method of treating an eye disease or condition comprising removing a
       blockage an artery that supplies blood to the eye, or a portion of the eye, or a
      structure associated with the eye or a portion thereof.
  2.       The method of claim 1 wherein the artery is selected from the group consisting of
      the internal carotid artery and the ophthalmic artery.
 3.        The method of claim 2 wherein removing a blockage comprises penetrating a
      blockage in the ostium.
 4.       The method of claim 1 wherein increasing the amount of oxygen that reaches the
     eye comprises restoring or improving blood flow to the rear of the eye, including the
     retina, choroid and/or associated structures.
 5.       The method of claim 1 further comprising one or more agents for improving
    vascular blood flow at the ostium and within the OA.
6.        The method of claim 5 wherein the agent is one or more agents selected from
    the group consisting of Viagra, an RPE inhibitor; Lucentis, Avastin, Taxol,
    Rapamyacin; and derivatives or variations of any of these agents.
7.       The method of claim I wherein removing the blockage increases the amount of
    oxygen available to the eye.
8.       A method of treating an eye disease, condition, or disorder comprising increasing
   the amount of oxygen available to the eye, or a portion of the eye, or a structure
   associated with the eye or a portion thereof.
                                              22

 9.      The use of an interventional device to remove a blockage in an artery supplying
     blood to the eye or a portion thereof.
10.      The use of an interventional device of claim 9 wherein the device comprises a
    catheter configured and adapted to remove a blockage in the internal carotid artery or
    the ophthalmic artery, or combinations thereof.
11.      The use of an interventional device of claim 10 wherein the blockage is in the
   junction between the internal carotid artery and the ophthalmic artery.
                                            23

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
