        E:\pw\Inerwven\R~orhl\CC\P~il341985_i.doex-25;f01/20J18
                                                                ABSTRACT
   A method of renewing a wall of a manhole, comprising: taking a tubular sleeve
   impregnated with a hydrophobic material capable of curing and hardening, and the
 5 material expanding in the presence of water; positioning the tubular sleeve in the manhole;
   taking a liner having a resinous material; positioning the liner within the tubular sleeve,
   such that the liner and the tubular sleeve are substantially contiguous; expanding the liner
   outwardly such that the liner forces the tubular sleeve into contact with the wall of the
   manhole; sealing the wall with the hydrophobic material from within the tubular sleeve;
10 and curing and hardening the resinous material on the liner such that the liner structurally
   renews the wall of the manhole.
                                                                    14

               212
                             4
             .        D4
_ _   _ _A                A   __
            1  1   -     411     _
    -      EE    I FE

                wrthDCC\PLi6341985i.d-25/01/2018
   TITLE:             METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR SEALING AND STRUCTURALLY
                      RENEWING A WALL OF A MANHOLE
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5          The present invention relates generally to a method and apparatus for repairing a wall
   of a manhole. More particularly, but not exclusively, it relates to a method and assembly for
   both sealing a wall of a manhole from groundwater leakage, and structurally renewing the wall
   of the manhole.
            The entire content of the complete specification of Australian Patent Application No.
10 2014238111 as originally filed is incorporated herein by reference.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
            Conventional manholes include a lower or bottom pad, a barrel having a relatively
   constant diameter adjacent the pad, a concentric or eccentric cone extending upwardly from the
15 barrel, one or more adjusting rings to adjust the overall height of the manhole, and a casting
   frame on top of the adjusting rings to support a lid at an elevation substantially level with the
   surrounding pavement. The casting frame is preferably sealed to the uppermost adjusting ring
   to preclude or minimize water flow into the manhole. The cone and adjusting rings are
   commonly known as the manhole chimney. Most manhole structures are unique in size and
20 shape with varying diameters and depths. Also, bricks often form a portion of the wall of a
   manhole.
            Substandard construction methods can lead to damage or deterioration of the manhole
   structure. Thus, the manhole is vulnerable, allowing water and subsidence of soil to enter the
   manhole, which eventually leads to structural failure of the manhole.
25          One method of repairing manholes is the placement of a coating of a cementitious
   grout onto the interior surface of the manhole wall. The grout is applied in an uncured state and
   is permitted to cure. Methods of applying the grout include troweling the grout onto the wall of
   the manhole after spraying or slinging the grout onto the wall of the manhole. However, it is
   necessary for a person applying the grout to enter into the manhole. In addition, a final
30 troweling step is usually required in order to obtain the desired compaction, surface, and
   thickness for the grout material.
            Another method of repairing includes the use of cured-in-place (CIP) liners, which are
                                                    1

                  N
                thDCC\PL i6341985i.d-25/01/2018
   coated with a resin. The liners are inserted into the manholes, and then expanded to contact the
   wall of the manhole. The CIP liners are then allowed to cure, which creates a new interior
   surface of the manhole wall. However, the wall may still contain cracks., joints, holes, or other
   defects that could be penetrated by ground water. The ground water could seep into the
 5 manhole, which would structurally weaken the wall of the manhole further. Additionally, if the
   defects are not sealed or the CIP liner is not permanently bonded to the manhole, water could
   seep down between the wall of the manhole and the CIP liner, and could weaken or damage
   the lower pad or pipes located at the bottom of the manhole.
            Accordingly, there is a need in the art for an improved method and apparatus that
10 overcomes the problems resulting from ground water being allowed to penetrate the wall of a
   manhole through defects and damages in the wall. There is also a need in the art for a method
   and apparatus for both sealing the wall of a manhole from ground water, while also structurally
   renewing the same wall at the same time.
15 BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            In a first aspect, the present invention provides a method of renewing a wall of a
   manhole, comprising: taking a tubular sleeve impregnated with a hydrophobic material capable
   of curing and hardening, and the material expanding in the presence of water; positioning the
   tubular sleeve in the manhole; taking a liner having a resinous material; positioning the liner
20 within the tubular sleeve, such that the liner and the tubular sleeve are substantially
   contiguous; expanding the liner outwardly such that the liner forces the tubular sleeve into
   contact with the wall of the manhole; sealing the wall with the hydrophobic material from
   within the tubular sleeve; and curing and hardening the resinous material on the liner such that
   the liner structurally renews the wall of the manhole.
25          In a second aspect, the present invention provides a liner/bladder assembly for sealing
   and structurally renewing the wall of a manhole, comprising: a tubular sleeve impregnated
   with a hydrophilic or hydrophobic material capable of expanding when in contact with water; a
   liner impregnated with a resinous material capable of curing and hardening, wherein the liner
   is positioned within the tubular sleeve; and a bladder, the bladder comprising a first end and an
30 opposite closed second end, wherein the bladder is positioned within the liner.
            Embodiments of the invention provide a method and apparatus for repairing a wall of a
   manhole and preventing ground water from seeping through the wall of the manhole.
                                                      2

      R~pw\Itewovn\N~othl\DCC\PLMil6341985_i.de- 25/01/2018
               Embodiments of the invention provide a method and apparatus that applies a
   hydrophobic material to a wall of a manhole to prevent ground water from leaking through the
   wall.
               Embodiments of the invention provide a method of applying a hydrophilic or
 5 hydrophobic material to joints, cracks, holes, or other defects in a wall of a manhole having
   different radii.
               Embodiments of the invention provide a method and apparatus for sealing and
   repairing a wall of a manhole wherein an expandable liner and bladder are bonded together
   forming an impermeable coating on the interior of a tubular sleeve to renew the structural
10 integrity of the wall.
               Embodiments of the invention provide a method and apparatus for sealing and
   repairing a wall of a manhole wherein no bladder is required in order to inflate the liner and
   tubular sleeve to force the hydrophilic or hydrophobic material into the wall and to press the
   liner into contact with the tubular sleeve to repair the wall.
15             According to one embodiment of the invention, a method of renewing a wall of a
   manhole is provided. The method includes taking a tubular sleeve including a hydrophobic
   material capable of curing and hardening, and expanding in the presence of water, and
   positioning the sleeve in the manhole. A liner, having a resinous material, is positioned within
   the tubular sleeve. The liner is then expanded outwardly until the liner forces the tubular sleeve
20 against the wall of the manhole. The hydrophobic material from the tubular sleeve seals the
   wall of the manhole, and the resinous material of the liner cures and hardens, thus structurally
   renewing the wall of the manhole.
               According to another embodiment of the invention, a method of sealing ground water
   out of and structurally renewing a wall of a manhole is provided. The method includes
25 impregnating a tubular sleeve with hydrophilic or hydrophobic material, and then inserting the
   tubular sleeve into the manhole. A liner, having each end open or the lower end closed, is
   impregnated with a resinous material capable of curing and hardening. The liner is inserted
   into the tubular sleeve, with the closed end being inserted first. The liner is then inflated to
   force the tubular sleeve and the liner into contact with the wall of the manhole, wherein the
30 hydrophilic or hydrophobic material from the sleeve is forced into the cracks, joints, holes, and
   other defects in the wall. The resinous material of the liner is allowed to cure and harden, and
   then any pipe inlets are drilled open.
                                                            3

       R~pw\Itewovn\N~othl\DCC\PLMil6341985_i.de- 25/01/2018
                According to another embodiment of the invention, a method of sealing ground water
   out of and structurally renewing a wall of a manhole is provided. The method includes
   impregnating a tubular sleeve with a hydrophilic or hydrophobic material, and then inserting
   the sleeve into the manhole. A liner, having been impregnated with a resinous material capable
 5 of curing and hardening, is inserted into the tubular sleeve. A bladder is then inserted into the
   liner. The bladder is inflated to stretch the liner and the tubular sleeve into contact with the
   wall of the manhole, wherein the sleeve is compressed forcing the hydrophilic or hydrophobic
   material into cracks, joints, holes, or other defects in the wall and into contact with ground
   water. The hydrophilic or hydrophobic material will then expand and seal the defects and
10 provide a seal by bonding to the manhole wall. The resinous material of the liner is allowed to
   cure and harden, and the bladder is removed from the manhole.
                According to yet another embodiment of the invention, a liner assembly for sealing and
   structurally renewing a wall of a manhole is provided. The assembly includes a liner
   impregnated with a resinous material capable of curing and hardening. The assembly also
15 includes a tubular sleeve that has been impregnated with a hydrophobic material capable of
   curing and expanding when in contact with water.
                According to yet another embodiment of the invention, a method of renewing and
   sealing a wall of a manhole is provided. The method includes structurally renewing the wall of
   the manhole by pressing a liner, impregnated with a resinous material capable of curing and
20 hardening, against the wall of the manhole. The wall is sealed by pressing a tubular sleeve
   against the wall, the tubular sleeve being impregnated with a hydrophilic or hydrophobic
   material capable of curing and hardening when in contact with water.
                According to a further embodiment of the invention, a liner/bladder assembly for
   sealing and structurally renewing a wall of a manhole is provided. The assembly includes a
25 tubular sleeve, a liner, and a bladder. The tubular sleeve is impregnated with a hydrophilic or
   hydrophobic material capable of curing and hardening and expanding, when in contact with
   water. The liner is impregnated with a resinous material capable of curing and hardening, and
   is positioned within the tubular sleeve. The bladder comprises a first closed end and an
   opposite closed second end connected to an air supply hose is positioned within the liner.
                                                             4

   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           Fig. 1 is a sectional view of a manhole with defects in a wall of the manhole, before
   the repair method and apparatus of the present invention is used.
           Fig. 2 is a sectional view of a manhole with defects in a wall of the manhole,
 5 showing one embodiment of the present invention.
           Fig. 3 is a sectional view similar to Fig. 2, but showing the embodiment in an
   inflated position.
           Fig. 4 is a sectional view similar to Fig. 3, showing an additional view of the
   embodiment of the present invention.
10         Fig. 5 is a sectional view according to line 5-5 of Fig. 4.
           Fig. 6 is a sectional view of a manhole with defects in a wall of the manhole,
   showing an additional embodiment of the present invention.
           Fig. 7 is a sectional view similar to Fig. 6, but showing the embodiment in an
   inflated position.
15         Fig. 8 is a sectional view of a manhole that has been repaired using the present
   invention.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
           A typical manhole 10 has a bottom pad 12 that has a run through 14. The bottom
20 pad 12 is attached to a barrel 16, a cone section 18, and a plurality of adjusting rings 20. A
   casting frame 22 is mounted at the upper end of the manhole 10. On top of the casting
   frame 22 sits a lid 21. As can be seen in Figure 1, the manhole 10 has a number of
   diameters D1, D2, D3, and D4. The manhole wall 24 is usually formed of brick, and the
   bricks can become spaced from one another. In addition, defects 26, such as cracks, holes,
25 or other problems, may form in the wall 24 of the manhole 10.
           Figure 1 shows a sectional view of a typical manhole 10, showing defects 26 that
   may occur in a wall 24 of the manhole 10. As the figure shows, the defects 26 may occur
   in, but are not limited to, the manhole cone 18. Also shown in Figure 1, ground water 68
   can be found outside of the manhole 10. The ground water 68 may seep into the defects 26
30 of the manhole wall 24, which could further weaken the wall and could potentially cause a
   collapse of the manhole 10.
                                                 5

           Figure 2 is a sectional view of the manhole 10 of Figure 1, but including one
   exemplary embodiment of the present invention. The manhole lid 21 which is level with
   the pavement 29 has been removed from the manhole 10. In this embodiment, a liner
   assembly 30 is provided. The liner assembly 30 includes a tubular sleeve 32 and a liner
 5 34. The tubular sleeve 32 may be made of a resin impregnable material such as open cell
   super soft foam. It should be noted that the tubular sleeve 32 preferably is used as a carrier
   to transport an expandable liquid grout material to the manhole wall, and that all or nearly
   all (approximately 100%) of the material leaves the tubular sleeve 32 when pressed against
   the wall, leaving the sleeve with minimal thickness. This is illustrated in Figures 3-5,
10 where the tubular sleeve 32 has been compressed to minimal thickness with the grout
   material having penetrated through the defects 26 in the wall 24 of the manhole 10 and to
   an area in the soil surrounding the manhole 10.
           The tubular sleeve 32 is impregnated with either a hydrophilic or hydrophobic
   material capable of curing and hardening. In a preferred embodiment, a liquid
15 hydrophobic material is used. The preferred hydrophobic material is a 2-part hydrophobic
   urethane thermoset resin. When parts A and B are mixed, the combination will begin to
   cure and harden, but will not expand into a foam material unless it comes into contact with
   water. One example of a suitable hydrophobic material is THR2, manufactured by Avanti
   International of 822 Bay Star Blvd., Webster, Texas 77598, but other manufacturers and
20 model numbers may be used. Hydrophobic grout materials may start to react and expand
   into a foam material within 20 minutes after contact with water, and can expand up to
   approximately 6 times their original volume. Once expanded, the hydrophobic grout or
   foam material will remain expanded and will continue to repel all water, whereas
   hydrophilic grouts require water to sustain their expanded properties.
25         In another embodiment of the invention, the tubular sleeve 32 is impregnated with a
   liquid hydrophilic material. The hydrophilic material is a one part formulation, which will
   not react unless in the presence of water. In the presence of water, the hydrophilic material
   will expand into a foam-like material, sealing water from the interior of a pipe juncture.
   One example of a suitable hydrophilic material is AV202 manufactured by Avanti
30 International of 822 Bay Star Blvd., Webster, Texas 77598, but other manufacturers and
   model numbers may be used. Once activated, the hydrophilic foam material will expand in
   volume up to approximately eight times its original volume. The hydrophilic foam
                                                6

   material will remain flexible and resilient after full cure and will allow movement to occur
   in the structure without damaging the seat or bond. However, the hydrophilic foam
   material may shrink after cure in the absence of water.
           A first end 44 of the tubular sleeve 32 and an open end 38 of the liner 34 may be
 5 connected to a flange or upper rack 28 and positioned in the manhole 10. The tubular
   sleeve 32 and the liner 34 may be inverted through the upper rack 28, but it will be
   appreciated that other positioning methods will work as well. In a preferred embodiment,
   the second end 46 of the tubular sleeve 32 and the second end 40 of the liner 34 reach a
   depth equal to the full depth of the manhole 10. Other lengths and depths can be used
10 depending on the damage and configuration of the manhole 10. Connected to the flange 28
   is a post 60 with a telescoping pole section 62. The post 60 is connected at the lower end
   of the manhole 10 to a lower rack 58. The post 60 may be connected to the lower rack 58
   by a threaded member 63 of the post 60. A pin 64 located in the post 60 sets the proper
   length needed for the manhole 10. Also included in the flange 28 is an air inlet tube 66.
15         As an alternative to using the tubular sleeve 32 as a carrier to transport an
   expandable liquid grout material to the manhole wall, the material may also be applied
   directly to the wall of the manhole using a spin casting device, as is known in the art. The
   liner 34 is then inflated to force the grout material into the defects 26 of the wall 24 of the
   manhole. A bladder may or may not be used to inflate the liner 34, depending on whether
20 the liner 34 includes an impermeable coating.
           Referring to Figure 3, the manhole 10 of Figure 2 is shown, but with the liner
   assembly 30 fully inflated. A fluid, preferably air, is provided through the air inlet tube 66
   through the flange 28 and into the cavity 36 of the liner 34. The air causes the liner to
   expand, pressing both the tubular sleeve 32 and the liner 34 against the wall 24 of the
25 manhole 10. The hydrophobic material of the tubular sleeve 32 is forced from the tubular
   sleeve 32 and into the defects 26 of the manhole wall 24. As described above, the two part
   hydrophobic material will begin to cure and harden when mixed, but will not expand
   unless in the presence of water. However, ground water 68 may seep through the soil
   towards the defects 26 in the walls of the manhole 10, as seen in Figures 1 and 2. When
30 the ground water 68 interacts with the hydrophobic material, the hydrophobic material
   expands both in the soil around the defects 26 and in the cracks, holes, and other defects
   themselves. Figure 3 shows the area adjacent the defects 26 of the manhole 10 after the
                                                 7

   hydrophobic material has been forced through the defects 26 of the manhole 10 and has
   been introduced to the presence of water (i.e., ground water 68). The hydrophobic material
   will expand to form a hydrophobic foam 45. The hydrophobic foam 45 cures to create a
   barrier to keep water from penetrating through the defects 26 of the manhole 10. The
 5 inflation is maintained until resinous material impregnated in the liner 34 is allowed to cure
   and harden. The hardened liner 34 structurally renews the wall 24 of the manhole 10.
            Figure 4 shows a sectional view of the manhole 10 of Figure 3 after the
   hydrophobic material of the tubular sleeve 32 has sealed the wall 24 of the manhole 10,
   and the liner 34 has been allowed to cure and harden to form a new wall of the manhole 10.
10 The flange 28 and post 60 are removed from the liner assembly 30. However, the closed
   end 40 of the liner 34, as well as the lower rack 58, must be removed from the lower depth
   of the manhole 10. The removal may be done by cutting the closed end 40 of the liner 34
   out of the manhole 10. The process can be done without having to enter the manhole 10.
   A knife 72, connected to a handle 70 is inserted into the manhole 10 to cut out and remove
15 the closed end 40 of the liner 34. Note that in cases where liner 34 is closed off like a
   balloon at the floor, there is no need for the post 60 and lower rack 58.
            The removal of the closed end 40 of the liner 34 is shown in Figure 5, which is a
   sectional view according to the line 5-5 of Figure 4. The knife 72 creates a circular cutout
   74 in the closed end 40 of the liner 34 to allow access to the bottom paddle 12 and run
20 through 14 of the manhole 10. However the tubular sleeve 32 is left alone.
            When a liquid hydrophilic material is used to impregnate the tubular sleeve 32, an
   impermeable barrier (not shown) may also be used. The barrier would be placed between
   the tubular sleeve 32 and the liner 34. When the hydrophilic material is pressed through
   the defects 26 and into the soil around the manhole 10, it will not react or cure unless
25 introduced to the presence of water, i.e. ground water 68. Water will cause the hydrophilic
   material to expand, but also to cure to a flexible material. In the absence of water, the
   hydrophilic material may shrink, which could cause damage to the cured liner 34. The
   impermeable, rigid barrier (not shown) will ensure that the liner 34 remains rigid, thus
   repairing the manhole wall 24.
30         Now referring to Figure 8, a manhole that has been sealed and structurally renewed
   by the first exemplary embodiment of the present invention is provided. As can be seen,
   the tubular sleeve 32 and the liner 34 are left in the manhole 10. The hydrophobic grout of
                                                 8

   the tubular sleeve has seeped into all cracks, defects, holes, and joints, to seal the wall 24
   of the manhole 10 from ground water 68. The liner 34 creates a new wall in the manhole
    10. After the closed end 40 of the liner 34 is removed, access is still provided to the
   bottom paddle 12 and the run through 14 of the manhole 10. All other components of the
 5 liner assembly 30 are removed and the manhole lid 21 is replaced on top of the casting
   frame 22 which creates a flat surface with the pavement 29 around the manhole 10.
            Figures 6 and 7 show yet another exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 6 shows the same manhole 10 of Figure 1 with defects 26 that may allow ground
   water 68 to seep through the wall 24 of the manhole 10, thus creating structural problems
10 in the manhole 10. In this particular embodiment, a liner/bladder assembly 50 is provided.
   The assembly 50 includes a tubular sleeve 32, a liner 34, and a bladder 52. The tubular
   sleeve is made of resin impregnable material as stated above, and is impregnated with a
   hydrophobic or hydrophilic material capable of curing and hardening and expanding in the
   presence of water. The liner 34 is made of a resinous absorbable material, and is
15 impregnated with a resinous material capable of curing and hardening. The liner/bladder
   assembly 50 is positioned in the manhole 10 with the tubular sleeve 32 nearest the manhole
   wall 24, the liner 34 abutted against an interior surface 42 of the tubular sleeve 32, and a
   bladder 52 inserted within the liner 34. The upper end 54 of the bladder 52 may be
   connected to a flange 28, which includes an air inlet tube 66, and which rests on the casting
20 frame 22 of the manhole 10. The lower end 56 of the bladder 52 may be connected to a
   lower rack 58, which includes a hook 65 and a rope 67. Air, or another fluid, is put
   through the air inlet tube 66, which inflates the liner/bladder assembly 50. The bladder 52
   is inflated to press the tubular sleeve 32 and the liner 34 against the wall 24 of the manhole
    10. When the tubular sleeve 32 is pressed against the wall 24 of the manhole 10, the
25 hydrophobic or hydrophilic material of the tubular sleeve 32 is forced into the defects 26 of
   said wall 24. The hydrophobic or hydrophilic material may come in contact with ground
   water 68, causing the material to expand and cure, thus sealing the wall 24 of the manhole
    10 from future water damage. The bladder 52 is inflated until the resinous material of the
   liner 34 is allowed to cure and harden. The cured and hardened liner structurally renews
30 the wall 24 of the manhole 10. Once the liner has cured, air may be released from the
   bladder 52, and the rope 67 pulls the lower end 56 of the bladder 52, which is connected to
                                                9

  the lower rack 58 to remove the bladder. Once the bladder is removed, what is left is a
  sealed and structurally renewed manhole, as can be seen in Figure 8.
          The invention has been shown and described above with reference to the preferred
  embodiments, and it is understood that many modifications, substitutions, and additions
5 may be made which are within the intended spirit and scope of the invention. The
  invention is only to be limited by claims appended hereto.
                                             10

               thDCC\PL i6341985i.doe-25/01/2018
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.      A method of renewing a wall of a manhole, comprising:
           taking a tubular sleeve impregnated with a hydrophobic material capable of curing
 5 and hardening, and the material expanding in the presence of water;
           positioning the tubular sleeve in the manhole;
           taking a liner having a resinous material;
           positioning the liner within the tubular sleeve, such that the liner and the tubular
   sleeve are substantially contiguous;
10         expanding the liner outwardly such that the liner forces the tubular sleeve into
   contact with the wall of the manhole;
           sealing the wall with the hydrophobic material from within the tubular sleeve; and
           curing and hardening the resinous material on the liner such that the liner
   structurally renews the wall of the manhole.
15
   2.      The method of claim 1 wherein expanding the liner is done by inflating a cavity
   within the liner.
   3.      The method of claim 2 wherein the liner is inflated by applying fluid pressure
20 within the cavity of the liner.
   4.      The method of claim 1 further comprising inverting the tubular sleeve into a
   position in the manhole.
25 5.      The method of claim 4 further comprising inverting the liner into the tubular
   sleeve.
   6.      The method of claim 5 wherein the hydrophobic material:
           a. is forced into cracks, joints, holes, or other defects in the wall of the manhole;
30         and
                                                  11

                N
              thDCC\PL i6341985i.d-25/01/2018
          b. cures, expanding when in contact with ground water, wherein the manhole wall
          becomes sealed from the ground water.
   7.     The method of claim 1 further comprising positioning a bladder within the liner.
 5
   8.     The method of claim 7 wherein the liner is expanded outwardly by inflating the
   bladder with a fluid pressure.
   9.     A manhole renewed and sealed by the method of claim 1.
10
   10.    A liner/bladder assembly for sealing and structurally renewing the wall of a
   manhole, comprising:
          a tubular sleeve impregnated with a hydrophilic or hydrophobic material capable of
   expanding when in contact with water;
15        a liner impregnated with a resinous material capable of curing and hardening,
   wherein the liner is positioned within the tubular sleeve; and
          a bladder, the bladder comprising a first end and an opposite closed second end,
   wherein the bladder is positioned within the liner.
20 11.    The liner/bladder assembly of claim 10 wherein the tubular sleeve comprises a first
   open end, an opposite second open end, and a sleeve body there between.
   12.    The liner/bladder assembly of claim 11 wherein the tubular sleeve further
   comprises an open cell foam material.
25
   13.    The liner/bladder assembly of claim 12 wherein an interior surface of the liner is
   coated with an impermeable polymer film.
   14.    The liner/bladder assembly of claim 10 wherein the liner further comprises a resin
30 absorbent material.
                                                 12

             th\DCC\PL i6341985i.d-25/01/2018
  15.     The liner/bladder assembly of claim 10 wherein the tubular sleeve is inverted into
  the manhole.
  16.     The liner/bladder assembly of claim 10 wherein the liner is inverted into the tubular
5 sleeve.
  17.     The liner/bladder assembly of claim 10 wherein the tubular sleeve has a constant
  unstretched diameter along its length, and is capable of stretching circumferentially to
  varying diameters for contact with the manhole along the varying diameters.
                                                13

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
