IMPROVED COMPOSITE CONCRETE AND FRAMING SYSTEM AND
METHOD FOR BUILDING CONSTRUCTION
ABSTRACT
A composite building construction system (1), comprising: a frame (10); wallboard (11)
comprising an outer portion (111) and inset portion (112), said wallboard (11) being attached to
said frame (10) with said outer portion (111) covering an exterior side (101) of said frame (10)
and said inset portion (112) being disposed within said frame (10), said wallboard (11) providing
exterior and interior insulation for said system (1); a concrete layer (13) provided on said outer
portion (111) of said wallboard (11); and one or more rebar supports (14) attached to said frame
(10) at said exterior side (101) of said frame (10).

                                                  1
IMPROVED COMPOSITE CONCRETE AND FRAMING SYSTEM AND
METHOD FOR BUILDING CONSTRUCTION
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2013309041, the
contents of which are incorporated in this divisional application in their entirety by reference.
This divisional application claims priority to U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 13/451,927 filed
on 20 April 2012, the contents of which are also incorporated in this divisional application in
their entirety by reference.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Field of the Invention
[0002] This invention relates to systems and methods of building construction and more
particularly to systems and methods including a composite of concrete, framing, and other
materials and structures.
Description of Related Art
[0003] Conventional building construction typically comprises three primary systems and
methods: (1) wood stud construction; (2) concrete block construction; and (3) concrete panel
construction. Wood stud construction system requires skilled carpenters to assemble the pieces
and cut lumber according to structural drawings that require skilled interpretation. Concrete
block construction, wherein the perimeter of a housing unit is comprised of arranged cinder
blocks or concrete blocks in a structurally sound fashion, is slow to put into place and requires a
large number of skilled masons to carry out effectively. Concrete panel construction, wherein
pre-cast panels are put into place against or in conjunction with a framing system, requires
heavy equipment to lift and place the concrete panels, as well as a skilled work force to build the
structure that provides the framing template for the panels.
[0004] Accordingly, the development of better building systems for constructing low cost,
efficient and easily built housing units has been slowed by the need for skilled labor to assemble
the components required for the housing unit. In many locales, skilled labor is in short supply

                                                  2
and/or prohibitively expensive which has restricted the ability to construct low cost housing
units en masse, particularly in underdeveloped countries. Other problems with present building
construction technology include the need to build housing units at a low cost and quickly, the
ability to build housing units having a resilient construction that does not require a great deal of
maintenance, is strong structurally, and provides desired insulation from the elements. Thus, in
many countries, the aspirations of having modernized housing units have slowly waned.
[0005] Furthermore, present construction methods typically rely on steel stud frames having
insulation sprayed or placed on the interior side of the stud wall. Such an arrangement is not as
efficient as possible because heat can be conducted from wall surfaces directly to the frame
elements, circumventing the surrounding insulation. Providing external insulation, i.e. insulation
placed on the outside of the stud frame can be helpful, but to date there has not been a reliable
means to applying such insulation. Further, insulation placed only externally will not provide
sufficient heat and cold protection and therefore spray or roll insulation will still have to be
provided on the inside wall. Thus, the construction can be rendered expensive, cumbersome, and
labor intensive.
[0006] Several attempts have been made at providing cheaper and more efficient construction
methods, however none have adequately address the need for an easier to assemble yet
structurally sound and insulative construction. For example, U.S. Patent 4,751,803 to
Zimmerman describes a construction method wherein precast concrete studs having protruding
fasteners are used to build the framework of the walls of a structure. The walls are assembled in
a horizontal plane and rigid sheet insulation is attached to concrete studs and wire mesh is laid
upon the sheet insulation. Concrete is then poured onto the insulation, the wire, and the
protruding fasteners to form a waterproof outer surface. Beams are bonded to the studs. After
construction, the structure can be transported to the construction site and assembled. The patent
also discloses a 'jig" for assembling the structure. Thus, while providing a means for
prefabricating building walls, Zimmerman relies on the use of a jig or form mold in which
concrete is poured prior to transportation to the construction site. This severely limits the
accessibility of the invention because the relatively heavy poured concrete slabs are expensive
and difficult to transport to remote locations, particularly those where affordable housing is
desired. Further, the complex stud framing structure renders the system expensive to
manufacture and assemble. Finally, the system does not provide for both internal and external
insulation of the walls.

                                                   3
[0007] U.S. Patent 5,522,194 to Graulich describes a planar building panel core having two
faces coated with a cementitious material whereby the core is a closed-cell foam insulation
board. A metal grid or lath is laid over the foam before the cement is applied. The core panel
includes a plurality of spaced metal furring vertical channel members which are fastened to a
support structure and a steel reinforcing sheet spanning the face of each panel, thus comprising a
frame surrounding the foam insulation board. Cement is applied over the metal grid and the
foam board to result in a unitary construction panel. While providing a relatively sound system,
this construction invention is flawed in that there is no means for prefabricating any aspect of
the design and it requires extensive assembly of the frame elements around the foam board
during construction of the system. Assembly cannot be complete using standard hand tools by
unskilled labor. Further, the foam board is not disposed on the exteriors of the frame and
therefore the structural rigidity and insulative properties are compromised.
[0008] Similarly, U.S. Patent 6,519,904 to Phillips describes a vertical reinforced concrete wall
having a plurality of insulating panels horizontally spaced from each other formed of a
polystyrene material. A pair of channel-shaped vertical side members are fitted over the
respective side edges of the insulating panel during onsite installation. The panels are then
mounted between a pair of opposed upper and lower channel-shaped track members which
extend horizontally to define the upper and lowers ends of the vertical wall. A wire mesh is
attached to the outside of the side members and horizontal members and concrete is applied over
the wire mesh, insulation board, and framing members. Again, the complex framing structure is
disposed around the foamboard and includes numerous interconnected parts which renders the
system difficult to assemble and not amenable to affordable housing construction by unskilled
workers. Finally, the construction method does not provide both internal and external insulation
at the wall surface.
[0009] In contrast, the present disclosure relates to an improved building construction system
and method designed to address the problems outlined above and provides a systemized product
that provides housing for residential or commercial use, can be economically constructed, does
not need high level and expensive skilled labor, is extremely strong and weather resistant, has
excellent internal and external thermal insulation capabilities, and requires low maintenance. It
is, therefore, an object of the present invention to overcome or at least ameliorate one or more of
the above disadvantages. However, in view of the building construction system and methods in
existence at the time of the present invention, it was not obvious to those persons of ordinary

                                                    4
skill in the pertinent art as to how the identified needs could be fulfilled in an advantageous
manner.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0010] The present invention provides a composite building construction system, comprising: a
frame, wallboard, and a concrete layer. The wallboard comprises an outer portion and inset
portion wherein the wallboard is attached to the frame with the outer portion covering an
exterior side of the frame and the inset portion is disposed within the frame. The wallboard thus
provides exterior and interior insulation for the system. The wallboard may be attached to the
frame by an adhesive or by common fasteners. The concrete layer is provided on the outer
portion of the wallboard, preferably sprayed on to the outer portion of the wallboard, forming a
strong durable composite construction system. One or more rebar supports may preferably be
attached to the frame at the exterior side of the frame.
[0011] According to one aspect, therefore, the present invention provides a composite building
construction system, comprising:
       a frame;
       wallboard comprising an outer portion and inset portion, said wallboard being attached to
said frame with said outer portion covering an exterior side of said frame and said inset portion
being disposed within said frame, said wallboard providing exterior and interior insulation for
said system;
       a concrete layer provided on said outer portion of said wallboard; and
       one or more rebar supports attached to said frame at said exterior side of said frame.
[0012] In some embodiments, the one or more rebar supports are spaced apart from the
wallboard. In some embodiments, the rebar supports are secured to the frame by one or more
key bolts pass through the wallboard and into the frame and are lockingly engaged with the
frame. The frame may include key holes which correspond to the lock ends of the key bolts,
which bolts may be secured by inserting and rotating them within the frame. A wire grid may be
attached to the one or more key bolts and is spaced apart from the wallboard and the rebar
supports whereby the grid and the rebar provide a support structure for the concrete layer. In
some embodiments, the concrete layer is 3 inches thick.

                                                  5
[0013] In some embodiments, the frame includes a plurality of outer framing members and one
or more cross members. The inset portion of the wallboard may include one or more channels
configured to accommodate the one or more cross members of the frame and thus fit snugly
inside the frame. In some embodiments, the outer framing members and the one or more cross
members include one or more apertures for the routing of electrical wires or plumbing and the
apertures are adapted to receive conduits for protecting the electrical wires and the plumbing.
The wallboard may also include channels to accommodate the conduits. One or more guide
wires may be attached to the frame by key bolts at the exterior side of said frame, the guide
wires are spaced apart from said wallboard and adapted to indicate the depth of the concrete
layer to be applied.
[0014] In some embodiments, the frame sections are manufactured using a computer system that
prefabricates and codes the frame sections for easy assembly. The interior side of the frames is
configured to receive drywall or other finishing material. In some embodiments, the frame
comprises high tensile steel and the wallboard comprises expanded polystyrene. The wallboard
may be dimensioned such that the depth of the inset portion is greater than the depth outer
portion of said wallboard. In any event, the wallboard provides significant external and internal
insulation: a substantial advantage over the prior art.
[0015] In another aspect, the present invention provides a method of building construction,
comprising:
        providing one or more frame sections forming a frame;
        attaching wallboard to the frame sections, the wallboard comprising an outer portion and
inset portion, wherein the wallboard is attached to the frame with the outer portion covering an
exterior side of the frame and the inset portion is disposed within the frame, the wallboard
providing exterior and interior insulation for the frame;
        attaching one or more rebar supports to the frame at the exterior side of the frame, the
rebar supports spaced apart from the wallboard;
        attaching a wire grid to the wallboard such that the wire grid is spaced apart from the
wallboard; and
        spraying a concrete layer over the wallboard and the wire grid.
[0016] A housing unit or building may be constructed by providing one or more frame sections
each prefabricated and coded according to a building plan. The frame sections are assembled

                                                  6
together to form a housing structure. Then the wallboard is attached to the frame sections, the
rebar supports and wire grid is attached to the wallboard, the guide wire is installed and then
concrete is sprayed over the wire grid, rebar, and wallboard until the relatively thick concrete
layer is formed. Optionally, the guide wire may be used to indicate the depth of the concrete to
be applied. Once the concrete has been cured, it can be finished with paint, stucco, or other
known housing unit finish materials. The interior side of the frame can be finished with drywall.
[0017] The structural integrity of the present construction system is greatly enhanced due to the
relatively thick concrete layer applied to the wallboard-frame combination. The completed
structure is capable of withstanding hurricane force winds, earthquakes, and other weather
conditions whereby the structure exceeds national and local building codes to that effect.
Embodiments of the present invention provide a substantial improvement over the prior art with
respect to the simplicity and cost of construction, as it does not require skilled laborers such as
masons, carpenters, and the like. The prefabrication and coding of the frame sections enhances
the ease-of-build even more. More importantly, the expanded wallboard provides both internal
and external insulation in a single easy to assemble piece which also provides a surface for
adhesion to the concrete layer. The combined internal and external insulative properties of the
wallboard provide a significant advantage over known building construction systems and also
provide enhanced modularity and ease of installation.
[0018] Accordingly, embodiments of the present invention provide:
          *        a structurally sound and insulative building construction composite;
          *        a building construction system and method that does not require skilled labors
                   to assemble and construct;
          *        a building construction system and method that includes a relatively thick
                   concrete layer that provides substantial structural rigidity at a decreased cost;
          e        a building construction system and method that provides internal and external
                   insulation without the need for insulation batting or spray insulation
                   applications;
          *        a building construction system and method that incorporates a unitary
                   wallboard piece having an outer portion for external insulation and concrete
                   adherence as well as an inset portion received with the frame for internal
                   insulation;

                                                 7
         *        a building construction system and method that utilizing locking key bolts
                  received in frame sections which allow for the rapid assembly of rebar
                  supports and wire guides to further enhance the speed, accuracy, and quality of
                  the building construction system and method; and/or
         *        a building construction system and method that can be assembled more
                  quickly than typical construction methods, even with the use of unskilled
                  laborers.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0019] Preferred embodiments of the invention will be described hereinafter, by way of
examples only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
[0020] FIG. 1 is an exploded schematic of one embodiment of the building construction system
of the present invention.
[0021] FIG. 2 is a cross-sectional cutaway view of one embodiment of the building construction
system of the present invention.
[0022] FIG. 3 is a perspective view of one embodiment of the building construction system of
the present invention.
[0023] FIG. 4 is another perspective view of one embodiment of the system of the present
invention.
[0024] FIG. 5 is a perspective view of one aspects of the frame and wallboard configuration of
the present invention.
[0025] FIG. 6 is a perspective view of one embodiment of the wallboard of the present
invention showing the inset portion, outer portion, and channels.
[0026] FIGS. 7A-7C depict various embodiments of the key bolts and the key hold engagement
used with the frame of the present invention.

                                                  8
[0027] FIG. 8 is a perspective view of another embodiment of the present invention, utilizing
support arches useful for concrete application.
[0028] FIG. 9 is a schematic of a concrete layer being sprayed onto the wallboard/frame in
accordance with the present system and method.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0029] The present invention overcomes the disadvantages of the prior art by incorporating a
combination of sprayed concrete onto an internal and external insulating board which is
cladding a steel stud frame. With reference to FIG. 1, shown is an exploded schematic of one
embodiment of the system of the present invention arranged and constructed in accordance with
one embodiment of the method of the present invention. Shown is a section, or a portion of a
composite construction system 1, comprising a frame 10, a wallboard 11, a support grid 12, and
a concrete layer 13. The system 1 is provided as a wall structure for a building or housing unit
and will typically be assembled in sections as described in detail below.
[0030] With reference to FIGS. 1 and 2, the wallboard 11 is secured to and disposed on an
exterior side 101 of the frame 10. In some embodiments, wallboard 11 is secured to frame 10 by
an adhesive such as an epoxy or clue. In some embodiments, wallboard 11 is further fastened to
frame 10 by one or more key bolts 30 received through wallboard 11 and terminating within a
portion of frame 10. A plurality of bolts 30 may be provided through wallboard 11 and into
frame 10 to provide a secure attachment of the two components. Specifically, the bolts 30 may
include eyelets that are configured to receive and secure rebar support 14 and/or guide wire 15
which provide additional support and guidance for the application of the concrete layer 13, as
discussed in further detail below. In some embodiments, the key bolts 30 are configured to
lockingly engage pre-fabricated key holes provided in the frame 10 to allow for ease of
installation, as further described below. However, other fasteners may be used instead of bolts,
such as screws, nails, staples, and the like.
[0031] Also provided in some embodiments is the support grid 12 which is spaced apart from
but attached to wallboard 11. Grid 12 may comprise a wire mesh grid, a rebar grid, or similar
rigid grid that provides additional structural support for concrete layer 13. In some
embodiments, grid 12 is attached to either rebar support 14 or one or more bolts 30 by ties 35
which are received around both the grid 12 and either the rebar support 14 or a bolt 30. Other

                                                   9
means of connecting the grid 12 may be employed, including brackets, screws, bolts, staples,
and the like. In some embodiments, the wire grid 12 is disposed between the wallboard 11 and
the guide wire 15 such that the guide wire 15 is on the outside of the system 1. The rebar support
14 is disposed between the wallboard 11 and the grid 12. Further, it is appreciated that one or
more rebar supports 14 may be provided, with corresponding bolts, and the rebar supports 14
may be disposed horizontally and/or vertically, or in a frame-like manner around the periphery
of the frame 10.
[0032] In some embodiments, concrete layer 13 is sprayed over grid 12 such that the concrete
adheres to wallboard 11 and has a thickness extending away from wallboard 11. Grid 12 and/or
rebar 14 provide structural support for the adherence of concrete layer 13 to wallboard 11. In
some embodiments, concrete layer 13 is applied in multiple thin-layer applications in order to
assure adherence and structural rigidity with respect to wallboard 11. The guide wire 15 is
disposed across the wallboard and may provide guidance during the application of the concrete
layer 13, i.e. to delimit the desired depth of concrete layer 13 application. As depicted in FIG. 2,
concrete layer 13 is applied such that grid 12 and rebar 14 is disposed within the concrete layer
13; or, said differently, concrete layer 13 is disposed on either side of grid 12 and/or rebar 14
and, in many cases, will be disposed through grid 12 wherein grid 12 includes interstitial gaps
121 (FIG. 1) by way of its grid configuration. In some embodiments, it is preferred that concrete
layer 13 have a thickness of approximately 2-3 inches extending from the wallboard however
the thickness may vary depending on the desired application and building plan. The grid 12
provides support for and catches the concrete layer 13 during application to prevent the concrete
from sliding down the wall surface. The rebar supports 14 provide structural reinforcement once
the concrete layer 13 has set. In FIG. 2, it is appreciated that the guide wire 15 provides a
designation of the depth of concrete layer 13 to be applied. In some embodiments, the guide
wire 15 will be flush with the outer edge of the concrete layer 13. However, for illustrative
purposes in FIG. 2, the guide wire 15 is shown to be contained inside the concrete layer
somewhat - such a configuration is not required nor should the depth of the concrete layer 13
and relationship to guide wire 15 be limited to that shown in FIG. 2.
[0033] In some embodiments, the stud frame 10 of the present invention is constructed through
use of a fabricating machine which forms the studs from coiled metal (steel, aluminum, and the
like) and marks the components with coding to allow for quick, easily assembled construction
by workers who do not need high level construction skills, rather they need only to match the

                                                  10
markings for assembly. FIG. 4 shows an example of one section of frame 10 shown having a
generally square or rectangular shape. Shown is frame 10 from the perspective of interior side
102 with wallboard 11 attached to the exterior side of frame 10. Frame 10 may include outer
framing members 103 and one or more cross members 104, which functions as studs, providing
a riding structural support system for building construction.
[0034] Wallboard 11 comprises an insulative material and is configured to provide both external
and internal insulation for the construction system in a unitary piece. As shown in Figures 1, 2,
4, 5 and 6 wallboard 11 is configured as having an outer portion 111 and an inset portion 112
wherein the inset portion 112 is configured to be received within the interior cavities 140 of the
frame 10 and the outer portion is disposed on the exterior side of the frame 10. In some
embodiments, the inset portion 112 and the outer portion 111 are unitary and integral,
constructed homogenously as wallboard 11. The outer portion 111 provides external insulation
and provides a surface for the concrete layer 13 to adhere to. The inset portion 112 provides
internal insulation and adds rigidity to construction system 1 once assembled. In some
embodiments, the inset portion 112 is deeper than the outer portion 111, for example the inset
portion 112 may have a depth of 2 inches extending into the frame 10 whereas the outer portion
111 has a depth of 1 inch extending outward from the frame 10.
[0035] In some embodiments, the inset portion 112 includes one or more channels 113 which
are configured to accommodate the cross members 104 of the frame 10. This allows the inset
portion 112 wallboard 11 to fit snugly and securely within the internal cavities 140 of frame 10
with minimal movement, which eases construction and assembly and provides added rigidity
and stability to the construction system 1. FIG. 5 demonstrates the configuration of the outer
portion 111 and inset portion 112 of wallboard 11 as well as the fitment of same inside the
internal cavities 140 of frame 10 by way of channels 113. FIG. 6 shows the wallboard 11 along,
with outer portion 111, inset portion 112, and channels 113. It is appreciated that the relative
thickness of outer portion 111 and inset portion 112 can vary depending on the desired
application and desire structural and insulative properties. Further, the configuration, size, and
shape of the channels 113 can vary depending on the configuration of frame 10. Accordingly,
the present invention is not limited to the configurations shown in the figures.
[0036] In some embodiments, the framing members 103 and 104 include one or more apertures
105 punched there-through. The apertures 105 are configured to receive and channel electrical

                                                   11
wiring, plumbing, and the like. In some embodiments, conduits 106 are provided through
apertures 105 and provide protection for wiring or plumbing passed there-through. As shown in
FIG. 4, in some embodiments the inset portion 112 of wallboard 11 has a depth that
accommodate and does not block apertures 105 and conduits 106, which conduits are adjacent to
the inside surface of the wallboard 11. In other embodiments, it may be desired for the depth of
inset portion 112 to be somewhat deeper where it would otherwise cover up or block the
apertures 105. However, in this case, additional channels 113 can be provided which align with
apertures 105 and therefore accommodate conduits 106 similar to how the channels 113
accommodate the cross members 104 of frame 10.
[0037] In some embodiments, the inside of the frame 10 at interior side 102 of frame 10 may
receive and contain insulation material 107 which may be poured, sprayed, or applied in sheets
or rolls thereto. In some embodiments, the insulation will be applied to the back of inset portion
112 of the wallboard 11, which is disposed within the frame 10. However, insulation material
107 may not be necessary in situations and climates where the wallboard 11 with inset portion
112 provides sufficient insulation. Accordingly, the material selected for wallboard 11 may vary
depending on desired insulative characteristics as further discussed below. Additionally, the
depth of inset portion 112 of wallboard 11 can be increased in order to increase its ability to
insulate, depending on the desired application and installation.
[0038] It is further appreciated that the interior side 102 of frame 10 is typically the side facing
the inside of the particular building or home and the exterior side 101 (which receives wallboard
11, grid 12, and cement layer 13) is the exterior of the building or home. The interior side 102
may be finished with typical interior wall material such as drywall, plasterboard, sheet rock, and
the like.
[0039] The result of the present invention is a combined building or housing frame 10 structure
covered with an insulating exterior wallboard 11 to which a sprayed concrete layer 13 has been
applied. Each frame 10 as described above comprises at least a portion of a wall of a building or
housing structure. This configuration provides substantial strength and durability and exceeds
typical hurricane, earthquake and other weather strength rating requirements presently used
throughout the world. This enhanced strength is achieved primarily due to the relatively thick
concrete layer 13 combined with the rigid frame 10 and further combined with the extended
depth wallboard 11 which provide internal insulation at the frame. In accordance with the

                                                 12
present invention, a housing unit can be assembled in a matter of three or four days rather than
months by utilizing the building construction system and method of the present invention;
minimal skill is needed by the assembly crews and fabrication can be customized to meet local
codes, plumbing and electrical requirements. Most single family units are anticipated to be in
the twelve hundred to fifteen hundred square feet of living space. The units can be built as
independent units or in multiple family configurations and, in that sense, the particular size and
configuration of a given housing unit built in accordance with the present invention is not
limiting.
[0040] To further enhance the ease of assembly of the construction system 1 of the present
invention, the frame 10 is configured to lockingly receive a plurality of bolts 30 having various
configurations. In some embodiments, the bolts 30 are received in flanges of the frame 10 at
various points along the frame 10 as desired for the particular application. With reference back
to FIG. 1, shown are two sets of bolts 30 wherein the first set is configured to receive and retain
a rebar support 14 and a second set is configured to receive and retain a guide wire 15.
[0041] With reference to FIGS. 7A-7C, shown are various embodiments key hole/key bolt 30
configuration of the present invention. FIG. 7A depicts one embodiment of a key bolt 30
configured as a stud screed bolt. The proximal end of the bolt 30 includes a bow-tie or bubble
like male connector 31 and the distal end includes a receiving eyelet 32. A bolt flange 33 may be
provided proximal to the male connector 31. In this embodiment, the receiving eyelet 32 is
relatively small and is configured to receive guide wire 15. FIG. 7B depicts another embodiment
of a key bolt 30 configured as a support bolt. The proximal end includes a bow-tie or bubble
like male connector 31 and the distal end includes a receiving eyelet 32. Again, a bolt flange 33
may be provided proximal to the male connector 31. In this embodiment, the eyelet 32 is
somewhat larger and is configured to receive and engage a rebar support 14.
[0042] As shown in FIG. 7C, frame 10 may include one or more flanges 301 which may
comprise stamped or bent portions of the frame 10. One or more key holes 302 are provided
through flanges 301 and provide a point of entry for the male connector 31 of key bolts 30. In
some embodiments, a key bolt 30 passes through wallboard 11 and into the key hole 31 of frame
10 and is then rotated 90 degrees such that the male connector is lockingly engaged with the
flange 301 of frame 10. The key hole 302 - key bolt 30 arrangement provides a simple and easy
to operate means of attaching rebar and guide wire to the frame 10, which provides added

                                                  13
support and concrete application guidance for the construction system 1. It is appreciated that
the key holes 302 could be provided anywhere on the frame 10 and do not necessarily have to be
on the flange 301. Further, with reference back to FIGS. 1-4, it is appreciated that two or more
key bolts can be used in conjunction to support a rebar support 14 and/or a guide wire 15. In
some embodiments, the key holes 302 are provided at equidistant points along the frame 10 and
the key bolts 30 are provided therein such that the weight of the rebar 14 and/or guide wire 15
can be equally supported along the frame.
[0043] It is further appreciated that, in some embodiments, the length of the key bolts 30
utilized for the guide wire 15 are substantially longer than the length of the key bolts 30 used
support the rebar 14. This configuration allows the guide wire 15 to extend well beyond the
wallboard 11 surface in order to delineate the maximum depth or thickness of concrete layer 13
to be applied. Accordingly, a variety of varying length key bolt 30 for guide wire 15 can be
utilized to provide a guide for various desired depths of the concrete layer 13.
[0044] The wall configuration, square footages, windows, doors, electrical, plumbing,
ventilation and other requirements are placed into a take off for analyses by a computer software
program for calculation of number of feet needed for frames 10, frame 10 dimensions and
placement, cut outs for placement of plumbing and electrical wires, placement of windows,
doors and ventilation needs, as well as sizing to meet local and national codes and best practices
for the location where the homes are going to be built. The result of the multi-stage analyses is a
computerized output of frame 10 requirements that can be fed into a frame fabricating machine.
The frame fabricating machine then can produce the frames 10 in sections, including the cross
members and outer members needed for the construction of the unit. The frames are typically
fabricated from rolled coils of sheet metal material such as steel or aluminum but may also
comprise wood or other materials as suitable for the particular application. In some
embodiments, a steel frame section having a 3-inch concrete layer applied thereto is capable of
withstanding at least 50,000 psi of pressure and therefore is preferred as a weather-rated material
in certain applications. As the entire frame structure is fabricated typically in discrete sections,
the frame sections are marked at each end with a coding number. Headers and sills are likewise
marked with numbers at all locations where they will interact with the frame sections or any
bracing pieces, cross-members, and the like. Typically, the frame 10 sections are produced in
the order of assembly, so that the pieces are assembled in the order of fabrication.

                                                  14
[0045] When constructing an actual building, the unit's foundation and base is prepared, which
may be concrete slab or a framed structural deck that can be covered with wooden boards,
insulated boards or other decking materials, which optionally can be covered with concrete
spray material and troweled. The walls of the building or housing structure are provided as
frame 10 sections in accordance with the present system and method are typically assembled flat
on the ground using screw drill guns that fasten the frames to headers, sills or other reinforcing
pieces. When the wall's exposed side is completed in assembly, it is tilled up, screw drilling the
frame 10 sections together until completed and the wall put into place. By repeating this process,
each wall of the building or housing unit is assembled and may comprise one or more sections
of frame 10. The workers only need to match the markings on the end of the frame sections and
other components to correctly assemble the walls or other structures. After the walls are
standing, a header assembly, if needed, can be installed to give stability to the wall panels, and
the roof trusses can be placed. Roof trusses are assembled in the same manner as the wall units.
[0046] The exterior sides 101 of frames 10 are then covered with the wallboard 11, therefore
providing internal and external insulating properties, which inset portion 112 of the wallboard
11 is received in the cavities 140 of the frame 10. The wallboard 11 may be secured to the frame
10 by an adhesive, epoxy, or the like. The wallboard may be further affixed to the frame 10
sections with fasteners and/or, in some embodiments, key bolts 30 may be provided through the
wallboard therefore providing two purposes (1) provide additional fastening of the wallboard 11
to the frame and (2) provide a means to attach rebar 14 and/or guide wire 15 to the assembly. If
rebar supports 14 are desired, the supports are provided into the eyelets of the one or more key
bolts 30. Grid 12 may be then fastened to the bolts 30 or the rebar 14 by wire ties 35, whereby
the grid 12 helps with the application of concrete layer 13 and adds tensile strength to the
concrete layer 13. If a guide wire 15 is desired, it is secured through the eyelets of one or more
key bolts and thus the guide wire 15 may define the depth of concrete layer 13 to be applied
over the wallboard 11. It is appreciated the wallboard 11 is configured with channels 113 that
match the configuration of the frame 10, including any cross members 104 and conduits 106 as
desired.
[0047] The concrete layer 13, in some embodiments, is applied by a spraying application and
depicted in FIG. 9. Multiple thin layers of concrete may be applied until the concrete layer 13
has a suitable thickness, for example 2-3 inches. In some embodiments, the guide wire 15
designates the depth of the concrete application. It is desirable for the grid 12 and the rebar 14 to

                                                  15
be located substantially in the middle of the concrete layer and thus the grid 12 and rebar 14 are
spaced apart from the wallboard 11 and the final outer wall surface of the concrete layer 13.
Once the concrete layer 13 has cured, the housing structure is formed and finishing can take
place. Roof frame 10 sections may be constructed in a similar manner but would typically be
covered with a roofing material of choice as wallboard 11, preferably a material that provides
good water resistance and good insulation.
[0048] With reference to FIG. 8, to further assist in the concrete layer 13 application and
particularly with respect to multiple story or multiple level applications, one or more support
arches 70 may be secured to one or more bolts 30. The arches 70 may comprise strips of metal
or other rigid material and have a width that extends outwardly from the surface of the
wallboard 11. The arches 70 may be disposed between the wallboard 11 and the wire grid 12
and are provided in order to catch the concrete layer 13 during the spraying application. The
geometry and location of the arches 70 is not limited, and other similar strips may be provided
on the wallboard 11 to effectuate this purpose.
[0049] The wallboard 11 may comprise a variety of building construction materials known in
the art and is particularly useful because it provides both external and internal insulation in a
single, easy to install piece. In some embodiments, the wallboard 11 comprises a suitable
expanded polystyrene material providing insulative properties. In some embodiments, the
wallboard 11 comprises what is known in the art as "blueboard" which is configured to accept
and react with the cement layer 13 for optimal adhesion and durability. Other foam-like
materials may be utilized as wallboard 11 and such materials may be chemically treated to
accept adherence of cement. As is known in the art, "blueboard" is typically a foam-board
insulation material comprising polyisocyanurate, extruded polystyrene, expanded polystyrene
foam, and combinations thereof. The wallboard 11 material may be selected according to its "R
value" or thermal resistance value and may preferably have an R-value between 4.5 and 5.0,
which is typical of blueboard known in the art. However, in some embodiments the wallboard
11 comprises primarily expanded polystyrene which may have an R value of 12 or greater,
depending on the overall thickness. Such an R-value provides a significant improvement over
typical construction methods. It is appreciated, that other materials including composite
styrofoam, foam and foam-like boards known in the art are contemplated, provided they have
improved insulation, strength, and plaster/cement adherence characteristics. In any event, it is
appreciate that the present invention provides a significant advantage over the prior art because

                                                  16
the wallboard 11 provides both internal and external insulation as well as providing a surface for
the concrete layer 13 to adhere to.
[0050] The application of the concrete layer 13 is quickest and most efficient when sprayed, as
shown in FIG. 9. The concrete mix can be customized with additives to get better adherence to
the wallboard 11 and can be adjusted as to drying time. Further use of elastomeric additives to
the concrete reduces cracking of the concrete surface, and helps in creating a watertight
envelope. The thickness of the concrete is a function of the strength desired and for commercial
type installation it may be increased.
[0051] As mentioned above, interior walls can be covered with typical drywall materials and if
additional insulation is desired it can accomplished by using blown in insulation, batting, or
board type, installed on the interior side 102 of the frame 10. However, additional insulation is
not necessary in most instances because of the substantial external and internal insulative
properties of the extended wallboard 11. The exterior concrete, after curing, can be painted or
finished with a finishing material such as stucco to provide the desired appearance. When
constructing multiple identical units, the product can be quickly assembled and made ready for
use. The method of construction of the units consists of fabricating the frames, marking the
frames, assembling the frames in the walls, trusses and assemblies, covering the exterior walls
with the wall board, adding the grid to the exterior surface of the wall board; spraying the
exterior with wall board with the desired amount of cement; allowing the concrete to cure. By
following these steps a very strong structure for an affordable quickly built housing or
commercial units is obtained.
[0052] The combined concrete, with board and frame structure creates a composite structure
with unexpected strong properties to resist earthquake, hurricane and other disruptive effects as
well as provide incredible internal and external insulative properties for the given weight and
cost of the materials. The final product has superior strength for a housing unit that can be
quickly and economically constructed with a labor for having minimal skill sets. There are
numerous variations that can be employed with respect to the materials selected in order to meet
the local conditions and to accommodate the need being addressed.
[0053] The instant invention has been shown and described herein in what is considered to be
the most practical and preferred embodiments. It is recognized, however, that departures may be

                                               17
made therefrom within the scope of the invention and that obvious modifications will occur to a
person skilled in the art.

                                                  18
CLAIMS
1.     A composite building construction system, comprising:
       a frame;
       wallboard comprising an outer portion and inset portion, said wallboard being attached to
said frame with said outer portion covering an exterior side of said frame and said inset portion
being disposed within said frame, said wallboard providing exterior and interior insulation for
said system;
       a concrete layer provided on said outer portion of said wallboard; and
       one or more rebar supports attached to said frame at said exterior side of said frame.
2.     The composite building structure of claim 1, wherein said rebar supports are secured to one
or more key bolts lockingly engaged with said frame.
3.     The composite building construction system of claim 2, further comprising a wire grid
attached to said one or more key bolts and spaced apart from said wallboard, said grid and said
rebar supports providing a support structure for said concrete layer.
4.     The composite building construction system of claim 1, wherein said concrete layer has a
thickness of 3 inches (80 mm).
5.     The composite building construction system of claim 1, wherein said frame includes a
plurality of outer framing members and one or more cross members.
6.     The composite building construction system of claim 5, wherein said inset portion of said
wallboard includes one or more channels configured to accommodate said one or more cross
members of said frame.
7.     The composite building construction system of claim 5, wherein said outer framing
members and said one or more cross members include one or more apertures for the routing of
electrical wires or plumbing.
8.     The composite building construction system of claim 7, wherein said apertures are adapted
to receive conduits for protecting said electrical wires and said plumbing.

                                                  19
9.     The composite building construction system of claim 1, further comprising one or more
guide wires attached to said frame by said key bolts at said exterior side of said frame, said guide
wires spaced apart from said wallboard and adapted to indicated the depth of said concrete layer.
10.    The composite building construction system of claim 1 wherein said frame member is
prefabricated and coded for assembly.
11.    The composite building construction system of claim 1, wherein an interior side of said
frame is configured to receive drywall.
12.    The composite building construction system of claim 1, wherein said frame comprises
steel.
13.    The composite building construction system of claim 1, wherein said wallboard comprises
expanded polystyrene.
14.    The composite building construction system of claim 1, wherein the depth of said inset
portion of said wallboard is greater than the depth of said outer portion of said wallboard.
15.    The composite building construction system of claim 1, wherein said wallboard to attached
to said frame by an adhesive.
16.    A method of building construction, comprising:
       providing one or more frame sections;
       attaching wallboard to said frame sections, said wallboard comprising an outer portion and
inset portion wherein said wallboard is attached to said frame with said outer portion covering an
exterior side of said frame and said inset portion is disposed within said frame, said wallboard
providing exterior and interior insulation for said frame;
       attaching one or more rebar supports to said frame at said exterior side of said frame , said
rebar supports spaced apart from said wallboard;
       attaching a wire grid to said wallboard such that said wire grid is spaced apart from said
wallboard; and
       spraying a concrete layer over said wallboard and said wire grid.

                                                  20
17.   The method of claim 14, further comprising the step of:
      after providing the one or more frame sections and before attaching wallboard to said
frame sections, assembling said one or more frame sections to form a housing unit.
18.   The method of claim 14, wherein said one or more frame sections are prefabricated and
coded according to a building construction plan.
19.   The method of claim 14, wherein said frame comprises steel and said wallboard comprises
expanded polystyrene.
20.    A composite building construction system, comprising:
        a frame, wallboard, and a concrete layer;
        said wallboard comprising an outer portion and inset portion;
        wherein said wallboard is attached to said frame with said outer portion covering an
exterior side of said frame and said inset portion is disposed within said frame, said wallboard
providing exterior and interior insulation for said system; and wherein said concrete layer is
provided on said outer portion of said wallboard.
21.   A method of building construction, comprising:
        providing one or more frame sections;
        attaching wallboard to said frame sections, said wallboard comprising an outer portion
and inset portion wherein said wallboard is attached to said frame with said outer portion
covering an exterior side of said frame and said inset portion is disposed within said frame, said
wallboard providing exterior and interior insulation for said frame;
        attaching one or more rebar supports to said frame, said rebar support spaced apart from
said wallboard;
        attaching a wire grid to said wallboard such that said wire grid is spaced apart from said
wallboard; and
        spraying a concrete layer over said wallboard and said wire grid.
                                         Spray Rock LLC
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701> <U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701> <U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701> <U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701> <U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701> <U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701> <U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701> <U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701> <U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701> <U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702><U+2701> <U+2702>

