ABSTRACT
METHODS FOR TREATING HEPATITIS C
Pan-genotypic HCV inhibitors are described. This invention also relates to methods of using these
inhibitors to treat HCV infection.

                                 METHODS FOR TREATING
                                              HEPATITIS C
The present application is a divisional of AU 2013318302, which is the national phase entry of
PCT/US2013/060103, the entire specifications of which are incorporated herein by cross-reference.
                                                  FIELD
    10001] The present invention relates to pan-genotypic HCV inhibitors and methods of using the
same to treat HCV infection.
                                             BACKGROUND
    10002] Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is an RNA virus belonging to the Hepacivirus genus in the
Flaviviridae family. The enveloped HCV virion contains a positive stranded RNA genome encoding
all known virus-specific proteins in a single, uninterrupted, open reading frame. The open reading
frame comprises approximately 9500 nucleotides and encodes a single large polyprotein of about 3000
amino acids. The polyprotein comprises a core protein, envelope proteins El and E2, a membrane
bound protein p7, and the non-structural proteins NS2, NS3, NS4A, NS4B, NS5A and NS5B.
    10003] HCV infection is associated with progressive liver pathology, including cirrhosis and
hepatocellular carcinoma. Chronic hepatitis C may be treated with peginterferon-alpha in combination
with ribavirin. Substantial limitations to efficacy and tolerability remain as many users suffer from side
effects, and viral elimination from the body is often inadequate. Therefore, there is a need for new
drugs to treat HCV infection.
                                                SUMMARY
    10004] It was surprisingly discovered that methyl {(2S,3R)-1-[(2S)-2-{5-[(2R,5R)-1- {3,5-difluoro
4-[4-(4-fluorophenyl)piperidin-1-yl]phenyl}-5-(6-fluoro-2-{(2S)-1-[N-(methoxycarbonyl)-O-methyl
L-threonyl]pyrrolidin-2-yl}-1H-benzimidazol-5-yl)pyrrolidin-2-yl]-6-fluoro-1H-benzimidazol-2
yl}pyrrolidin-1-yl]-3-methoxy-1-oxobutan-2-yl}carbamate          (hereinafter  "Compound     I") and its
pharmaceutically acceptable salts are pan-genotypic HCV inhibitors. These compounds are effective
in inhibiting a wide array of HCV genotypes and variants, such as HCV genotype 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6.
10005]           Accordingly, a first aspect of the invention features methods for treating HCV. The
methods comprise administering an effective amount of Compound 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof to an HCV patient, regardless of the specific HCV genotype(s) that the patient has.
Therefore, the patient preferably is not genotyped before the treatment, and the treatment can be initiated
without pre-screening the patient for specific HCV genotypes.
10006]           In one embodiment of this aspect of the invention, the patient is infected with genotype
2, such as genotype 2a or 2b. In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention, the patient is
infected with genotype 3, such as genotype 3a. In another embodiment of this aspect of the
                                                     1

invention, the patient is infected with genotype 4, such as genotype 4a. In yet another embodiment of
this aspect of the invention, the patient is infected with genotype 5, such as genotype 5a. In still yet
embodiment of this aspect of the invention, the patient is infected with genotype 6, such as genotype
6a.
100071            In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention, Compound I or the salt thereof
is combined or co-administered with another anti-HCV agent. Non-limiting examples of said another
anti-HCV agent include HCV polymerase inhibitors, HCV protease inhibitors, other HCV NS5A
inhibitors, CD81 inhibitors, cyclophilin inhibitors, or internal ribosome entry site (IRES) inhibitors.
In one example, the patient is infected with genotype 2, such as genotype 2a or 2b.          In another
example, the patient is infected with genotype 3, such as genotype 3a. In another example, the patient
is infected with genotype 4, such as genotype 4a. In yet another example, the patient is infected with
genotype 5, such as genotype 5a. In still yet another example, the patient is infected with genotype 6,
such as genotype 6a.
10008]            In yet another embodiment of this aspect of the invention, Compound I or the salt
thereof is combined or co-administered with an HCV protease inhibitor or an HCV polymerase
inhibitor. In one example, the patient is infected with genotype 2, such as genotype 2a or 2b. In
another example, the patient is infected with genotype 3, such as genotype 3a. In another example,
the patient is infected with genotype 4, such as genotype 4a. In yet another example, the patient is
infected with genotype 5, such as genotype 5a. In still yet another example, the patient is infected
with genotype 6, such as genotype 6a.
[0009]            In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention, Compound 1 or the salt thereof
is combined or co-administered with an HCV protease inhibitor.           In one example, the patient is
infected with genotype 2, such as genotype 2a or 2b. In another example, the patient is infected with
genotype 3, such as genotype 3a. In another example, the patient is infected with genotype 4, such as
genotype 4a. In yet another example, the patient is infected with genotype 5, such as genotype 5a. In
still yet another example, the patient is infected with genotype 6, such as genotype 6a.
[0010]            In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention, Compound 1 or the salt thereof
is combined or co-administered with an HCV polymerase inhibitor. In one example, the patient is
infected with genotype 2, such as genotype 2a or 2b. In another example, the patient is infected with
genotype 3, such as genotype 3a. In another example, the patient is infected with genotype 4, such as
genotype 4a. In yet another example, the patient is infected with genotype 5, such as genotype 5a. In
still yet another example, the patient is infected with genotype 6, such as genotype 6a.
[0011]            In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention, Compound 1 or the salt thereof
is combined or co-administered with an HCV protease inhibitor and an HCV polymerase inhibitor. In
one example, the patient is infected with genotype 2, such as genotype 2a or 2b. In another example,
the patient is infected with genotype 3, such as genotype 3a. In another example, the patient is
                                                     2

infected with genotype 4, such as genotype 4a. In yet another example, the patient is infected with
genotype 5, such as genotype 5a. In still yet another example, the patient is infected with genotype 6,
such as genotype 6a.
10012]           In this aspect of the invention, as well as each and every embodiment and example
described hereunder, the treatment preferably lasts for less than 24 weeks and does not include
administration of interferon to said patient.         Such a treatment can, for example, comprise
administering Compound 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, together with an HCV
protease inhibitor or an HCV polymerase inhibitor or a combination of an HCV protease inhibitor and
an HCV polymerase inhibitor, to said patient. For example, the treatment can comprise administering
Compound 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, together with an HCV protease inhibitor,
to said patient. For another example, the treatment can comprise administering Compound I or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, together with an HCV polymerase inhibitor, to said patient.
For yet another example, the treatment can comprise administering Compound                     I or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, together with a combination of an HCV protease inhibitor
and an HCV polymerase inhibitor, to said patient.
10013]           In this aspect of the invention, as well as each and every embodiment and example
described hereunder, the treatment preferably lasts for no more than 12 weeks (e.g., the treatment lasts
for 8, 9, 11, 11, or 12 weeks; preferably, the treatment lasts for 12 weeks), and does not include
administration of interferon to said patient.         Such a treatment can, for example, comprise
administering Compound 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, together with an HCV
protease inhibitor or an HCV polymerase inhibitor or a combination of an HCV protease inhibitor and
an HCV polymerase inhibitor, to said patient. For example, the treatment can comprise administering
Compound 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, together with an HCV protease inhibitor,
to said patient. For another example, the treatment can comprise administering Compound 1 or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, together with an HCV polymerase inhibitor, to said patient.
For yet another example, the treatment can comprise administering                   Compound   1 or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, together with a combination of an HCV protease inhibitor
and an HCV polymerase inhibitor, to said patient.
10014]           In this aspect of the invention, as well as each and every embodiment and example
described hereunder, the treatment may or may not include administration of ribavirin to said patient;
for example, the treatment can include administration of ribavirin to said patient.
10015]           In a second aspect, the present invention features methods of treating HCV. The
methods comprising administering an effective amount of Compound 1 or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof to an HCV patient, wherein said patient is infected with HCV genotype 2, 3, 4,
5, or 6.
                                                    3

[0016]            In one embodiment of this aspect of the invention, the patient is infected with
genotype 2, such as genotype 2a or 2b. In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention, the
patient is infected with genotype 3, such as genotype 3a. In another embodiment of this aspect of the
invention, the patient is infected with genotype 4, such as genotype 4a. In yet another embodiment of
this aspect of the invention, the patient is infected with genotype 5, such as genotype 5a. In still yet
embodiment of this aspect of the invention, the patient is infected with genotype 6, such as genotype
6a.
[00171            In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention, Compound 1 or the salt thereof
is combined or co-administered with another anti-HCV agent. Non-limiting examples of said another
anti-HCV agent include HCV polymerase inhibitors, HCV protease inhibitors, other HCV NS5A
inhibitors, CD81 inhibitors, cyclophilin inhibitors, or internal ribosome entry site (IRES) inhibitors.
In one example, the patient is infected with genotype 2, such as genotype 2a or 2b.          In another
example, the patient is infected with genotype 3, such as genotype 3a. In another example, the patient
is infected with genotype 4, such as genotype 4a. In yet another example, the patient is infected with
genotype 5, such as genotype 5a. In still yet another example, the patient is infected with genotype 6,
such as genotype 6a.
10018]            In yet another embodiment of this aspect of the invention, Compound 1 or the salt
thereof is combined or co-administered with an HCV protease inhibitor or an HCV polymerase
inhibitor. In one example, the patient is infected with genotype 2, such as genotype 2a or 2b. In
another example, the patient is infected with genotype 3, such as genotype 3a. In another example,
the patient is infected with genotype 4, such as genotype 4a. In yet another example, the patient is
infected with genotype 5, such as genotype 5a. In still yet another example, the patient is infected
with genotype 6, such as genotype 6a.
[0019]            In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention, Compound 1 or the salt thereof
is combined or co-administered with an HCV protease inhibitor.           In one example, the patient is
infected with genotype 2, such as genotype 2a or 2b. In another example, the patient is infected with
genotype 3, such as genotype 3a. In another example, the patient is infected with genotype 4, such as
genotype 4a. In yet another example, the patient is infected with genotype 5, such as genotype 5a. In
still yet another example, the patient is infected with genotype 6, such as genotype 6a.
[00201            In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention, Compound I or the salt thereof
is combined or co-administered with an HCV polymerase inhibitor. In one example, the patient is
infected with genotype 2, such as genotype 2a or 2b. In another example, the patient is infected with
genotype 3, such as genotype 3a. In another example, the patient is infected with genotype 4, such as
genotype 4a. In yet another example, the patient is infected with genotype 5, such as genotype 5a. In
still yet another example, the patient is infected with genotype 6, such as genotype 6a.
                                                     4

[0021]           In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention, Compound 1 or the salt thereof
is combined or co-administered with an HCV protease inhibitor and an HCV polymerase inhibitor. In
one example, the patient is infected with genotype 2, such as genotype 2a or 2b. In another example,
the patient is infected with genotype 3, such as genotype 3a. In another example, the patient is
infected with genotype 4, such as genotype 4a. In yet another example, the patient is infected with
genotype 5, such as genotype 5a. In still yet another example, the patient is infected with genotype 6,
such as genotype 6a.
[0022]           In this aspect of the invention, as well as each and every embodiment and example
described hereunder, the treatment preferably lasts for less than 24 weeks and does not include
administration of interferon to said patient.         Such a treatment can, for example, comprise
administering Compound 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, together with an HCV
protease inhibitor or an HCV polymerase inhibitor or a combination of an HCV protease inhibitor and
an HCV polymerase inhibitor, to said patient. For example, the treatment can comprise administering
Compound 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, together with an HCV protease inhibitor,
to said patient. For another example, the treatment can comprise administering Compound 1 or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, together with an HCV polymerase inhibitor, to said patient.
For yet another example, the treatment can comprise administering                 Compound     1 or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, together with a combination of an HCV protease inhibitor
and an HCV polymerase inhibitor, to said patient.
[0023]           In this aspect of the invention, as well as each and every embodiment and example
described hereunder, the treatment preferably lasts for no more than 12 weeks (e.g., the treatment lasts
for 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 weeks; preferably, the treatment lasts for 12 weeks), and does not include
administration of interferon to said patient.      Such a the treatment can, for example, comprise
administering Compound 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, together with an HCV
protease inhibitor or an HCV polymerase inhibitor or a combination of an HCV protease inhibitor and
an HCV polymerase inhibitor, to said patient. For example, the treatment can comprise administering
Compound 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, together with an HCV protease inhibitor,
to said patient. For another example, the treatment can comprise administering Compound 1 or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, together with an HCV polymerase inhibitor, to said patient.
For yet another example, the treatment can comprise administering                 Compound     1 or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, together with a combination of an HCV protease inhibitor
and an HCV polymerase inhibitor, to said patient.
[0024]           In this aspect of the invention, as well as each and every embodiment and example
described hereunder, the treatment may or may not include administration of ribavirin to said patient;
for example, the treatment includes administration of ribavirin to said patient.
                                                    5

[00251            The present invention also features Compound 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof for use to treat an HCV patient regardless of the specific HCV genotype(s) that the patient has.
Such uses are illustrated in the first aspect of the invention described above, including each and every
embodiment and example described thereunder.
[0026]            The present invention further features Compound 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof for use to treat an HCV patient infected with HCV genotype 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6. Such uses are
illustrated in the second aspect of the invention described above, including each and every
embodiment and example described thereunder.
[00271            Other features, objects, and advantages of the present invention are apparent in the
detailed description that follows. It should be understood, however, that the detailed description,
while indicating preferred embodiments of the invention, are given by way of illustration only, not
limitation. Various changes and modifications within the scope of the invention will become apparent
to those skilled in the art from the detailed description.
                                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0028]            Compound 1, also known as methyl {(2S,3R)-1-[(2S)-2-{5-[(2R,5R)-1-{3,5-difluoro
4-[4-(4-fluorophenyl)piperidin-1-yl]phenyl}-5-(6-fluoro-2-{(2S)-1-[N-(methoxycarbonyl)-O-methyl
L-threonyl]pyrrolidin-2-yl}-1H-benzimidazol-5-yl)pyrrolidin-2-yl]-6-fluoro-1H-benzimidazol-2
yl}pyrrolidin-1-yl]-3-methoxy-1-oxobutan-2-yl}carbamate,        is described in U.S. Patent Application
Publication No. 2012/0004196, the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                                           F
                                                           N
                                                     F           F
                                                    F            F
                                                           N              N
                                     N
                                     /N
                                    00
                                                    Compound 1
[0029]            Compound 1 was found to have          EC50  values of less than 10 pM against stable
subgenomic replicons with NS5A from a broad range of clinically relevant HCV genotypes, such as
                                                      6

HCV genotype la, lb, 2a, 2b, 3a, 4a, 5a, and 6a. In transient subgenomic replicon assays, Compound
1 was found to have    EC5 0 values of less than 5 pM against many HCV variants that are resistant to
other NS5A inhibitors, such as genotype 2a T24A variant, genotype 2b L28F and L3 V variants,
genotype 3a M28T and Y93H variants, genotype 4a L28V and L30H variants, genotype 5a L281,
L31F and L31V variants, and genotype 6a L31V, T58N and T58A variants. The              EC5 0  values were
determined in the presence of 5% fetal bovine serum but in the absence of human plasma according to
the procedures described below.
[0030]           The present invention features the use of Compound 1 or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof to treat HCV as described hereinabove. In any method or use described herein,
Compound 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof can be formulated in a suitable liquid or
solid dosage form. Preferably, Compound 1 or the salt thereof is formulated in a solid composition
comprising Compound 1 (or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof) in amorphous form, a
pharmaceutically acceptable hydrophilic polymer, and optionally a pharmaceutically acceptable
surfactant.
[0031]           A non-limiting way to form an amorphous form of Compound                        1 (or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof) is through the formation of solid dispersions with a
polymeric carrier. As used herein, the term "solid dispersion" defines a system in a solid state (as
opposed to a liquid or gaseous state) comprising at least two components, wherein one component is
dispersed throughout the other component or components.         For example, an active ingredient or a
combination of active ingredients can be dispersed in a matrix comprised of a pharmaceutically
acceptable hydrophilic polymer(s) and a pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant(s). The term "solid
dispersion" encompasses systems having small particles of one phase dispersed in another phase.
These particles are often of less than 400 tm in size, such as less than 100, 10, or 1 tm in size. When
a solid dispersion of the components is such that the system is chemically and physically uniform or
homogenous throughout or consists of one phase (as defined in thermodynamics), such a solid
dispersion is called a "solid solution."    A glassy solution is a solid solution in which a solute is
dissolved in a glassy solvent.
[0032]           Any method described herein can employ a solid composition which comprises (1)
Compound      1 (or a pharmaceutically        acceptable  salt thereof) in amorphous        form,   (2) a
pharmaceutically acceptable hydrophilic polymer, and (3) a pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant.
Compound 1 (or the salt thereof) and the polymer preferably are formulated in a solid dispersion. The
surfactant may also be formulated in the same solid dispersion; or the surfactant can be separately
combined or mixed with the solid dispersion.
[0033]           The hydrophilic polymer can, for example and without limitation, have a T9 of at least
50 C, more preferably at least 60 C, and highly preferably at least 80 'C including, but not limited to
from, 80 'C to 180 'C, or from 100 'C to 150 'C.         Preferably, the hydrophilic polymer is water
                                                     7

soluble. Non-limiting examples of suitable hydrophilic polymers include, but are not limited to,
homopolymers or copolymers of N-vinyl lactams, such as homopolymers or copolymers of N-vinyl
pyrrolidone (e.g., polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP), or copolymers of N-vinyl pyrrolidone and vinyl
acetate or vinyl propionate); cellulose esters or cellulose ethers, such as alkylcelluloses (e.g.,
methylcellulose      or    ethylcellulose),   hydroxyalkylcelluloses     (e.g.,   hydroxypropylcellulose),
hydroxyalkylalkylcelluloses      (e.g.,  hydroxypropylmethylcellulose),     and cellulose phthalates     or
succinates    (e.g.,   cellulose   acetate   phthalate    and   hydroxypropylmethylcellulose    phthalate,
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose succinate, or hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate succinate); high
molecular polyalkylene oxides, such as polyethylene oxide, polypropylene oxide, and copolymers of
ethylene oxide and propylene oxide; polyacrylates or polymethacrylates, such as methacrylic
acid/ethyl   acrylate    copolymers,      methacrylic    acid/methyl  methacrylate     copolymers,   butyl
methacrylate/2-dimethylaminoethyl        methacrylate copolymers, poly(hydroxyalkyl acrylates), and
poly(hydroxyalkyl methacrylates); polyacrylamides; vinyl acetate polymers, such as copolymers of
vinyl acetate and crotonic acid, and partially hydrolyzed polyvinyl acetate (also referred to as partially
saponified "polyvinyl alcohol"); polyvinyl alcohol; oligo- or polysaccharides, such as carrageenans,
galactomannans,      and xanthan gum; polyhydroxyalkylacrylates;         polyhydroxyalkyl-methacrylates;
copolymers of methyl methacrylate and acrylic acid; polyethylene glycols (PEGs); or any mixture
thereof.
[0034]            Non-limiting       examples     of     preferred    hydrophilic     polymers     include
polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP) K17, PVP K25, PVP K30, PVP K90, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose
(HPMC) E3, HPMC E5, HPMC E6, HPMC E15, HPMC K3, HPMC A4, HPMC A15, HPMC acetate
succinate (AS) LF, HPMC AS MF, HPMC AS HF, HPMC AS LG, HPMC AS MG, HPMC AS HG,
HPMC phthalate (P) 50, HPMC P 55, Ethocel 4, Ethocel 7, Ethocel 10, Ethocel 14, Ethocel 20,
copovidone       (vinylpyrrolidone-vinyl       acetate      copolymer     60/40),    polyvinyl     acetate,
methacrylate/methacrylic      acid copolymer (Eudragit) L100-55, Eudragit L100, Eudragit S100,
polyethylene glycol (PEG) 400, PEG 600, PEG 1450, PEG 3350, PEG 4000, PEG 6000, PEG 8000,
poloxamer 124, poloxamer 188, poloxamer 237, poloxamer 338, and poloxamer 407.
[00351            Of these, homopolymers or copolymers of N-vinyl pyrrolidone, such as copolymers
of N-vinyl pyrrolidone and vinyl acetate, are preferred.          A non-limiting example of a preferred
polymer is a copolymer of 60 % by weight of N-vinyl pyrrolidone and 40 % by weight of vinyl
acetate.   Other preferred polymers include, without limitation, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose
(HPMC, also known as hypromellose in USP), such as hydroxypropyl methylcellulose grade E5
(HPMC-E5); and hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate succinate (HPMC-AS).
[0036]            The pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant employed can be a non-ionic surfactant.
Preferably, the surfactant has an HLB value of from 2-20. A solid composition employed in the
invention can also include a mixture of pharmaceutically acceptable surfactants, with at least one
                                                       8

surfactant having an HLB value of at least 10 and at least another surfactant having an HLB value of
below 10.
[0037]           Non-limiting examples of suitable pharmaceutically acceptable surfactants include
polyoxyethylene castor oil derivates, e.g. polyoxyethyleneglycerol triricinoleate or polyoxyl 35 castor
oil (Cremophor@ EL; BASF Corp.) or polyoxyethyleneglycerol oxystearate such as polyethylenglycol
40 hydrogenated castor oil (Cremophor@ RH 40, also known as polyoxyl 40 hydrogenated castor oil
or macrogolglycerol hydroxystearate) or polyethylenglycol 60 hydrogenated castor oil (Cremophor@
RH 60); or a mono fatty acid ester of polyoxyethylene sorbitan, such as a mono fatty acid ester of
polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan, e.g. polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan monooleate (Tween@ 80),
polyoxyethylene     (20)  sorbitan   monostearate      (Tween@     60),   polyoxyethylene    (20)   sorbitan
monopalmitate (Tween@ 40), or polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan monolaurate (Tween@ 20). Other
non-limiting   examples    of suitable     surfactants   include polyoxyethylene       alkyl   ethers,   e.g.
polyoxyethylene (3) lauryl ether, polyoxyethylene (5) cetyl ether, polyoxyethylene (2) stearyl ether,
polyoxyethylene (5) stearyl ether; polyoxyethylene alkylaryl ethers, e.g. polyoxyethylene (2)
nonylphenyl ether, polyoxyethylene (3) nonylphenyl ether, polyoxyethylene (4) nonylphenyl ether,
polyoxyethylene (3) octylphenyl ether; polyethylene glycol fatty acid esters, e.g. PEG-200
monolaurate, PEG-200 dilaurate, PEG-300 dilaurate, PEG-400 dilaurate, PEG-300 distearate, PEG
300 dioleate;    alkylene glycol     fatty acid mono       esters, e.g. propylene     glycol monolaurate
(Lauroglycol*); sucrose fatty acid esters, e.g. sucrose monostearate, sucrose distearate, sucrose
monolaurate, sucrose dilaurate; sorbitan fatty acid mono esters such as sorbitan mono laurate (Span*
20), sorbitan monooleate, sorbitan monopalnitate (Span* 40), or sorbitan stearate.           Other suitable
surfactants include, but are not limited to, block copolymers of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide,
also   known    as   polyoxyethylene     polyoxypropylene      block    copolymers   or polyoxyethylene
polypropyleneglycol, such as Poloxamer@ 124, Poloxamer@ 188, Poloxamer@ 237, Poloxamer@
388, or Poloxamer@ 407 (BASF Wyandotte Corp.). As described above, a mixture of surfactants can
be used in a solid composition employed in the invention.
[0038]           Non-limiting examples of preferred surfactants include polysorbate 20, polysorbate
40, polysorbate 60, polysorbate 80, Cremophor RH 40, Cremophor EL, Gelucire 44/14, Gelucire
50/13, D-alpha-tocopheryl polyethylene glycol 1000 succinate (vitamin E TPGS), propylene glycol
laurate, sodium lauryl sulfate, and sorbitan monolaurate.
[0039]           The solid dispersion employed in this invention preferably is a solid solution, and
more preferably a glassy solution.
[0040]           In one embodiment, a solid composition employed in the invention comprises an
amorphous solid dispersion or solid solution which includes Compound 1 (or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof) and a pharmaceutically acceptable hydrophilic polymer.                   The solid
composition also includes a pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant which preferably is formulated in
                                                     9

the amorphous solid dispersion or solid solution.          The hydrophilic polymer can be selected, for
example, from the group consisting of homopolymer of N-vinyl lactam, copolymer of N-vinyl lactam,
cellulose ester, cellulose ether, polyalkylene oxide, polyacrylate, polymethacrylate, polyacrylamide,
polyvinyl alcohol, vinyl acetate polymer, oligosaccharide, and polysaccharide.        As a non-limiting
example, the hydrophilic polymer is selected from the group consisting of homopolymer of N-vinyl
pyrrolidone, copolymer of N-vinyl pyrrolidone, copolymer of N-vinyl pyrrolidone and vinyl acetate,
copolymer of N-vinyl pyrrolidone and vinyl propionate, polyvinylpyrrolidone, methylcellulose,
ethylcellulose,    hydroxyalkylcelluloses,        hydroxypropylcellulose,     hydroxyalkylalkylcellulose,
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, cellulose phthalate, cellulose succinate, cellulose acetate phthalate,
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose            phthalate,         hydroxypropylmethylcellulose        succinate,
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate succinate, polyethylene oxide, polypropylene oxide, copolymer
of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide, methacrylic acid/ethyl acrylate copolymer, methacrylic
acid/methyl     methacrylate   copolymer,      butyl   methacrylate/2-dimethylaminoethyl    methacrylate
copolymer, poly(hydroxyalkyl acrylate), poly(hydroxyalkyl methacrylate), copolymer of vinyl acetate
and crotonic acid, partially hydrolyzed polyvinyl acetate, carrageenan, galactomannan, and xanthan
gum. Preferably, the hydrophilic polymer is selected from polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP) K17, PVP
K25, PVP K30, PVP K90, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (HPMC) E3, HPMC E5, HPMC E6,
HPMC E15, HPMC K3, HPMC A4, HPMC A15, HPMC acetate succinate (AS) LF, HPMC AS MF,
HPMC AS HF, HPMC AS LG, HPMC AS MG, HPMC AS HG, HPMC phthalate (P) 50, HPMC P
55, Ethocel 4, Ethocel 7, Ethocel 10, Ethocel 14, Ethocel 20, copovidone (vinylpyrrolidone-vinyl
acetate copolymer 60/40), polyvinyl acetate, methacrylate/methacrylic acid copolymer (Eudragit)
L100-55, Eudragit LIO,      Eudragit S100, polyethylene glycol (PEG) 400, PEG 600, PEG 1450, PEG
3350, PEG 4000, PEG 6000, PEG 8000, poloxamer 124, poloxamer 188, poloxamer 237, poloxamer
338, or poloxamer 407.     More preferably, the hydrophilic polymer is selected from homopolymers of
vinylpyrrolidone (e.g., PVP with Fikentscher K values of from 12 to 100, or PVP with Fikentscher K
values of from 17 to 30), or copolymers of 30 to 70% by weight of N-vinylpyrrolidone (VP) and 70 to
30% by weight of vinyl acetate (VA) (e.g., a copolymer of 60% by weight VP and 40% by weight
VA).      The    surfactant   can be      selected,   for   example,   from  the  group   consisting   of
polyoxyethyleneglycerol triricinoleate or polyoxyl 35 castor oil (Cremophor@ EL; BASF Corp.) or
polyoxyethyleneglycerol      oxystearate,    mono    fatty   acid  ester  of polyoxyethylene    sorbitan,
polyoxyethylene alkyl ether, polyoxyethylene alkylaryl ether, polyethylene glycol fatty acid ester,
alkylene glycol fatty acid mono ester, sucrose fatty acid ester, and sorbitan fatty acid mono ester. As
a non-limited example, the surfactant is selected from the group consisting of polyethylenglycol 40
hydrogenated castor oil (Cremophor@ RH 40, also known as polyoxyl 40 hydrogenated castor oil or
macrogolglycerol hydroxystearate), polyethylenglycol 60 hydrogenated castor oil (Cremophor@ RH
60), a mono fatty acid ester of polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan (e.g. polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan
                                                      10

monooleate       (Tween@     80),   polyoxyethylene     (20)    sorbitan  monostearate    (Tween@       60),
polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan monopalmitate          (Tween@ 40), or polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan
monolaurate (Tween@ 20)), polyoxyethylene (3)            lauryl ether, polyoxyethylene (5)      cetyl ether,
polyoxyethylene (2) stearyl ether, polyoxyethylene (5) stearyl ether, polyoxyethylene (2) nonylphenyl
ether,    polyoxyethylene     (3)   nonylphenyl    ether,    polyoxyethylene    (4)  nonylphenyl      ether,
polyoxyethylene (3) octylphenyl ether, PEG-200 monolaurate, PEG-200 dilaurate, PEG-300 dilaurate,
PEG-400 dilaurate, PEG-300 distearate, PEG-300 dioleate, propylene glycol monolaurate, sucrose
monostearate,     sucrose distearate, sucrose monolaurate, sucrose dilaurate, sorbitan monolaurate,
sorbitan monooleate, sorbitan monopalnitate, and sorbitan stearate.          Preferably, the surfactant is
selected from polysorbate 20, polysorbate 40, polysorbate 60, polysorbate 80, Cremophor RH 40,
Cremophor EL, Gelucire 44/14, Gelucire 50/13, D-alpha-tocopheryl polyethylene glycol 1000
succinate (vitamin E TPGS), propylene glycol laurate, sodium lauryl sulfate, or sorbitan monolaurate.
More preferably, the surfactant is selected from sorbitan monolaurate or D-alpha-tocopheryl
polyethylene glycol 1000 succinate.
[0041]             A solid dispersion employed in the invention preferably comprises or consists of a
single-phase (defined in thermodynamics) in which Compound 1, or a combination of Compound 1
and another anti-HCV agent, is molecularly dispersed in a matrix containing the pharmaceutically
acceptable hydrophilic polymer(s).       In such cases, thermal analysis of the solid dispersion using
differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) typically shows only one single Tg, and the solid dispersion
does not contain any detectable crystalline Compound 1 as measured by X-ray powder diffraction
spectroscopy.
[0042]             A solid composition employed in the invention can be prepared by a variety of
techniques such as, without limitation, melt-extrusion, spray-drying, co-precipitation, freeze drying,
or other solvent evaporation techniques, with melt-extrusion and spray-drying being preferred. The
melt-extrusion process typically comprises the steps of preparing a melt which includes the active
ingredient(s), the hydrophilic polymer(s) and preferably the surfactant(s), and then cooling the melt
until it solidifies. "Melting" means a transition into a liquid or rubbery state in which it is possible for
one component to get embedded, preferably homogeneously embedded, in the other component or
components. In many cases, the polymer component(s) will melt and the other components including
the active ingredient(s) and surfactant(s) will dissolve in the melt thereby forming a solution. Melting
usually involves heating above the softening point of the polymer(s). The preparation of the melt can
take place in a variety of ways. The mixing of the components can take place before, during or after
the formation of the melt. For example, the components can be mixed first and then melted or be
simultaneously mixed and melted. The melt can also be homogenized in order to disperse the active
ingredient(s) efficiently. In addition, it may be convenient first to melt the polymer(s) and then to mix
in and homogenize the active ingredient(s).      In one example, all materials except surfactant(s) are
                                                     11

blended and fed into an extruder, while the surfactant(s) is molten externally and pumped in during
extrusion.
[0043]            To start a melt-extrusion process, the active ingredient(s) (e.g., Compound 1, or a
combination of Compound 1 and at least another anti-HCV agent) can be employed in their solid
forms, such as their respective crystalline forms. The active ingredient(s) can also be employed as a
solution or dispersion in a suitable liquid solvent such as alcohols, aliphatic hydrocarbons, esters or, in
some cases, liquid carbon dioxide. The solvent can be removed, e.g. evaporated, upon preparation of
the melt.
[0044]            Various additives can also be included in the melt, for example, flow regulators (e.g.,
colloidal silica), binders, lubricants, fillers, disintegrants, plasticizers, colorants, or stabilizers (e.g.,
antioxidants, light stabilizers, radical scavengers, and stabilizers against microbial attack).
[00451            The melting and/or mixing can take place in an apparatus customary for this purpose.
Particularly suitable ones are extruders or kneaders.            Suitable extruders include single screw
extruders, intermeshing screw extruders or multiscrew extruders, preferably twin screw extruders,
which can be corotating or counterrotating and, optionally, be equipped with kneading disks. It will
be appreciated that the working temperatures will be determined by the kind of extruder or the kind of
configuration within the extruder that is used. Part of the energy needed to melt, mix and dissolve the
components in the extruder can be provided by heating elements. However, the friction and shearing
of the material in the extruder may also provide a substantial amount of energy to the mixture and aid
in the formation of a homogeneous melt of the components.
[0046]            The melt can range from thin to pasty to viscous. Shaping of the extrudate can be
conveniently carried out by a calender with two counter-rotating rollers with mutually matching
depressions on their surface. The extrudate can be cooled and allow to solidify. The extrudate can
also be cut into pieces, either before (hot-cut) or after solidification (cold-cut).
[00471            The solidified extrusion product can be further milled, ground or otherwise reduced to
granules. The solidified extrudate, as well as each granule produced, comprises a solid dispersion,
preferably a solid solution, of the active ingredient(s) in a matrix comprised of the hydrophilic
polymer(s) and optionally the pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant(s). Where the granules do not
contain any surfactant, a pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant described above can be added to and
blended with the granules. The extrusion product can also be blended with other active ingredient(s)
and/or additive(s) before being milled or ground to granules. The granules can be further processed
into suitable solid oral dosage forms.
[0048]            The approach of solvent evaporation, via spray-drying, provides the advantage of
allowing for processability at lower temperatures, if needed, and allows for other modifications to the
process in order to further improve powder properties.              The spray-dried powder can then be
                                                       12

formulated further, if needed, and final drug product is flexible with regards to whether capsule, tablet
or any other solid dosage form is desired.
[0049]            Exemplary spray-drying processes and spray-drying equipment are described in K.
Masters, SPRAY DRYING HANDBOOK (Halstead Press, New York,                   4 th ed., 1985).    Non-limiting
examples of spray-drying devices that are suitable for the present invention include spray dryers
manufactured by Niro Inc. or GEA Process Engineering Inc., Buchi Labortechnik AG, and Spray
Drying Systems, Inc. A spray-drying process generally involves breaking up a liquid mixture into
small droplets and rapidly removing solvent from the droplets in a container (spray drying apparatus)
where there is a strong driving force for evaporation of solvent from the droplets.             Atomization
techniques include, for example, two-fluid or pressure nozzles, or rotary atomizers.             The strong
driving force for solvent evaporation can be provided, for example, by maintaining the partial
pressure of solvent in the spray drying apparatus well below the vapor pressure of the solvent at the
temperatures of the drying droplets. This may be accomplished by either (1) maintaining the pressure
in the spray drying apparatus at a partial vacuum; (2) mixing the liquid droplets with a warm drying
gas (e.g., heated nitrogen); or (3) both.
[00501            The temperature and flow rate of the drying gas, as well as the spray dryer design, can
be selected so that the droplets are dry enough by the time they reach the wall of the apparatus. This
help to ensure that the dried droplets are essentially solid and can form a fine powder and do not stick
to the apparatus wall. The spray-dried product can be collected by removing the material manually,
pneumatically, mechanically or by other suitable means. The actual length of time to achieve the
preferred level of dryness depends on the size of the droplets, the formulation, and spray dryer
operation. Following the solidification, the solid powder may stay in the spray drying chamber for
additional time (e.g., 5-60 seconds) to further evaporate solvent from the solid powder. The final
solvent content in the solid dispersion as it exits the dryer is preferably at a sufficiently low level so as
to improve the stability of the final product. For instance, the residual solvent content of the spray
dried powder can be less than 2% by weight. Highly preferably, the residual solvent content is within
the limits set forth in the International Conference on Harmonization (ICH) Guidelines. In addition, it
may be useful to subject the spray-dried composition to further drying to lower the residual solvent to
even lower levels. Methods to further lower solvent levels include, but are not limited to, fluid bed
drying, infra-red drying, tumble drying, vacuum drying, and combinations of these and other
processes.
[00511            Like the solid extrudate described above, the spray dried product contains a solid
dispersion, preferably a solid solution, of the active ingredient(s) in a matrix comprised of the
hydrophilic polymer(s) and optionally the pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant(s). Where the spray
dried product does not contain any surfactant, a pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant described
above can be added to and blended with the spray-dried product before further processing.
                                                      13

[0052]            Before feeding into a spray dryer, the active ingredient(s) (e.g., Compound 1, or a
combination of Compound 1 and at least another anti-HCV agent), the hydrophilic polymer(s), as well
as other optional active ingredients or excipients such as the pharmaceutically               acceptable
surfactant(s), can be dissolved in a solvent. Suitable solvents include, but are not limited to, alkanols
(e.g., methanol, ethanol, 1-propanol, 2-propanol or mixtures thereof), acetone, acetone/water,
alkanol/water mixtures (e.g., ethanol/water mixtures), or combinations thereof. The solution can also
be preheated before being fed into the spray dryer.
[0053]            The solid dispersion produced by melt-extrusion, spray-drying or other techniques
can be prepared into any suitable solid oral dosage forms. In one embodiment, the solid dispersion
prepared by melt-extrusion, spray-drying or other techniques can be compressed into tablets. The
solid dispersion can be either directly compressed, or milled or ground to granules or powders before
compression. Compression can be done in a tablet press, such as in a steel die between two moving
punches. When a solid composition of the present invention comprises Compound 1 and another anti
HCV agent, it is possible to separately prepare solid dispersions of each individual active ingredient
and then blend the optionally milled or ground solid dispersions before compacting. Compound 1 and
other active ingredient(s) can also be prepared in the same solid dispersion, optionally milled and/or
blended with other additives, and then compressed into tablets.
[0054]            At least one additive selected from flow regulators, binders, lubricants, fillers,
disintegrants, or plasticizers may be used in compressing the solid dispersion. These additives can be
mixed with ground or milled solid dispersion before compacting. Various other additives may also be
used in preparing a solid composition of the present invention, for example dyes such as azo dyes,
organic or inorganic pigments such as aluminium oxide or titanium dioxide, or dyes of natural origin;
stabilizers such as antioxidants, light stabilizers, radical scavengers, stabilizers against microbial
attack.
[00551            In any aspect, embodiment and example described herein, Compound 1 (or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof) can be administered to an HCV patient in combination with
another anti-HCV agent.        Preferably, such a treatment does not include the use of interferon
throughout the treatment regimen.         The treatment regimen can last, for example and without
limitation, 24, 23, 22, 21, 20, 19, 18, 17, 16, 15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, 9 or 8 weeks. Preferably, the
treatment regimen last, for example and without limitation, 12 weeks. The treatment regimen may
also last less than 12 weeks, such as 11, 10, 9 or 8 weeks.
[0056]             Suitable anti-HCV agents that can be combined with Compound                  1 (or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof) include, but are not limited to, HCV polymerase inhibitors
(e.g., nucleoside polymerase inhibitors or non-nucleoside polymerase inhibitors), HCV protease
inhibitors, HCV helicase inhibitors, other HCV NS5A inhibitors, HCV entry inhibitors, cyclophilin
inhibitors, CD81 inhibitors, internal ribosome entry site inhibitors, or any combination thereof. For
                                                     14

instance, said another anti-HCV agent can be an HCV polymerase inhibitor. For another instance,
said another anti-HCV agent can be an HCV protease inhibitor.
[00571           Said another anti-HCV agent can also include two or more HCV inhibitors.          For
instance, said another anti-HCV agent can be a combination of an HCV polymerase inhibitor and an
HCV protease inhibitor. For another instance, said another anti-HCV agent can be a combination of
two different HCV protease inhibitors. For another instance, said another anti-HCV agent can be a
combination of two different HCV polymerase inhibitors (e.g., one is a nucleoside or nucleotide
polymerase inhibitor and the other is a non-nucleoside polymerase inhibitor; or both are nucleoside or
nucleotide polymerase inhibitors; or both are non-nucleoside polymerase inhibitor). In yet another
example, said another anti-HCV agent can be a combination of another HCV NS5A inhibitor and an
HCV polymerase inhibitor.         In yet another example, said another anti-HCV agent can be a
combination of another HCV NS5A inhibitor and an HCV protease inhibitor.              In still another
example, said another anti-HCV agent can be a combination of two other HCV NS5A inhibitors.
[00581           Specific examples of anti-HCV agents that are suitable for combination with
Compound 1 (or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof) in any aspect, embodiment or example
described herein include, but are not limited to, PSI-7977           (Pharmasset/Gilead),    PSI-7851
(Pharmasset/Gilead), PSI-938 (Pharmasset/Gilead), PF-00868554, ANA-598,            IDX184, IDX102,
IDX375, GS-9190, VCH-759, VCH-916, MK-3281, BCX-4678, MK-3281, VBY708, ANA598,
GL59728, GL60667, BMS-790052, BMS-791325, BMS-650032, BMS-824393, GS-9132, ACH
1095, AP-H005, A-831 (Arrow Therapeutics), A-689 (Arrow Therapeutics), INX08189 (Inhibitex),
AZD2836, telaprevir, boceprevir, ITIN-191 (Intermune/Roche), BI-201335, VBY-376, VX-500
(Vertex), PHX-B, ACH-1625, IDX136, IDX316, VX-813 (Vertex), SCH 900518 (Schering-Plough),
TMC-435 (Tibotec), ITMN-191 (Intermune, Roche), MK-7009 (Merck), IDX-PI (Novartis), BI
201335 (Boehringer Ingelheim), R7128 (Roche), MK-3281 (Merck), MK-0608 (Merck), PF-868554
(Pfizer), PF-4878691     (Pfizer), IDX-184 (Novartis), IDX-375, PPI-461 (Presidio), BILB-1941
(Boehringer Ingelheim), GS-9190 (Gilead), BMS-790052 (BMS), CTS-1027 (Conatus), GS-9620
(Gilead), PF-4878691 (Pfizer), R05303253 (Roche), ALS-2200 (Alios BioPharma/Vertex), ALS
2158 (Alios BioPharma/Vertex), GSK62336805 (GlaxoSmithKline), or any combinations thereof.
[00591           Non-limiting examples of HCV protease inhibitors that are suitable for combination
with Compound 1 (or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof) in any aspect, embodiment or
example described herein include ACH-1095 (Achillion), ACH-1625 (Achillion), ACH-2684
(Achillion), AVL-181 (Avila), AVL-192 (Avila), BI-201335 (Boehringer Ingelheim), BMS-650032
(BMS), boceprevir, danoprevir, GS-9132 (Gilead), GS-9256 (Gilead), GS-9451 (Gilead), IDX-136
(Idenix), IDX-316     (Idenix),    IDX-320 (Idenix),   MK-5172    (Merck),   narlaprevir,  PHX-1766
(Phenomix), telaprevir, TMC-435 (Tibotec), vaniprevir, VBY708 (Virobay), VX-500 (Vertex), VX
813 (Vertex), VX-985 (Vertex), or any combination thereof.         Non-limiting examples of HCV
                                                  15

polymerase inhibitors that are suitable for combination with Compound 1 (or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof) in any aspect, embodiment or example described herein include ANA-598
(Anadys), BI-207127 (Boehringer Ingelheim), BILB-1941 (Boehringer Ingelheim), BMS-791325
(BMS), filibuvir, GL59728 (Glaxo), GL60667 (Glaxo), GS-9669 (Gilead), IDX-375 (Idenix), MK
3281 (Merck), tegobuvir, TMC-647055 (Tibotec), VCH-759 (Vertex & ViraChem), VCH-916
(ViraChem), VX-222 (VCH-222) (Vertex & ViraChem), VX-759 (Vertex), GS-6620 (Gilead), IDX
102     (Idenix),   IDX-184     (Idenix),  INX-189      (Inhibitex),    MK-0608    (Merck),   PSI-7977
(Pharmasset/Gilead),     PSI-938   (Pharmasset/Gilead),    RG7128     (Roche),  TMC64912     (Medivir),
GSK625433 (GlaxoSmithKline), BCX-4678 (BioCryst), ALS-2200 (Alios BioPharma/Vertex), ALS
2158 (Alios BioPharma/Vertex), or any combination thereof. A polymerase inhibitor may be a
nucleotide polymerase inhibitor, such as GS-6620 (Gilead), IDX-102 (Idenix), IDX-184 (Idenix),
INX-189       (Inhibitex),    MK-0608       (Merck),      PSI-7977      (Pharmasset/Gilead),   PSI-938
(Pharmasset/Gilead), RG7128 (Roche), TMC64912 (Medivir), ALS-2200 (Alios BioPharma/Vertex),
ALS-2158 (Alios BioPharma/Vertex), or any combination therefore. A polymerase inhibitor may
also be a non-nucleoside polymerase inhibitor, such as ANA-598 (Anadys), BI-207127 (Boehringer
Ingelheim), BILB-1941 (Boehringer Ingelheim), BMS-791325 (BMS), filibuvir, GL59728 (Glaxo),
GL60667 (Glaxo), GS-9669 (Gilead), IDX-375 (Idenix), MK-3281 (Merck), tegobuvir, TMC-647055
(Tibotec), VCH-759 (Vertex & ViraChem), VCH-916 (ViraChem), VX-222 (VCH-222) (Vertex &
ViraChem), VX-759 (Vertex), or any combination thereof.              Non-limiting examples of NS5A
inhibitors that are suitable for combination with Compound 1 (or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof) in any aspect, embodiment           or example     described herein    include GSK62336805
(GlaxoSmithKline), ACH-2928 (Achillion), ACH-3102               (Achillion), AZD2836 (Astra-Zeneca),
AZD7295 (Astra-Zeneca), BMS-790052 (BMS), BMS-824393 (BMS), EDP-239 (Enanta/Novartis),
GS-5885 (Gilead), IDX-719 (Idenix), MK-8742 (Merck), PPI-1301 (Presidio), PPI-461 (Presidio), or
any combination thereof.       Non-limiting examples of cyclophilin inhibitors that are suitable for
combination with Compound 1 (or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof) in any aspect,
embodiment or example described herein include alisporovir (Novartis & Debiopharm), NM-811
(Novartis), SCY-635 (Scynexis), or any combination thereof. Non-limiting examples of HCV entry
inhibitors that are suitable for combination with Compound 1 (or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof) in any aspect, embodiment or example described herein include ITX-4520 (iTherx), ITX
5061 (iTherx), or a combination thereof.
[0060]            In any aspect, embodiment or example described herein, Compound 1 (or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof) can be administered, for example and without limitation,
concurrently with said anther anti-HCV agent. Compound 1 (or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof) can also be administered, for example and without limitation, sequentially with said another
anti-HCV agent. For instance, Compound 1 (or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof) can be
                                                   16

administered immediately before or after the administration of said another anti-HCV agent. The
frequency of administration may be the same or different.          For example, Compound 1 (or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof) and said another anti-HCV agent can be administered once
daily.  For another example, Compound 1 (or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof) can be
administered once daily, and said another anti-HCV agent can be administered twice daily.
[0061]           In any aspect, embodiment or example described herein, Compound 1 (or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof) can be co-formulated with said another anti-HCV agent in a
single dosage form. Non-limiting examples of suitable dosage forms include liquid or solid dosage
forms. Preferably, the dosage form is a solid dosage form. More preferably, the dosage form is a
solid dosage form in which Compound 1 (or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof) is in
amorphous form, or highly preferably molecularly dispersed in a matrix which comprises a
pharmaceutically acceptable water-soluble polymer and a pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant.
Said another anti-HCV agent can also be in amorphous form, or molecularly dispersed in the same
matrix or a different matrix which comprises a pharmaceutically acceptable water-soluble polymer
and a pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant. Said another anti-HCV agent can also be formulated in
different form(s) (e.g., in a crystalline form).
[0062]           As a non-limiting alternative, Compound 1 (or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof) and said another anti-HCV agent can be formulated in different dosage forms. For instance,
Compound 1 (or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof) and said another anti-HCV agent can be
formulated in different respective solid dosage forms.
[0063]           In any aspect, embodiment or example described herein, Compound 1 or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may be administered in a suitable amount such as, for
example, in doses of from about 0.1 mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg body weight, or from about 0.25
mg/kg to about 100 mg/kg, or from about 0.3 mg/kg to about 30 mg/kg. As another non-limiting
example, Compound 1 (or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof) may be administered in a total
daily dose amount of from about 5 mg to about 300 mg, or from about 25 mg to about 200 mg, or
from about 25 mg to about 50 mg or an amount there between. Single dose compositions may contain
such amounts or submultiples thereof to make up the daily dose.
[0064]           It will be understood, however, that the specific dose level for any particular patient
will depend upon a variety of factors including the activity of the specific compound employed, the
age, body weight, general health, sex, diet, time of administration, route of administration, rate of
excretion, drug combination, and the severity of the disease undergoing therapy.        It will also be
understood that the total daily dosage of the compounds and compositions to be administered will be
decided by the attending physician within the scope of sound medical judgment.
[00651           The following table lists non-limiting examples of a combination of Compound 1 (or
a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof) and another anti-HCV agent that can be used in any aspect,
                                                   17

embodiment or example described herein. For each treatment, Compound 1 (or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof) and said another anti-HCV agent can be administered daily to an HCV patient.
Each treatment can be interferon-free. Administration of ribavirin can be included in each regimen.
However, the present invention contemplates that each treatment regimen can be both interferon- and
ribavirin-free.   In addition, interferon and/or ribavirin can be included in each treatment regimen if
needed. Each treatment regimen may also optionally comprise administering one or more other anti
HCV agents to the patient. The duration of each treatment regimen may last, for example and without
limitation, 8-48 weeks, depending on the patient's response. In any given regimen described in Table
1, the drugs can be, for example and without limitation, co-formulated in a single solid dosage form.
For instance, all drugs used in a regimen can be co-formulated in amorphous forms or molecularly
dispersed in a matrix comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable water-soluble polymer and optionally
a pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant; for another instance, Compound 1 is formulated in
amorphous form or molecularly dispersed in a matrix comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable
water-soluble polymer and optionally a pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant, and the other drug is
in crystalline form(s) and combined with amorphous Compound 1 in a single solid dosage form. For
yet another instance, Compound 1 is formulated in a different dosage form than that of the other drug.
             Table 1. Non-Limiting Examples of Interferon-free Treatment Regimens
                                        (with or without ribavirin)
                Regimen                         Drugs used in the treatment
                    1          Compound 1 (or its salt)            ACH-1095 (Achillion)
                    2          Compound 1 (or its salt)            ACH-1625 (Achillion)
                    3          Compound 1 (or its salt)            ACH-2684 (Achillion)
                    4          Compound 1 (or its salt)            ACH-2928 (Achillion)
                    5          Compound 1 (or its salt)       alisporivir (Debio 025; Novartis)
                    6          Compound 1 (or its salt)                   ALS-2158
                    7          Compound 1 (or its salt)                   ALS-220o
                    8          Compound 1 (or its salt)        ANA-598 (setrobuvir, Anadys)
                    9          Compound 1 (or its salt)              ANA-773 (Anadys)
                   10          Compound 1 (or its salt)               AVL-181 (Avila)
                   11          Compound 1 (or its salt)               AVL-192 (Avila)
                   12          Compound 1 (or its salt)           AZD2836 (Astra-Zeneca)
                   13          Compound 1 (or its salt)           AZD7295 (Astra-Zeneca)
                   14          Compound 1 (or its salt)            BCX-4678 (BioCryst)
                   15          Compound 1 (or its salt)      BI-201335 (Boehringer Ingelheim)
                   16          Compound 1 (or its salt)      BI-207127 (Boehringer Ingelheim)
                                                     18

17 Compound 1 (or its salt) BILB-1941 (Boehringer Ingelheim)
18 Compound 1 (or its salt)         BMS-650032 (BMS)
19 Compound 1 (or its salt)         BMS-790052 (BMS)
20 Compound 1 (or its salt)         BMS-791325 (BMS)
21 Compound 1 (or its salt)         BMS-824393 (BMS)
22 Compound 1 (or its salt)              boceprevir
23 Compound 1 (or its salt)         CTS-1027 (Conatus)
24 Compound 1 (or its salt)              danoprevir
25 Compound 1 (or its salt)           VX-985 (Vertex)
26 Compound 1 (or its salt)   filibuvir (PF-00868554, Pfizer)
27 Compound 1 (or its salt)           GL59728 (Glaxo)
28 Compound 1 (or its salt)           GL60667 (Glaxo)
29 Compound 1 (or its salt)           GS-5885 (Gilead)
30 Compound 1 (or its salt)           GS-6620 (Gilead)
31 Compound 1 (or its salt)           GS-9132 (Gilead)
32 Compound 1 (or its salt)           GS-9256 (Gilead)
33 Compound 1 (or its salt)           GS-9451 (Gilead)
34 Compound 1 (or its salt)           GS-9620 (Gilead)
35 Compound 1 (or its salt)           GS-9669 (Gilead)
36 Compound 1 (or its salt)            GSK62336805
37 Compound 1 (or its salt)  GSK625433 (GlaxoSmithKline)
38 Compound 1 (or its salt)           IDX-102 (Idenix)
39 Compound 1 (or its salt)           IDX-136 (Idenix)
40 Compound 1 (or its salt)           IDX-184 (Idenix)
41 Compound 1 (or its salt)           IDX-316 (Idenix)
42 Compound 1 (or its salt)           IDX-320 (Idenix)
43 Compound 1 (or its salt)           IDX-375 (Idenix)
44 Compound 1 (or its salt)         INX-189 (Inhibitex)
45 Compound 1 (or its salt)          ITX-4520 (iTherx)
46 Compound 1 (or its salt)          ITX-5061 (iTherx)
47 Compound 1 (or its salt)          MK-0608 (Merck)
48 Compound 1 (or its salt)          MK-3281 (Merck)
45 Compound 1 (or its salt)          MK-5172 (Merck)
50 Compound 1 (or its salt)              narlaprevir
52 Compound 1 (or its salt)          NM-811 (Novartis)
                        19

53 Compound 1 (or its salt)        PF-4878691 (Pfizer)
54 Compound 1 (or its salt)      PHX-1766 (Phenomix)
55 Compound 1 (or its salt)        PPI-1301 (Presidio)
56 Compound 1 (or its salt)        PPI-461 (Presidio--)
57 Compound 1 (or its salt)  PSI-7977 (Pharmasset/Gilead)
58 Compound 1 (or its salt)  PSI-938 (Pharmasset/Gilead)
59 Compound 1 (or its salt) mericitabine (RG7128; Roche)
60 Compound 1 (or its salt)       R05303253 (Roche)
61 Compound 1 (or its salt)       SCY-635 (/Scynexis/)
62 Compound 1 (or its salt)             tegobuvir
63 Compound 1 (or its salt)             telaprevir
64 Compound 1 (or its salt)        TMC-435 (Tibotec)
65 Compound 1 (or its salt)      TMC-647055 (Tibotec)
66 Compound 1 (or its salt)       TMC64912 (Medivir)
67 Compound 1 (or its salt)             vaniprevir
68 Compound 1 (or its salt)        VBY708 (Virobay)
69 Compound 1 (or its salt) VCH-759 (Vertex & ViraChem)
70 Compound 1 (or its salt)      VCH-916 (ViraChem)
71 Compound 1 (or its salt) VX-222 (VCH-222) (Vertex &
                                       ViraChem)
72 Compound 1 (or its salt)         VX-500 (Vertex)
73 Compound 1 (or its salt)         VX-759 (Vertex)
74 Compound 1 (or its salt)         VX-813 (Vertex)
75 Compound 1 (or its salt)      TMC649128 (Medivir)
76 Compound 1 (or its salt)   tegobuvir (GS-9190; Gilead)
77 Compound 1 (or its salt)     GI-5005 (GlobeImmune)
78 Compound 1 (or its salt)        IMO-2125 (Idera//)
79 Compound 1 (or its salt)        ITX-5061 (ITheRx)
80 Compound 1 (or its salt)        miR-122 (Regulus)
81 Compound 1 (or its salt) Miravirsen (SPC3649; Santaris)
82 Compound 1 (or its salt)            ACH-3102
83 Compound 1 (or its salt)             EDP-239
84 Compound 1 (or its salt)              IDX-719
85 Compound 1 (or its salt)             MK-8742
                       20

[00661           It should be understood that the above-described embodiments and the following
examples are given by way of illustration, not limitation. Various changes and modifications within
the scope of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the present
description.
Example 1.       Antiviral Activity of Compound 1 in HCV Replicon Cell Culture Assays
[00671           The inhibitory activities of Compound 1 can be evaluated using the following
protocol.    Two genotype 1 stable subgenomic replicon cell lines can be used for compound
characterization in cell culture: one derived from genotype la-H77 and the other derived from
genotype lb-Conl. The replicon constructs can be bicistronic subgenomic replicons. The genotype la
replicon construct contains NS3-NS5B coding region derived from the H77 strain of HCV (la-H77).
The replicon also has a firefly luciferase reporter and a neomycin phosphotransferase (Neo) selectable
marker. These two coding regions, separated by the FMDV 2a protease, comprise the first cistron of
the bicistronic replicon construct, with the second cistron containing the NS3-NS5B coding region
with addition of adaptive mutations E1202G, K1691R, K2040R, and S22041. The lb-Conl replicon
construct is identical to the la-H77 replicon, except that the HCV 5' UTR, 3' UTR, and NS3-NS5B
coding region are derived from the lb-Conl strain, and the adaptive mutations are K1609E, K1846T,
and Y3005C.     In addition, the lb-Conl replicon construct contains a poliovirus IRES between the
HCV IRES and the luciferase gene. Replicon cell lines can be maintained in Dulbecco's modified
Eagles medium (DMEM) containing 10% (v/v) fetal bovine serum (FBS), 100 IU/ml penicillin, 100
mg/ml streptomycin (Invitrogen), and 200 mg/ml G418 (Invitrogen).              The inhibitory effects of
Compound 1 on HCV replication can be determined by measuring the luciferase reporter activity. For
example, replicon-containing cells can be seeded into 96-well plates at a density of 5000 cells per well
in 100 pl DMEM containing 5% FBS. The following day Compound 1 can be diluted in dimethyl
sulfoxide (DMSO) to generate a 200x stock in a series of eight half-log dilutions. The dilution series
can then be further diluted 100-fold in the medium containing 5% FBS. Medium with the inhibitor is
added to the overnight cell culture plates already containing 100 pl of DMEM with 5% FBS. The
cells can be incubated for three days in the tissue culture incubators after which time 30 pl of Passive
Lysis buffer (Promega) can be added to each well, and then the plates are incubated for 30-45 minutes
with rocking to lyse the cells. Luciferin solution (100     1, Promega) can be added to each well, and
luciferase activity can be measured with a Victor II luminometer (Perkin-Elmer).            The percent
inhibition of HCV RNA replication can be calculated for each compound concentration and the EC5 0
value can be calculated using nonlinear regression curve fitting to the 4-parameter logistic equation
and GraphPad Prism 4 software.
[0068]           The ability of Compound 1 to inhibit NS5A from non-genotype 1 HCV can be
evaluated according to the following. A number of stable subgenomic lb-Con1 replicon cell lines
                                                    21

containing a portion of NS5A from genotype 2a, 2b, 3a, 4a, 5a or 6a HCV are created. The replicon
construct contains a NotI restriction site upstream of NS5A, and a BlpI restriction site just after NS5A
amino acid 214.      HCV RNA from infected subjects is isolated (see Middleton et al., J VIROL
METHODS 145:137-145 (2007), and Tripathi et al., ANTIVIRAL RES 73:40-49 (2007)), and RT-PCR is
conducted on the RNA to generate a DNA fragment encoding HCV NS5A amino acids 1-214. The
PCR fragment incorporates NotI and BlpI compatible ends, and this fragment is ligated into a plasmid
containing the 1b-Con1 replicon. Stable cell lines containing these chimeric replicons are generated
by introducing these constructs into Huh-7 cells.      The inhibitory effect of Compound 1 on HCV
replication in these replicons can be determined by measuring activity of the luciferase reporter gene
as described above.
[0069]           Using the above-described assays or similar cell-based replicon assays, Compound 1
showed significantly inhibitory activities against replication of HCV replicons with NS5A from
genotype 1-6 (Table 2).
                                                  Table 2
                         HCV Replicon Subtype         Mean EC5 0   Std. Dev. (pM)
                              Genotype la-H77                     1.8   0.9
                              Genotype 1b-Con1                    4.3  1.7
                                 Genotype 2a                      2.3  0.7
                                 Genotype 2b                      1.9  0.6
                                 Genotype 3a                      2.1  0.7
                                 Genotype 4a                      1.9  0.6
                                 Genotype 5a                      1.4  0.4
                                 Genotype 6a                      2.8  0.7
Example 2.       Antiviral Potency of Compound 1 against HCV Non-genotype 1 Wild Type and
Variants as Compared to Other HCV NS5A Inhibitors
[00701           Compound 1 was tested against mutants resistant to other NS5A inhibitors, including
the reference compound shown in Table 3. Transiently replicating chimeric replicons containing
NS5A from genotype 2-6 wild types or replicons containing variants within NS5A were constructed
in the 1b-Con1 background.        These replicons also contained a firefly luciferase reporter gene.
Variants were introduced by site-directed mutagenesis using the Change-IT Multiple Mutation Site
Directed Mutagenesis Kit (USB).       After the mutagenesis was confirmed by sequence analysis, the
plasmids were linearized with Scal restriction enzyme.            The TranscriptAid T7 High Yield
Transcription Kit (Fermentas) was used to transcribe the HCV subgenomic RNA from the plasmids.
The RNA was transfected via electroporation into a Huh-7 derived cell line as described (see
Middleton et al. and Tripathi et al., supra) except that 3x 106 cells were electroporated with 15 pg of
                                                    22

template RNA and the 96 well plate was seeded with 7.5x 103 cells per well.                  Four hours
post-transfection, the wells from one plate were harvested for luciferase measurement.         This plate
provided a measure of the amount of translatable input RNA, and therefore transfection efficiency.
To the wells of the remaining plates, a half-log dilution series of the test compound in culture medium
(0.5% DMSO final concentration) was added, and plates were incubated at 370 C, 5% CO 2 in a
humidified incubator for 4 days.      After this period, the media was removed and the plates were
washed with 100 pl phosphate-buffered saline per well.         Luciferin solution (50 pl, Promega) was
added to each well, and luciferase activity was measured with a Victor II luminometer (Perkin-Elmer).
The percent inhibition of HCV RNA replication was calculated for each compound concentration and
the ECO value was calculated using nonlinear regression curve fitting to the 4-paraneter logistic
equation and GiraphPad Prism 4 software.
[00711           Using the above-described assays or similar cell-based replicon assays, Compound 1
showed significant inhibitory activities against replication of HCV replicons containing non-genotype
1 wild type NS5A as well as NS5A with resistant variants (Table 3).
                                                 Table 3
                                               Average EC5 o       Average EC5 o (pM)
                   Genotype     Mutant            (pM)          (reference compound*)
                                              (Compound 1)
                                  WT                1.3                     3.4
                                 T24A               1.3                      92
                                  WT                1.0                      1.1
                      2b         L28F               1.1                      39
                                 L31V              0.9                      427
                                  WT                1.8                     7.2
                       3a        M28T              0.8                     3030
                                 Y93H              4.3                  >100,000
                                  WT               0.9                      0.4
                       4a        L28V              0.8                      5.3
                                 L30H               1.0                     0.8
                                  WT                1.1                     0.9
                                  L281              1.0                      72
                       5a        L31F               1.9                     263
                                 L31V              0.9                      221
                                  WT                1.4                      80
                                 T58N              2.5                     8468
                       6a        L31V               1.0                    5035
                                 T58A               1.5                    1145
                                   --    HNfN                  Hr-     H    _
                                                                         N
         *Reference compound is       0
                                                     23

[0072]           The foregoing description of the present invention provides illustration and
description, but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise one disclosed.
Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from
practice of the invention. Thus, it is noted that the scope of the invention is defined by the claims and
their equivalents.
                                                     24

Forms of the invention may include the following:
1.       A method of treatment for HCV, comprising administering an effective amount of Compound
1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to an HCV patient, wherein said patient is not genotyped
for said treatment.
2.       The method of form 1, wherein said patient is infected with HCV genotype 2.
3.       The method of form 1, wherein said patient is infected with HCV genotype 3.
4.       The method of form 1, wherein said patient is infected with HCV genotype 4.
5.       The method of form 1, wherein said patient is infected with HCV genotype 5.
6.       The method of form 1, wherein said patient is infected with HCV genotype 6.
7.       The method according to one of forms 1-6, where said Compound 1 or the salt thereof is co
administered with another anti-HCV agent.
8.       The method according to one of forms 1-6, wherein said Compound 1 is co-administered with
an HCV protease inhibitor or an HCV polymerase inhibitor.
9.       The method according to one of forms 1-6, wherein said Compound 1 is co-administered with
an HCV protease inhibitor and an HCV polymerase inhibitor.
10.      The method according to one of forms 1-6, wherein said treatment lasts for less than 24 weeks
and does not include administration of interferon to said patient.
11.      The method according to one of forms 1-6, wherein said treatment lasts for no more than 12
weeks and does not include administration of interferon to said patient.
12.      The method according to one of forms 1-6, wherein said Compound 1 is co-administered with
an HCV protease inhibitor or a combination of an HCV protease inhibitor and an HCV polymerase
inhibitor, and wherein said treatment lasts for less than 24 weeks and does not include administration
of interferon to said patient.
                                                    25

13.      The method according to one of forms 1-6, wherein said Compound 1 is co-administered with
an HCV protease inhibitor or a combination of an HCV protease inhibitor and an HCV polymerase
inhibitor, and wherein said treatment lasts for no more than 12 weeks and does not include
administration of interferon to said patient.
14.      A method of treatment for HCV, comprising administering an effective amount of Compound
1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to an HCV patient, wherein said patient is infected with
HCV genotype 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6.
15.      The method of form 13, wherein said patient is infected with HCV genotype 2.
16.      The method of form 13, wherein said patient is infected with HCV genotype 3.
17.      The method of form 13, wherein said patient is infected with HCV genotype 4.
18.      The method of form 13, wherein said patient is infected with HCV genotype 5.
19.      The method of form 13, wherein said patient is infected with HCV genotype 6.
20.      The method according to one of forms 14-19, wherein said Compound 1 is co-administered
with an HCV protease inhibitor or a combination of an HCV protease inhibitor and an HCV polymerase
inhibitor, and wherein said treatment lasts for less than 24 weeks and does not include administration
of interferon to said patient.
21.      The method according to one of forms 14-19, wherein said Compound 1 is co-administered
with an HCV protease inhibitor or a combination of an HCV protease inhibitor and an HCV polymerase
inhibitor, and wherein said treatment lasts for no more than 12 weeks and does not include
administration of interferon to said patient.
                                                    26

CLAIMS:
1.       Use of Compound 1 having the formula
                                   F
                                   N
                              F          F
                              F          F
                                   N              N
                 N
                 ON
                0/0
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment for
HCV in an HCV patient,
wherein said compound is used in combination with a HCV protease inhibitor or an HCV polymerase
inhibitor,
wherein said patient is not genotyped for said treatment, further wherein said patient is infected with
HCV genotype 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6,
wherein said treatment lasts for less than 8, 12 or 16 weeks and does not include administration of
interferon to said patient.
2.       The use of claim 1, wherein said patient is infected with HCV genotype 1.
3.       The use of claim 1, wherein said patient is infected with HCV genotype 2.
4.       The use of claim 1, wherein said patient is infected with HCV genotype 3.
5.       The use of claim 1, wherein said patient is infected with HCV genotype 4.
6.       The use of claim 1, wherein said patient is infected with HCV genotype 5.
7.       The use of claim 1, wherein said patient is infected with HCV genotype 6.
                                                    27

8.       The use according to one of claims 1-7, where said Compound 1 or the salt thereof is for use in
combination with another anti-HCV agent.
9.       The use according to one of claims 1-8, wherein said Compound 1 is for use in combination
with an HCV protease inhibitor or a combination of an HCV protease inhibitor and an HCV polymerase
inhibitor.
10.      The use according to one of claims 1-9, wherein said Compound 1 is for use in combination
with an HCV protease inhibitor or a combination of an HCV protease inhibitor and an HCV polymerase
inhibitor, and wherein said treatment lasts for no more than 8 weeks.
11.      The use according to one of claims 1-9, wherein said Compound 1 is for use in combination
with an HCV protease inhibitor or a combination of an HCV protease inhibitor and an HCV polymerase
inhibitor, and wherein said treatment lasts for no more than 12 weeks.
12.      The use according to one of claims 1-9, wherein said Compound 1 is for use in combination
with an HCV protease inhibitor or a combination of an HCV protease inhibitor and an HCV polymerase
inhibitor, and wherein said treatment lasts for no more than 16 weeks.
13.      A method of treatment of HCV in an HCV patient, said method comprising administering to
the patient a therapeutically effective amount of Compound 1 having the formula
                                      F
                                     N
                                F         F
                   O                                  N
                  N
                         0                        0
                                                                 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof,
                                                    28

wherein said compound is used in combination with a HCV protease inhibitor or an HCV polymerase
inhibitor,
wherein said patient is not genotyped for said treatment, further wherein said patient is infected with
HCV genotype 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6,
wherein said treatment lasts for less than 8, 12 or 16 weeks and does not include administration of
interferon to said patient.
                                             AbbVie Inc.
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                     SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                                  29

