  Abstract:
  A method of gaming comprising conducting a game having a
  prize, receiving wagers for the game, deriving from the
5 wagers contributions towards funding the game, and
  incrementing a probability of awarding the prize based on
  the contributions.

          5/7
              LU
     00
E
  00
        oo

                               - 1
   A METHOD OF GAMING, A GAMING SYSTEM AND A  PRIZE CONTROLLER
   Related Application
 5 This application is a divisional application of Australian
   patent application no. <removed-apn>, which in turn is a
   divisional application of Australian patent application
   no.2013206715, which in turn is a divisional application
   of Australian patent application no. 2010241322. The
10 disclosures of each of these applications is incorporated
   herein by reference.
   Field
15 The present invention relates to a method of gaming, a
   gaming system and a prize controller.
   Background
20 Current electronic gaming machines allow a player to place
   a wager or bet, in return for which a play of a game is
   conducted.   In addition, many gaming machines may
   participate in a progressive jackpot.   Typically, a
   portion of turnover from each gaming machine is forwarded
25 to a jackpot controller as a contribution to the
   progressive jackpot.   That is, part of each wager goes
   towards incrementing the jackpot.   The technique can also
   be extended to a so called wide area jackpot where gaming
   machines from a number of different venues contribute to
30 the jackpot.
   While such gaming systems provide users with enjoyment, a
   need exists for alternative gaming systems in order to
   maintain or increase player enjoyment.
35
   Summary of the Invention

                              - 2
   In a first aspect, the invention provides a method of
   gaming in a gaming system having a plurality of
   interconnected gaming device, the method comprising:
        conducting a game having a prize using a game
 5 controller;
        receiving wagers from at least one of the plurality
   of gaming devices;
        deriving contributions from the received wagers using
   a contributions handler, the contributions being
10 designated towards funding the prize;
        incrementing a probability of awarding the prize
   based on the contributions using a probability
   incrementer; and
        awarding the prize to one of the plurality of gaming
15 devices using an award handler.
   In an embodiment the contributions are a designated
   percentage of the wagers.
20 In an embodiment the method further comprises determining
   the increment to the probability of awarding the prize
   based on the contributions and a value of the prize.
   In an embodiment the method further comprises obtaining an
   initial probability of awarding the prize.
25
   In an embodiment the method further comprises obtaining
   the initial probability of awarding the prize based on a
   cash cycle of the contributions and initially incrementing
   the probability from the initial probability.
30
   In an embodiment the method further comprises obtaining
   the initial probability of awarding the prize based on a
   cash cycle and a value of a wager in the game.
35 In an embodiment the method further comprises obtaining a
   subsequent initial probability of awarding a subsequent
   prize after awarding the prize.

                              - 3
   In an embodiment the method further comprises obtaining a
   value of the prize based on an obtained percentage of the
   cash cycle.
 5
   In an embodiment the prize is a progressive jackpot which
   increments.
   In an embodiment the method further comprises incrementing
10 the progressive jackpot based on a first designated
   percentage of the wagers and incrementing the probability
   of awarding the jackpot based on a second designated
   percentage of the wagers.
15 In a second aspect, the invention provides a gaming system
   comprising:
        a plurality of gaming devices; and
        a prize controller in data communication with the
   plurality of gaming devices, the prize controller
20 comprising:
        a contributions handler arranged to derive
   contributions designated towards funding a prize from
   wagers received in games played with the gaming devices;
        a probability incrementer arranged to increment a
25 probability of awarding the prize based on the
   contributions; and
        an award handler arranged to award the prize to one
   of the plurality of gaming devices.
30 In an embodiment, the contributions are a designated
   percentage of the wagers.
   In an embodiment, the probability incrementer is arranged
   to determine the increment to the probability of awarding
35 the prize based on the contributions and a value of the
   prize.

                              -  4
   In an embodiment, the gaming system is arranged to obtain
   an initial probability of awarding the prize and the
   probability incrementer initially increments the
   probability from the initial probability.
 5
   In an embodiment, the gaming system is arranged to obtain
   the initial probability of awarding the prize based on a
   cash cycle of the wagers.
10 In an embodiment, the gaming system is further arranged to
   obtain the initial probability of awarding the prize based
   on the cash cycle and a value of a wager in the game.
   In an embodiment, the gaming system is further arranged to
15 obtain a subsequent initial probability of awarding a
   subsequent prize after awarding the prize.
   In an embodiment, the gaming system is further arranged to
   obtain a value of the prize based on an obtained
20 percentage of the cash cycle.
   In an embodiment, the prize is a progressive jackpot which
   increments.
25 In an embodiment, the gaming system is further arranged to
   increment the progressive jackpot based on a first
   designated percentage of the wagers and incrementing the
   probability of awarding the jackpot based on a second
   designated percentage of the wagers.
30 In a third aspect, the invention provides a computer
   program code which when executed implements the above
   method.
   In a fourth aspect, the invention provides a tangible
35 computer readable medium comprising the above program
   code.

                               - 5
   Brief Description of Drawings
   An exemplary embodiment of the invention will now be
   described with reference to the accompanying drawings in
 5 which:
   Figure 1 is a block diagram of a gaming system with a
   plurality of gaming devices and a prize controller;
10 Figure 2 is a perspective view of a stand alone gaming
   machine;
   Figure 3 is a block diagram of the functional components
   of a gaming machine;
15
   Figure 4 is a schematic diagram of the functional
   components of a memory;
   Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of a network gaming
20 system;
   Figure 6 is a block diagram of a gaming system;
   Figure 7 is a block diagram of an embodiment;
25
   Figure 8 is a flow chart of an embodiment; and
   Figure 9 is a further flow chart of an embodiment.
30 Detailed Description
   Referring to the drawings, there is shown a gaming method,
   and a gaming system and prize controller arranged to
   implement the method.   The method comprising the steps of
35 conducting a game having a prize, receiving wagers for the
   game, deriving from the wagers contributions towards
   funding the game and incrementing a probability of

                               - 6
   awarding the prize based on the contributions.
   Overview of exemplary gaming system
 5 Figure 1 shows an exemplary gaming system 1 where a prize
   controller 150 is in data communication over a network 2,
   such as an Ethernet, with a bank of five gaming devices
   10A, 10B, 10C, 10D, and 10E.    The prize controller 150 is
   arranged to communicate with the gaming devices 10A to 10E
10 to receive contributions towards funding a prize derived
   from wagers in a game provided by at least one of the
   gaming devices.   The prize controller 150 is further
   arranged to increment a probability of awarding the prize
   based on the contributions.
15
   Gaming devices
   Gaming devices capable of participating in the method of
   gaming of the embodiment can take any suitable form
20 including stand alone gaming machines and server based
   gaming terminals.
   A gaming device in  the form of a stand alone gaming
   machine 10 is illustrated in Figure 2.    The gaming machine
25 10 includes a console 12 having a display 14 on which are
   displayed representations of a game 16 that can be played
   by a player.   A mid-trim 20 of the gaming machine 10
   houses a bank of buttons 22 for enabling a player to
   interact with the gaming machine, in particular during
30 game play.   The mid-trim 20 also houses a credit input
   mechanism 24 which in this example includes a coin input
   chute 24A and a bill collector 24B.    Other credit input
   mechanisms may also be employed, for example, a card
   reader for reading a smart card, debit card or credit
35 card.  Other gaming machines may be configured for ticket
   in that they have a ticket reader for reading tickets
   having a value and crediting the player based on the face

   value of the ticker.  A player marketing module (not
   shown) having a reading device may also be provided for
   the purpose of reading a player tracking device, for
   example as part of a loyalty program.   The player tracking
 5 device may be in the form of a card, flash drive or any
   other portable storage medium capable of being read by the
   reading device.  In some embodiments, the player marketing
   module may provide an additional credit mechanism, either
   by transferring credits to the gaming machine from credits
10 stored on the player tracking device or by transferring
   credits from a player account in data communication with
   the player marketing module.
   A top box 26 may carry artwork 28, including for example
15 pay tables and details of bonus awards and other
   information or images relating to the game.   Further
   artwork and/or information may be provided on a front
   panel 29 of the console 12.   A coin tray 30 is mounted
   beneath the front panel 29 for dispensing cash payouts
20 from the gaming machine 10.
   The display 14 shown in Figure 2 is in the form of a video
   display unit, particularly a cathode ray tube screen
   device.  Alternatively, the display 14 may be a liquid
25 crystal display, plasma screen, any other suitable video
   display unit, or the visible portion of an
   electromechanical device.   The top box 26 may also include
   a display, for example a video display unit, which may be
   of the same type as the display 14, or of a different
30 type.
   Figure 3 shows a block diagram of operative components of
   a typical gaming machine which may be the same as or
   different to the gaming machine of Figure 2.
35
   The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101
   having a processor 102 mounted on a circuit board.

                                -  8
   Instructions and data to control operation of the
   processor 102 are stored in a memory 103, which is in data
   communication with the processor 102.     Typically, the
   gaming machine 100 will include both volatile and non
 5 volatile memory and more than one of each type of memory,
   with such memories being collectively represented by the
   memory 103.
   The gaming machine has hardware meters 104 for purposes
10 including ensuring regulatory compliance and monitoring
   player credit, an input/output (I/0) interface 105 for
   communicating with peripheral devices of the gaming
   machine 100.   The input/output interface 105 and/or the
   peripheral devices may be intelligent devices with their
15 own memory for storing associated instructions and data
   for use with the input/output interface or the peripheral
   devices.  A random number generator module 113 generates
   random numbers for use by the processor 102.     Persons
   skilled in the art will appreciate that the reference to
20 random numbers includes pseudo-random numbers.
   In the example shown in Figure 3, a player interface 120
   includes peripheral devices that communicate with the game
   controller 101 including one or more displays 106, a touch
25 screen and/or buttons 107   (which provide a game play
   mechanism),  a card and/or ticket reader 108, a printer
   109, a bill acceptor and/or coin input mechanism 110 and a
   coin output mechanism 111.     Additional hardware may be
   included as part of the gaming machine 100, or hardware
30 may be omitted as required for the specific
   implementation.   For example, while buttons or touch
   screens are typically used in gaming machines to allow a
   player to place a wager and initiate a play of a game any
   input device that enables the player to input game play
35 instructions may be used.
   In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a

                               - 9
   communications interface, for example a network card 112.
   The network card may, for example, send status
   information,  accounting information or other information
   to a bonus controller, central controller, server or
 5 database and receive data or commands from the bonus
   controller, central controller, server or database.    In
   embodiments employing a player marketing module,
   communications over a network may be via player marketing
   module -  i.e. the player marketing module may be in data
10 communication with one or more of the above devices and
   communicate with it on behalf of the gaming machine.
   Figure 4 shows a block diagram of the main components of
   an exemplary memory 103.   The memory 103 includes RAM
15 103A, EPROM 103B and a mass storage device 103C.   The RAM
   103A typically temporarily holds program files for
   execution by the processor 102 and related data.   The
   EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM device and/or may contain
   some system or game related code.   The mass storage device
20 103C is typically used to store game programs, the
   integrity of which may be verified and/or authenticated by
   the processor 102 using protected code from the EPROM 103B
   or elsewhere.
25 It is also possible for the operative components of the
   gaming machine 100 to be distributed, for example
   input/output devices 106,107,108,109,110,111 to be
   provided remotely from the game controller 101.
30 In a client server architecture a gaming device is
   provided by a gaming client and game server (and
   optionally other gaming network components).   A gaming
   client has a similar outward appearance to gaming machine
   10 but the game server implements most or all of the game
35 and as such acts as the game controller while the terminal
   operated by the player essentially provides only the
   player interface.   The gaming terminal receives player

                              - 10
   instructions, pass these to the game server which will
   process them and return game play outcomes to the gaming
   machine for display.  Further details of a client/server
   gaming architecture can be found in WO 2006/052213 and
 5 PCT/SE2006/000559, the disclosures of which are
   incorporated herein by reference.  In such an embodiment,
   a game controller can be provided, for example, by a
   dedicated server in data communication with the game
   server.
10
   Figure 5 shows that a gaming device may be connected
   within a gaming network 200 which provides additional
   and/or enhanced functionality.  The gaming network 200
   includes a network 201, which for example may be an
15 Ethernet network.  Gaming machines 202, shown arranged in
   three banks 203 of two gaming machines 202 in Figure 5,
   are connected to the network 201.  The gaming machines 202
   provide a player operable interface and may be the same as
   the gaming machines 10,100 shown in Figures 2 and 3.
20 While banks 203 of two gaming machines are illustrated in
   Figure 5, banks of one, three or more gaming machines are
   also envisaged.
   One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the
25 network 201.  For example, the displays 204 may be
   associated with one or more banks 203 of gaming machines.
   The displays 204 may be used to display representations
   associated with game play on the gaming machines 202,
   and/or used to display other representations, for example
30 promotional or informational material.
   A game controller can be provided within such a network
   200 by game server 205, such that a game server may
   implement a game for a plurality of different banks of
35 gaming machines rather than a specific controller being
   provided for each gaming machine or for each bank of
   gaming machines.

                              - 11
   A database management server 206 may manage storage of
   game programs and associated data for downloading or
   access by the gaming devices 202 in a database 206A.
 5 Typically, if the gaming system enables players to
   participate in a Jackpot game, a Jackpot server 207 will
   be provided to perform accounting functions for the
   Jackpot game.  A loyalty program server 212 may also be
   provided.
10
   Servers are also typically provided to assist in the
   administration of the gaming network 200, including for
   example a gaming floor management server 208, and a
   licensing server 209 to monitor the use of licenses
15 relating to particular games.   An administrator terminal
   210 is provided to allow an administrator to run the
   network 201 and the devices connected to the network.
   The gaming network 200 may communicate with other gaming
20 systems, other local networks, for example a corporate
   network, and/or a wide area network such as the Internet,
   for example through a firewall 211.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in
25 accordance with known techniques, functionality at the
   server side of the network may be distributed over a
   plurality of different computers.   For example, elements
   may be run as a single "engine" on one server or a
   separate server may be provided.   For example, the game
30 server 205 could run a random generator engine.
   Alternatively, a separate random number generator server
   could be provided.  Further, persons skilled in the art
   will appreciate that a plurality of game servers could be
   provided to run different games or a single game server
35 may run a plurality of different games as required by the
   terminals.

                              - 12
   Further detail of gaming system
   Referring now to Figures 6 and 7, it can be seen that the
   constitution of the prize controller 150 is similar to
 5 that of the gaming machine illustrated in relation to
   Figures 2 to 4 in that it is a game controller with a
   processor 151 arranged to implement program code stored in
   memory 152.  Also, the prize controller 150 has a
   communication interface 153 which is designed to enable
10 the processor 151 to communicate with each of the gaming
   devices 10A to 10E across the network 2.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the
   implementation of the prize controller 150 is analogous to
15 the implementation of bonus controllers in existing gaming
   systems and reference may be made to such bonus
   controllers for further details of implementation.
   However, persons skilled in the art will appreciate that
   in the case where the above described method of gaming is
20 implemented on a stand alone gaming machine, such as the
   type illustrated in Figure 2, the game controller 101 also
   implements the functions of the prize controller 150.
   In an embodiment, the processor 151 of the prize
25 controller 150 implements a number of modules, shown in
   Figure 7, based on program code and data stored in memory
   152.  The processor 151 implements a contributions handler
   720 to receive contributions designated towards funding a
   prize derived from wagers in a game provided by at least
30 one of the gaming devices.   The processor 151 also
   implements a probability incrementer 721 to increment a
   probability of awarding the prize based on the
   contributions.  In addition, the processor 151 implements
   an award handler 722 to award the prize to the respective
35 gaming device.  Persons skilled in the art will appreciate
   that several of the modules could be implemented in some
   other way, for example by a dedicated circuit, or on a

                              - 13
   server remote from the prize controller 150.
   In the embodiment shown in Figure 7, a player of the
   gaming device 10A operates game play mechanism 116A to
 5 make a selection and input game instructions, selected
   from a plurality of available instructions displayed to
   the player on display 106A, to the game controller 101A to
   conduct a game having a prize.   In this embodiment, the
   prize is referred to as a jackpot where a number of gaming
10 devices contribute towards funding the jackpot and games
   are played in response to wagers placed at respective
   gaming devices in respective games.   In another
   embodiment, the prize may increase to provide a
   progressive jackpot.
15
   As described above, the game play mechanism 116A can be in
   the form of a touch screen and/or buttons.   In addition,
   the player may also operate credit mechanism 117A to input
   a wager, or a number of credits, so that the player can
20 operate the game play mechanism 116A to input a wager as
   game instructions for a game.   The game controller 101A
   then executes program code stored as game rules 642 in
   memory 103A to generate outcomes of the game in response
   to the operation of the game play mechanism 116A.   This
25 may be achieved using an outcome generator 622 to generate
   the game outcomes which are then evaluated by an outcome
   evaluator 623 for the gaming device 10A.   In addition to
   conducting the game, the game controller 101A derives from
   the wagers contributions towards funding the game and the
30 jackpot at a contributions module 625.   Persons skilled in
   the art will also appreciate that these modules may be
   incorporated into the game controller 101A or on a server
   remote from the gaming device 10A.
35 In the embodiment shown in Figure 7, data representing the
   derived contributions designated towards funding the
   jackpot is forwarded to the contributions handler 720 via

                               - 14
   the communication interface 153 and stored in the memory
   152.   The probability incrementer 721 then increments a
   probability of awarding the jackpot based on these
   contributions if the jackpot is not determined to be won
 5 by the award handler 722.
   In this embodiment, the processor 151 executes program
   code stored in memory 152 to repeatedly conduct random
   trials, for each contribution it receives, using a random
10 number generator 723, the current probability of awarding
   the jackpot and the size of the contribution, to determine
   whether the jackpot is to be awarded.    In this case, the
   award handler 722 communicates data via the data
   communication interface 153 over the network to all
15 participating gaming devices 10A to 10E advising that the
   jackpot has been awarded.    Persons skilled in the art will
   appreciate that the award handler 722 also communicates
   data to the gaming device where the jackpot is to be
   awarded so that it can make the award of the jackpot to
20 the respective player. In an alternative embodiment, the
   prize controller may provide the current probability to
   each gaming device so that it can conduct a local random
   trial.   In an alternative embodiment, the jackpot may be
   awarded based on an occurrence of a generated game outcome
25 corresponding to a designated game event.    For example,
   the game event may be designated as five aces displayed in
   a reel type game.   In this embodiment, persons skilled in
   the art will appreciate that the occurrence of the
   designated game event may be determined locally by the
30 outcome evaluator 623 at each gaming device.    For example,
   the gaming device 10A may adjust a probability table for
   the designated game event such that the outcome generator
   622 communicates with the random number generator 621,
   with reference to the current probability of awarding the
35 jackpot, to generate the game outcome.    In any case, the
   prize controller 150 updates the memory 152 once a jackpot
   has been awarded and the probability of awarding the

                               - 15
   jackpot is reset.
   In one example, one type of game played with the gaming
   device 10A, conducted by the game controller 101A, is a
 5 typical spinning reel game.    In another example, the game
   played is a poker game.   Persons skilled in the art will
   appreciate that different types of games may be played
   with different gaming devices at the same time.    For
   example, gaming device 10A may be conducting a spinning
1o reel game whilst gaming device 10B is conducting a poker
   game, and both gaming devices make contributions towards
   the jackpot.  In this example, the jackpot is a random
   trial and is conducted based on contributions irrespective
   of the type of game played.    Persons skilled in art will
15 appreciate that in addition to the jackpot, the games may
   result in other awards based on the players win
   entitlement.  It is typical for the player's win
   entitlement to be affected by the amount they wager and
   selections they make  (i.e. the nature of the wager).   For
20 example, a player's win entitlement may be based on how
   many lines they select to play in the game, such as. a
   minimum of one line up to the maximum number of lines
   allowed by the game  (noting that not all permutations of
   win lines may be available for selection).    Such win or
25 pay lines are typically formed by a combination of symbol
   display positions, one from each reel or column, the
   symbol display positions being located relative to one
   another such that they form a line.
30 In addition, in many games the player's win entitlement is
   not strictly limited to the lines they have selected, for
   example, "scatter" pays are awarded independently of a
   player's selection of pay lines and are an inherent part
   of the win entitlement.   Also, persons skilled in the art
35 will also appreciate that win entitlements may not be
   specific to each gaming device and certain win
   entitlements may be available for all gaming devices

                                - 16
    eligible to participate in the jackpot.
    In the example of a spinning reel game, the game
    controller 101A includes an outcome generator 622 which
  5 obtains symbols specified by stored symbol data 641 using
    a random number generator 621 and advises them to a
    display controller 624 which causes them to be displayed
    on display 106A at symbol display positions.   These symbol
    display positions are evaluated by an outcome evaluator
10  623 against specified game rules to determine if a game
    event corresponding to the player being awarded a win
    entitlement, or the jackpot (in one embodiment), has
    occurred.  Further, the game rules may specify whether the
    player is eligible to be awarded the jackpot.   It is to be
15  appreciated by those skilled in the art that the player of
    a gaming device may require to qualify to be awarded the
    jackpot by an eligibility criterion, such as wagering the
    maximum credits available in a game or placing an ante bet
    in the game.
20
    In an embodiment, wagers inputted by the game play
    mechanism 116A for a game are received by the
    contributions module 625 to derive contributions towards
    funding the game, any win entitlements of the game, and
25  funding the jackpot.   For example, the game rules 642 may
    specify that a designated percentage of the received
    wagers is to contribute towards the jackpot, e.g. 1% of
    each wagered $1 is to form a contribution to the jackpot.
    Data representing the contributions is communicated to the
30  contributions handler 720 which collates contributions
    data from a number of gaming devices 10A to 10E for
    incrementing the probability of awarding the jackpot at
    the probability incrementer 721 and determining whether to
    award the jackpot.   Thus, in the example, when a $1 wager
35  is received, the probability of being awarded the jackpot
    is incremented by the probability incrementer 721 based on
    0.01 and a value of the jackpot.   If the value of the

                                - 17
   jackpot is $1000, the probability incrementer 721
   increments the jackpot by 0.01 x 1/1000   (0.00001) for each
   $1 wagered.  In addition, the probability incrementer 721
   advises the memory 153 and subsequently the award handler
 5 722 of the current probability so that it can affect the
   random trials conducted to determine whether to award the
   jackpot.
   Furthermore, the jackpot may be awarded to a player of a
10 gaming device once in a cash cycle, where the cash cycle
   is the total turnover or amount wagered by all
   participating gaming devices until the jackpot is awarded.
   That is, using the above example, players of participating
   gaming devices can place wagers to attempt to win
15 individual win entitlements in respective games in
   addition to the jackpot (provided they are eligible) and
   these wagers, or a portion thereof, form turnover which is
   then used to determine the current probability of being
   awarded the jackpot.   For example, the game rules 642 may
20 specify that the jackpot is to be awarded once in every
   $10000 wagered thus the initial probability of awarding
   the jackpot is 1/$10000   (0.0001) and the value of the
   jackpot may be obtained from a designated percentage of
   the cash cycle, for example the jackpot may set at 10% of
25 the cash cycle  ($1000).   It can be seen that as the
   turnover increases in value to $10000, the probability of
   awarding the jackpot is incrementally increased.    Also,
   the current value of the turnover and the value of the
   jackpot may be stored in meter data 643 and prize data
30 642A.
   As stated above, the jackpot may be a progressive jackpot
   which increments.   In this case, a first designated
   percentage of the contributions, derived from wagers by
35 the contributions module 625 and forwarded as data to the
   contributions handler 720, is used to increment the
   probability of awarding the progressive jackpot and a

                                - 18
   second designated percentage, also derived from wagers by
   the contributions module 625 and forwarded as data to the
   contributions handler 720, is used to increment the value
   of the progressive jackpot.
 5
   In the example, the initial probability of awarding the
   jackpot is 0.0001 and the value of the jackpot is $1000.
   The probability incrementer 721 may then increment the
   probability of awarding the jackpot based on the derived
10 contributions   (0.01 of $1 wagered) and thus increments the
   probability by 0.01/$1000    (0.00001) so that the
   probability of being awarded the jackpot is now 0.00011,
   and so on until the award handler 722 determines, from a
   conducted random trial, to award the jackpot in response
15 to a game played by a gaming device.     Once the jackpot is
   awarded, the turnover is reset and the probability of
   being awarded the jackpot reverts back to 0.0001.     If, for
   example, the turnover from the gaming devices 10A to 10E
   is at $5000 since the last jackpot was awarded, 0.01 x
20 $5000   (50) of this amount was derived as contributions
   towards funding the jackpot, i.e. increasing the
   probability of the jackpot being awarded, and the current
   probability of awarding the jackpot is now at 50/$1000
    (0.05).   If a player of one gaming device 10A places a $2
25 wager in a game, the contributions module 625 derives 0.01
   x $2   (0.02) towards the jackpot and communicates this to
   the contributions handler 720 which, in turn, communicates
   this to the probability incrementer 721 which then
   increments the probability of awarding the jackpot by
30 0.02/$1000   (0.00002).  Thus, the probability of the player
   being awarded the jackpot in the game after the $2 wager
   is 0.05002.
   The above example can be explained by the equations below.
35 A probability increment can be determined by the following
   equation:

                              - 19
             p = ib
                  S
 5 p represents the increment probability
   i represents the percentage of the wager forming the
   contribution
   b represents the value of a wager in a game
   S represents the value of the initial jackpot
10
   The current probability of being awarded the jackpot in a
   game can be determined by the following equation:
             P = b    + iB
15                C      S
   P represents the current probability of being awarded the
   jackpot
   b represents the value of a wager in a game
20 C represents the cash cycle
   i represents the percentage of the wager forming the
   contribution
   B represents the value of turnover up to the current game
   S represents the value of the initial jackpot
25
   A method of gaming is also summarised in Figures 8 and 9.
   The method 800 comprises conducting 810 a game having a
   prize, receiving 820 wagers, deriving 830 from the wagers
   contributions towards funding the game and incrementing
30 840 a probability of awarding the prize based on the
   contributions.   The method 900 of Figure 9 also includes
   the above steps of conducting 910 a game, receiving 920
   wagers and deriving 930 from the wagers contributions
   towards funding the game.   However, the method 900 further
35 includes obtaining 940 an initial probability of awarding
   the prize based on a cash cycle and the step of
   incrementing 950 the initial probability of awarding the

                               - 20
   prize until the prize is awarded.
   Further aspects of the method will be apparent from the
   above description of the gaming system.   Persons skilled
 5 in the art will also appreciate that the above method
   could be embodied in program code.   The program code could
   be supplied in a number of ways, for example on a computer
   readable storage medium, such as a disc or a memory (for
   example, that could replace part of memory 103) or as a
10 data signal  (for example, by transmitting it from a
   server).
   It will be understood to persons skilled in the art of the
   invention that many modifications may be made without
15 departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, in
   particular it will be apparent that certain features of
   embodiments of the invention can be employed to form
   further embodiments.
20 For example, the prize controller 150 is shown in Figure 1
   as a separate entity to the gaming devices 10.   In an
   alternative embodiment, it could be provided by one of the
   gaming devices incorporating a server module arranged to
   implement the prize controller in the manner described in
25 Australian patent application 2008205413 filed 13 August
   2008.
   It is to be understood that, if any prior art is referred
   to herein, such reference does not constitute an admission
30 that the prior art forms a part of the common general
   knowledge in the art in any country.
   In the claims which follow and in the preceding
   description of the invention, except where the context
35 requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as
   "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,

                           - 21
i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but
not to preclude the presence or addition of further
features in various embodiments of the invention.

                               - 22
   Claims:
   1.   A method of gaming in a gaming system having a
   plurality of interconnected gaming device, the method
 5 comprising:
        conducting a game having a prize using a game
   controller;
        receiving wagers from at least one of the plurality
   of gaming devices;
10      deriving contributions from the received wagers using
   a contributions handler, the contributions being
   designated towards funding the prize;
        incrementing a probability of awarding the prize
   based on the contributions using a probability
15 incrementer; and
        awarding the prize to one of the plurality of gaming
   devices using an award handler.
   2.   A method of gaming as claimed in claim 1 wherein the
20 contributions are a designated percentage of the wagers.
   3.   A method of gaming as claimed in claim 2, comprising
   determining the increment to the probability of awarding
   the prize based on the contributions and a value of the
25 prize.
   4.   A method of gaming as claimed in any one of claims 1
   to 3 further comprising obtaining an initial probability
   of awarding the prize and initially incrementing the
30 probability from the initial probability.
   5.     A method of gaming as claimed in claim 4 further
   comprising obtaining the initial probability of awarding
   the prize based on a cash cycle of the wagers.
35
   6.   A method of gaming as claimed in claim 4 further
   comprising obtaining the initial probability of awarding

                              - 23
   the prize based on a cash cycle and a value of a wager in
   the game.
   7.   A method of gaming as claimed in claim 5 or claim 6
 5 further comprising obtaining a subsequent initial
   probability of awarding a subsequent prize after awarding
   the prize.
   8.   A method of gaming as claimed in any one of claims 5
10 to 7, further comprising obtaining a value of the prize
   based on an obtained percentage of the cash cycle.
   9.   A method of gaming as claimed in any one of claims 1
   to 8 wherein the prize is a progressive jackpot which
15 increments.
   10.  A method of gaming as claimed in claim 9 further
   comprising incrementing the progressive jackpot based on a
   first designated percentage of the wagers and incrementing
20 the probability of awarding the jackpot based on a second
   designated percentage of the wagers.
   11.  A gaming system comprising:
        a plurality of gaming devices; and
25      a prize controller in data communication with the
   plurality of gaming devices, the prize controller
   comprising:
        a contributions handler arranged to derive
   contributions designated towards funding a prize from
30 wagers received in games played with the gaming devices;
        a probability incrementer arranged to increment a
   probability of awarding the prize based on the
   contributions; and
        an award handler arranged to award the prize to one
35 of the plurality of gaming devices.

                               - 24
   12.        A gaming system as claimed in claim 11 wherein
   the contributions are a designated percentage of the
   wagers.
 5 13.  A gaming system as claimed in claim 12, wherein the
   probability incrementer is arranged to determine the
   increment to the probability of awarding the prize based
   on the contributions and a value of the prize.
10 14.  A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 11 to
   13, arranged to obtain an initial probability of awarding
   the prize and the probability incrementer initially
   increments the probability from the initial probability.
15 15.    A gaming system as claimed in claim 14, arranged to
   obtain the initial probability of awarding the prize based
   on a cash cycle of the wagers.
   16.  A gaming system as claimed in claim 14, further
20 arranged to obtain the initial probability of awarding the
   prize based on the cash cycle and a value of a wager in
   the game.
   17.  A gaming system as claimed in claim 15 or claim 16,
25 the gaming system further arranged to obtain a subsequent
   initial probability of awarding a subsequent prize after
   awarding the prize.
   18.  A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 15 to
30 17, the gaming system further arranged to obtain a value
   of the prize based on an obtained percentage of the cash
   cycle.
   19.  A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 11 to
35 18 wherein the prize is a progressive jackpot which
   increments.

                               - 25
    20.  A gaming system as claimed in claim 19, the gaming
    system is further arranged to increment the progressive
    jackpot based on a first designated percentage of the
    wagers and incrementing the probability of awarding the
  5 jackpot based on a second designated percentage of the
    wagers.
    21.  Computer program code which when executed implements
    the method of any one of claims 1 to 10.
10
    22.  A tangible computer readable medium comprising the
    program code of claim 18.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
