                                     ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to compositions, kits, and methods for molecular profiling
and cancer diagnostics, including but not limited to gene expression product markers,
alternative exon usage markers, and DNA polymorphisms associated with cancer. In
particular, the present invention provides molecular profiles associated with thyroid
cancer, methods of determining molecular profiles, and methods of analyzing results to
provide a diagnosis.

   WO 2010/056374                                                                PCT/US2009/006162
          METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS OF MOLECULAR PROFILING FOR DISEASE
                                                   DIAGNOSTICS
                                               CROSS REFERENCE
[0001]        This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No.61/199,585,
entitled "Methods and Compositions of Molecular Profiling for Diagnosis of Cancer" filed November
 17, 2008, and U.S. Provisional Application No.61/270,812, entitled "Methods and Compositions of
Molecular Profiling for Diagnosis of Cancer" filed July 13, 2009, both of which are incorporated
herein by reference in its entirety.
                                 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[00021        Cancer is the second leading cause of death in the United States and one of the leading
causes of mortality worldwide. Nearly 25 million people are currently living with cancer, with I1
million new cases diagnosed each year. Furthermore, as the general population continues to age,
cancer will become a bigger and bigger problem. The World Health Organization projects that by the
year 2020, global cancer rates will increase by 50%.
[0003]        Successful treatment of cancer starts with early and accurate diagnosis. Current methods
of diagnosis include cytological examination of tissue samples taken by biopsy or imaging of tissues
and organs for evidence of aberrant cellular proliferation. While these techniques have proven to be
both useful and inexpensive, they suffer from a number of drawbacks. First, cytological analysis and
imaging techniques for cancer diagnosis often require a subjective assessment to determine the
likelihood of malignancy. Second, the increased use of these techniques has lead to a sharp increase
in the number of indeterminate results in which no definitive diagnosis can be made. Third, these
routine diagnostic methods lack a rigorous method for determining the probability of an accurate
diagnosis. Fourth, these techniques may be incapable of detecting a malignant growth at very early
stages. Fifth, these techniques do not provide information regarding the basis of the aberrant cellular
proliferation.
[0004]       Many of the newer generation of treatments for cancer, while exhibiting greatly reduced
side effects, are specifically targeted to a certain metabolic or signaling pathway, and will only be
effective against cancers that are reliant on that pathway. Further, the cost of any treatments can be
prohibitive for an individual, insurance provider, or government entity. This cost could be at least
partially offset by improved methods that accurately diagnose cancers and the pathways they rely on
at early stages. These improved methods would be useful both for preventing unnecessary therapeutic
interventions as well as directing treatment.
[00051       In the case of thyroid cancer it is estimated that out of the approximately 130,000 thyroid
removal surgeries performed each year due to suspected malignancy in the United States, only about
54,000 are necessary. Thus, approximately 76,000 unnecessary surgeries are performed annually. In
addition, there are continued treatment costs and complications due to the need for lifelong drug
                                                     -1-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                 PCT/US2009/006162
 therapy to replace the lost thyroid function. Accordingly, there is a need for improved testing
modalities and business practices that improve upon current methods of cancer diagnosis.
 [00061       The thyroid has at least two kinds of cells that make hormones. Follicular cells make
thyroid hormone, which affects heart rate, body temperature, and energy level. C cells make
 cacitonin, a hormone that helps control the level of calcium in the blood. Abnormal growth in the
thyroid can result in the formation of nodules, which can be either benign or malignant. Thyroid
 cancer includes at least four different kinds of malignant tumors of the thyroid gland: papillary,
 follicular, medullary and anaplastic.
                                    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 [00071       The present invention includes a method for diagnosing thyroid disease in a subject, the
method comprising (a) providing a nucleic acid sample from a subject; (b) detecting the amount of
one or more genes, gene products, or transcripts selected from the group consisting of the genes or
transcripts listed in Tables 2 or their complement; and (c) determining whether said subject has or is
likely to have a malignant or benign thyroid condition based on the results of step (b).
 [0008]       The present invention also includes a composition comprising one or more binding agents
that specifically bind to the one or more polymorphisms selected from the group consisting of the
polymorphisms listed in Tables.
                                       INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
 [00091       All publications and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein
incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent application
was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.
                                 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0010]        The novel features of the invention are set forth with particularity in the appended claims.
A better understanding of the features and advantages of the present invention will be obtained by
reference to the following detailed description that sets forth illustrative embodiments, in which the
principles of the invention are utilized, and the accompanying drawings of which:
[00111        Figure 1 is a table listing 75 thyroid samples examined for gene expression analysis using
the Affymetrix Human Exon 1OST array to identify genes that are significantly differentially
expressed or alternatively spliced between malignant, benign, and normal samples. The name for
each sample and the pathological classification is listed.
[0012]        Figure 2 is a table listing the top 100 differentially expressed genes at the gene level.
Data are from the dataset in which benign malignant and normal thyroid samples were compared at
the gene level. Markers were selected based on statistical significance after Benjamini and Hochberg
correction for false discover rate (FDR). Positive numbers denote up regulation and negative numbers
denote down regulation of expression.
[00131        Figure 3 is a table listing the top 100 alternatively spliced genes. Data are from the
dataset in which benign malignant and normal thyroid samples were compared at the gene level.
                                                      -2-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                 PCT/US2009/006162
Markers were selected based on statistical significance after Benjamini and Hochberg correction for
false discovery rate (FDR).
 [00141       Figure 4 is a table listing the top 100 differentially expressed genes at the probe-set level.
Data were from the Probe-set dataset. Positive numbers denote up-regulation of gene expression,
while negative numbers denote down regulation.
 10015]       Figure 5 is a table listing the top 100 significant diagnostic markers determined by gene
level analysis. Markers in this list show both differential gene expression and alternative exon
splicing. Positive numbers denote up-regulation, while negative numbers denote down regulation.
This table lists 3-sets of calculated fold-changes for any given marker to allow comparison between
the groups malignant vs. benign, benign, versus normal, and malignant versus normal.
 [0016]       Figure 6 is a table listing the genes identified as contributing to thyroid cancer diagnosis
by molecular profiling of gene expression levels and/or alternative exon splicing. Markers identified
from the dataset in which benign, malignant and normal samples were analyzed at the gene level are
referred to as BMN in the data source column; and likewise, markers identified from dataset in which
the benign and malignant samples were analyzed at the gene level are referred to as BM in the data
source column. Similarly, markers identified at the probe-set level from the dataset in which benign,
and malignant samples were analyzed are referred to as Probe-set in the data source column.
[0017]       Figure 7 is a table listing tissue samples examined for gene expression analysis. The
samples were classified by pathological analysis as benign (B) or malignant (M). Benign samples
were further classified as follicular adenoma (FA), lymphocytic thyroiditis (LCT), or nodular
hyperplasia (NHP). Malignant samples were further classified as Hurthle cell carcinoma (HG),
follicular carcinoma (FC), follicular variant of pappillary thyroid carcinoma (FVPTC), papillary
thyroid carcinoma (PTC), medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC), or anaplastic carcinoma (ATC).
[0018]       Figure 8 is a table listing fine needle aspirate samples examined for gene expression
analysis. The samples were classified by pathological analysis as benign (B) or malignant (M).
Benign samples were further classified as follicular adenoma (FA), lymphocytic thyroiditis (LCT),
Hurthle cell adenoma (HA), or nodular hyperplasia (NHP). Malignant samples were further classified
as Hurthle cell carcinoma (HC), follicular carcinoma (FC), follicular variant of pappillary thyroid
carcinoma (FVPTC), papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC), medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC), or
anaplastic carcinoma (ATC).
[0019]       Figure 9 is a table listing genes identified from expression analysis of the tissue samples
listed in Figure 7 which exhibit significant differences in expression between malignant and benign
samples as determined by feature selection using LIMMA (linear models for micro array data) and
SVM (support vector machine) for classification of malignant vs. benign samples. Rank denotes the
marker significance (lower rank, higher significance) after Benjamini and Hochberg correction for
False Discovery Rate (FDR). Gene symbol denotes the name of the gene. TCID denotes the transcript
cluster ID of the gene used in the Affymetrix Human Exon 10ST array. Ref Seq denotes the name of
                                                     -3-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                PCT/US2009/006162
the corresponding reference sequence for that gene. The column labeled "Newly Discovered Marker"
denotes gene expression markers which have not previously been described as differentially expressed
in malignant vs. benign thyroid tissues.
 [00201       Figure 10 is a table listing genes identified from expression analysis of the tissue samples
listed in Figure 8 which exhibit significant differences in expression between medullary thyroid
carcinoma (MTC) and other pathologies as determined by feature selection using LIMMA (linear
models for micro array data) and SVM (support vector machine) for classification of MTC vs. other
samples. Rank denotes the marker significance (lower rank, higher significance) after Benjamini and
Hochberg correction for False Discovery Rate (FDR). Gene symbol denotes the name of the gene.
TCID denotes the transcript cluster ID of the gene used in the Affymetrix Human Exon lOST array. P
value indicates the statistical significance of the differential expression between MTC and non-MTC
samples. Fold Change indicates the degree of differential expression between MTC and non-MTC
samples. The column labeled "Newly Discovered Marker" denotes gene expression markers which
have not previously been described as differentially expressed in malignant vs. benign thyroid tissues.
 [00211       Figure 11 is a table listing genes identified from expression analysis of the samples listed
in Figures 7 and 8 which exhibit significant differences in expression between benign and malignant
samples as determined by a repeatability based meta-analysis classification algorithm.
100221        Figure 12 is a table listing genes identified from expression analysis of the samples listed
in Figures 7 and 8 which exhibit significant (posterior probability > .9) differences in expression
between benign and malignant samples as determined by Bayesian ranking of the differentially
expressed genes. deriving type I and type II error rates from previously published studies to
determine prior probabilities, combining these prior probabilities with the output of the dataset
derived from expression analysis of the samples listed in Figure 10 to estimate posterior probabilities
of differential gene expression, and then combining the results of the expression analysis of the
samples listed in Figure 11 with the estimated posterior probabilities to calculate final posterior
probabilities of differential gene expression. These posterior probabilities were then used to rank the
differentially expressed genes.
[00231        Figure 13 is a table listing genes identified from expression analysis of the samples listed
in Figure 7 which exhibit differential expression between samples categorized as FA, LCT, NHP, HC,
FC, FVPTC, PTC, MTC, or ATC as determined by feature selection using LIMMA (linear models for
micro array data) and SVM (support vector machine) for classification.
[00241        Figure 14 is a table listing fine needle aspirate samples examined for micro RNA
(miRNA) expression analysis using an Agilent Human v2 miRNA microarray chip. The samples
were classified by pathological analysis as benign (B) or malignant (M). Benign samples were further
classified as follicular adenoma (FA), or nodular hyperplasia (NHP). Malignant samples were further
classified as follicular carcinoma (FC), follicular variant of pappillary thyroid carcinoma (FVPTC),
papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC), or medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC).
                                                     -4-

  WO 2010/056374                                                                  PCT/US2009/006162
[0025]        Figure 15 is a table listing fine needle aspirate samples examined for micro RNA
(miRNA) expression analysis using an Illumina Human v2 miRNA array. The samples were
classified by pathological analysis as benign (B), non diagnostic, or malignant (M). Benign samples
were further classified as benign nodule (BN), follicular neoplasm (FN), (LCT), or (NHP). Malignant
samples were further classified as (FVPTC), or (PTC).
[00261        Figure 16 is a table listing micro RNAs (miRNAs) identified from analysis of the
samples listed in Figure 14 which exhibit differential expression between samples categorized as
benign or malignant. The miRNA column denotes the name of the miRNA. The CHR column denotes
the chromosome the miRNA is located on. The P column denotes the statistical confidence or p-value
provided by the analysis. The DE column denotes whether the listed miRNA is upregulated (1) in
malignant samples or downregulated (-1) in malignant samples. The patent column denotes any
patents or applications that describe these miRNAs.
[00271        Figure 17 is a table listing micro RNAs (miRNAs) identified from analysis of the
samples listed in Figure 15 which exhibit differential expression between samples categorized as
benign or malignant. The miRNA column denotes the name of the miRNA. The probe ID column
denotes the corresponding probe ID in the illumina array. The CHR column denotes the chromosome
the miRNA is located on. The P column denotes the statistical confidence or p-value provided by the
analysis. The DE column denotes whether the listed miRNA is upregulated (no sign) in malignant
samples or downregulated (negative sign) in malignant samples. The Rep column denotes the
repeatability score provided by a "hot probes" type analysis of the hybridization data. The patent
column denotes any patents or applications that describe these miRNAs.
[0028]        Figure 18 is a flow chart describing how molecular profiling may be used to improve the
accuracy of routine cytological examination. Figure 18A and Figure 18B describe alternate
embodiments of the molecular profiling business.
[0029]        Figure 19 is an illustration of a kit provided by the molecular profiling business.
[0030]        Figure 20 is an illustration of a molecular profiling results report.
[0031]        Figure 21 depicts a computer useful for displaying, storing, retrieving, or calculating
diagnostic results from the molecular profiling; displaying, storing, retrieving, or calculating raw data
from genomic or nucleic acid expression analysis; or displaying, storing, retrieving, or calculating any
sample or customer information useful in the methods of the present invention.
[0032]       Figure 22 depicts a titration curve of error rate vs. number of genes using an SVM-based
classification algorithm. The titration curve plateaus when the classification algorithm examines 200
250 genes. These data indicate that the overall error rate of the current algorithm was 4% (5/138).
                                                      -5-

   WO 2010/056374                                                              PCT/US2009/006162
                          DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
I. Introduction
 100331       The present disclosure provides novel methods for diagnosing abnormal cellular
proliferation from a biological test sample, and related kits and compositions. The present invention
also provides methods and compositions for differential diagnosis of types of aberrant cellular
proliferation such as carcinomas including follicular carcinomas (FC), follicular variant of papillary
thyroid carcinomas (FVPTC), Hurthle cell carcinomas (HC), Hurthle cell adenomas (HA); papillary
thyroid carcinomas (PTC), medullary thyroid carcinomas (MTC), and anaplastic carcinomas (ATC);
adenomas including follicular adenomas (FA); nodule hyperplasias (NHP); colloid nodules (CN);
benign nodules (BN); follicular neoplasms (FN); lymphocytic thyroiditis (LCT), including
lymphocytic autoimmune thyroiditis; parathyroid tissue; renal carcinoma metastasis to the thyroid;
melanoma metastasis to the thyroid; B-cell lymphoma metastasis to the thyroid; breast carcinoma to
the thyroid; benign (B) tumors, malignant (M) tumors, and normal (N) tissues. The present invention
further provides novel markers including microRNAs (miRNAs) and gene expression product
markers and novel groups of genes and markers useful for the diagnosis, characterization, and
treatment of cellular proliferation. Additionally the present invention provides business methods for
providing enhanced diagnosis, differential diagnosis, monitoring, and treatment of cellular
proliferation.
 [00341      Cancer is a leading cause of death in the United States. Early and accurate diagnosis of
cancer is critical for effective management of this disease. It is therefore important to develop testing
modalities and business practices to enable cancer diagnosis that is more accurately and earlier.
Expression product profiling, also referred to as molecular profiling, provides a powerful method for
early and accurate diagnosis of tumors or other types of cancers from a biological sample.
[00351       Typically, screening for the presence of a tumor or other type of cancer, involves
analyzing a biological sample taken by various methods such as, for example, a biopsy. The
biological sample is then prepared and examined by one skilled in the art. The methods of
preparation can include but are not limited to various cytological stains, and immuno-histochemical
methods. Unfortunately, traditional methods of cancer diagnosis suffer from a number of
deficiencies. These deficiencies include: 1) the diagnosis may require a subjective assessment and
thus be prone to inaccuracy and lack of reproducibility, 2) the methods may fail to determine the
underlying genetic, metabolic or signaling pathways responsible for the resulting pathogenesis, 3) the
methods may not provide a quantitative assessment of the test results, and 4) the methods may be
unable to provide an unambiguous diagnosis for certain samples.
[0036]       One hallmark of cancer is dysregulation of normal transcriptional control leading to
aberrant expression of genes or other RNA transcripts such as miRNAs. Among the aberrantly
expressed transcripts are genes involved in cellular transformation, for example tumor suppressors
and oncogenes. Tumor suppressor genes and oncogenes may be up-regulated or down-regulated in
                                                   -6-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                 PCT/US2009/006162
tumors when compared to normal tissues. Known tumor suppressors and oncogenes include, but are
not limited to brcal, brca2, bcr-abl, bcl-2, HER2, N-myc, C-myc, BRAF, RET, Ras, KIT, Jun, Fos,
and p53. This abnormal expression may occur through a variety of different mechanisms. It is not
necessary in the present invention to understand the mechanism of aberrant expression, or the
mechanism by which carcinogenesis occurs. Nevertheless, finding a marker or set of markers whose
expression is up or down regulated in a sample as compared to a normal sample may be indicative of
cancer. Furthermore, the particular aberrantly expressed markers or set of markers may be indicative
of a particular type of cancer, or even a recommended treatment protocol. Additionally the methods
of the present invention are not meant to be limited solely to canonically defined tumor suppressors or
oncogenes. Rather, it is understood that any marker, gene or set of genes or markers that is
determined to have a statistically significant correlation with respect to expression level or alternative
gene splicing to a benign, malignant, or normal diagnosis is encompassed by the present invention.
 [00371 In one embodiment, the methods of the present invention seek to improve upon the accuracy
of current methods of cancer diagnosis. Improved accuracy can result from the measurement of
multiple genes and/or expression markers, the identification of gene expression products such as
miRNAs, rRNA, tRNA and mRNA gene expression products with high diagnostic power or statistical
significance, or the identification of groups of genes and/or expression products with high diagnostic
power or statistical significance, or any combination thereof.
100381 For example, increased expression of a number of receptor tyrosine kinases has been
implicated in carcinogenesis. Measurement of the gene expression product level of a particular
receptor tyrosine kinase known to be differentially expressed in cancer cells may provide incorrect
diagnostic results leading to a low accuracy rate. Measurement of a plurality of receptor tyrosine
kinases may increase the accuracy level by requiring a combination of alternate expressed genes to
occur. In some cases, measurement of a plurality of genes might therefore increase the accuracy of a
diagnosis by reducing the likelihood that a sample may exhibit an aberrant gene expression profile by
random chance.
100391 Similarly, some gene expression products within a group such as receptor tyrosine kinases
may be indicative of a disease or condition when their expression levels are higher or lower than
normal. The measurement of expression levels of other gene products within that same group may
provide diagnostic utility. Thus, in one embodiment, the invention measures two or more gene
expression products that are within a group. For example, in some embodiments, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45 or 50 gene expression products are measured from a group. Various
groups are defined within the specification, such as groups useful for diagnosis of subtypes of thyroid
cancer or groups of gene expression products that fall within particular ontology groups. In another
embodiment, it would be advantageous to measure the expression levels of sets of genes that
accurately indicate the presence or absence of cancer from multiple groups. For example, the
invention contemplates the use of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45 or 50 gene
                                                    -7-

  WO 2010/056374                                                                  PCT/US2009/006162
expression groups, each with 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45 or 50 gene
expression products measured.
100401 Additionally, increased expression of other oncogenes such as for example Ras in a biological
sample may also be indicative of the presence of cancerous cells. In some cases, it may be
advantageous to determine the expression level of several different classes of oncogenes such as for
example receptor tyrosine kinases, cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases, GTPases, serine/threonine kinases,
lipid kinases, mitogens, growth factors, and transcription factors. The determination of expression
levels and/or exon usage of different classes or groups of genes involved in cancer progression may in
some cases increase the diagnostic power of the present invention.
[00411        Groups of expression markers may include markers within a metabolic or signaling
pathway, or genetically or functionally homologous markers. For example, one group of markers may
include genes involved in the epithelial growth factor signaling pathway. Another group of markers
may include mitogen-activated protein kinases. The present invention also provides methods and
compositions for detecting (i.e. measuring) measuring gene expression markers from multiple and/or
independent metabolic or signaling pathways.
[00421        In one embodiment, expression product markers of the present invention may provide
increased accuracy of cancer diagnosis through the use of multiple expression product markers and
statistical analysis. In particular, the present invention provides, but is not limited to, RNA expression
profiles associated with thyroid cancers. The present invention also provides methods of
characterizing thyroid tissue samples, and kits and compositions useful for the application of said
methods. The disclosure further includes methods for running a molecular profiling business.
[00431        The present disclosure provides methods and compositions for improving upon the
current state of the art for diagnosing cancer.
[00441        In some embodiments, the present invention provides a method of diagnosing cancer
comprising the steps of: obtaining a biological sample comprising gene expression products;
determining the expression level for one or more gene expression products of the biological sample;
and identifying the biological sample as cancerous wherein the gene expression level is indicative of
the presence of thyroid cancer in the biological sample. This can be done by correlating the gene
expression levels with the presence of thyroid cancer in the biological sample. In one embodiment,
the gene expression products are selected from Figure 6. In some embodiments, the method further
comprises the step of comparing the expression level of the one or more gene expression products to a
control expression level for each gene expression product in a control sample, wherein the biological
sample is identified as cancerous if there is a difference in the gene expression level between a gene
expression product in the biological sample and the control sample.
[00451        In some embodiments, the present invention provides a method of diagnosing cancer
comprising the steps of: obtaining a biological sample comprising alternatively spliced gene
expression products; determining the expression level for one or more gene expression products of the
                                                     -8-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                 PCT/US2009/006162
biological sample; and identifying the biological sample as cancerous wherein the gene expression
level is indicative of the presence of thyroid cancer in the biological sample. This can be done by
correlating the gene expression levels with the presence of thyroid cancer in the biological sample. In
one embodiment, the alternatively spliced gene expression products are selected from Figure 6,
wherein the differential gene expression product alternative exon usage is compared between the
biological sample and a control sample; and identifying the biological sample as cancerous if there is
a difference in gene expression product alternative exon usage between the biological sample and the
control sample at a specified confidence level. In some embodiments, the genes selected from Figure
6 are further selected from genes listed in Figure 2, Figure 3, Figure 4, or Figure 5.
[00461        In some embodiments, the present invention provides a method of diagnosing cancer that
gives a specificity or sensitivity that is greater than 70% using the subject methods described herein,
wherein the gene expression product levels are compared between the biological sample and a control
sample; and identifying the biological sample as cancerous if there is a difference in the gene
expression levels between the biological sample and the control sample at a specified confidence
level. In some embodiments, the specificity and/or sensitivity of the present method is at least 70%,
75%, 80%, 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, or
more.
10047]        In some embodiments, the nominal specificity is greater than or equal to 70%. The
nominal negative predictive value (NPV) is greater than or equal to 95%. In some embodiments, the
NPV is at least 95%, 95.5%, 96%, 96.5%, 97%, 97.5%, 98%, 98.5%, 99%, 99.5% or more.
[00481        Sensitivity typically refers to TP/(TP+FN), where TP is true positive and FN is false
negative. Number of Continued Indeterminate results divided by the total number of malignant results
based on adjudicated histopathology diagnosis. Specificity typically refers to TN/(TN+FP), where TN
is true negative and FP is false positive. The number of benign results divided by the total number of
benign results based on adjudicated histopathology diagnosis. Positive Predictive Value (PPV):
TP/(TP + FP); Negative Predictive Value (NPV): TN/(TN+FN).
[00491        Marker panels are chosen to accommodate adequate separation of benign from non
benign expression profiles. Training of this multi-dimensional classifier, i.e., algorithm, was
performed on over 500 thyroid samples, including > 300 thyroid FNAs. Many training/test sets were
used to develop the preliminary algorithm. An exemplary data set is shown in Figure 22. First the
overall algorithm error rate is shown as a function of gene number for benign vs non-benign samples.
All results are obtained using a support vector machine model which is trained and tested in a cross
validated mode (30-fold) on the samples.
[00501        In some embodiments, the difference in gene expression level is at least 10%, 15%, 20%,
25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45% or 50% or more. In some embodiments, the difference in gene expression
level is at least 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 fold or more. In some embodiments, the biological sample is
identified as cancerous with an accuracy of greater than 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 99% or more. In
                                                        -9-

  WO 2010/056374                                                                     PCT/US2009/006162
some embodiments, the biological sample is identified as cancerous with a sensitivity of greater than
95%. In some embodiments, the biological sample is identified as cancerous with a specificity of
greater than 95%. In some embodiments, the biological sample is identified as cancerous with a
sensitivity of greater than 95% and a specificity of greater than 95%. In some embodiments, the
accuracy is calculated using a trained algorithm.
[00511       In some embodiments, the present invention provides gene expression products
corresponding to genes selected from Table 3, Table 4 and/or Table 5.
100521       In some embodiments, the present invention provides a method of diagnosing cancer
comprising using gene expression products from one or more of the following signaling pathways.
The signaling pathways from which the genes can be selected include but are not limited to: acute
myeloid leukemia signaling, somatostatin receptor 2 signaling, cAMP-mediated signaling, cell cycle
and DNA damage checkpoint signaling, G-protein coupled receptor signaling, integrin signaling,
melanoma cell signaling, relaxin signaling, and thyroid cancer signaling. In some embodiments, more
than one gene is selected from a single signaling pathway to determine and compare the differential
gene expression product level between the biological sample and a control sample. Other signaling
pathways include, but are not limited to, an adherens, ECM, thyroid cancer, focal adhesion, apoptosis,
p53, tight junction, TGFbeta, ErbB, Wnt, pathways in cancer overview, cell cycle, VEGF, Jak/STAT,
MAPK, PPAR, mTOR or autoimmune thyroid pathway. In other embodiments, at least two genes are
selected from at least two different signaling pathways to determine and compare the differential gene
expression product level between the biological sample and the control sample. Methods and
compositions of the invention can have genes selected from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30,
35, 40, 45, 50 or more signaling pathways and can have from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30,
35, 40, 45, 50 or more gene expression products from each signaling pathway, in any combination. In
some embodiments, the set of genes combined give a specificity or sensitivity of greater than 70%,
75%, 80%, 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, or
99.5%, or a positive predictive value or negative predictive value of at least 95%, 95.5%, 96%,
96.5%, 97%, 97.5%, 98%, 98.5%, 99%, 99.5% or more.
[0053]       In some embodiments, the present invention provides a method of diagnosing cancer
comprising genes selected from at least two different ontology groups. In some embodiments, the
ontology groups from which the genes can be selected include but are not limited to: cell aging, cell
cortex, cell cycle, cell death/apoptosis, cell differentiation, cell division, cell junction, cell migration,
cell morphogenesis, cell motion, cell projection, cell proliferation, cell recognition, cell soma, cell
surface, cell surface linked receptor signal transduction, cell adhesion, transcription, immune
response, or inflammation. In some embodiments, more than one gene is selected from a single
ontology group to determine and compare the differential gene expression product level between the
biological sample and a control sample. In other embodiments, at least two genes are selected from at
least two different ontology groups to determine and compare the differential gene expression product
                                                     -10-

    WO 2010/056374                                                                   PCT/US2009/006162
 level between the biological sample and the control sample. Methods and compositions of the
 invention can have genes selected from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50 or
 more gene ontology groups and can have from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50
 or more gene expression products from each gene ontology group, in any combination. In some
 embodiments, the set of genes combined give a specificity or sensitivity of greater than 70%, 75%,
 80%, 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, or
 99.5%, or a positive predictive value or negative predictive value of at least 95%, 95.5%, 96%,
 96.5%, 97%, 97.5%, 98%, 98.5%, 99%, 99.5% or more.
  [00541       In some embodiments, the present invention provides a method of classifying cancer
 comprising the steps of: obtaining a biological sample comprising gene expression products;
 determining the expression level for one or more gene expression products of the biological sample
 that are differentially expressed in different subtypes of a cancer; and identifying the biological
 sample as cancerous wherein the gene expression level is indicative for a subtype of cancer. In some
 embodiments, the method further comprises the step of comparing the expression level of the one or
 more gene expression products to a control expression level for each gene expression product in a
 control sample, wherein the biological sample is identified as cancerous if there is a difference in the
 gene expression level between a gene expression product in the biological sample and the control
 sample. In some embodiments, the subject methods distinguish follicular carcinoma from medullary
 carcinoma. In some embodiments, the subject methods distinguish a benign thyroid disease from a
 malignant thyroid tumor/carcinoma.
 [00551        In some embodiments, the gene expression product of the subject methods is a protein,
 and the amount of protein is compared. The amount of protein can be determined by one or more of
 the following: ELISA, mass spectrometry, blotting, or immunohistochemistry. RNA can be measured
 by one or more of the following: microarray, SAGE, blotting, RT-PCR, or quantitative PCR.
 100561        In some embodiments, the difference in gene expression level, for example, mRNA,
 protein, or alternatively spliced gene product, between a biological sample and a control sample that
 can be used to diagnose cancer is at least 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6, 6.5, 7, 7.5, 8, 8.5, 9, 9.5,
 10 fold or more.
 [0057]        In some embodiments, the biological sample is classified as cancerous or positive for a
 subtype of cancer with an accuracy of greater than 75%, 80%, 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%,
 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, or 99.5%. The diagnosis accuracy as used herein
 includes specificity, sensitivity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and/or false
 discovery rate.
 [00581        When classifying a biological sample for diagnosis of cancer, there are typically four
 possible outcomes from a binary classifier. If the outcome from a prediction is p and the actual value
 is also p, then it is called a true positive (TP); however if the actual value is n then it is said to be a
false positive (FP). Conversely, a true negative has occurred when both the prediction outcome and
                                                      -11-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                PCT/US2009/006162
 the actual value are n, andfalse negative is when the prediction outcome is n while the actual value is
p. In one embodiment, consider a diagnostic test that seeks to determine whether a person has a
 certain disease. A false positive in this case occurs when the person tests positive, but actually does
 not have the disease. A false negative, on the other hand, occurs when the person tests negative,
 suggesting they are healthy, when they actually do have the disease. In some embodiments, ROC
 curve assuming real-world prevalence of subtypes can be generated by re-sampling errors achieved on
 available samples in relevant proportions.
 [00591       The positive predictive value (PPV), or precision rate, or post-test probability of disease,
 is the proportion of patients with positive test results who are correctly diagnosed. It is the most
 important measure of a diagnostic method as it reflects the probability that a positive test reflects the
underlying condition being tested for. Its value does however depend on the prevalence of the disease,
which may vary. In one example, FP (false positive); TN (true negative); TP (true positive); FN (false
negative).
 100601       False positive rate (a) = FP / (FP + TN) - specificity
 [00611       False negative rate (1)= FN / (TP + FN) -- sensitivity
 [00621       Power = sensitivity = 1 -   p
 [0063]       Likelihood-ratio positive     sensitivity / (1 - specificity)
 [0064]       Likelihood-ratio negative = (1 - sensitivity) / specificity
 100651       The negative predictive value is the proportion of patients with negative test results who
are correctly diagnosed. PPV and NPV measurements can be derived using appropriate disease
subtype prevalence estimates. An estimate of the pooled malignant disease prevalence can be
calculated from the pool of indeterminates which roughly classify into B vs M by surgery. For
subtype specific estimates, in some embodiments, disease prevalence may sometimes be incalculable
because there are not any available samples. In these cases, the subtype disease prevalence can be
substituted by the pooled disease prevalence estimate.
 [00661     In some embodiments, the level of expression products or alternative exon usage is
indicative of one of the following: follicular cell carcinoma, anaplastic carcinoma, medullary
carcinoma, or sarcoma. In some embodiments, the one or more genes selected using the methods of
the present invention for diagnosing cancer contain representative sequences corresponding to a set of
metabolic or signaling pathways indicative of cancer.
 [00671       In some embodiments, the results of the expression analysis of the subject methods
provide a statistical confidence level that a given diagnosis is correct. In some embodiments, such
statistical confidence level is above 85%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or
99.5%.
[00681        In another aspect, the present invention provides a composition for diagnosing cancer
comprising oligonucleotides comprising a portion of one or more of the genes listed in Figure 6 or
their complement, and a substrate upon which the oligonucleotides are covalently attached. The
                                                      -12-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                  PCT/US2009/006162
 composition of the present invention is suitable for use in diagnosing cancer at a specified confidence
 level using a trained algorithm. In one example, the composition of the present invention is used to
 diagnose thyroid cancer.
 [0069]        In one aspect of the present disclosure, samples that have been processed by a cytological
 company, subjected to routine methods and stains, diagnosed and categorized, are then subjected to
 molecular profiling as a second diagnostic screen. This second diagnostic screen enables: 1) a
 significant reduction of false positives and false negatives, 2) a determination of the underlying
 genetic, metabolic, or signaling pathways responsible for the resulting pathology, 3) the ability to
 assign a statistical probability to the accuracy of the diagnosis, 4) the ability to resolve ambiguous
 results, and 5) the ability to distinguish between sub-types of cancer.
 [0070]        For example, in the specific case of thyroid cancer, molecular profiling of the present
 invention may further provide a diagnosis for the specific type of thyroid cancer (e.g. papillary,
 follicular, medullary, or anaplastic). The results of the molecular profiling may further allow one
 skilled in the art, such as a scientist or medical professional to suggest or prescribe a specific
therapeutic intervention. Molecular profiling of biological samples may also be used to monitor the
efficacy of a particular treatment after the initial diagnosis. It is further understood that in some cases,
molecular profiling may be used in place of, rather than in addition to, established methods of cancer
diagnosis.
 100711       In one aspect, the present invention provides algorithms and methods that can be used for
diagnosis and monitoring of a genetic disorder. A genetic disorder is an illness caused by
abnormalities in genes or chromosomes. While some diseases, such as cancer, are due in part to
genetic disorders, they can also be caused by environmental factors. In some embodiments, the
algorithms and the methods disclosed herein are used for diagnosis and monitoring of a cancer such as
thyroid cancer.
 [00721       Genetic disorders can be typically grouped into two categories: single gene disorders and
multifactorial and polygenic (complex) disorders. A single gene disorder is the result of a single
mutated gene. There are estimated to be over 4000 human diseases caused by single gene defects.
Single gene disorders can be passed on to subsequent generations in several ways. There are several
types of inheriting a single gene disorder including but not limited to autosomal dominant, autosomal
recessive, X-linked dominant, X-linked recessive, Y-linked and mitochondrial inheritance. Only one
mutated copy of the gene will be necessary for a person to be affected by an autosomal dominant
disorder. Examples of autosomal dominant type of disorder include but are not limited to Huntington's
disease, Neurofibromatosis 1, Marfan Syndrome, Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer, and
Hereditary multiple exostoses. In autosomal recessive disorder, two copies of the gene must be
mutated for a person to be affected by an autosomal recessive disorder. Examples of this type of
disorder include but are not limited to cystic fibrosis, sickle-cell disease (also partial sickle-cell
disease), Tay-Sachs disease, Niemann-Pick disease, spinal muscular atrophy, and dry earwax. X
                                                     -13-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                PCT/US2009/006162
 linked dominant disorders are caused by mutations in genes on the X chromosome. Only a few
disorders have this inheritance pattern, with a prime example being X-linked hypophosphatemic
rickets. Males and females are both affected in these disorders, with males typically being more
 severely affected than females. Some X-linked dominant conditions such as Rett syndrome,
Incontinentia Pigmenti type 2 and Aicardi Syndrome are usually fatal in males either in utero or
 shortly after birth, and are therefore predominantly seen in females. X-linked recessive disorders are
also caused by mutations in genes on the X chromosome. Examples of this type of disorder include
but are not limited to Hemophilia A, Duchenne muscular dystrophy, red-green color blindness,
muscular dystrophy and Androgenetic alopecia. Y-linked disorders are caused by mutations on the Y
chromosome. Examples include but are not limited to Male Infertility and hypertrichosis pinnae.
Mitochondrial inheritance, also known as maternal inheritance, applies to genes in mitochondrial
DNA. An example of this type of disorder is Leber's Hereditary Optic Neuropathy.
 [00731       Genetic disorders may also be complex, multifactorial or polygenic, this means that they
are likely associated with the effects of multiple genes in combination with lifestyle and
environmental factors. Although complex disorders often cluster in families, they do not have a clear
cut pattern of inheritance. This makes it difficult to determine a person's risk of inheriting or passing
on these disorders. Complex disorders are also difficult to study and treat because the specific factors
that cause most of these disorders have not yet been identified. Multifactoral or polygenic disorders
that can be diagnosed, characterized and/or monitored using the algorithms and methods of the
present invention include but are not limited to heart disease, diabetes, asthma, autism, autoimmune
diseases such as multiple sclerosis, cancers, ciliopathies, cleft palate, hypertension, inflammatory
bowel disease, mental retardation and obesity.
[00741        Other genetic disorders that can be diagnosed, characterized and/or monitored using the
algorithms and methods of the present invention include but are not limited to 1p36 deletion
syndrome, 21 -hydroxylase deficiency, 22q 11.2 deletion syndrome, 47,XYY syndrome, 48, XXXX,
49, XXXXX, aceruloplasminemia, achondrogenesis, type II, achondroplasia, acute intermittent
porphyria, adenylosuccinate lyase deficiency, Adrenoleukodystrophy, ALA deficiency porphyria,
ALA dehydratase deficiency, Alexander disease, alkaptonuria, alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, Alstrom
syndrome, Alzheimer's disease (type 1, 2, 3, and 4), Amelogenesis Imperfecta, amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis, Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis type 2, Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis type 4, amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis type 4, androgen insensitivity syndrome, Anemia, Angelman syndrome, Apert
syndrome, ataxia-telangiectasia, Beare-Stevenson cutis gyrata syndrome, Benjamin syndrome, beta
thalassemia, biotinidase deficiency, Birt-Hogg-Dub6 syndrome, bladder cancer, Bloom syndrome,
Bone diseases, breast cancer, CADASIL, Camptomelic dysplasia, Canavan disease, Cancer, Celiac
Disease, CGD Chronic Granulomatous Disorder, Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, Charcot-Marie-Tooth
disease Type 1, Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease Type 4, Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, type 2, Charcot
Marie-Tooth disease, type 4, Cockayne syndrome, Coffin-Lowry syndrome, collagenopathy, types II
                                                   -14-

  WO 2010/056374                                                               PCT/US2009/006162
and XI, Colorectal Cancer, Congenital absence of the vas deferens, congenital bilateral absence of vas
deferens, congenital diabetes, congenital erythropoietic porphyria, Congenital heart disease,
congenital hypothyroidism, Connective tissue disease, Cowden syndrome, Cri du chat, Crohn's
disease, fibrostenosing, Crouzon syndrome, Crouzonodermoskeletal syndrome, cystic fibrosis, De
Grouchy Syndrome, Degenerative nerve diseases, Dent's disease, developmental disabilities,
DiGeorge syndrome, Distal spinal muscular atrophy type V, Down syndrome, Dwarfism, Ehlers
Danlos syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome arthrochalasia type, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome classical
type, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome dermatosparaxis type, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome kyphoscoliosis type,
vascular type, erythropoietic protoporphyria, Fabry's disease, Facial injuries and disorders, factor V
Leiden thrombophilia, familial adenomatous polyposis, familial dysautonomia, fanconi anemia, FG
syndrome, fragile X syndrome, Friedreich ataxia, Friedreich's ataxia, G6PD deficiency, galactosemia,
Gaucher's disease (type 1, 2, and 3), Genetic brain disorders, Glycine encephalopathy,
Haemochromatosis type 2, Haemochromatosis type 4, Harlequin Ichthyosis, Head and brain
malformations, Hearing disorders and deafness, Hearing problems in children, hemochromatosis
(neonatal, type 2 and type 3), hemophilia, hepatoerythropoietic porphyria, hereditary coproporphyria,
Hereditary Multiple Exostoses, hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies, hereditary
nonpolyposis colorectal cancer, homocystinuria, Huntington's disease, Hutchinson Gilford Progeria
Syndrome, hyperoxaluria, primary, hyperphenylalaninemia, hypochondrogenesis, hypochondroplasia,
idic 15, incontinentia pigmenti, Infantile Gaucher disease, infantile-onset ascending hereditary spastic
paralysis, Infertility, Jackson-Weiss syndrome, Joubert syndrome, Juvenile Primary Lateral Sclerosis,
Kennedy disease, Klinefelter syndrome, Kniest dysplasia, Krabbe disease, Learning disability, Lesch
Nyhan syndrome, Leukodystrophies, Li-Fraumeni syndrome, lipoprotein lipase deficiency, familial,
Male genital disorders, Marfan syndrome, McCune-Albright syndrome, McLeod syndrome,
Mediterranean fever, familial, MEDNIK, Menkes disease, Menkes syndrome, Metabolic disorders,
methemoglobinemia beta-globin type, Methemoglobinemia congenital methaemoglobinaemia,
methylmalonic acidemia, Micro syndrome, Microcephaly, Movement disorders, Mowat-Wilson
syndrome, Mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS I), Muenke syndrome, Muscular dystrophy, Muscular
dystrophy, Duchenne and Becker type, muscular dystrophy, Duchenne and Becker types, myotonic
dystrophy, Myotonic dystrophy type 1 and type 2, Neonatal hemochromatosis, neurofibromatosis,
neurofibromatosis 1, neurofibromatosis 2, Neurofibromatosis type I, neurofibromatosis type II,
Neurologic diseases, Neuromuscular disorders, Niemann-Pick disease, Nonketotic hyperglycinemia,
nonsyndromic deafness, Nonsyndromic deafness autosomal recessive, Noonan syndrome,
osteogenesis imperfecta (type I and type III), otospondylomegaepiphyseal dysplasia, pantothenate
kinase-associated neurodegeneration, Patau Syndrome (Trisomy 13), Pendred syndrome, Peutz
Jeghers syndrome, Pfeiffer syndrome, phenylketonuria, porphyria, porphyria cutanea tarda, Prader
Willi syndrome, primary pulmonary hypertension, prion disease, Progeria, propionic acidemia,
protein C deficiency, protein S deficiency, pseudo-Gaucher disease, pseudoxanthoma elasticum,
                                                  -15-

   WO 2010/056374                                                               PCT/US2009/006162
 Retinal disorders, retinoblastoma, retinoblastoma FA - Friedreich ataxia, Rett syndrome, Rubinstein
 Taybi syndrome, SADDAN, Sandhoff disease, sensory and autonomic neuropathy type IlI, sickle cell
 anemia, skeletal muscle regeneration, Skin pigmentation disorders, Smith Lemli Opitz Syndrome,
 Speech and communication disorders, spinal muscular atrophy, spinal-bulbar muscular atrophy,
 spinocerebellar ataxia, spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia, Strudwick type, spondyloepiphyseal
 dysplasia congenita, Stickler syndrome, Stickler syndrome COL2Al, Tay-Sachs disease,
tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency, thanatophoric dysplasia, thiamine-responsive megaloblastic anemia
with diabetes mellitus and sensorineural deafness, Thyroid disease, Tourette's Syndrome, Treacher
Collins syndrome, triple X syndrome, tuberous sclerosis, Turner syndrome, Usher syndrome,
variegate porphyria, von Hippel-Lindau disease, Waardenburg syndrome, Weissenbacher-Zweymiiller
 syndrome, Wilson disease, Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome, Xeroderma Pigmentosum, X-linked severe
combined immunodeficiency, X-linked sideroblastic anemia, and X-linked spinal-bulbar muscle
atrophy.
 [0075]       In one embodiment, the subject methods and algorithm are used to diagnose, characterize,
and monitor thyroid cancer. Other types of cancer that can be diagnosed, characterized and/or
monitored using the algorithms and methods of the present invention include but are not limited to
adrenal cortical cancer, anal cancer, aplastic anemia, bile duct cancer, bladder cancer, bone cancer,
bone metastasis, central nervous system (CNS) cancers, peripheral nervous system (PNS) cancers,
breast cancer, Castleman's disease, cervical cancer, childhood Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, colon and
rectum cancer, endometrial cancer, esophagus cancer, Ewing's family of tumors (e.g. Ewing's
sarcoma), eye cancer, gallbladder cancer, gastrointestinal carcinoid tumors, gastrointestinal stromal
tumors, gestational trophoblastic disease, hairy cell leukemia, Hodgkin's disease, Kaposi's sarcoma,
kidney cancer, laryngeal and hypopharyngeal cancer, acute lymphocytic leukemia, acute myeloid
leukemia, children's leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, chronic myeloid leukemia, liver
cancer, lung cancer, lung carcinoid tumors, Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, male breast cancer, malignant
mesothelioma, multiple myeloma, myelodysplastic syndrome, myeloproliferative disorders, nasal
cavity and paranasal cancer, nasopharyngeal cancer, neuroblastoma, oral cavity and oropharyngeal
cancer, osteosarcoma, ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer, penile cancer, pituitary tumor, prostate
cancer, retinoblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, salivary gland cancer, sarcoma (adult soft tissue cancer),
melanoma skin cancer, non-melanoma skin cancer, stomach cancer, testicular cancer, thymus cancer,
uterine cancer (e.g. uterine sarcoma), vaginal cancer, vulvar cancer, and Waldenstrom's
macroglobulinemia.
[00761       In some embodiments, gene expression product markers of the present invention may
provide increased accuracy of genetic disorder or cancer diagnosis through the use of multiple gene
expression product markers in low quantity and quality, and statistical analysis using the algorithms of
the present invention. In particular, the present invention provides, but is not limited to, methods of
diagnosing, characterizing and classifying gene expression profiles associated with thyroid cancers.
                                                   -16-

   WO 2010/056374                                                               PCT/US2009/006162
 The present invention also provides algorithms for characterizing and classifying thyroid tissue
 samples, and kits and compositions useful for the application of said methods. The disclosure further
 includes methods for running a molecular profiling business.
 [00771        In one embodiment of the invention, markers and genes can be identified to have
 differential expression in thyroid cancer samples compared to thyroid benign samples. Illustrative
 examples having a benign pathology include follicular adenoma, Hurthle cell adenoma, lymphocytic
 thyroiditis, and nodular hyperplasia. Illustrative examples having a malignant pathology include
 follicular carcinoma, follicular variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma, medullary carcinoma, and
 papillary thyroid carcinoma.
 [00781        Biological samples may be treated to extract nucleic acid such as DNA or RNA. The
 nucleic acid may be contacted with an array of probes of the present invention under conditions to
 allow hybridization. The degree of hybridization may be assayed in a quantitative matter using a
number of methods known in the art. In some cases, the degree of hybridization at a probe position
may be related to the intensity of signal provided by the assay, which therefore is related to the
amount of complementary nucleic acid sequence present in the sample. Software can be used to
extract, normalize, summarize, and analyze array intensity data from probes across the human genome
or transcriptome including expressed genes, exons, introns, and miRNAs. In some embodiments, the
intensity of a given probe in either the benign or malignant samples can be compared against a
reference set to determine whether differential expression is occuring in a sample. An increase or
decrease in relative intensity at a marker position on an array corresponding to an expressed sequence
is indicative of an increase or decrease respectively of expression of the corresponding expressed
sequence. Alternatively, a decrease in relative intensity may be indicative of a mutation in the
expressed sequence.
 [00791       The resulting intensity values for each sample can be analyzed using feature selection
techniques including filter techniques which assess the relevance of features by looking at the intrinsic
properties of the data, wrapper methods which embed the model hypothesis within a feature subset
search, and embedded techniques in which the search for an optimal set of features is built into a
classifier algorithm.
[0080]        Filter techniques useful in the methods of the present invention include (1) parametric
methods such as the use of two sample t-tests, ANOVA analyses, Bayesian frameworks, and Gamma
distribution models (2) model free methods such as the use of Wilcoxon rank sum tests, between
within class sum of squares tests, rank products methods, random permutation methods, or TNoM
which involves setting a threshold point for fold-change differences in expression between two
datasets and then detecting the threshold point in each gene that minimizes the number of
missclassifications (3) and multivariate methods such as bivariate methods, correlation based feature
selection methods (CFS), minimum redundancy maximum relavance methods (MRMR), Markov
blanket filter methods, and uncorrelated shrunken centroid methods. Wrapper methods useful in the
                                                    -17-

  WO 2010/056374                                                                 PCT/US2009/006162
methods of the present invention include sequential search methods, genetic algorithms, and
estimation of distribution algorithms. Embedded methods useful in the methods of the present
invention include random forest algorithms, weight vector of support vector machine algorithms, and
weights of logistic regression algorithms. Bioinformatics. 2007 Oct 1;23(19):2507-17 provides an
overview of the relative merits of the filter techniques provided above for the analysis of intensity
data.
[00811        Selected features may then be classified using a classifier algorithm. Illustrative
algorithms include but are not limited to methods that reduce the number of variables such as
principal component analysis algorithms, partial least squares methods, and independent component
analysis algorithms. Illustrative algorithms further include but are not limited to methods that handle
large numbers of variables directly such as statistical methods and methods based on machine
learning techniques. Statistical methods include penalized logistic regression, prediction analysis of
microarrays (PAM), methods based on shrunken centroids, support vector machine analysis, and
regularized linear discriminant analysis. Machine learning techniques include bagging procedures,
boosting procedures, random forest algorithms, and combinations thereof. Cancer Inform. 2008; 6:
77-97 provides an overview of the classification techniques provided above for the analysis of
microarray intensity data.
[0082]       The markers and genes of the present invention can be utilized to characterize the
cancerous or non-cancerous status of cells or tissues. The present invention includes a method for
diagnosing benign tissues or cells from malignant tissues or cells comprising determining the
differential expression of a marker or gene in a thyroid sample of a subject wherein said marker or
gene is a marker or gene listed in Figures 2-6, 9-13, 16 or 17. The present invention also includes
methods for diagnosing medullary thyroid carcinoma comprising determining the differential
expression of a marker or gene in a thyroid sample of a subject wherein said marker or gene is a
marker or gene listed in Figure 10. The present invention also includes methods for diagnosing
thyroid pathology subtypes comprising determining the differential expression of a marker or gene in
a thyroid sample of a subject wherein said marker or gene is a marker or gene listed in Figure 13. The
present invention also includes methods for diagnosing benign tissues or cells from malignant tissues
or cells comprising determining the differential expression of an miRNA in a thyroid sample of a
subject wherein said miRNA is an miRNA listed in Figures 16 or 17.
[00831       In accordance with the foregoing, the differential expression of a gene, genes, markers,
miRNAs, or a combination thereof as disclosed herein may be determined using northern blotting and
employing the sequences as identified in herein to develop probes for this purpose. Such probes may
be composed of DNA or RNA or synthetic nucleotides or a combination of the above and may
advantageously be comprised of a contiguous stretch of nucleotide residues matching, or
complementary to, a sequence as identified in Figures 2-6, 9-13, 16 or 17. Such probes will most
usefully comprise a contiguous stretch of at least 15-200 residues or more including 15, 16, 17, 18,
                                                   -18-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                PCT/US2009/006162
19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45,
46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72,
73, 74, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100, 110, 120, 130, 140, 150, 160, 175, or 200 nucleotides or more, derived
from one or more of the sequences as identified in Figures 2-6, 9-13, 16 or 17. Thus, where a single
probe binds multiple times to the transcriptome of a sample of cells that are cancerous, or are
suspected of being cancerous, or predisposed to become cancerous, whereas binding of the same
probe to a similar amount of transcriptome derived from the genome of otherwise non-cancerous cells
of the same organ or tissue results in observably more or less binding, this is indicative of differential
expression of a gene, multiple genes, markers, or miRNAs comprising, or corresponding to, the
sequences identified in Figures 2-6, 9-13, 16 or 17 from which the probe sequenced was derived.
100841       In one such embodiment, the elevated expression, as compared to normal cells and/or
tissues of the same organ, is determined by measuring the relative rates of transcription of RNA, such
as by production of corresponding cDNAs and then analyzing the resulting DNA using probes
developed from the gene sequences as identified in Figures 2-6, 9-13, 16 or 17. Thus, the levels of
cDNA produced by use of reverse transcriptase with the full RNA complement of a cell suspected of
being cancerous produces a corresponding amount of cDNA that can then be amplified using
polymerase chain reaction, or some other means, such as linear amplification, isothermal
amplification, NASB, or rolling circle amplification, to determine the relative levels of resulting
cDNA and, thereby, the relative levels of gene expression.
[0085]       Increased expression may also be determined using agents that selectively bind to, and
thereby detect, the presence of expression products of the genes disclosed herein. For example, an
antibody, possibly a suitably labeled antibody, such as where the antibody is bound to a fluorescent or
radiolabel, may be generated against one of the polypeptides comprising a sequence as identified in
Figures 2-6, and 9-13, and said antibody will then react with, binding either selectively or specifically,
to a polypeptide encoded by one of the genes that corresponds to a sequence disclosed herein. Such
antibody binding, especially relative extent of such binding in samples derived from suspected
cancerous, as opposed to otherwise non-cancerous, cells and tissues, can then be used as a measure of
the extent of expression, or over-expression, of the cancer-related genes identified herein. Thus, the
genes identified herein as being over-expressed in cancerous cells and tissues may be over-expressed
due to increased copy number, or due to over-transcription, such as where the over-expression is due
to over-production of a transcription factor that activates the gene and leads to repeated binding of
RNA polymerase, thereby generating large than normal amounts of RNA transcripts, which are
subsequently translated into polypeptides, such as the polypeptides comprising amino acid sequences
as identified in Figures 2-6, and 9-13. Such analysis provides an additional means of ascertaining the
expression of the genes identified according to the invention and thereby determining the presence of
a cancerous state in a sample derived from a patient to be tested, of the predisposition to develop
cancer at a subsequent time in said patient.
                                                    -19-

   WO 2010/056374                                                               PCT/US2009/006162
 [00861      In employing the methods of the invention, it should be borne in mind that gene or marker
expression indicative of a cancerous state need not be characteristic of every cell found to be
cancerous. Thus, the methods disclosed herein are useful for detecting the presence of a cancerous
condition within a tissue where less than all cells exhibit the complete pattern of over-expression. For
example, a set of selected genes or markers, comprising sequences homologous under stringent
conditions, or at least 90%, preferably 95%, identical to at least one of the sequences as identified in
Figures 2-6, 9-13, 16 or 17, may be found, using appropriate probes, either DNA or RNA, to be
present in as little as 60% of cells derived from a sample of tumorous, or malignant, tissue while
being absent from as much as 60% of cells derived from corresponding non-cancerous, or otherwise
normal, tissue (and thus being present in as much as 40% of such normal tissue cells). In one
embodiment, such expression pattern is found to be present in at least 70% of cells drawn from a
cancerous tissue and absent from at least 70% of a corresponding normal, non-cancerous, tissue
sample. In another embodiment, such expression pattern is found to be present in at least 80% of cells
drawn from a cancerous tissue and absent from at least 80% of a corresponding normal, non
cancerous, tissue sample. In another embodiment, such expression pattern is found to be present in at
least 90% of cells drawn from a cancerous tissue and absent from at least 90% of a corresponding
normal, non-cancerous, tissue sample. In another embodiment, such expression pattern is found to be
present in at least 100% of cells drawn from a cancerous tissue and absent from at least 100% of a
corresponding normal, non-cancerous, tissue sample, although the latter embodiment may represent a
rare occurrence.
[00871       In some embodiments molecular profiling includes detection, analysis, or quantification
of nucleic acid (DNA, or RNA), protein, or a combination thereof. The diseases or conditions to be
diagnosed by the methods of the present invention include for example conditions of abnormal growth
in one or more tissues of a subject including but not limited to skin, heart, lung, kidney, breast,
pancreas, liver, muscle, smooth muscle, bladder, gall bladder, colon, intestine, brain, esophagus, or
prostate. In some embodiments, the tissues analyzed by the methods of the present invention include
thyroid tissues.
[00881       In some embodiments, the diseases or conditions diagnosed by the methods of the present
invention include benign and malignant hyperproliferative disorders including but not limited to
cancers, hyperplasias, or neoplasias. In some cases, the hyperproliferative disorders diagnosed by the
methods of the present invention include but are not limited to breast cancer such as a ductal
carcinoma in duct tissue in a mammary gland, medullary carcinomas, colloid carcinomas, tubular
carcinomas, and inflammatory breast cancer; ovarian cancer, including epithelial ovarian tumors such
as adenocarcinoma in the ovary and an adenocarcinoma that has migrated from the ovary into the
abdominal cavity; uterine cancer; cervical cancer such as adenocarcinoma in the cervix epithelial
including squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinomas; prostate cancer, such as a prostate cancer
selected from the following: an adenocarcinoma or an adenocarinoma that has migrated to the bone;
                                                   -20-

  WO 2010/056374                                                               PCT/US2009/006162
pancreatic cancer such as epitheliod carcinoma in the pancreatic duct tissue and an adenocarcinoma in
a pancreatic duct; bladder cancer such as a transitional cell carcinoma in urinary bladder, urothelial
carcinomas (transitional cell carcinomas), tumors in the urothelial cells that line the bladder,
squamous cell carcinomas, adenocarcinomas, and small cell cancers; leukemia such as acute myeloid
leukemia (AML), acute lymphocytic leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, chronic myeloid
leukemia, hairy cell leukemia, myelodysplasia, myeloproliferative disorders, acute myelogenous
leukemia (AML), chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), mastocytosis, chronic lymphocytic
leukemia (CLL), multiple myeloma (MM), and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS); bone cancer; lung
cancer such as non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), which is divided into squamous cell carcinomas,
adenocarcinomas, and large cell undifferentiated carcinomas, and small cell lung cancer; skin cancer
such as basal cell carcinoma, melanoma, squamous cell carcinoma and actinic keratosis, which is a
skin condition that sometimes develops into squamous cell carcinoma; eye retinoblastoma; cutaneous
or intraocular (eye) melanoma; primary liver cancer (cancer that begins in the liver); kidney cancer;
AIDS-related lymphoma such as diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, B-cell immunoblastic lymphoma and
small non-cleaved cell lymphoma; Kaposi's Sarcoma; viral-induced cancers including hepatitis B
virus (HBV), hepatitis C virus (HCV), and hepatocellular carcinoma; human lymphotropic virus-type
 1 (HTLV-1) and adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma; and human papilloma virus (HPV) and cervical
cancer; central nervous system cancers (CNS) such as primary brain tumor, which includes gliomas
(astrocytoma, anaplastic astrocytoma, or glioblastoma multiforme), Oligodendroglioma,
Ependymoma, Meningioma, Lymphoma, Schwannoma, and Medulloblastoma; peripheral nervous
system (PNS) cancers such as acoustic neuromas and malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor
(MPNST) including neurofibromas and schwannomas, malignant fibrous cytoma, malignant fibrous
histiocytoma, malignant meningioma, malignant mesothelioma, and malignant mixed Millerian
tumor; oral cavity and oropharyngeal cancer such as, hypopharyngeal cancer, laryngeal cancer,
nasopharyngeal cancer, and oropharyngeal cancer; stomach cancer such as lymphomas, gastric
stromal tumors, and carcinoid tumors; testicular cancer such as germ cell tumors (GCTs), which
include seminomas and nonseminomas, and gonadal stromal tumors, which include Leydig cell
tumors and Sertoli cell tumors; thymus cancer such as to thymomas, thymic carcinomas, Hodgkin
disease, non-Hodgkin lymphomas carcinoids or carcinoid tumors; rectal cancer; and colon cancer. In
some cases, the diseases or conditions diagnosed by the methods of the present invention include but
are not limited to thyroid disorders such as for example benign thyroid disorders including but not
limited to follicular adenomas, Hurthle cell adenomas, lymphocytic throiditis, and thyroid
hyperplasia. In some cases, the diseases or conditions diagnosed by the methods of the present
invention include but are not limited to malignant thyroid disorders such as for example follicular
carcinomas, follicular variant of papillary thyroid carcinomas, medullary carcinomas, and papillary
carcinomas. In some cases, the methods of the present invention provide for a diagnosis of a tissue as
diseased or normal. In other cases, the methods of the present invention provide for a diagnosis of
                                                   -21-

   WO 2010/056374                                                               PCT/US2009/006162
normal, benign, or malignant. In some cases, the methods of the present invention provide for a
diagnosis of benign/normal, or malignant. In some cases, the methods of the present invention
provide for a diagnosis of one or more of the specific diseases or conditions provided herein.
II. Obtaining a Biological Sample
 [00891       In some embodiments, the methods of the present invention provide for obtaining a
sample from a subject. As used herein, the term subject refers to any animal (e.g. a mammal),
including but not limited to humans, non-human primates, rodents, dogs, pigs, and the like. The
methods of obtaining provided herein include methods of biopsy including fine needle aspiration, core
needle biopsy, vacuum assisted biopsy, incisional biopsy, excisional biopsy, punch biopsy, shave
biopsy or skin biopsy. The sample may be obtained from any of the tissues provided herein including
but not limited to skin, heart, lung, kidney, breast, pancreas, liver, muscle, smooth muscle, bladder,
gall bladder, colon, intestine, brain, prostate, esophagus, or thyroid. Alternatively, the sample may be
obtained from any other source including but not limited to blood, sweat, hair follicle, buccal tissue,
tears, menses, feces, or saliva. In some embodiments of the present invention, a medical professional
may obtain a biological sample for testing. In some cases the medical professional may refer the
subject to a testing center or laboratory for submission of the biological sample. In other cases, the
subject may provide the sample. In some cases, a molecular profiling business of the present
invention may obtain the sample.
[0090]       The sample may be obtained by methods known in the art such as the biopsy methods
provided herein, swabbing, scraping, phlebotomy, or any other methods known in the art. In some
cases, the sample may be obtained, stored, or transported using components of a kit of the present
invention. In some cases, multiple samples, such as multiple thyroid samples may be obtained for
diagnosis by the methods of the present invention. In some cases, multiple samples, such as one or
more samples from one tissue type (e.g. thyroid) and one or more samples from another tissue (e.g.
buccal) may be obtained for diagnosis by the methods of the present invention. In some cases,
multiple samples such as one or more samples from one tissue type (e.g. thyroid) and one or more
samples from another tissue (e.g. buccal) may be obtained at the same or different times. In some
cases, the samples obtained at different times are stored and/or analyzed by different methods. For
example, a sample may be obtained and analyzed by cytological analysis (routine staining). In some
cases, further sample may be obtained from a subject based on the results of a cytological analysis.
The diagnosis of cancer may include an examination of a subject by a physician, nurse or other
medical professional. The examination may be part of a routine examination, or the examination may
be due to a specific complaint including but not limited to one of the following: pain, illness,
anticipation of illness, presence of a suspicious lump or mass, a disease, or a condition. The subject
may or may not be aware of the disease or condition. The medical professional may obtain a
biological sample for testing. In some cases the medical professional may refer the subject to a
testing center or laboratory for submission of the biological sample.
                                                    -22-

  WO 2010/056374                                                                  PCT/US2009/006162
[0091]        In some cases, the subject may be referred to a specialist such as an oncologist, surgeon,
or endocrinologist for further diagnosis. The specialist may likewise obtain a biological sample for
testing or refer the individual to a testing center or laboratory for submission of the biological sample.
In any case, the biological sample may be obtained by a physician, nurse, or other medical
professional such as a medical technician, endocrinologist, cytologist, phlebotomist, radiologist, or a
pulmonologist. The medical professional may indicate the appropriate test or assay to perform on the
sample, or the molecular profiling business of the present disclosure may consult on which assays or
tests are most appropriately indicated. The molecular profiling business may bill the individual or
medical or insurance provider thereof for consulting work, for sample acquisition and or storage, for
materials, or for all products and services rendered.
[0092]        In some embodiments of the present invention, a medical professional need not be
involved in the initial diagnosis or sample acquisition. An individual may alternatively obtain a
sample through the use of an over the counter kit. Said kit may contain a means for obtaining said
sample as described herein, a means for storing said sample for inspection, and instructions for proper
use of the kit. In some cases, molecular profiling services are included in the price for purchase of the
kit. In other cases, the molecular profiling services are billed separately.
[00931        A sample suitable for use by the molecular profiling business may be any material
containing tissues, cells, nucleic acids, genes, gene fragments, expression products, gene expression
products, or gene expression product fragments of an individual to be tested. Methods for
determining sample suitability and/or adequacy are provided. A sample may include but is not
limited to, tissue, cells, or biological material from cells or derived from cells of an individual. The
sample may be a heterogeneous or homogeneous population of cells or tissues. The biological sample
may be obtained using any method known to the art that can provide a sample suitable for the
analytical methods described herein.
[00941        The sample may be obtained by non-invasive methods including but not limited to:
scraping of the skin or cervix, swabbing of the cheek, saliva collection, urine collection, feces
collection, collection of menses, tears, or semen. In other cases, the sample is obtained by an invasive
procedure including but not limited to: biopsy, alveolar or pulmonary lavage, needle aspiration, or
phlebotomy. The method of biopsy may further include incisional biopsy, excisional biopsy, punch
biopsy, shave biopsy, or skin biopsy. The method of needle aspiration may further include fine needle
aspiration, core needle biopsy, vacuum assisted biopsy, or large core biopsy. In some embodiments,
multiple samples may be obtained by the methods herein to ensure a sufficient amount of biological
material. Methods of obtaining suitable samples of thyroid are known in the art and are further
described in the ATA Guidelines for thryoid nodule management (Cooper et al. Thyroid Vol. 16 No. 2
2006), herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. Generic methods for obtaining biological
samples are also known in the art and further described in for example Ramzy, Ibrahim Clinical
Cytopathology and AspirationBiopsy 2001 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.
                                                     -23-

   WO 2010/056374                                                               PCT/US2009/006162
In one embodiment, the sample is a fine needle aspirate of a thyroid nodule or a suspected thyroid
tumor. In some cases, the fine needle aspirate sampling procedure may be guided by the use of an
ultrasound, X-ray, or other imaging device.
[0095]       In some embodiments of the present invention, the molecular profiling business may
obtain the biological sample from a subject directly, from a medical professional, from a third party,
or from a kit provided by the molecular profiling business or a third party. In some cases, the
biological sample may be obtained by the molecular profiling business after the subject, a medical
professional, or a third party acquires and sends the biological sample to the molecular profiling
business. In some cases, the molecular profiling business may provide suitable containers, and
excipients for storage and transport of the biological sample to the molecular profiling business.
M. Storing the sample
[00961       In some embodiments, the methods of the present invention provide for storing the
sample for a time such as seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks, months, years or longer after the
sample is obtained and before the sample is analyzed by one or more methods of the invention. In
some cases, the sample obtained from a subject is subdivided prior to the step of storage or further
analysis such that different portions of the sample are subject to different downstream methods or
processes including but not limited to storage, cytological analysis, adequacy tests, nucleic acid
extraction, molecular profiling or a combination thereof.
[00971       In some cases, a portion of the sample may be stored while another portion of said sample
is further manipulated. Such manipulations may include but are not limited to molecular profiling;
cytological staining; nucleic acid (RNA or DNA) extraction, detection, or quantification; gene
expression product (RNA or Protein) extraction, detection, or quantification; fixation; and
examination. The sample may be fixed prior to or during storage by any method known to the art
such as using glutaraldehyde, formaldehyde, or methanol. In other cases, the sample is obtained and
stored and subdivided after the step of storage for further analysis such that different portions of the
sample are subject to different downstream methods or processes including but not limited to storage,
cytological analysis, adequacy tests, nucleic acid extraction, molecular profiling or a combination
thereof. In some cases, samples are obtained and analyzed by for example cytological analysis, and
the resulting sample material is further analyzed by one or more molecular profiling methods of the
present invention. In such cases, the samples may be stored between the steps of cytological analysis
and the steps of molecular profiling. Samples may be stored upon acquisition to facilitate transport,
or to wait for the results of other analyses. In another embodiment, samples may be stored while
awaiting instructions from a physician or other medical professional.
 0098]       The acquired sample may be placed in a suitable medium, excipient, solution, or
container for short term or long term storage. Said storage may require keeping the sample in a
refrigerated, or frozen environment. The sample may be quickly frozen prior to storage in a frozen
environment. The frozen sample may be contacted with a suitable cryopreservation medium or
                                                    -24-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                 PCT/US2009/006162
compound including but not limited to: glycerol, ethylene glycol, sucrose, or glucose. A suitable
medium, excipient, or solution may include but is not limited to: hanks salt solution, saline, cellular
growth medium, an ammonium salt solution such as ammonium sulphate or ammonium phosphate, or
water. Suitable concentrations of ammonium salts include solutions of about 0.1 g/ml, 0.2g/ml,
0.3g/ml, 0.4g/ml, 0.5g/ml, 0.6 g/ml, 0.7g/ml, 0.8 g/ml, 0.9g/ml, 1.0 g/ml, 1.1 g/ml, 1.2 g/ml, 1.3g/ml,
 1.4g/ml, 1.5g/ml, 1.6 g/ml, 1.7 g/ml, 1.8 g/ml, 1.9 g/ml, 2.0 g/ml, 2.2 g/ml, 2.3g/ml, 2.5 g/ml or
higher. The medium, excipient, or solution may or may not be sterile.
 [0099]       The sample may be stored at room temperature or at reduced temperatures such as cold
temperatures (e.g. between about 20*C and about 0"C), or freezing temperatures, including for
example OC, -1C, -2C, -3C, -4C, -5C, -6C, -7C, -8C, -9C, -10C, -12C, -14C, -15C, -16C, -20C, -22C,
-25C, -28C, -30C, -35C, -40C, -45C, -50C, -60C, -70C, -80C, -100C, -120C, -140C, -180C, -190C, or
about -200C. In some cases, the samples may be stored in a refrigerator, on ice or a frozen gel pack,
in a freezer, in a cryogenic freezer, on dry ice, in liquid nitrogen, or in a vapor phase equilibrated with
liquid nitrogen.
 [001001      The medium, excipient, or solution may contain preservative agents to maintain the
sample in an adequate state for subsequent diagnostics or manipulation, or to prevent coagulation.
Said preservatives may include citrate, ethylene diamine tetraacetic acid, sodium azide, or thimersol.
The medium, excipient or solution may contain suitable buffers or salts such as Tris buffers or
phosphate buffers, sodium salts (e.g. NaCl), calcium salts, magnesium salts, and the like. In some
cases, the sample may be stored in a commercial preparation suitable for storage of cells for
subsequent cytological analysis such as but not limited to Cytyc ThinPrep, SurePath, or Monoprep.
[001011       The sample container may be any container suitable for storage and or transport of the
biological sample including but not limited to: a cup, a cup with a lid, a tube, a sterile tube, a vacuum
tube, a syringe, a bottle, a microscope slide, or any other suitable container. The container may or
may not be sterile.
IV. Transportation of the Sample
1001021       The methods of the present invention provide for transport of the sample. In some cases,
the sample is transported from a clinic, hospital, doctor's office, or other location to a second location
whereupon the sample may be stored and/or analyzed by for example, cytological analysis or
molecular profiling. In some cases, the sample may be transported to a molecular profiling company
in order to perform the analyses described herein. In other cases, the sample may be transported to a
laboratory such as a laboratory authorized or otherwise capable of performing the methods of the
present invention such as a Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) laboratory. The
sample may be transported by the individual from whom the sample derives. Said transportation by
the individual may include the individual appearing at a molecular profiling business or a designated
sample receiving point and providing a sample. Said providing of the sample may involve any of the
techniques of sample acquisition described herein, or the sample may have already have been
                                                    -25-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                 PCT/US2009/006162
 acquired and stored in a suitable container as described herein. In other cases the sample may be
transported to a molecular profiling business using a courier service, the postal service, a shipping
 service, or any method capable of transporting the sample in a suitable manner. In some cases, the
 sample may be provided to a molecular profiling business by a third party testing laboratory (e.g. a
cytology lab). In other cases, the sample may be provided to a molecular profiling business by the
 subject's primary care physician, endocrinologist or other medical professional. The cost of transport
may be billed to the individual, medical provider, or insurance provider. The molecular profiling
business may begin analysis of the sample immediately upon receipt, or may store the sample in any
manner described herein. The method of storage may or may not be the same as chosen prior to
receipt of the sample by the molecular profiling business.
 [00103]      The sample may be transported in any medium or excipient including any medium or
excipient provided herein suitable for storing the sample such as a cryopreservation medium or a
liquid based cytology preparation. In some cases, the sample may be transported frozen or
refrigerated such as at any of the suitable sample storage temperatures provided herein.
 [00104]      Upon receipt of the sample by the molecular profiling business, a representative or
licensee thereof, a medical professional, researcher, or a third party laboratory or testing center (e.g. a
cytology laboratory) the sample may be assayed using a variety of routine analyses known to the art
such as cytological assays, and genomic analysis. Such tests may be indicative of cancer, the type of
cancer, any other disease or condition, the presence of disease markers, or the absence of cancer,
diseases, conditions, or disease markers. The tests may take the form of cytological examination
including microscopic examination as described below. The tests may involve the use of one or more
cytological stains. The biological material may be manipulated or prepared for the test prior to
administration of the test by any suitable method known to the art for biological sample preparation.
The specific assay performed may be determined by the molecular profiling company, the physician
who ordered the test, or a third party such as a consulting medical professional, cytology laboratory,
the subject from whom the sample derives, or an insurance provider. The specific assay may be
chosen based on the likelihood of obtaining a defmite diagnosis, the cost of the assay, the speed of the
assay, or the suitability of the assay to the type of material provided.
V. Test for adequacy
[001051       Subsequent to or during sample acquisition, including before or after a step of storing the
sample, the biological material may be collected and assessed for adequacy, for example, to asses the
suitability of the sample for use in the methods and compositions of the present invention. The
assessment may be performed by the individual who obtains the sample, the molecular profiling
business, the individual using a kit, or a third party such as a cytological lab, pathologist,
endocrinologist, or a researcher. The sample may be determined to be adequate or inadequate for
further analysis due to many factors including but not limited to: insufficient cells, insufficient genetic
material, insufficient protein, DNA, or RNA, inappropriate cells for the indicated test, or
                                                     -26-

  WO 2010/056374                                                                       PCT/US2009/006162
inappropriate material for the indicated test, age of the sample, manner in which the sample was
obtained, or manner in which the sample was stored or transported. Adequacy may be determined
using a variety of methods known in the art such as a cell staining procedure, measurement of the
number of cells or amount of tissue, measurement of total protein, measurement of nucleic acid,
visual examination, microscopic examination, or temperature or pH determination. In one
embodiment, sample adequacy will be determined from the results of performing a gene expression
product level analysis experiment. In another embodiment sample adequacy will be determined by
measuring the content of a marker of sample adequacy. Such markers include elements such as
iodine, calcium, magnesium, phosphorous, carbon, nitrogen, sulfur, iron etc.; proteins such as but not
limited to thyroglobulin; cellular mass; and cellular components such as protein, nucleic acid, lipid, or
carbohydrate.
[001061       In some cases, iodine may be measured by a chemical method such as described in US
Pat. No. 3645691 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety or other chemical methods
known in the art for measuring iodine content. Chemical methods for iodine measurement include but
are not limited to methods based on the Sandell and Kolthoff reaction. Said reaction proceeds
according to the following equation:
[00107]       2 Ce 4 * +As 3 + --+2 Ce 3 ++As 5 + I.
[00108]       Iodine has a catalytic effect upon the course of the reaction, i.e., the more iodine present
in the preparation to be analyzed, the more rapidly the reaction proceeds. The speed of reaction is
proportional to the iodine concentration. In some cases, this analytical method may carried out in the
following manner:
[00109]       A predetermined amount of a solution of arsenous oxide As 2O 3 in concentrated sulfuric or
nitric acid is added to the biological sample and the temperature of the mixture is adjusted to reaction
temperature, i.e., usually to a temperature between 200 C. and 600 C. A predetermined amount of a
cerium (IV) sulfate solution in sulfuric or nitric acid is added thereto. Thereupon, the mixture is
allowed to react at the predetermined temperature for a definite period of time. Said reaction time is
selected in accordance with the order of magnitude of the amount of iodine to be determined and with
the respective selected reaction temperature. The reaction time is usually between about 1 minute and
about 40 minutes. Thereafter, the content of the test solution of cerium (IV) ions is determined
photometrically. The lower the photometrically determined cerium (IV) ion concentration is, the
higher is the speed of reaction and, consequently, the amount of catalytic agent, i.e., of iodine. In this
manner the iodine of the sample can directly and quantitatively be determined.
[00110]       In other cases, iodine content of a sample of thyroid tissue may be measured by detecting
a specific isotope of iodine such as for example    121, 1241, 1251, and 1311. In still other cases, the marker
may be another radioisotope such as an isotope of carbon, nitrogen, sulfur, oxygen, iron, phosphorous,
or hydrogen. The radioisotope in some instances may be administered prior to sample collection.
Methods of radioisotope administration suitable for adequacy testing are well known in the art and
                                                     -27-

  WO 2010/056374                                                                 PCT/US2009/006162
include injection into a vein or artery, or by ingestion. A suitable period of time between
administration of the isotope and acquisition of thyroid nodule sample so as to effect absorption of a
portion of the isotope into the thyroid tissue may include any period of time between about a minute
and a few days or about one week including about 1 minute, 2 minutes, 5 minutes, 10 minutes, 15
minutes, Man hour, an hour, 8 hours, 12 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, 72 hours, or about one, one and a
half, or two weeks, and may readily be determined by one skilled in the art. Alternatively, samples
may be measured for natural levels of isotopes such as radioisotopes of iodine, calcium, magnesium,
carbon, nitrogen, sulfur, oxygen, iron, phosphorous, or hydrogen.
          (i) Cell and/or Tissue Content Adequacy Test
[001111        Methods for determining the amount of a tissue include but are not limited to weighing
the sample or measuring the volume of sample. Methods for determining the amount of cells include
but are not limited to counting cells which may in some cases be performed after dis-aggregation with
for example an enzyme such as trypsin or collagenase or by physical means such as using a tissue
homogenizer for example. Alternative methods for determining the amount of cells recovered include
but are not limited to quantification of dyes that bind to cellular material, or measurement of the
volume of cell pellet obtained following centrifugation. Methods for determining that an adequate
number of a specific type of cell is present include PCR, Q-PCR, RT-PCR, immuno-histochemical
analysis, cytological analysis, microscopic, and or visual analysis.
          (ii) Nucleic Acid Content Adequacy Test
[00112]        Samples may be analyzed by determining nucleic acid content after extraction from the
biological sample using a variety of methods known to the art. In some cases, nucleic acids such as
RNA or mRNA is extracted from other nucleic acids prior to nucleic acid content analysis. Nucleic
acid content may be extracted, purified, and measured by ultraviolet absorbance, including but not
limited to aborbance at 260 nanometers using a spectrophotometer. In other cases nucleic acid
content or adequacy may be measured by fluorometer after contacting the sample with a stain. In still
other cases, nucleic acid content or adequacy may be measured after electrophoresis, or using an
instrument such as an agilent bioanalyzer for example. It is understood that the methods of the
present invention are not limited to a specific method for measuring nucleic acid content and or
integrity.
1001131        In some embodiments, the RNA quantity or yield from a given sample is measured
shortly after purification using a NanoDrop spectrophotometer in a range of nano- to micrograms. In
some embodiments, RNA quality is measured using an Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer instrument, and is
characterized by a calculated RNA Integrity Number (RIN, 1-10). The NanoDrop is a cuvette-free
spectrophotometer. It uses 1 microleter to measure from 5 ng/pl to 3,000 ng/ 1 of sample. The key
features of NanoDrop include low volume of sample and no cuvette; large dynamic range 5 ng/pl to
3,000 ng/pl; and it allows quantitation of DNA, RNA and proteins. NanoDropTM 2000c allows for the
analysis of 0.5 pt1 - 2.0 pl samples, without the need for cuvettes or capillaries.
                                                    -28-

   WO 2010/056374                                                             PCT/US2009/006162
[00114]        RNA quality can be measured by a calculated RNA Integrity Number (RIN). The RNA
integrity number (RIN) is an algorithm for assigning integrity values to RNA measurements. The
integrity of RNA is a major concern for gene expression studies and traditionally has been evaluated
using the 28S to 18S rRNA ratio, a method that has been shown to be inconsistent. The RIN algorithm
is applied to electrophoretic RNA measurements and based on a combination of different features that
contribute information about the RNA integrity to provide a more robust universal measure. In some
embodiments, RNA quality is measured using an Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer instrument. The protocols
for measuring RNA quality are known and available commercially, for example, at Agilent website.
Briefly, in the first step, researchers deposit total RNA sample into an RNA Nano LabChip. In the
second step, the LabChip is inserted into the Agilent bioanalyzer and let the analysis run, generating a
digital electropherogram. In the third step, the new RIN algorithm then analyzes the entire
electrophoretic trace of the RNA sample, including the presence or absence of degradation products,
to determine sample integrity. Then, The algorithm assigns a 1 to 10 RIN score, where level 10 RNA
is completely intact. Because interpretation of the electropherogram is automatic and not subject to
individual interpretation, universal and unbiased comparison of samples is enabled and repeatability
of experiments is improved. The RIN algorithm was developed using neural networks and adaptive
learning in conjunction with a large database of eukaryote total RNA samples, which were obtained
mainly from human, rat, and mouse tissues. Advantages of RIN include obtain a numerical
assessment of the integrity of RNA; directly comparing RNA samples, e.g. before and after archival,
compare integrity of same tissue across different labs; and ensuring repeatability of experiments, e.g.
if RIN shows a given value and is suitable for microarray experiments, then the RIN of the same value
can always be used for similar experiments given that the same organism/tissue/extraction method is
used (Schroeder A, et al. BMC Molecular Biology 2006, 7:3 (2006)).
[001151       In some embodiments, RNA quality is measured on a scale of RIN 1 to 10, 10 being
highest quality. In one aspect, the present invention provides a method of analyzing gene expression
from a sample with an RNA RIN value equal or less than 6.0. In some embodiments, a sample
containing RNA with an RIN number of 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0 or 6.0 is analyzed for microarray gene
expression using the subject methods and algorithms of the present invention. In some embodiments,
the sample is a fine needle aspirate of thyroid tissue. The sample can be degraded with an RIN as low
as 2.0.
[00116]       Determination of gene expression in a given sample is a complex, dynamic, and
expensive process. RNA samples with RIN 5.0 are typically not used for multi-gene microarray
analysis, and may instead be used only for single-gene RT-PCR and/or TaqMan assays. This
dichotomy in the usefulness of RNA according to quality has thus far limited the usefulness of
samples and hampered research efforts. The present invention provides methods via which low
quality RNA can be used to obtain meaningful multi-gene expression results from samples containing
low concentrations of RNA, for example, thyroid FNA samples.
                                                     -29-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                 PCT/US2009/006162
 [00117]        In addition, samples having a low and/or un-measurable RNA concentration by
NanoDrop normally deemed inadequate for multi-gene expression profiling can be measured and
analyzed using the subject methods and algorithms of the present invention. The most sensitive and
"state of the art" apparatus used to measure nucleic acid yield in the laboratory today is the NanoDrop
spectrophotometer. Like many quantitative instruments of its kind, the accuracy of a NanoDrop
measurement decreases significantly with very low RNA concentration. The minimum amount of
RNA necessary for input into a microarray experiment also limits the usefulness of a given sample.
In the present invention, a sample containing a very low amount of nucleic acid can be estimated
using a combination of the measurements from both the NanoDrop and the Bioanalyzer instruments,
thereby optimizing the sample for multi-gene expression assays and analysis.
          (iii) Protein Content Adequacy Test
[00118]         In some cases, protein content in the biological sample may be measured using a variety
of methods known to the art, including but not limited to: ultraviolet absorbance at 280 nanometers,
cell staining as described herein, or protein staining with for example coomassie blue, or bichichonic
acid. In some cases, protein is extracted from the biological sample prior to measurement of the
sample. In some cases, multiple tests for adequacy of the sample may be performed in parallel, or one
at a time. In some cases, the sample may be divided into aliquots for the purpose of performing
multiple diagnostic tests prior to, during, or after assessing adequacy. In some cases, the adequacy
test is performed on a small amount of the sample which may or may not be suitable for further
diagnostic testing. In other cases, the entire sample is assessed for adequacy. In any case, the test for
adequacy may be billed to the subject, medical provider, insurance provider, or government entity.
[00119]        In some embodiments of the present invention, the sample may be tested for adequacy
soon or immediately after collection. In some cases, when the sample adequacy test does not indicate
a sufficient amount sample or sample of sufficient quality, additional samples may be taken.
VI. Analysis of Sample
[001201        In one aspect, the present invention provides methods for performing microarray gene
expression analysis with low quantity and quality of polynucleotide, such as DNA or RNA. In some
embodiments, the present disclosure describes methods of diagnosing, characterizing and/or
monitoring a cancer by analyzing gene expression with low quantity and quality of RNA. In one
embodiment, the cancer is thyroid cancer. Thyroid RNA can be obtained from fine needle aspirates
(FNA). In some embodiments, gene expression profile is obtained from degraded samples with an
RNA RIN value of 9.0, 8.0, 7.0, 6.0, 5.0, 4.0, 3.0, 2.0, 1.0 or less. In particular embodiments, gene
expression profile is obtained from a sample with an RIN of equal or less than 6, i.e. 6.0, 5.0, 4.0, 3.0,
2.0, 1.0 or less. Provided by the present invention are methods by which low quality RNA can be used
to obtain meaningful gene expression results from samples containing low concentrations of nucleic
acid, such as thyroid FNA samples.
                                                     -30-

  WO 2010/056374                                                                  PCT/US2009/006162
[001211       Another estimate of sample usefulness is RNA yield, typically measured in nanogram to
microgram amounts for gene expression assays. The most sensitive and "state of the art" apparatus
used to measure nucleic acid yield in the laboratory today is the NanoDrop spectrophotometer. Like
many quantitative instruments of its kind, the accuracy of a NanoDrop measurement decreases
significantly with very low RNA concentration. The minimum amount of RNA necessary for input
into a microarray experiment also limits the usefulness of a given sample. In some aspects, the
present invention solves the low RNA concentration problem by estimating sample input using a
combination of the measurements from both the NanoDrop and the Bioanalyzer instruments. Since
the quality of data obtained from a gene expression study is dependent on RNA quantity, meaningful
gene expression data can be generated from samples having a low or un-measurable RNA
concentration as measured by NanoDrop.
1001221       The subject methods and algorithms enable: 1) gene expression analysis of samples
containing low amount and/or low quality of nucleic acid; 2) a significant reduction of false positives
and false negatives, 3) a determination of the underlying genetic, metabolic, or signaling pathways
responsible for the resulting pathology, 4) the ability to assign a statistical probability to the accuracy
of the diagnosis of genetic disorders, 5) the ability to resolve ambiguous results, and 6) the ability to
distinguish between sub-types of cancer.
Cytological Analysis
[001231       Samples may be analyzed by cell staining combined with microscopic examination of the
cells in the biological sample. Cell staining, or cytological examination, may be performed by a
number of methods and suitable reagents known to the art including but not limited to: EA stains,
hematoxylin stains, cytostain, papanicolaou stain, eosin, nissl stain, toluidine blue, silver stain,
azocarmine stain, neutral red, orjanus green. In some cases the cells are fixed and/or permeablized
with for example methanol, ethanol, glutaraldehyde or formaldehyde prior to or during the staining
procedure. In some cases, the cells are not fixed. In some cases, more than one stain is used in
combination. In other cases no stain is used at all. In some cases measurement of nucleic acid
content is performed using a staining procedure, for example with ethidium bromide, hematoxylin,
nissl stain or any nucleic acid stain known to the art.
[001241       In some embodiments of the present invention, cells may be smeared onto a slide by
standard methods well known in the art for cytological examination. In other cases, liquid based
cytology (LBC) methods may be utilized. In some cases, LBC methods provide for an improved
means of cytology slide preparation, more homogenous samples, increased sensitivity and specificity,
and improved efficiency of handling of samples. In liquid based cytology methods, biological samples
are transferred from the subject to a container or vial containing a liquid cytology preparation solution
such as for example Cytyc ThinPrep, SurePath, or Monoprep or any other liquid based cytology
preparation solution known in the art. Additionally, the sample may be rinsed from the collection
device with liquid cytology preparation solution into the container or vial to ensure substantially
                                                    -31-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                PCT/US2009/006162
quantitative transfer of the sample. The solution containing the biological sample in liquid based
cytology preparation solution may then be stored and/or processed by a machine or by one skilled in
the art to produce a layer of cells on a glass slide. The sample may further be stained and examined
under the microscope in the same way as a conventional cytological preparation.
[00125]       In some embodiments of the present invention, samples may be analyzed by immuno
histochemical staining. Immuno-histochemical staining provides for the analysis of the presence,
location, and distribution of specific molecules or antigens by use of antibodies in a biological sample
(e.g. cells or tissues). Antigens may be small molecules, proteins, peptides, nucleic acids or any other
molecule capable of being specifically recognized by an antibody. Samples may be analyzed by
immuno-histochemical methods with or without a prior fixing and/or permeabilization step. In some
cases, the antigen of interest may be detected by contacting the sample with an antibody specific for
the antigen and then non-specific binding may be removed by one or more washes. The specifically
bound antibodies may then be detected by an antibody detection reagent such as for example a labeled
secondary antibody, or a labeled avidin/streptavidin. In some cases, the antigen specific antibody may
be labeled directly instead. Suitable labels for immuno-histochemistry include but are not limited to
fluorophores such as fluoroscein and rhodamine, enzymes such as alkaline phosphatase and horse
radish peroxidase, and radionuclides such as 12P and 121. Gene product markers that may be detected
by immuno-histochemical staining include but are not limited to Her2/Neu, Ras, Rho, EGFR,
VEGFR, UbcH10, RET/PTC1, cytokeratin 20, calcitonin, GAL-3, thyroid peroxidase, and
thyroglobulin.
         VII. Assay Results
[001261       The results of routine cytological or other assays may indicate a sample as negative
(cancer, disease or condition free), ambiguous or suspicious (suggestive of the presence of a cancer,
disease or condition), diagnostic (positive diagnosis for a cancer, disease or condition), or non
diagnostic (providing inadequate information concerning the presence or absence of cancer, disease,
or condition). The diagnostic results may be further classified as malignant or benign. The diagnostic
results may also provide a score indicating for example, the severity or grade of a cancer, or the
likelihood of an accurate diagnosis, such as via a p-value, a corrected p-value, or a statistical
confidence indicator. In some cases, the diagnostic results may be indicative of a particular type of a
cancer, disease, or condition, such as for example follicular adenoma, Hurthle cell adenoma,
lymphocytic thyroiditis, hyperplasia, follicular carcinoma, follicular variant of papillary thyroid
carcinoma, papillary carcinoma, or any of the diseases or conditions provided herein. In some cases,
the diagnostic results may be indicative of a particular stage of a cancer, disease, or condition. The
diagnostic results may inform a particular treatment or therapeutic intervention for the type or stage of
the specific cancer disease or condition diagnosed. In some embodiments, the results of the assays
performed may be entered into a database. The molecular profiling company may bill the individual,
insurance provider, medical provider, or government entity for one or more of the following: assays
                                                    -32-

   WO 2010/056374                                                               PCT/US2009/006162
performed, consulting services, reporting of results, database access, or data analysis. In some cases
all or some steps other than molecular profiling are performed by a cytological laboratory or a medical
professional.
VIII. Molecular Profiling
 [00127]      Cytological assays mark the current diagnostic standard for many types of suspected
tumors including for example thyroid tumors or nodules. In some embodiments of the present
invention, samples that assay as negative, indeterminate, diagnostic, or non diagnostic may be
subjected to subsequent assays to obtain more information. In the present invention, these subsequent
assays comprise the steps of molecular profiling of genomic DNA, RNA, mRNA expression product
levels, miRNA levels, gene expression product levels or gene expression product alternative splicing.
In some embodiments of the present invention, molecular profiling means the determination of the
number (e.g. copy number) and/or type of genomic DNA in a biological sample. In some cases, the
number and/or type may further be compared to a control sample or a sample considered normal. In
some embodiment, genomic DNA can be analyzed for copy number variation, such as an increase
(amplification) or decrease in copy number, or variants, such as insertions, deletions, truncations and
the like. Molecular profiling may be performed on the same sample, a portion of the same sample, or
a new sample may be acquired using any of the methods described herein. The molecular profiling
company may request additional sample by directly contacting the individual or through an
intermediary such as a physician, third party testing center or laboratory, or a medical professional. In
some cases, samples are assayed using methods and compositions of the molecular profiling business
in combination with some or all cytological staining or other diagnostic methods. In other cases,
samples are directly assayed using the methods and compositions of the molecular profiling business
without the previous use of routine cytological staining or other diagnostic methods. In some cases
the results of molecular profiling alone or in combination with cytology or other assays may enable
those skilled in the art to diagnose or suggest treatment for the subject. In some cases, molecular
profiling may be used alone or in combination with cytology to monitor tumors or suspected tumors
over time for malignant changes.
[00128]      The molecular profiling methods of the present invention provide for extracting and
analyzing protein or nucleic acid (RNA or DNA) from one or more biological samples from a subject.
In some cases, nucleic acid is extracted from the entire sample obtained. In other cases, nucleic acid
is extracted from a portion of the sample obtained. In some cases, the portion of the sample not
subjected to nucleic acid extraction may be analyzed by cytological examination or immuno
histochemistry. Methods for RNA or DNA extraction from biological samples are well known in the
art and include for example the use of a commercial kit, such as the Qiagen DNeasy Blood and Tissue
Kit, or the Qiagen EZl RNA Universal Tissue Kit.
         (i)Tissue-type fingerprinting
                                                    -33-

   WO 2010/056374                                                              PCT/US2009/006162
 [001291       In many cases, biological samples such as those provided by the methods of the present
invention of may contain several cell types or tissues, including but not limited to thyroid follicular
cells, thyroid medullary cells, blood cells (RBCs, WBCs, platelets), smooth muscle cells, ducts, duct
cells, basement membrane, lumen, lobules, fatty tissue, skin cells, epithelial cells, and infiltrating
macrophages and lymphocytes. In the case of thyroid samples, diagnostic classification of the
biological samples may involve for example primarily follicular cells (for cancers derived from the
follicular cell such as papillary carcinoma, follicular carcinoma, and anaplastic thyroid carcinoma)
and medullary cells (for medullary cancer). The diagnosis of indeterminate biological samples from
thyroid biopsies in some cases concerns the distinction of follicular adenoma vs. follicular carcinoma.
The molecular profiling signal of a follicular cell for example may thus be diluted out and possibly
confounded by other cell types present in the sample. Similarly diagnosis of biological samples from
other tissues or organs often involves diagnosing one or more cell types among the many that may be
present in the sample.
1001301        In some embodiments, the methods of the present invention provide for an upfront
method of determining the cellular make-up of a particular biological sample so that the resulting
molecular profiling signatures can be calibrated against the dilution effect due to the presence of other
cell and/or tissue types. In one aspect, this upfront method is an algorithm that uses a combination of
known cell and/or tissue specific gene expression patterns as an upfront mini-classifier for each
component of the sample. This algorithm utilizes this molecular fingerprint to pre-classify the
samples according to their composition and then apply a correction/normalization factor. This data
may in some cases then feed in to a final classification algorithm which would incorporate that
information to aid in the final diagnosis.
          (ii) Genomic Analysis
1001311       In some embodiments, genomic sequence analysis, or genotyping, may be performed on
the sample. This genotyping may take the form of mutational analysis such as single nucleotide
polymorphism (SNP) analysis, insertion deletion polymorphism (InDel) analysis, variable number of
tandem repeat (VNTR) analysis, copy number variation (CNV) analysis or partial or whole genome
sequencing. Methods for performing genomic analyses are known to the art and may include high
throughput sequencing such as but not limited to those methods described in US Patent Nos.
7,335,762; 7,323,305; 7,264,929; 7,244,559; 7,211,390; 7,361,488; 7,300,788; and 7,280,922.
Methods for performing genomic analyses may also include microarray methods as described
hereinafter. In some cases, genomic analysis may be performed in combination with any of the other
methods herein. For example, a sample may be obtained, tested for adequacy, and divided into
aliquots. One or more aliquots may then be used for cytological analysis of the present invention, one
or more may be used for RNA expression profiling methods of the present invention, and one or more
can be used for genomic analysis. It is further understood the present invention anticipates that one
                                                    -34-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                  PCT/US2009/006162
 skilled in the art may wish to perform other analyses on the biological sample that are not explicitly
 provided herein.
          (iii) Expression Product Profiling
 [001321        Gene expression profiling is the measurement of the activity (the expression) of
 thousands of genes at once, to create a global picture of cellular function. These profiles can, for
 example, distinguish between cells that are actively dividing, or show how the cells react to a
 particular treatment. Many experiments of this sort measure an entire genome simultaneously, that is,
 every gene present in a particular cell. Microarray technology measures the relative activity of
 previously identified target genes. Sequence based techniques, like serial analysis of gene expression
 (SAGE, SuperSAGE) are also used for gene expression profiling. SuperSAGE is especially accurate
 and can measure any active gene, not just a predefined set. In an RNA, mRNA or gene expression
profiling microarray, the expression levels of thousands of genes are simultaneously monitored to
 study the effects of certain treatments, diseases, and developmental stages on gene expression. For
 example, microarray-based gene expression profiling can be used to characterize gene signatures of a
 genetic disorder disclosed herein, or different cancer types, subtypes of a cancer, and/or cancer stages.
 [001331       Expression profiling experiments often involve measuring the relative amount of gene
 expression products, such as mRNA, expressed in two or more experimental conditions. This is
because altered levels of a specific sequence of a gene expression product suggest a changed need for
the protein coded for by the gene expression product, perhaps indicating a homeostatic response or a
pathological condition. For example, if breast cancer cells express higher levels of mRNA associated
with a particular transmembrane receptor than normal cells do, it might be that this receptor plays a
role in breast cancer. One aspect of the present invention encompasses gene expression profiling as
part of an important diagnostic test for genetic disorders and cancers, particularly, thyroid cancer.
 [001341       In some embodiments, RNA samples with RIN 5.0 are typically not used for multi-gene
microarray analysis, and may instead be used only for single-gene RT-PCR and/or TaqMan assays.
Microarray, RT-PCR and TaqMan assays are standard molecular techniques well known in the
relevant art. TaqMan probe-based assays are widely used in real-time PCR including gene expression
assays, DNA quantification and SNP genotyping.
 1001351       In one embodiment, gene expression products related to cancer that are known to the art
are profiled. Such gene expression products have been described and include but are not limited to
the gene expression products detailed in US patent Nos. 7,358,061; 7,319,011; 5,965,360; 6,436,642;
and US patent applications 2003/0186248, 2005/0042222, 2003/0190602, 2005/0048533,
2005/0266443, 2006/0035244, 2006/083744, 2006/0088851, 2006/0105360, 2006/0127907,
2007/0020657, 2007/0037186, 2007/0065833, 2007/0161004, 2007/0238119, and 2008/0044824.
1001361        It is further anticipated that other gene expression products related to cancer may become
known, and that the methods and compositions described herein may include such newly discovered
gene expression products.
                                                       -35-

  WO 2010/056374                                                                PCT/US2009/006162
[001371      In some embodiments of the present invention gene expression products are analyzed
alternatively or additionally for characteristics other than expression level. For example, gene
products may be analyzed for alternative splicing. Alternative splicing, also referred to as alternative
exon usage, is the RNA splicing variation mechanism wherein the exons of a primary gene transcript,
the pre-mRNA, are separated and reconnected (i.e. spliced) so as to produce alternative mRNA
molecules from the same gene. In some cases, these linear combinations then undergo the process of
translation where a specific and unique sequence of amino acids is specified by each of the alternative
mRNA molecules from the same gene resulting in protein isoforms. Alternative splicing may include
incorporating different exons or different sets of exons, retaining certain introns, or using utilizing
alternate splice donor and acceptor sites.
[00138]      In some cases, markers or sets of markers may be identified that exhibit alternative
splicing that is diagnostic for benign, malignant or normal samples. Additionally, alternative splicing
markers may further provide a diagnosis for the specific type of thyroid cancer (e.g. papillary,
follicular, medullary, or anaplastic). Alternative splicing markers diagnostic for malignancy known to
the art include those listed in US Pat. No. 6,436,642.
[00139]      In some cases expression of RNA expression products that do not encode for proteins
such as miRNAs, and siRNAs may be assayed by the methods of the present invention. Differential
expression of these RNA expression products may be indicative of benign, malignant or normal
samples. Differential expression of these RNA expression products may further be indicative of the
subtype of the benign sample (e.g. FA, NHP, LCT, BN, CN, HA) or malignant sample (e.g. FC, PTC,
FVPTC, ATC, MTC). In some cases, differential expression of miRNAs, siRNAs, alternative splice
RNA isoforms, mRNAs or any combination thereof may be assayed by the methods of the present
invention.
[001401      In some embodiments, the current invention provides 16 panels of biomarkers, each panel
being required to characterize, rule out, and diagnose pathology within the thyroid. The sixteen
panels are:
          1       Normal Thyroid (NML)
         2        Lymphocytic, Autoimmune Thyroiditis (LCT)
         3        Nodular Hyperplasia (NHP)
         4        Follicular Thyroid Adenoma (FA)
         5        Hurthle Cell Thyroid Adenoma (HC)
         6        Parathyroid (non thyroid tissue)
         7        Anaplastic Thyroid Carcinoma (ATC)
                                                    -36-

  WO 2010/056374                                                                 PCT/US2009/006162
         8        Follicular Thyroid Carcinoma (FC)
         9        Hurthle Cell Thyroid Carcinoma (HC)
          10      Papillary Thyroid Carcinoma (PTC)
          11      Follicular Variant of Papillary Carcinoma (FVPTC)
          12      Medullary Thyroid Carcinoma (MTC)
          13      Renal Carcinoma metastasis to the Thyroid
          14      Melanoma metastasis to the Thyroid
          15      B cell Lymphoma metastasis to the Thyroid
          16     Breast Carcinoma metastasis to the Thyroid
100141]      Each panel includes a set of biomarkers required to characterize, rule out, and diagnose a
given pathology within the thyroid. Panels 1-6 describe benign pathology. Panels 7-16 describe
malignant pathology.
1001421      The biological nature of the thyroid and each pathology found within it, suggests that
there is redundancy between the plurality of biomarkers in one panel versus the plurality of
biomarkers in another panel. Mirroring each pathology subtype, each diagnostic panel is
heterogeneous and semi-redundant with the biomarkers in another panel. Heterogeneity and
redundancy reflect the biology of the tissues sampled in a given FNA and the differences in gene
expression that characterize each pathology subtype from one another.
[00143]      In one aspect, the diagnostic value of the present invention lies in the comparison of i)
one or more markers in one panel, versus ii) one or more markers in each additional panel. The utility
of the invention is its higher diagnostic accuracy in FNA than presently possible by any other means.
[00144]      In some embodiments, the biomarkers within each panel are interchangeable (modular).
The plurality of biomarkers in all panels can be substituted, increased, reduced, or improved to
accommodate the definition of new pathologic subtypes (e.g. new case reports of metastasis to the
thyroid from other organs). The current invention describes the plurality of markers that define each
of sixteen heterogeneous, semi-redundant, and distinct pathologies found in the thyroid. All sixteen
panels are required to arrive at an accurate diagnosis, and any given panel alone does not have
sufficient power to make a true diagnostic determination. In some embodiments, the biomarkers in
each panel are interchanged with a suitable combination of biomarkers, such that the plurality of
                                                   -37-

   WO 2010/056374                                                               PCT/US2009/006162
biomarkers in each panel still defines a given pathology subtype within the context of examining the
plurality of biomarkers that define all other pathology subtypes.
[00145]       Methods and compositions of the invention can have genes selected from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 or 16 or more biomarker panels and can have from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50 or more gene expression products from each biomarker panel, in
any combination. In some embodiments, the set of genes combined give a specificity or sensitivity of
greater than 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%,
97%, 98%, 99%, or 99.5%, or a positive predictive value or negative predictive value of at least 95%,
95.5%, 96%, 96.5%, 97%, 97.5%, 98%, 98.5%, 99%, 99.5% or more.
         (1) In Vitro methods of determining expression product levels
[001461       The general methods for determining gene expression product levels are known to the art
and may include but are not limited to one or more of the following: additional cytological assays,
assays for specific proteins or enzyme activities, assays for specific expression products including
protein or RNA or specific RNA splice variants, in situ hybridization, whole or partial genome
expression analysis, microarray hybridization assays, SAGE, enzyme linked immuno-absorbance
assays, mass-spectrometry, immuno-histochemistry, or blotting. Gene expression product levels may
be normalized to an internal standard such as total mRNA or the expression level of a particular gene
including but not limited to glyceraldehyde 3 phosphate dehydrogenase, or tublin.
[00147]       In some embodiments of the present invention, gene expression product markers and
alternative splicing markers may be determined by microarray analysis using, for example,
Affymetrix arrays, cDNA microarrays, oligonucleotide microarrays, spotted microarrays, or other
microarray products from Biorad, Agilent, or Eppendorf. Microarrays provide particular advantages
because they may contain a large number of genes or alternative splice variants that may be assayed in
a single experiment. In some cases, the microarray device may contain the entire human genome or
transcriptome or a substantial fraction thereof allowing a comprehensive evaluation of gene
expression patterns, genomic sequence, or alternative splicing. Markers may be found using standard
molecular biology and microarray analysis techniques as described in Sambrook Molecular Cloning a
LaboratoryManual 2001 and Baldi, P., and Hatfield, W.G., DNA Microarraysand Gene Expression
2002.
[00148]       Microarray analysis begins with extracting and purifying nucleic acid from a biological
sample, (e.g. a biopsy or fine needle aspirate) using methods known to the art. For expression and
alternative splicing analysis it may be advantageous to extract and/or purify RNA from DNA. It may
further be advantageous to extract and/or purify mRNA from other forms of RNA such as tRNA and
rRNA.
[00149]       Purified nucleic acid may further be labeled with a fluorescent, radionuclide, or chemical
label such as biotin or digoxin for example by reverse transcription, PCR, ligation, chemical reaction
                                                   -38-

   WO 2010/056374                                                               PCT/US2009/006162
or other techniques. The labeling can be direct or indirect which may further require a coupling stage.
The coupling stage can occur before hybridization, for example, using aminoallyl-UTP and NHS
amino-reactive dyes (like cyanine dyes) or after, for example, using biotin and labelled streptavidin.
The modified nucleotides (e.g. at a 1 aaUTP: 4 TTP ratio) are added enzymatically at a lower rate
compared to normal nucleotides, typically resulting in 1 every 60 bases (measured with a
spectrophotometer). The aaDNA may then be purified with, for example, a column or a diafiltration
device. The aminoallyl group is an amine group on a long linker attached to the nucleobase, which
reacts with a reactive label (e.g. a fluorescent dye).
[001501      The labeled samples may then be mixed with a hybridization solution which may contain
SDS, SSC, dextran sulfate, a blocking agent (such as COTl DNA, salmon sperm DNA, calf thymum
DNA, PolyA or PolyT), Denhardt's solution, formamine, or a combination thereof.
[00151]      A hybridization probe is a fragment of DNA or RNA of variable length, which is used to
detect in DNA or RNA samples the presence of nucleotide sequences (the DNA target) that are
complementary to the sequence in the probe. The probe thereby hybridizes to single-stranded nucleic
acid (DNA or RNA) whose base sequence allows probe-target base pairing due to complementarity
between the probe and target. The labeled probe is first denatured (by heating or under alkaline
conditions) into single DNA strands and then hybridized to the target DNA.
[001521      To detect hybridization of the probe to its target sequence, the probe is tagged (or labeled)
with a molecular marker; commonly used markers are 3p or Digoxigenin, which is non-radioactive
antibody-based marker. DNA sequences or RNA transcripts that have moderate to high sequence
similarity to the probe are then detected by visualizing the hybridized probe via autoradiography or
other imaging techniques. Detection of sequences with moderate or high similarity depends on how
stringent the hybridization conditions were applied - high stringency, such as high hybridization
temperature and low salt in hybridization buffers, permits only hybridization between nucleic acid
sequences that are highly similar, whereas low stringency, such as lower temperature and high salt,
allows hybridization when the sequences are less similar. Hybridization probes used in DNA
microarrays refer to DNA covalently attached to an inert surface, such as coated glass slides or gene
chips, and to which a mobile cDNA target is hybridized.
[00153]      This mix may then be denatured by heat or chemical means and added to a port in a
microarray. The holes may then be sealed and the microarray hybridized, for example, in a
hybridization oven, where the microarray is mixed by rotation, or in a mixer. After an overnight
hybridization, non specific binding may be washed off (e.g. with SDS and SSC). The microarray may
then be dried and scanned in a special machine where a laser excites the dye and a detector measures
its emission. The image may be overlaid with a template grid and the intensities of the features
(several pixels make a feature) may be quantified.
[001541      Various kits can be used for the amplification of nucleic acid and probe generation of the
subject methods. Examples of kit that can be used in the present invention include but are not limited
                                                   -39-

  WO 2010/056374                                                                 PCT/US2009/006162
to Nugen WT-Ovation FFPE kit, cDNA amplification kit with Nugen Exon Module and Frag/Label
module. The NuGEN WT-OvationTM FFPE System V2 is a whole transcriptome amplification system
that enables conducting global gene expression analysis on the vast archives of small and degraded
RNA derived from FFPE samples. The system is comprised of reagents and a protocol required for
amplification of as little as 50 ng of total FFPE RNA. The protocol can be used for qPCR, sample
archiving, fragmentation, and labeling. The amplified cDNA can be fragmented and labeled in less
than two hours for GeneChip@ 3' expression array analysis using NuGEN's FL-OvationTM cDNA
Biotin Module V2. For analysis using Affymetrix GeneChip Exon and Gene ST arrays, the
amplified cDNA can be used with the WT-Ovation Exon Module, then fragmented and labeled using
the FL-OvationTM cDNA Biotin Module V2. For analysis on Agilent arrays, the amplified cDNA can
be fragmented and labeled using NuGEN's FL-OvationTM cDNA Fluorescent Module. More
information on Nugen WT-Ovation FFPE kit can be obtained at
http://www.nugeninc.com/nugen/index.cfn/products/amplification-systems/wt-ovation-ffpe/.
[00155]       In some embodiments, Ambion WT-expression kit can be used. Ambion WT-expression
kit allows amplification of total RNA directly without a separate ribosomal RNA (rRNA) depletion
step. With the Ambion@ WT Expression Kit, samples as small as 50 ng of total RNA can be analyzed
on Affymetrix@ GeneChip@ Human, Mouse, and Rat Exon and Gene 1.0 ST Arrays. In addition to
the lower input RNA requirement and high concordance between the Affymetrix method and
TaqMan@ real-time PCR data, the Ambion@ WT Expression Kit provides a significant increase in
sensitivity. For example, a greater number of probe sets detected above background can be obtained at
the exon level with the Ambion@ WT Expression Kit as a result of an increased signal-to-noise ratio.
Ambion WT-expression kit may be used in combination with additional Affymetrix labeling kit.
[00156]       In some embodiments, AmpTec Trinucleotide Nano mRNA Amplification kit (6299
Al 5) can be used in the subject methods. The ExpressArt TRinucleotide mRNA amplification Nano
kit is suitable for a wide range, from 1 ng to 700 ng of input total RNA. According to the amount of
input total RNA and the required yields of aRNA, it can be used for 1-round (input >300 ng total
RNA) or 2-rounds (minimal input amount 1 ng total RNA), with aRNA yields in the range of >10 gg.
AmpTec's proprietary TRinucleotide priming technology results in preferential amplification of
mRNAs (independent of the universal eukaryotic 3'-poly(A)-sequence), combined with selection
against rRNAs. More information on AmpTec Trinucleotide Nano mRNA Amplification kit can be
obtained at http://www.amp-tec.com/products.htm. This kit can be used in combination with cDNA
conversion kit and Affymetrix labeling kit.
[00157]       The raw data may then be normalized, for example, by subtracting the background
intensity and then dividing the intensities making either the total intensity of the features on each
channel equal or the intensities of a reference gene and then the t-value for all the intensities may be
calculated. More sophisticated methods, include z-ratio, less and lowess regression and RMA (robust
multichip analysis) for Affymetrix chips.
                                                   -40-

   WO 2010/056374                                                               PCT/US2009/006162
         (2) In Vivo methods of determining gene expression product levels
[00158]       It is further anticipated that the methods and compositions of the present invention may
be used to determine gene expression product levels in an individual without first obtaining a sample.
For example, gene expression product levels may be determined in vivo, that is in the individual.
Methods for determining gene expression product levels in vivo are known to the art and include
imaging techniques such as CAT, MRI; NMR; PET; and optical, fluorescence, or biophotonic
imaging of protein or RNA levels using antibodies or molecular beacons. Such methods are described
in US 2008/0044824, US 2008/0131892, herein incorporated by reference. Additional methods for in
vivo molecular profiling are contemplated to be within the scope of the present invention.
1001591       In some embodiments of the present invention, molecular profiling includes the step of
binding the sample or a portion of the sample to one or more probes of the present invention. Suitable
probes bind to components of the sample, i.e. gene products, that are to be measured and include but
are not limited to antibodies or antibody fragments, aptamers, nucleic acids, and oligonucleotides.
The binding of the sample to the probes of the present invention represents a transformation of matter
from sample to sample bound to one or more probes. The method of diagnosing cancer based on
molecular profiling further comprises the steps of detecting gene expression products (i.e. mRNA or
protein) and levels of the sample, comparing it to an amount in a normal control sample to determine
the differential gene expression product level between the sample and the control; and classifying the
test sample by inputting one or more differential gene expression product levels to a trained algorithm
of the present invention; validating the sample classification using the selection and classification
algorithms of the present invention; and identifying the sample as positive for a genetic disorder or a
type of cancer.
         (i) Comparison of sample to normal
[001601      The results of the molecular profiling performed on the sample provided by the individual
(test sample) may be compared to a biological sample that is known or suspected to be normal. A
normal sample is that which is or is expected to be free of any cancer, disease, or condition, or a
sample that would test negative for any cancer disease or condition in the molecular profiling assay.
The normal sample may be from a different individual from the individual being tested, or from the
same individual. In some cases, the normal sample is a sample obtained from a buccal swab of an
individual such as the individual being tested for example. The normal sample may be assayed at the
same time, or at a different time from the test sample.
1001611      The results of an assay on the test sample may be compared to the results of the same
assay on a normal sample. In some cases the results of the assay on the normal sample are from a
database, or a reference. In some cases, the results of the assay on the normal sample are a known or
generally accepted value by those skilled in the art. In some cases the comparison is qualitative. In
other cases the comparison is quantitative. In some cases, qualitative or quantitative comparisons
may involve but are not limited to one or more of the following: comparing fluorescence values, spot
                                                     -41-

  WO 2010/056374                                                                PCT/US2009/006162
intensities, absorbance values, chemiluminescent signals, histograms, critical threshold values,
statistical significance values, gene product expression levels, gene product expression level changes,
alternative exon usage, changes in alternative exon usage, protein levels, DNA polymorphisms, coy
number variations, indications of the presence or absence of one or more DNA markers or regions, or
nucleic acid sequences.
          (ii) Evaluation of results
[00162]        In some embodiments, the molecular profiling results are evaluated using methods known
to the art for correlating gene product expression levels or alternative exon usage with specific
phenotypes such as malignancy, the type of malignancy (e.g. follicular carcinoma), benignancy, or
normalcy (e.g. disease or condition free). In some cases, a specified statistical confidence level may
be determined in order to provide a diagnostic confidence level. For example, it may be determined
that a confidence level of greater than 90% may be a useful predictor of malignancy, type of
malignancy, or benignancy. In other embodiments, more or less stringent confidence levels may be
chosen. For example, a confidence level of approximately 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97.5%,
99%, 99.5%, or 99.9% may be chosen as a useful phenotypic predictor. The confidence level
provided may in some cases be related to the quality of the sample, the quality of the data, the quality
of the analysis, the specific methods used, and the number of gene expression products analyzed. The
specified confidence level for providing a diagnosis may be chosen on the basis of the expected
number of false positives or false negatives and/or cost. Methods for choosing parameters for
achieving a specified confidence level or for identifying markers with diagnostic power include but
are not limited to Receiver Operator Curve analysis (ROC), binormal ROC, principal component
analysis, partial least squares analysis, singular value decomposition, least absolute shrinkage and
selection operator analysis, least angle regression, and the threshold gradient directed regularization
method.
         (iii) Data analysis
[001631        Raw gene expression level and alternative splicing data may in some cases be improved
through the application of algorithms designed to normalize and or improve the reliability of the data.
In some embodiments of the present invention the data analysis requires a computer or other device,
machine or apparatus for application of the various algorithms described herein due to the large
number of individual data points that are processed. A "machine learning algorithm" refers to a
computational-based prediction methodology, also known to persons skilled in the art as a "classifier",
employed for characterizing a gene expression profile. The signals corresponding to certain
expression levels, which are obtained by, e.g., microarray-based hybridization assays, are typically
subjected to the algorithm in order to classify the expression profile. Supervised learning generally
involves "training" a classifier to recognize the distinctions among classes and then "testing" the
accuracy of the classifier on an independent test set. For new, unknown samples the classifier can be
used to predict the class in which the samples belong.
                                                    -42-

   WO 2010/056374                                                               PCT/US2009/006162
 [00164]      In some cases, the robust multi-array Average (RMA) method may be used to normalize
the raw data. The RMA method begins by computing background-corrected intensities for each
matched cell on a number of microarrays. The background corrected values are restricted to positive
values as described by Irizarry et al. Biostatistics2003 April 4 (2): 249-64. After background
correction, the base-2 logarithm of each background corrected matched-cell intensity is then obtained.
The back-ground corrected, log-transformed, matched intensity on each microarray is then normalized
using the quantile normalization method in which for each input array and each probe expression
value, the array percentile probe value is replaced with the average of all array percentile points, this
method is more completely described by Bolstad et al. Bioinformatics 2003. Following quantile
normalization, the normalized data may then be fit to a linear model to obtain an expression measure
for each probe on each microarray. Tukey's median polish algorithm (Tukey, J.W., Exploratory Data
Analysis. 1977) may then be used to determine the log-scale expression level for the normalized probe
set data.
 [00165]      Data may further be filtered to remove data that may be considered suspect. In some
embodiments, data deriving from microarray probes that have fewer than about 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8
guanosine + cytosine nucleotides may be considered to be unreliable due to their aberrant
hybridization propensity or secondary structure issues. Similarly, data deriving from microarray
probes that have more than about 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, or 22 guanosine + cytosine
nucleotides may be considered unreliable due to their aberrant hybridization propensity or secondary
structure issues.
[00166]       In some cases, unreliable probe sets may be selected for exclusion from data analysis by
ranking probe-set reliability against a series of reference datasets. For example, RefSeq or Ensembl
(EMBL) are considered very high quality reference datasets. Data from probe sets matching RefSeq
or Ensembl sequences may in some cases be specifically included in microarray analysis experiments
due to their expected high reliability. Similarly data from probe-sets matching less reliable reference
datasets may be excluded from further analysis, or considered on a case by case basis for inclusion.
In some cases, the Ensembl high throughput cDNA (HTC) and/or mRNA reference datasets may be
used to determine the probe-set reliability separately or together. In other cases, probe-set reliability
may be ranked. For example, probes and/or probe-sets that match perfectly to all reference datasets
such as for example RefSeq, HTC, and mRNA, may be ranked as most reliable (1). Furthermore,
probes and/or probe-sets that match two out of three reference datasets may be ranked as next most
reliable (2), probes and/or probe-sets that match one out of three reference datasets may be ranked
next (3) and probes and/or probe sets that match no reference datasets may be ranked last (4). Probes
and or probe-sets may then be included or excluded from analysis based on their ranking. For
example, one may choose to include data from category 1, 2, 3, and 4 probe-sets; category 1, 2, and 3
probe-sets; category 1 and 2 probe-sets; or category 1 probe-sets for further analysis. In another
example, probe-sets may be ranked by the number of base pair mismatches to reference dataset
                                                    -43-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                  PCT/US2009/006162
 entries. It is understood that there are many methods understood in the art for assessing the reliability
 of a given probe and/or probe-set for molecular profiling and the methods of the present invention
 encompass any of these methods and combinations thereof.
 [00167]       In some embodiments of the present invention, data from probe-sets may be excluded
 from analysis if they are not expressed or expressed at an undetectable level (not above background).
 A probe-set is judged to be expressed above background if for any group:
 [001681                 Integral from TO to Infinity of the standard normal distribution < Significance
 (0.01)
 Where:
 TO = Sqr(GroupSize) (T - P) / Sqr(Pvar),
 GroupSize = Number of CEL files in the group,
T = Average of probe scores in probe-set,
P = Average of Background probes averages of GC content, and
Pvar = Sum of Background probe variances / (Number of probes in probe-set)A2,
 [001691      This allows including probe-sets in which the average of probe-sets in a group is greater
than the average expression of background probes of similar GC content as the probe-set probes as the
center of background for the probe-set and enables one to derive the probe-set dispersion from the
background probe-set variance.
 [001701      In some embodiments of the present invention, probe-sets that exhibit no, or low variance
may be excluded from further analysis. Low-variance probe-sets are excluded from the analysis via a
Chi-Square test. A probe-set is considered to be low-variance if its transformed variance is to the left
of the 99 percent confidence interval of the Chi-Squared distribution with (N-1) degrees of freedom.
              (N-1) * Probe-set Variance / (Gene Probe-set Variance) ~ Chi-Sq(N-1)
where N is the number of input CEL files, (N-1) is the degrees of freedom for the Chi-Squared
distribution, and the 'probe-set variance for the gene' is the average of probe-set variances across the
gene.
1001711       In some embodiments of the present invention, probe-sets for a given gene or transcript
cluster may be excluded from further analysis if they contain less than a minimum number of probes
that pass through the previously described filter steps for GC content, reliability, variance and the like.
For example in some embodiments, probe-sets for a given gene or transcript cluster may be excluded
from further analysis if they contain less than about 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, or
less than about 20 probes.
[001721       Methods of data analysis of gene expression levels or of alternative splicing may further
include the use of a feature selection algorithm as provided herein. In some embodiments of the
present invention, feature selection is provided by use of the LIMMA software package (Smyth, G. K.
(2005). Limma: linear models for microarray data. In: Bioinformatics and ComputationalBiology
                                                    -44-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                PCT/US2009/006162
Solutions using R and Bioconductor,R. Gentleman, V. Carey, S. Dudoit, R. Irizarry, W. Huber (eds.),
 Springer, New York, pages 397-420).
 [00173]       Methods of data analysis of gene expression levels and or of alternative splicing may
 further include the use of a pre-classifier algorithm. For example, an algorithm may use a cell
 specific molecular fingerprint to pre-classify the samples according to their composition and then
apply a correction/normalization factor. This data/information may then be fed in to a final
classification algorithm which would incorporate that information to aid in the final diagnosis.
 [001741       Methods of data analysis of gene expression levels and or of alternative splicing may
further include the use of a classifier algorithm as provided herein. In some embodiments of the
present invention a support vector machine (SVM) algorithm, a random forest algorithm, or a
combination thereof is provided for classification of microarray data. In some embodiments,
identified markers that distinguish samples (e.g. benign vs. malignant, normal vs. malignant) or
distinguish subtypes (e.g. PTC vs. FVPTC) are selected based on statistical significance. In some
cases, the statistical significance selection is performed after applying a Benjamini Hochberg
correction for false discovery rate (FDR).
[001751        In some cases, the classifier algorithm may be supplemented with a meta-analysis
approach such as that described by Fishel and Kaufman et al. 2007 Bioinformatics23(13): 1599-606.
In some cases, the classifier algorithm may be supplemented with a meta-analysis approach such as a
repeatability analysis. In some cases, the repeatability analysis selects markers that appear in at least
one predictive expression product marker set.
[001761       In some cases, the results of feature selection and classification may be ranked using a
Bayesian post-analysis method. For example, microarray data may be extracted, normalized, and
summarized using methods known in the art such as the methods provided herein. The data may then
be subjected to a feature selection step such as any feature selection methods known in the art such as
the methods provided herein including but not limited to the feature selection methods provided in
LIMMA. The data may then be subjected to a classification step such as any of the classification
methods known in the art such as the use of any of the algorithms or methods provided herein
including but not limited to the use of SVM or random forest algorithms. The results of the classifier
algorithm may then be ranked by according to a posterior probability function. For example, the
posterior probability function may be derived from examining known molecular profiling results, such
as published results, to derive prior probabilities from type I and type II error rates of assigning a
marker to a category (e.g. benign, malignant, normal, ATC, PTC, MTC, FC, FN, FA, FVPTC CN,
HA, HC, LCT, NHP etc.). These error rates may be calculated based on reported sample size for each
study using an estimated fold change value (e.g. 1.1, 1.2., 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2, 2.2, 2.4,
2.5, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 or more). These prior probabilities may then be combined with a molecular
profiling dataset of the present invention to estimate the posterior probability of differential gene
expression. Finally, the posterior probability estimates may be combined with a second dataset of the
                                                     -45-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                PCT/US2009/006162
present invention to formulate the final posterior probabilities of differential expression. Additional
methods for deriving and applying posterior probabilities to the analysis of microarray data are known
in the art and have been described for example in Smyth, G.K. 2004 Stat. Apple. Genet. Mol. Biol. 3:
Article 3. In some cases, the posterior probabilities may be used to rank the markers provided by the
classifier algorithm. In some cases, markers may be ranked according to their posterior probabilities
and those that pass a chosen threshold may be-chosen as markers whose differential expression is
indicative of or diagnostic for samples that are for example benign, malignant, normal, ATC, PTC,
MTC, FC, FN, FA, FVPTC CN, HA, HC, LCT, or NHP. Illustrative threshold values include prior
probabilities of 0.7, 0.75, 0.8, 0.85, 0.9, 0.925, 0.95, 0.975, 0.98, 0.985, 0.99, 0.995 or higher.
 [00177]      A statistical evaluation of the results of the molecular profiling may provide a quantitative
value or values indicative of one or more of the following: the likelihood of diagnostic accuracy, the
likelihood of cancer, disease or condition, the likelihood of a particular cancer, disease or condition,
the likelihood of the success of a particular therapeutic intervention. Thus a physician, who is not
likely to be trained in genetics or molecular biology, need not understand the raw data. Rather, the
data is presented directly to the physician in its most useful form to guide patient care. The results of
the molecular profiling can be statistically evaluated using a number of methods known to the art
including, but not limited to: the students T test, the two sided T test, pearson rank sum analysis,
hidden markov model analysis, analysis of q-q plots, principal component analysis, one way ANOVA,
two way ANOVA, LIMMA and the like.
[001781       In some embodiments of the present invention, the use of molecular profiling alone or in
combination with cytological analysis may provide a diagnosis that is between about 85% accurate
and about 99% or about 100% accurate. In some cases, the molecular profiling business may through
the use of molecular profiling and/or cytology provide a diagnosis of malignant, benign, or normal
that is about 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 97.5%, 98%,
98.5%, 99%, 99.5%, 99.75%, 99.8%, 99.85%, or 99.9% accurate.
[001791      In some cases, accuracy may be determined by tracking the subject over time to
determine the accuracy of the original diagnosis. In other cases, accuracy may be established in a
deterministic manner or using statistical methods. For example, receiver operator characteristic
(ROC) analysis may be used to determine the optimal assay parameters to achieve a specific level of
accuracy, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and/or false discovery rate.
Methods for using ROC analysis in cancer diagnosis are known in the art and have been described for
example in US Patent Application No. 2006/019615 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[001801      In some embodiments of the present invention, gene expression products and
compositions of nucleotides encoding for such products which are determined to exhibit the greatest
difference in expression level or the greatest difference in alternative splicing between benign and
normal, benign and malignant, or malignant and normal may be chosen for use as molecular profiling
reagents of the present invention. Such gene expression products may be particularly useful by
                                                     -46-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                  PCT/US2009/006162
 providing a wider dynamic range, greater signal to noise, improved diagnostic power, lower
 likelihood of false positives or false negative, or a greater statistical confidence level than other
 methods known or used in the art.
 [00181]      In other embodiments of the present invention, the use of molecular profiling alone or in
 combination with cytological analysis may reduce the number of samples scored as non-diagnostic by
 about 100%, 99%, 95%, 90%, 80%, 75%, 70%, 65%, or about 60% when compared to the use of
 standard cytological techniques known to the art. In some cases, the methods of the present invention
may reduce the number of samples scored as intermediate or suspicious by about 100%, 99%, 98%,
97%, 95%, 90%, 85%, 80%, 75%, 70%, 65%, or about 60%, when compared to the standard
cytological methods used in the art.
 [001821      In some cases the results of the molecular profiling assays, are entered into a database for
access by representatives or agents of the molecular profiling business, the individual, a medical
provider, or insurance provider. In some cases assay results include interpretation or diagnosis by a
representative, agent or consultant of the business, such as a medical professional. In other cases, a
computer or algorithmic analysis of the data is provided automatically. In some cases the molecular
profiling business may bill the individual, insurance provider, medical provider, researcher, or
government entity for one or more of the following: molecular profiling assays performed, consulting
services, data analysis, reporting of results, or database access.
 [00183]      In some embodiments of the present invention, the results of the molecular profiling are
presented as a report on a computer screen or as a paper record. In some cases, the report may
include, but is not limited to, such information as one or more of the following: the number of genes
differentially expressed, the suitability of the original sample, the number of genes showing
differential alternative splicing, a diagnosis, a statistical confidence for the diagnosis, the likelihood of
cancer or malignancy, and indicated therapies.
         (iv) Categorization of samples based on molecular profiling results
[001841       The results of the molecular profiling may be classified into one of the following: benign
(free of a cancer, disease, or condition), malignant (positive diagnosis for a cancer, disease, or
condition), or non diagnostic (providing inadequate information concerning the presence or absence
of a cancer, disease, or condition). In some cases, a diagnostic result may further classify the type of
cancer, disease or condition. In other cases, a diagnostic result may indicate a certain molecular
pathway involved in the cancer disease or condition, or a certain grade or stage of a particular cancer
disease or condition. In still other cases a diagnostic result may inform an appropriate therapeutic
intervention, such as a specific drug regimen like a kinase inhibitor such as Gleevec or any drug
known to the art, or a surgical intervention like a thyroidectomy or a hemithyroidectomy.
[001851      In some embodiments of the present invention, results are classified using a trained
algorithm. Trained algorithms of the present invention include algorithms that have been developed
using a reference set of known malignant, benign, and normal samples including but not limited to the
                                                     -47-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                PCT/US2009/006162
 samples listed in Figure 1. Algorithms suitable for categorization of samples include but are not
 limited to k-nearest neighbor algorithms, concept vector algorithms, naive bayesian algorithms, neural
network algorithms, hidden markov model algorithms, genetic algorithms, and mutual information
 feature selection algorithms or any combination thereof. In some cases, trained algorithms of the
present invention may incorporate data other than gene expression or alternative splicing data such as
but not limited to DNA polymorphism data, sequencing data, scoring or diagnosis by cytologists or
pathologists of the present invention, information provided by the pre-classifier algorithm of the
present invention, or information about the medical history of the subject of the present invention.
          (v) Monitoring of Subjects or Therapeutic Interventions via Molecular Profiling
 [00186]       In some embodiments, a subject may be monitored using methods and compositions of
the present invention. For example, a subject may be diagnosed with cancer or a genetic disorder.
This initial diagnosis may or may not involve the use of molecular profiling. The subject may be
prescribed a therapeutic intervention such as a thyroidectomy for a subject suspected of having
thyroid cancer. The results of the therapeutic intervention may be monitored on an ongoing basis by
molecular profiling to detect the efficacy of the therapeutic intervention. In another example, a
subject may be diagnosed with a benign tumor or a precancerous lesion or nodule, and the tumor,
nodule, or lesion may be monitored on an ongoing basis by molecular profiling to detect any changes
in the state of the tumor or lesion.
[00187]       Molecular profiling may also be used to ascertain the potential efficacy of a specific
therapeutic intervention prior to administering to a subject. For example, a subject may be diagnosed
with cancer. Molecular profiling may indicate the upregulation of a gene expression product known
to be involved in cancer malignancy, such as for example the RAS oncogene. A tumor sample may
be obtained and cultured in vitro using methods known to the art. The application of various
inhibitors of the aberrantly activated or dysregulated pathway, or drugs known to inhibit the activity
of the pathway may then be tested against the tumor cell line for growth inhibition. Molecular
profiling may also be used to monitor the effect of these inhibitors on for example down-stream
targets of the implicated pathway.
         (vi) Molecular Profiling as a Research Tool
[00188]       In some embodiments, molecular profiling may be used as a research tool to identify new
markers for diagnosis of suspected tumors; to monitor the effect of drugs or candidate drugs on
biological samples such as tumor cells, cell lines, tissues, or organisms; or to uncover new pathways
for oncogenesis and/or tumor suppression.
         (vii) Biomarker groupings based on molecular profiling
[00189]       Thyroid genes are described according to the groups 1) Benign vs. Malignant, 2)
alternative gene splicing, 3) KEGG Pathways, 4) Normal Thyroid, 5) Thyroid pathology subtype, 6)
Gene Ontology, and 7) Biomarkers of metastasis to the thyroid from non-thyroid organs. Methods and
compositions of the invention can have genes selected from one or more of the groups listed above
                                                   -48-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                   PCT/US2009/006162
 and/or 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50 or more subgroups from any of the
 groups listed above (e.g. one or more different KEGG pathway) and can have from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50 or more gene expression products from each group, in any
 combination. In some embodiments, the set of genes combined give a specificity or sensitivity of
 greater than 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%,
 97%, 98%, 99%, or 99.5%, or a positive predictive value or negative predictive value of at least 95%,
 95.5%, 96%, 96.5%, 97%, 97.5%, 98%, 98.5%, 99%, 99.5% or more.
 [001901       In some embodiments, the extracellular matrix, adherens, focal adhesion, and tight
junction genes are used as biomarkers of thyroid cancer. In some embodiments, the signaling pathway
is selected from one of the following three pathways: adherens pathway, focal adhesion pathway, and
tight junction pathway. In some embodiments, at least one gene is selected from one of the 3
pathways. In some embodiments, at least one gene is selected from each one of the three pathways. In
some embodiments, at least one gene is selected from two of the three pathways. In some
embodiments, at least one gene that is involved in all three pathways is selected. In one example, a set
of genes that is involved in adherens pathway, focal adhesion pathway, and tight junction pathway is
selected as the markers for diagnosis of a cancer such as thyroid cancer.
 [001911        The follicular cells that line thyroid follicles are highly polarized and organized in
structure, requiring distinct roles of their luminal and apical cell membranes. In some embodiments,
cytoskeleton, plasma membrane, and extracellular space genes are used as biomarkers of thyroid
cancer. In some embodiments, genes that overlap all four pathways, i.e. ECM, focal adhesion,
adherens, and tight junction pathways, are used as biomarkers of thyroid cancer. In one example, the
present invention provides the Benign vs. malignant group (n=948) as a thyroid classification gene
list. This list has been grouped according to alternative splicing, KEGG pathways, and gene ontology.
KEGG pathways are further described in Table 1.
[001921       In some embodiments, the present invention provides a method of diagnosing cancer
comprising gene expression products from one or more signaling pathways that include but are not
limited to the following: acute myeloid leukemia signaling, somatostatin receptor 2 signaling, cAMP
mediated signaling, cell cycle and DNA damage checkpoint signaling, G-protein coupled receptor
signaling, integrin signaling, melanoma cell signaling, relaxin signaling, and thyroid cancer signaling.
Methods and compositions of the invention can have genes selected from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50 or more signaling pathways and can have from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50 or more gene expression products from each signaling pathway, in any
combination. In some embodiments, the set of genes combined give a specificity or sensitivity of
greater than 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%,
97%, 98%, 99%, or 99.5%, or a positive predictive value or negative predictive value of at least 95%,
95.5%, 96%, 96.5%, 97%, 97.5%, 98%, 98.5%, 99%, 99.5% or more.
                                                       -49-

  WO 2010/056374                                                                 PCT/US2009/006162
[00193]       In some embodiments, the present invention provides a method of diagnosing cancer
comprising gene expression products from one or more ontology groups that include but are not
limited to the following: cell aging, cell cortex, cell cycle, cell death/apoptosis, cell differentiation,
cell division, cell junction, cell migration, cell morphogenesis, cell motion, cell projection, cell
proliferation, cell recognition, cell soma, cell surface, cell surface linked receptor signal transduction,
cell adhesion, transcription, immune response, or inflammation. Methods and compositions of the
invention can have genes selected from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50 or
more ontology groups and can have from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50 or
more gene expression products from each ontology group, in any combination. In some
embodiments, the set of genes combined give a specificity or sensitivity of greater than 70%, 75%,
80%, 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, or
99.5%, or a positive predictive value or negative predictive value of at least 95%, 95.5%, 96%,
96.5%, 97%, 97.5%, 98%, 98.5%, 99%, 99.5% or more.
                            Table 1 Genes involved in the KEGG Pathways
                                        % in Top 948 B       Genes in Top 948 B      Total Genes in
           KEGG Pathway                 vs. M list          vs. M list               Pathway
           ECM                                         23                       18                       84
           p53                                         14                       10                       69
           PPAR                                        14                       10                       69
           Thyroid Cancer                              14                        4                       29
           Focal Adhesion                              13                       26                      201
           Adherens                                    12                        9                       77
           Tight Junction                              11                       14                      134
  Pathways in Cancer Overview                          10                       33                      332
           Jak/STAT                                    10                       14                      155
           Cell Cycle                                   7                        9                      129
           TGFbeta                                      7                        6                       87
           Wnt                                          7                       10                      151
           ErbB                                         6                        5                       87
           Apoptosis                                    6                        5                       88
           MAPK                                         5                       14                      269
           Autoimmune Thyroid                           4                        2                       53
           mTOR                                         2                        1                       53
           VEGF                                         1                        1                       76
                                                    -50-

  WO 2010/056374                                                           PCT/US2009/006162
[00194]     Top Biomarkers of benign vs. malignant thyroid, n=948, are listed below in List 1:
                                                    List 1
        TCID-2406391, TCID-3153400, TCID-3749600, ABCC3, ABCD2, ABTB2, ACBD7,
ACSL1, ACTA2, ADAMTS5, ADAMTS9, ADK, ADORA1, AEBP1, AFAPI, AGR2, AHNAK2,
AHR, AIDA, AIM2, AKI, AKR1C3, ALAS2, ALDH1A3, ALDH1BI, ALDH6A1, ALOX5,
AMIGO2, AMOT, ANGPTL1, ANK2, ANKS6, ANO5, ANXA1, ANXA2, ANXA2P1, ANXA3,
ANXA6, AOAH, AP3S1, APOBEC3F, APOBEC3G, APOL1, APOO, AQP4, AQP9, ARHGAP19,
ARHGAP24, ARL13B, ARL4A, ARMCX3, ARMCX6, ARNTL, ARSG, ASAP2, ATIC, ATM,
ATP13A4, ATP6VOD2, ATP8A1, AUTS2, AVPR1A, B3GNT3, BAG3, BCL2, BCL2A1, BCL9,
BHLHE40, BHLHE41, BIRC5, BLNK, BMP1, BMP8A, BTBD11, BTG3, COorfl31, COorf72,
C 11orf72, C 11orf74, C 11orf8O, Cl2orf35, C12orf49, C14orf45, C16orf45, C17orf87, C19orf33,
Clorfl 15, Clorfl 16, C2, C22orf9, C2orf4O, C3, C4A, C4B, C4orf34, C4orf7, C5orf28, C6orfl68,
C6orfl74, C7orf62, C8orfl6, C8orf39, C8orf4, C8orf79, C9orf68, CAll, CADM1, CALCA,
CAMK2N1, CAMK4, CAND1, CARD16, CARD17, CARD8, CASC5, CASPI, CAVI, CAV2,
CCDC109B, CCDC121, CCDC146, CCDC148, CCDC152, CCDC80, CCL13, CCL19, CCND1,
CCND2, CD151, CD180, CD2, CD200, CD36, CD3D, CD48, CD52, CD69, CD79A, CD96, CDCP1,
CDH11, CDH3, CDH6, CDK2, CDKL2, CDO1, CDON, CDR1, CEP110, CEP55, CERKL, CFB,
CFH, CFHR1, CFI, CHAF1B, CHD4, CHGB, CHI3L1, CITED, CKB, CKS2, CLC, CLDN1,
CLDN1O, CLDN16, CLDN4, CLDN7, CLEC2B, CLEC4E, CLIP3, CLU, CMAH, CNN2, CNN3,
COL12A1, COL1A1, COPZ2, CP, CPE, CPNE3, CR2, CRABP1, CRABP2, CSF3R,
CSGALNACT1, CST6, CTNNAL1, CTNNB1, CTSC, CTSH, CTTN, CWH43, CXCL1, CXCL11,
CXCL13, CXCL14, CXCL17, CXCL2, CXCL3, CXCL9, CXorfl8, CXorf27, CYPiB1, CYP24A1,
CYP27A1, CYP4B1, CYSLTR1, CYSLTR2, CYTH1, DAPK2, DCAF17, DCBLD2, DCUN1D3,
DDAH1, DDB2, DDX52, DENND4A, DGKH, DGKI, DHRS1, DHRS3, DIO1, DIRAS3, DLC1,
DLG2, DLG4, DLGAP5, DNAJB14, DNASE1L3, DOCK8, DOCK9, DOK4, DPH3B, DPP4, DPYD,
DPYSL3, DSG2, DSP, DST, DUOXI, DUOX2, DUOXAl, DUOXA2, DUSP4, DUSP5, DUSP6,
DYNClI2, DYNLT1, DZIPl, ECE1, EDNRB, EFEMPI, EGF, EGFR, EHBP1, EHD2, EHF,
EIF2B2, EIF4H, ELK3, ELMO1, EMP2, EMR3, ENAH, ENDODI, ENTPD1, EPB41, EPDR1,
EPHA4, EPHX4, EPR1, EPS8, ERBB2, ERBB3, ERI2, ERO1LB, ERP27, ESRRG, ETNK2, ETS1,
ETV1, ETV4, ETV5, F2RL2, F8, FAAH2, FABP4, FAM 111 A, FAM 11 B, FAM164A, FAM176A,
FAM20A, FAM55C, FAM82B, FAM84B, FAT4, FBLN5, FBXO2, FBXO21, FCN1, FCN2, FGF2,
FGFR1OP2, FIBIN, FLJ20184, FLJ26056, FLJ32810, FLJ42258, FLRT3, FN1, FPR1, FPR2,
FREM2, FRMD3, FXYD6, FYB, FZD4, FZD6, FZD7, GOS2, GABBR2, GABRB2, GADD45A,
GALE, GALNT12, GALNT3, GALNT7, GBE1, GBP1, GBP3, GBP5, GGCT, GIMAP2, GIMAP5,
GIMAP7, GJA4, GLA, GLDC, GLDN, GLIS3, GNG12, GOLTIA, GPAM, GPR1 10, GPR125,
GPR155, GPR174, GPR98, GPRC5B, GRAMD3, GSN, GTF3A, GULP1, GYPB, GYPC, GYPE,
GZMA, GZMK, HEMGN, HEY2, HIGDlA, HIPK2, HISTlHIA, HISTlH3B, HISTlH4L, HK1,
                                               -51-

  WO 2010/056374                                                 PCT/US2009/006162
HLA-DPB1, HLA-DQB2, HLF, HMGA2, HMMR, HNRNPM, HPN, HPS3, HRASLS, HSD17B6,
HSPH1, ICAMI, ID3, IFI16, IFITMI, IFNAR2, IGF2BP2, IGFBP5, IGFBP6, IGFBP7, IGJ, IGK,
IGKC, IGKV1-5, IGKV3-15, IGKV3-20, IGKV3D-1 1, IGKV3D-15, IGSF1, IKZF2, IKZF3, IKZF4,
ILIRAP, IL1RL1, IL2RA, IL7R, IL8, IL8RA, IL8RB, IL8RBP, IMPDH2, INPP5F, IPCEF1,
IQGAP2, ISYNA1, ITGA2, ITGA3, ITGA4, ITGA9, ITGB1, ITGB4, ITGB6, ITGB8, ITM2A,
ITPR1, IYD, JAK2, JUB, KAL1, KATNAL2, KBTBD8, KCNA3, KCNAB1, KCNK5, KCNQ3,
KCTD14, KDELC1, KDELR3, KHDRBS2, KIAA0284, KIAA0408, KIAA1217, KIAA1305, KIFI1,
KIT, KLF8, KLHDC8A, KLHL6, KLK1O, KLK7, KLRB1, KLRC4, KLRG1, KLRK1, KRT18,
KRT19, KYNU, LAMB1, LAMB3, LAMC1, LAMC2, LCA5, LCMT1, LCN2, LCP1, LDOC1,
LEMD1, LGALS2, LGALS3, LIFR, LILRA1, LILRB1, LIMA1, LINGO2, LIPH, LMO3, LMO4,
LOC100124692, LOC100127974, LOC100129112, LOC100129115, LOC100129171,
LOC100129961, LOC100130100, LOC100130248, LOC100131102, LOC100131490,
LOC100131869, LOC100131938, LOC100131993, LOC100132338, LOC100132764, LOC26080,
LOC283508, LOC284861, LOC43991 1, LOC440434, LOC440871, LOC554202, LOC643454,
LOC646358, LOC648149, LOC650405, LOC652493, LOC652694, LOC653264, LOC653354,
LOC653498, LOC728212, LOC729461, LOC730031, LONRF2, LOX, LPAR1, LPAR5, LPCAT2,
LPL, LRP1B, LRP2, LRRC69, LRRN1, LRRN3, LTBP2, LTBP3, LUM, LYPLA1, LYRM1, LYZ,
MACC1, MAFG, MAGOH2, MAMLD1, MAP2, MAPK4, MAPK6, MATN2, MBOAT2, MCM4,
MCM7, MDK, MEl, MED13, MED13L, MELK, MET, METTL7B, MEX3C, MFGE8, MGAM,
MGAT1, MGAT4C, MGC2889, MGST1, MIS12, MK167, MLLT3, MLLT4, MMP16, MNDA,
MORC4, MPPED2, MPZL2, MRC2, MRPL14, MT1F, MT1G, MT1H, MT1M, MT1P2, MT1P3,
MTHFD1L, MTIF3, MUC1, MUC15, MVP, MXRA5, MYEF2, MYH10, MYO1B, MYO1D,
MYO5A, MYO6, NAB2, NAE1, NAG20, NAV2, NCAM1, NCKAP1, ND1, NDC80, NDFIP2, NEB,
NEDD4L, NELL2, NEXN, NFATC3, NFE2, NFIB, NFKBIZ, NIPAL3, NIPSNAP3A, NIPSNAP3B,
NODI, NPAS3, NPAT, NPC2, NPEPPS, NPL, NPY1R, NRCAM, NRIP1, NRP2, NT5E, NTAN1,
NUCB2, NUDT6, NUPRI, NUSAP1, OCIAD2, OCR1, ODZ1, ORAOV1, OSBPL1A, OSGEP,
OSMR, P2RY13, P4HA2, PAM, PAPSS2, PARD6B, PARP14, PARP4, PARVA, PBX1, PCDH1,
PCMTD1, PCNXL2, PDE5A, PDE9A, PDGFRL, PDK4, PDLIM1, PDLIM4, PDZRN4, PEG10,
PERP, PGCP, PHEX, PHF16, PHLDB2, PHYHIP, PIAS3, PIGN, PKHD1L1, PKP2, PKP4,
PLA2G16, PLA2G7, PLA2R1, PLAGI, PLAU, PLCD3, PLCL1, PLEK, PLEKHA4, PLEKHA5,
PLEKHF2, PLK2, PLP2, PLS3, PLSCR4, PLXNC1, PMEPA1, POLR2J4, PON2, POR, POU2F3,
PPAP2C, PPARGC1A, PPBP, PPL, PPP1R14C, PRCP, PRICKLES, PRINS, PRMT6, PROK2,
PROSI, PRR15, PRRG1, PRSS23, PSAT1, PSD3, PTK7, PTPN14, PTPN22, PTPRC, PTPRE,
PTPRF, PTPRG, PTPRK, PTPRU, PTRF, PXDNL, PYGL, PYHIN1, QTRT1, RAB25, RAB27A,
RAB32, RAB34, RAD23B, RAG2, RAI2, RAPGEF5, RARG, RASA1, RASD2, RBBP7, RBBP8,
RBMS2, RCBTB2, RCE1, RDH5, RG9MTD2, RGS13, RGS18, RGS2, RHOBTB3, RHOH, RHOU,
RICH2, RIMS2, RNASE1, RNASET2, RND3, ROSI, RPL39L, RPL9P 1, RPRD1A, RPS6KA6,
                                          -52-

   WO 2010/056374                                                         PCT/US2009/006162
RRAS, RRAS2, RRBP1, RRM2, RUNX1, RUNX2, RXRG, RYR2, S100A12, S100A14, S100A16,
 S100A8, S100A9, SALL1, SAV1, SC4MOL, SCARA3, SCARNAl 1, SCEL, SCG3, SCG5,
 SCNNlA, SCP2, SCRN1, SDC4, SDK1, SEH1L, SEL1L3, SELL, SEMA3C, SEMA3D, SEMA4C,
 SEPP1, SEPT11, SERGEF, SERINC2, SERPINA1, SERPINA2, SERPINE2, SERPING1, SFN,
 SFTPB, SGCB, SGCE, SGEF, SGMS2, SGPP2, SH2D4A, SH3BGR, SH3PXD2A, SIPA1L2,
 SIRPA, SIRPB1, SLA, SLC12A2, SLC16A4, SLC16A6, SLC17A5, SLC24A5, SLC25A33,
 SLC26A4, SLC26A7, SLC27A2, SLC27A6, SLC34A2, SLC35D2, SLC35F2, SLC39A6, SLC4A4,
 SLC5A8, SLC7A1 1, SLC7A2, SLIT1, SLIT2, SLPI, SMAD9, SMOC2, SMURF2, SNCA, SNXl,
 SNX22, SNX7, SOATI, SORBS2, SP140, SP140L, SPATS2, SPATS2L, SPC25, SPINT1, SPOCKI,
 SPP1, SPRED2, SPRY1, SPRY2, SQLE, SRL, SSPN, ST20, ST3GAL5, STAT4, STEAP2, STK17B,
STK32A, STXBP6, SULFI, SYNE1, SYT14, SYTL5, TACSTD2, TASP1, TBC1D3F, TC2N,
TCERGlL, TCF7L2, TCFL5, TDRKH, TEAD1, TFCP2L1, TFF3, TFPI, TGFA, TGFB2, TGFBR1,
THSD4, TIAM2, TIMPI, TIMP3, TIPARP, TJPI, TJP2, TLCD1, TLE4, TLR1O, TLR8, TM4SF1,
TM4SF4, TM7SF4, TMEM100, TMEM117, TMEM133, TMEM156, TMEM163, TMEM171,
TMEM215, TMEM220, TMEM90A, TMEM98, TMPRSS4, TMSB1O, TMSB15A, TMSB15B, TNC,
TNFAIP8, TNFRSF1 IB, TNFRSF12A, TNFRSF17, TNFSF1O, TNFSF15, TOMM34, TOX,
TPD52L1, TPO, TPX2, TRIP1O, TRPC5, TRPC6, TSC22D1, TSHZ2, TSPAN13, TSPAN6,
TSPAN8, TSSC1, TTC39A, TUBBI, TUBB6, TULP3, TUSC3, TXNL1, TXNRD1, TYMS, UCHL5,
VAMP1, VNN1, VNN2, VNN3, WDR40A, WDR54, WDR72, WIPIl, WNT5A, XKRX, XPR1,
YIF1B, YIPF1, YTHDC2, ZBTB33, ZCCHC12, ZCCHC16, ZEB2, ZFP36L1, ZFPM2, ZMAT3,
ZMAT4, ZNF143, ZNF208, ZNF487, ZNF643, ZNF804B, ZYG11A.
[001951     Alternative spliced genes, n=283, are listed below in List 2:
                                                     List 2
        ABCC3, ADAMTS5, ADAMTS9, AIDA, AKI, AKR1C3, ALDH1A3, ALDH6A1,
AMIGO2, AMOT, ANGPTL1, ANKS6, ANO5, ANXA1, ANXA2, ANXA2P1, ANXA3, AQP4,
ARHGAP24, ARL4A, ARMCX3, ARMCX6, ARSG, ATIC, ATP13A4, ATP8A1, AUTS2, BAG3,
BCL2, BCL9, BHLHE41, ClOorfl3l, Cllorf74, C14orf45, Cl6orf45, C19orf33, C2orf4O, C3,
C5orf28, C8orf79, CAll, CALCA, CAV1, CCND1, CCND2, CD36, CD36, CDH3, CDH6, CDON,
CFH, CFHR1, CHD4, CITED, CLDN16, CLU, COPZ2, CP, CRABP1, CSGALNACT1, CTSC,
CTSH, CTTN, CWH43, CYSLTR2, DCBLD2, DCUN1D3, DDB2, DGKH, DGKI, DIO1,                   DLG2,
DOCK9, DPH3B, DPP4, DSP, DST, DUSP6, EFEMPI, EIF2B2, ELMO1, EMP2, ENAH, ENTPD1,
EPHX4, ERBB3, ERI2, ERO1LB, ETNK2, ETV1, ETV5, F8, FABP4, FAM111B, FAM20A,
FAM55C, FAT4, FBLN5, FGFR10P2, FLJ42258, FLRT3, FN1, FREM2, FXYD6, GABBR2,
GABRB2, GALNT7, GBE1, GBP1, GBP3, GGCT, GIMAP7, GPAM, GPR125, GPR155, GRAMD3,
GSN, HLF, HMGA2, HSPH1, IMPDH2, IQGAP2, ITGA2, ITGA3, ITGA9, ITGB6, ITGB8, ITM2A,
ITPR1, IYD, KATNAL2, KCNA3, KCNQ3, KDELC1, KHDRBS2, KIAA0284, KIAA1217, KIT,
                                                -53-

  WO 2010/056374                                                         PCT/US2009/006162
KLF8, KLK10, KRT19, LAMB3, LAMC2, LEMD1, LIFR, LINGO2, LMO3, LOC100127974,
LOC100129112, LOC100131490, LOC100131869, LOC283508, LOC648149, LOC653354,
LONRF2, LPCAT2, LPL, LRP1B, LRP2, LRRC69, LRRN1, LRRN3, LYRM1, MACC1, MAFG,
MAP2, MAPK4, MAPK6, MATN2, MED13, MET, METTL7B, MFGE8, MLLT3, MPPED2,
MPZL2, MRPL14, MT1F, MT1G, MT1H, MT1P2, MTHFD1L, MUC1, MVP, MYEF2, MYH1O,
MYO1D, NAG20, NAV2, NEB, NEDD4L, NELL2, NFATC3, NFKBIZ, NPC2, NRCAM, NUCB2,
ORAOV1, P4HA2, PAM, PAPSS2, PARVA, PDLIM4, PEG10, PGCP, PIGN, PKHD1LL,
PLA2G16, PLA2G7, PLA2R1, PLAU, PLEKHA4, PLP2, PLSCR4, PLXNC1, PMEPA1, PON2,
PPARGC1A, PRINS, PROSI, PSD3, PTPRK, PYHIN1, QTRT1, RAB27A, RAB34, RAD23B,
RASA1, RHOBTB3, RNASET2, RPS6KA6, RUNX1, SCARNAl 1, SCG5, SDC4, SERPINA1,
SERPINA2, SGEF, SH2D4A, SLA, SLC12A2, SLC24A5, SLC26A4, SLC26A7, SLC27A2,
SLC27A6, SLC35F2, SLC4A4, SLC5A8, SLC7A2, SOATI, SPATS2, SPATS2L, SPINT1, SPPl,
SSPN, STK32A, SULFI, SYNE1, TCFL5, TFPI, TGFBR1, TIPARP, TJPi, TLE4, TM7SF4,
TMEM171, TMEM90A, TNFAIP8, TNFRSF1 1B, TOMM34, TPD52L1, TPO, TSC22D1, TUSC3,
TYMS, WDR54, WDR72, WIPIl, XPR1, YIF1B, ZFPM2, ZMAT4.
[00196]      Genes involved in the KEGG pathways are listed below in Table 6: there are 18 pathways
with a total of n=109 unique genes.
                                                 Table 6
  Signaling Pathway           Number of Genes                   Genes
           ECM Pathway                19                        CD36, COLlAl, FN1, HMMR,
                                                        ITGA2, ITGA3, ITGA4, ITGA9, ITGBl,
                                                        ITGB4, ITGB6, ITGB8, LAMBI,
                                                        LAMB3, LAMC1, LAMC2, SDC4,
                                                        SPP1, TNC
           p53 Pathway               10                         ATM, CCND1, CCND2, CDK2,
                                                        DDB2, GADD45A, PERP, RRM2, SFN,
                                                        ZMAT3
           PPAR Pathway              10                         ACSLl, CD36, CYP27A1,
                                                        FABP4, LPL, MEl, RXRG, SCP2,
                                                        SLC27A2, SLC27A6
  Thyroid Cancer Pathway             4                          CCND 1, CTNNB 1, RXRG,
                                                        TCF7L2
                                              -54-

WO 2010/056374                                   PCT/US2009/006162
Focal Adhesion Pathway   26               BCL2, CAVI, CAV2, CCND1,
                                  CCND2, COLlAl, CTNNB1, EGF,
                                  EGFR, ERBB2, FN1, ITGA2, ITGA3,
                                  ITGA4, ITGA9, ITGB1, ITGB6, ITGB8,
                                  LAMBI, LAMB3, LAMC1, LAMC2,
                                  MET, PARVA, SPPI, TNC
Adherens Pathway         9               CTNNB1, EGFR, ERBB2, MET,
                                  MLLT4, PTPRF, TCF7L2, TGFBR1,
                                  TJP1
Tight Junctions Pathway  15              CLDN1, CLDN10, CLDN16,
                                  CLDN4, CLDN7, CTNNB1, CTN,
                                  EPB41, MLLT4, MYHl0, PARD6B,
                                 RRAS, RRAS2, TJP1, TJP2
Pathways in Cancer      34               BCL2, BIRC5, CCND1, CDK2,
Overview                         CSF3R, CTNNB1, DAPK2, EGF,
                                 EGFR, ERBB2, ETS1, FGF2, FN1,
                                 FZD4, FZD6, FZD7, IL8, ITGA2,
                                 ITGA3, 1TGB1, KIT, LAMBI, LAMB3,
                                 LAMC1, LAMC2, MET, PIAS3,
                                 RUNX1, RXRG, TCF7L2, TGFA,
                                 TGFB2, TGFBR1, WNT5A
Jak/STAT Pathway        16               CCND1, CCND2, CSF3R,
                                 IFNAR2, IL2RA, IL7R, ITGB4, JAK2,
                                 LIFR, OSMR, PIAS3, SPRED2, SPRYl,
                                 SPRY2, STAT4, TPO
Cell Cycle Pathway      9               ATM, CCND1, CCND2, CDK2,
                                 GADD45A, MCM4, MCM7, SFN,
                                 TGFB2
TGFbeta Pathway         6               BMP8A, ID3, SMAD9,
                                 SMURF2, TGFB2, TGFBR1
        Wnt Pathway     10              CCND1, CCND2, CTNNB1,
                            -55-

  WO 2010/056374                                                           PCT/US2009/006162
                                                           FZD4, FZD6, FZD7, NFATC3,
                                                           PRICKLEl, TCF7L2, WNT5A
           Erb Pathway                  5                           EGF, EGFR, ERBB2, ERBB3,
                                                           TGFA
   Apoptosis Pathway                    5                           ATM, BCL2, ENDOD1,
                                                           ILIRAP, TNFSF1O
           MAPK Pathway                 14                          DUSP4, DUSP5, DUSP6, EGF,
                                                           EGFR, FGF2, GADD45A, GNG12,
                                                          RASA1, RPS6KA6, RRAS, RRAS2,
                                                          TGFB2, TGFBR1
   Autoimmune Thyroid                  2                            HLA-DPB1, TPO
   pathway
           mTOR Pathway                 1                           RPS6KA6
          VEGF Pathway                  1                          NFATC3
[001971      Top genes separating benign and malignant thyroid (combined) from normal thyroid,
n=55, are listed below in List 3:
                                                List 3
        ANGPTL1, ANXA3, ClOorfl3l, C2orf4O, C7orf62, CAV1, CCDC80, CDR1, CFH, CFHR1,
CLDN16, CP, CRABPl, EFEMPI, ENTPD1, FABP4, FBLN5, FN1, GBP1, GBP3, GULPI,
HSD17B6, IPCEF1, KIT, LRP1B, LRRC69, LUM, MAPK6, MATN2, MPPED2, MT1F, MT1G,
MT1H, MT1M, MT1P2, MT1P3, MYEF2, NRCAM, ODZ1, PAPSS2, PKHD1L1, PLA2R1, RYR2,
SEMA3D, SLC24A5, SLC26A4, SLC26A7, SLIT2, TFPI, TMEM171, TPO, TSPAN8, YTHDC2,
ZFPM2, ZNF804B.
[001981      Thyroid surgical pathology subtypes, n=873, are listed below:
[00199]      (i) List 4: FA subtype, n=243:
        TCID-3124344, AHR, ALOX5, ANGPTL1, ANXA2, ANXA2P1, APOL1, AVPR1A,
BMP8A, BTBD11, C2, C3, C8orf39, CCDC109B, CD36, CDON, CFB, CHGB, CHI3L1, CKB,
CLDN1, CP, CRABP1, CTSC, CTSH, CXCL1, CXCL2, CXCL3, CXorf27, CYP1B1, DLG2,
DNASE1L3, DPP4, DUOXI, DUOX2, DYNLTI, EIF4H, F8, FABP4, FAM20A, FAM55C, FBLN5,
FLJ26056, FXYD6, GOS2, GALNT7, GLIS3, GPAM, HIGD1A, HK1, HLF, HSD17B6, ICAM1,
IGFBP7, IL1RAP, IPCEF1, IYD, KATNAL2, KCNAB1, KHDRBS2, KLF8, KLHDC8A, LAMBI,
LGALS3, LOC100131869, LOC26080, LOC284861, LOC439911, LOC653264, LOC728212,
                                                -56-

  WO 2010/056374                                                     PCT/US2009/006162
LOC729461, LPCAT2, LRRC69, MAGOH2, MAPK4, MAPK6, MELK, MPPED2, MT1G, NEB,
NFKBIZ, NRIP1, PARP14, PKHD1L1, PLA2G7, PLP2, PLXNC1, POR, PRMT6, PROSI, PSMB2,
PTPRE, PYGL, RNASE1, RNASET2, RPL9P11, RRAS2, RRBP1, RUNX1, RUNX2, RYR2, SCP2,
SEL1L3, SERGEF, SGPP2, SH3BGR, SLC25A33, SLC26A4, SLC26A7, SLC27A6, SLC4A4, SLPI,
SORBS2, SQLE, STK32A, SYTL5, TFCP2L1, TIAM2, TIMP3, TMEM220, TMSB1O, TRPC6,
TSHZ2, TSSC1, VAMPI, ZNF487, ABCC3, Cllorf72, C8orf79, CLDN16, CLU, CST6, CYSLTR2,
DIO1, DPH3B, ERO1LB, FN1, GABRB2, IGFBP6, IKZF3, KIT, KRT19, LIFR, LIPH, MACCl,
MAFG, MPZL2, MT1F, MT1H, MT1P2, NELL2, ODZ1, RAG2, ROSI, SERPINA1, SERPINA2,
SLC34A2, TCFL5, TIMP1, TPO, ZMAT4, ADAMTS9, ALDHIB1, ALDH6A1, ANO5, APOO,
ClOorf72, Cllorf74, C14orf45, C2orf4O, C4A, C4B, C5orf28, C6orfl74, CAMK2N1, CCDC121,
CCND1, CDH3, CITED, COPZ2, CPNE3, CRABP2, CSGALNACT1, DAPK2, DLC1, ECE1,
EIF2B2, EMP2, ERBB2, FAM82B, FIBIN, FLJ42258, FRMD3, HEY2, HRASLS, ID3, IGF2BP2,
IGSF1, IKZF2, ITGA9, KIAA0408, KIAA1305, LMO3, MATN2, MDK, MET, METTL7B, MFGE8,
MGC2889, MIS12, NAV2, NCAM1, NIPSNAP3A, NIPSNAP3B, NOD1, NTANI, NUCB2,
NUPRI, PCMTD1, PIGN, PLAG1, PSATL, PXDNL, QTRT1, RG9MTD2, RXRG, SDC4,
SLC35D2, SLC7A1 1, SMAD9, SPRY1, STEAP2, TASP1, TCF7L2, TMEM171, TNFRSF1 IB,
TNFRSF12A, TRPC5, TXNL1, WDR72, YIPF1, ZCCHC12, ZCCHC16.
[002001    (ii) List 5: FC subtype, n=102:
        TCID-3124344, ABCC3, ANGPTL1, AVPR1A, C8orf39, CD2, CD36, CD48, CD52, CKB,
CLDN1, CLDN16, CRABP1, CXCL9, DIO1, DLG2, DNASE1L3, DPH3B, DYNLT1, EIF4H,
ERO1LB, F8, FABP4, FBLN5, FLJ26056, FXYD6, FYB, GLIS3, GULPI, GZMA, GZMK, HK1,
HLA-DPB1, IFITMI, IGFBP7, IGJ, IGK@, IGKC, IGKV1-5, IGKV3-15, IGKV3-20, IGKV3D-11,
IGKV3D-15, IPCEF1, KHDRBS2, KLHDC8A, KLRC4, KLRK1, LAMBI, LCP1, LIFR,
LOC100130100, LOC100131869, LOC26080, LOC284861, LOC43991 1, LOC440871, LOC650405,
LOC652493, LOC652694, LOC653264, LOC728212, LOC729461, LYZ, MAGOH2, MAPK4,
MT1F, MT1H, MT1P2, NEB, ODZ1, PLA2G7, POR, PRMT6, PSMB2, PTPRC, RAG2, RNASE1,
RNASET2, RPL9P1 1, RRAS2, RRBP1, RYR2, SCP2, SERGEF, SGPP2, SH3BGR, SLC25A33,
SLC26A4, SQLE, STK32A, TCFL5, TFCP2L1, TLAM2, TIMP3, TMEM220, TPO, TRPC6, TSSC1,
VAMP1, ZFPM2, ZNF487.
[00201]    (iii) List 6: LCT subtype, n=140:
        ADAMTS9, AIM2, APOBEC3F, APOBEC3G, ARHGAP19, ATP13A4, BAG3, BCL2A1,
BIRC5, BLNK, ClOorf72, Cl lorf72, C12orf35, C4orf7, C6orfl68, CALCA, CARD17, CARD8,
CASPI, CCL19, CCND1, CD180, CD2, CD3D, CD48, CD52, CD79A, CD96, CEP110, CHGB,
CLDN16, CLEC2B, CNN2, COL12A1, CR2, CXCL13, CXCL9, CYTH1, DENND4A, DNAJB14,
DOCK8, DPYD, DUOXI, DUOX2, DUOXAl, DUOXA2, DUSP6, DYNC1I2, EGF, EPDR1, EPRI,
EPS8, ETS1, FLJ42258, FYB, GABBR2, GABRB2, GALNT7, GBP5, GIMAP2, GIMAP5,
GIMAP7, GPR155, GPR174, GTF3A, GZMA, GZMK, HIST1H3B, HIST1H4L, HLA-DPB1,
                                             -57-

  WO 2010/056374                                                      PCT/US2009/006162
HNRNPM, IF116, IFITMI, IFNAR2, IGF2BP2, IGJ, IGK@, IGKC, IGKV1-5, IGKV3-15, IGKV3
20, IGKV3D-1 1, IGKV3D-15, IKZF3, IL7R, ITM2A, JAK2, KBTBD8, KLHL6, KLRC4, KLRG1,
KLRK1, KYNU, LCP1, LIPH, LOC100130100, LOC100131490, LOC440871, LOC646358,
LOC650405, LOC652493, LOC652694, LONRF2, LYZ, MED13L, METTL7B, MPZL2, MTIF3,
NAV2, ND1, NFATC3, ODZ1, PAPSS2, PROS1, PSD3, PTPRC, PYGL, PYHIN1, RAD23B,
RGS13, RIMS2, RRM2, SCG3, SLITI, SP140, SP140L, SPC25, ST20, ST3GAL5, STAT4, STK32A,
TC2N, TLE4, TNFAIP8, TNFRSF17, TNFSF10, TOX, UCHL5, ZEB2, ZNF143.
[002021    (iv) List 7: FVPTC subtype, n=182:
        ABCC3, ADAMTS9, AIDA, ALDH1B1, ALDH6A1, ANK2, ANO5, APOL1, APOO,
AQP4, ATP13A4, BMP8A, C1Oorf72, C 11orf72, Cl lorf74, C12orf35, Cl4orf45, C2orf4O, C4A,
C4B, C5orf28, C6orfl74, C8orf79, CAMK2N1, CCDC121, CCND1, CCND2, CD36, CDH3,
CITED, CLDN1, CLDN16, CLDN4, CLEC2B, CLU, COPZ2, CPNE3, CRABP2, CSGALNACT1,
CST6, CWH43, CYSLTR2, DAPK2, DCAF17, DIO1, DIRAS3, DLC1, DOCK9, DPH3B, DUOXI,
DUOX2, DUOXA1, DUOXA2, DUSP6, ECE1, EIF2B2, EMP2, ERBB2, ERO1LB, ESRRG,
FABP4, FAM82B, FAT4, FIBIN, FLJ42258, FN1, FRMD3, GABBR2, GABRB2, GIMAP2,
GIMAP7, GPR155, GPR98, GTF3A, GZMA, GZMK, HEY2, HRASLS, ID3, IGF2BP2, IGFBP6,
IGSF1, IKZF2, IKZF3, ITGA9, JAK2, KIAA0284, KIAA0408, KIAA1217, KLAA1305, KIT,
KLRC4, KLRK1, KRT19, LGALS3, LIFR, LIPH, LMO3, LOC100131490, LOC100131993, LRP1B,
LRP2, MACC1, MAFG, MAPK6, MATN2, MDK, MET, METTL7B, MFGE8, MGC2889, MIS12,
MPPED2, MPZL2, MT1F, MT1G, MTlH, MT1P2, MTIF3, NAV2, NCAM1, NELL2, NFATC3,
NIPSNAP3A, NIPSNAP3B, NOD1, NRCAM, NTAN1, NUCB2, NUPRI, ODZ1, PCMTD1,
PDE5A, PIGN, PKHDlL1, PLA2R1, PLAGI, PLSCR4, PRINS, PSATI, PXDNL, QTRT1, RAG2,
RCBTB2, RG9MTD2, ROS1, RPS6KA6, RXRG, SALLI, SCG5, SDC4, SERPINA1, SERPINA2,
SLC26A4, SLC34A2, SLC35D2, SLC7Al 1, SMAD9, SPRY1, ST3GAL5, STEAP2, STK32A,
TASP1, TCF7L2, TCFL5, TIMP1, TMEM171, TMEM215, TNFAIP8, TNFRSF1 IB, TNFRSF12A,
TNFSF1O, TPO, TRPC5, TXNL1, UCHL5, WDR72, YIPF1, ZCCHC12, ZCCHC16, ZMAT4,
ZYG11A.
[002031    (v) List 8: PTC subtype, n=604:
        TCID-3153400, TCID-3749600, ABCC3, ABTB2, ACBD7, ACSL1, ACTA2, ADAMTS5,
ADAMTS9, ADK, AGR2, AHNAK2, AHR, AIDA, AKI, ALAS2, ALDH1A3, ALOX5, AMIGO2,
AMOT, ANK2, ANXA1, ANXA2, ANXA2P1, ANXA3, AOAH, AP3S1, APOL1, AQP9,
ARHGAP24, ARL13B, ARL4A, ARMCX3, ARMCX6, ARNTL, ASAP2, ATIC, ATP13A4,
ATP13A4, B3GNT3, BCL9, BHLHE40, BHLHE41, BMP8A, BTBD11, BTG3, Cllorf72, Cllorf8O,
C12orf49, C16orf45, C19orf33, Clorfl15, Clorfl16, C2, C2orf4O, C3, C4A, C4B, C4orf34,
C6orfl68, C6orfl74, C7orf62, C8orf4, C8orf79, CAl l, CADM1, CAMK2N1, CAND1, CAV1,
CAV2, CCDC109B, CCDC121, CCDC148, CCDC80, CCL13, CCND1, CCND2, CD151, CD200,
CD36, CDCP1, CDH11, CDH3, CDH6, CDK2, CDKL2, CDO1, CDON, CDR1, CFB, CFH, CFHR1,
                                              -58-

  WO 2010/056374                                                PCT/US2009/006162
CFI, CHAFIB, CHD4, CHI3L1, CITED, CKS2, CLC, CLDN1, CLDN10, CLDN16, CLDN4,
CLDN7, CLEC4E, CLU, CNN3, COL1A1, CP, CRABP1, CRABP2, CSF3R, CST6, CTNNAL1,
CTNNB1, CTSC, CTSH, CTTN, CXCL1, CXCL14, CXCL17, CXCL2, CXCL3, CXorfl8, CXorf27,
CYP1B1, CYSLTR2, DAPK2, DCBLD2, DCUN1D3, DDAH1, DDB2, DDX52, DGKH, DGKI,
DHRS1, DHRS3, DIO1, DIRAS3, DLC1, DOCK9, DPP4, DPYSL3, DSG2, DSP, DST, DUSP4,
DUSP5, DUSP6, DZIP1, ECEl, EDNRB, EGFR, EHBP1, EHD2, EHF, ELK3, ELMO1, EMP2,
EMR3, ENAH, ENDOD1, EPB41, EPHA4, EPHX4, EPS8, ERBB3, ERI2, ERP27, ESRRG, ETNK2,
ETV1, ETV5, F2RL2, FAAH2, FABP4, FAMI 1 lA, FAMl 1lB, FAM164A, FAM176A, FAM20A,
FAM55C, FAM84B, FBXO2, FBXO21, FCN1, FCN2, FGF2, FGFR1OP2, FLJ20184, FLJ32810,
FLJ42258, FLRT3, FN1, FPR1, FPR2, FRMD3, FZD4, FZD6, FZD7, GOS2, GABBR2, GABRB2,
GADD45A, GALE, GALNT12, GALNT3, GALNT7, GBP1, GBP3, GGCT, GLDN, GNG12,
GOLT1A, GPAM, GPR1 10, GPR1 10, GPR125, GPR98, GPRC5B, GRAMD3, GSN, GYPB, GYPC,
GYPE, HEMGN, HEY2, HIGD1A, HIST1H1A, HLA-DQB2, HLF, HMGA2, HPN, HSPH1,
ICAM1, IGF2BP2, IGFBP5, IGFBP6, IGSF1, IKZF3, ILIRAP, ILIRLI, IL8RA, IL8RB, IL8RB,
IL8RBP, IL8RBP, IMPDH2, INPP5F, IPCEF1, IQGAP2, ITGA2, ITGA3, ITGA9, ITGB1, ITGB6,
ITGB8, ITPR1, JUB, KAL1, KATNAL2, KCNK5, KCNQ3, KCTD14, KDELC1, KDELR3,
KHDRBS2, KIAA0284, KIAA0408, KIAA1217, KIT, KLF8, KLK10, KLK7, KRT18, KRT19,
LAMB3, LAMC1, LAMC2, LCA5, LCMT1, LCN2, LDOC1, LEMD1, LGALS3, LILRA1, LILRB1,
LIMA1, LINGO2, LIPH, LMO3, LMO4, LOC100124692, LOC100127974, LOC100129112,
LOC100129115, LOC100129171, LOC100129961, LOC100130248, LOC100131102,
LOC100131490, LOC100131938, LOC100132338, LOC100132764, LOC283508, LOC440434,
LOC554202, LOC643454, LOC648149, LOC653354, LOC653498, LOC730031, LONRF2, LOX,
LPAR5, LPL, LRP1B, LRP2, LRRC69, LRRN1, LUM, LYRMI, MACC1, MAFG, MAMLD1,
MAP2, MAPK6, MATN2, MBOAT2, MCM4, MCM7, MDK, MED13, MET, METTL7B, MEX3C,
MFGE8, MGAM, MGAT4C, MGST1, MLLT4, MMP16, MMP16, MNDA, MORC4, MPPED2,
MPZL2, MRPL14, MTIF, MT1G, MT1H, MT1M, MT1P2, MT1P3, MTHFD1L, MUC1, MUC15,
MVP, MXRA5, MYEF2, MYHl0, MYO1B, MYO1D, MYO6, NAB2, NAEl, NAG20, NCKAP1,
NDFIP2, NEDD4L, NELL2, NEXN, NFE2, NFIB, NFKBIZ, NIPAL3, NOD1, NPC2, NPEPPS,
NPY1R, NRCAM, NRIP1, NRP2, NT5E, NUDT6, OCIAD2, OCRI, ODZ1, OSGEP, OSMR,
P2RY13, P4HA2, PAM, PARP14, PARP4, PARVA, PBX1, PDE5A, PDE9A, PDGFRL, PDLIM1,
PDLIM4, PDZRN4, PEG1O, PERP, PHEX, PHF16, PHLDB2, PHYHIP, PKHD1L1, PKP4,
PLA2G16, PLA2R1, PLAG1, PLAU, PLCD3, PLEKHA4, PLEKHA5, PLK2, PLP2, PLS3,
PLXNC1, PMEPA1, PON2, PPARGC1A, PPBP, PPL, PPP1R14C, PRICKLE1, PRINS, PROK2,
PROSI, PRR15, PRRG1, PRSS23, PSD3, PTPN14, PTPRE, PTPRF, PTPRG, PTPRK, PTRF,
QTRT1, RAB25, RAB27A, RAB34, RAD23B, RAG2, RAI2, RAPGEF5, RARG, RASA1, RASD2,
RBBP7, RBBP8, RBMS2, RCE1, RDH5, RGS18, RGS2, RHOU, RND3, ROSI, RPL39L, RPRD1A,
RPS6KA6, RRAS, RUNX1, RUNX2, RXRG, S100A12, S100A14, S100A16, S100A8, S100A9,
                                        -59-

  WO 2010/056374                                                       PCT/US2009/006162
SALLI, SAV1, SC4MOL, SCARA3, SCARNAl1, SCEL, SCG5, SCNN1A, SCRN1, SDC4, SEHIL,
SEL1L3, SELL, SEMA3D, SEPT11, SERINC2, SERPINA1, SERPINA2, SERPINE2, SERPING1,
SFN, SFTPB, SGCB, SGCE, SGEF, SGMS2, SH2D4A, SH3PXD2A, SIRPA, SIRPB1, SLA,
SLC12A2, SLC16A4, SLC17A5, SLC24A5, SLC26A4, SLC26A7, SLC27A2, SLC27A6, SLC34A2,
SLC35F2, SLC39A6, SLC4A4, SLC5A8, SLC7A2, SLIT2, SLPI, SMOC2, SMURF2, SNCA, SNX1,
SNX22, SNX7, SORBS2, SPATS2, SPATS2L, SPINT1, SPRED2, SPRY1, SPRY2, SRL, SSPN,
ST3GAL5, STK32A, SULF1, SYNE1, SYT14, SYTL5, TACSTD2, TBC1D3F, TDRKH, TEADI,
TEADI, TFCP2L1, TFF3, TGFA, TGFB2, TGFBR1, TIMP1, TIPARP, TJP1, TJP2, TLCD1, TLR8,
TM4SF1, TM4SF4, TM7SF4, TMEM100, TMEM117, TMEM133, TMEM163, TMEM215,
TMEM90A, TMEM98, TMPRSS4, TMSB10, TNC, TNFRSF12A, TNFSF15, TOMM34, TPD52L1,
TPO, TRIP10, TRPC5, TSC22D1, TSPAN13, TSPAN6, TUBBI, TUBB6, TULP3, TUSC3, TYMS,
VNN2, VNN3, WDR40A, WDR54, WNT5A, XKRX, XPR1, YIF1B, YTHDC2, ZBTB33,
ZCCHC12, ZCCHC16, ZFP36L1, ZMAT3, ZMAT4, ZNF643, ZNF804B.
[00204]    (vi) List 9: NHP subtype, n=653:
        TCID-3153400, TCID-3749600, ABTB2, ACBD7, ACSL1, ACTA2, ADAMTS5,
ADAMTS9, ADK, AGR2, AHNAK2, AHR, AIDA, AK1, AKR1C3, ALAS2, ALDH1A3, AMIGO2,
AMOT, ANK2, ANO5, ANXA1, ANXA3, ANXA6, AOAH, AP3S1, APOO, AQP4, AQP9,
ARHGAP24, ARL13B, ARL4A, ARMCX3, ARMCX6, ARNTL, ARSG, ASAP2, ATIC, ATP13A4,
ATP6VOD2, B3GNT3, BCL9, BHLHE40, BHLHE41, BMP8A, BTBD1 1, BTG3, ClOorf72,
Cllorf72, Cllorf74, Cllorf8O, C12orf49, C16orf45, C19orf33, Clorfl 15, Clorfl16, C2, C22orf9,
C2orf4O, C3, C4A, C4B, C4orf34, C5orf28, C6orfl68, C6orfl74, C7orf62, C8orf4, C8orf79,
C9orf68, CAll, CADMI, CALCA, CAMK2N1, CANDID, CASC5, CAV1, CAV2, CCDC121,
CCDC148, CCDC80, CCL13, CCND1, CCND1, CCND2, CD151, CD200, CD36, CDCP1, CDH11,
CDH3, CDH6, CDK2, CDKL2, CDO1, CDON, CDR1, CEP55, CFB, CFH, CFHR1, CFI, CHAFIB,
CHD4, CITED, CKS2, CLC, CLDN1, CLDN10, CLDN16, CLDN4, CLDN7, CLEC4E, CLU,
CNN3, COLlAl, COPZ2, CP, CPE, CRABP1, CRABP2, CSF3R, CST6, CTNNAL1, CTNNB1,
CTSH, CTTN, CWH43, CXCL1, CXCL14, CXCL17, CXCL2, CXCL3, CXorfl8, CXorf27,
CYP24A1, CYP27A1, CYSLTR2, DAPK2, DCAF17, DCBLD2, DCUN1D3, DDAH1, DDB2,
DDX52, DGKH, DGKI, DHRS1, DHRS3, DIO1, DIRAS3, DLC1, DLGAP5, DOCK9, DPP4,
DPYSL3, DSG2, DSP, DST, DUOX1, DUOX2, DUOXA1, DUOXA2, DUSP4, DUSP5, DUSP6,
DZIP1, ECE1, EDNRB, EGFR, EHBP1, EHD2, EHF, ELK3, ELMO1, EMP2, EMR3, ENAH,
ENDODI, EPB41, EPHA4, EPHX4, EPS8, ERBB3, ERI2, ERP27, ESRRG, ETNK2, ETV1, ETV5,
F2RL2, FAAH2, FABP4, FAM111A, FAM111B, FAM164A, FAM176A, FAM20A, FAM84B,
FAT4, FBXO2, FBXO21, FCN1, FCN2, FGF2, FGFR1OP2, FLJ20184, FLJ32810, FLJ42258,
FLJ42258, FLRT3, FN1, FPR1, FPR2, FREM2, FRMD3, FXYD6, FZD4, FZD6, FZD7, GOS2,
GABBR2, GABRB2, GADD45A, GALE, GALNT12, GALNT3, GALNT7, GBEl, GBP1, GBP3,
GGCT, GLA, GLDN, GNG12, GOLT1A, GPR1 10, GPR1 10, GPR125, GPR98, GPRC5B,
                                            -60-

  WO 2010/056374                                               PCT/US2009/006162
GRAMD3, GSN, GYPB, GYPC, GYPE, HEMGN, HEY2, HISTIHIA, HLA-DQB2, HMGA2,
HMMR, HPN, HSD17B6, HSPH1, ICAMI, IGFBP5, IGFBP6, IGSF1, IKZF2, ILIRL1, IL2RA, IL8,
IL8RA, IL8RB, IL8RB, IL8RBP, IL8RBP, IMPDH2, INPP5F, IPCEF1, IQGAP2, ITGA2, ITGA3,
ITGA9, ITGB1, ITGB6, ITGB8, ITPR1, JUB, KAL1, KCNK5, KCNQ3, KCTD14, KDELC1,
KDELR3, KHDRBS2, KIAA0284, KIAA0408, KIAA1217, KIF11, KIT, KLF8, KLK10, KLK7,
KRT18, KRT19, LAMB3, LAMC1, LAMC2, LCA5, LCMT1, LCN2, LDOC1, LEMD1, LGALS3,
LILRA1, LILRB1, LIMA1, LINGO2, LIPH, LMO3, LMO4, LOC100124692, LOC100127974,
LOC100129112, LOC100129115, LOC100129171, LOC100129961, LOC100130248,
LOC100131102, LOC100131490, LOC100131938, LOC100131993, LOC100132338,
LOC100132764, LOC283508, LOC440434, LOC554202, LOC643454, LOC648149, LOC653354,
LOC653498, LOC730031, LONRF2, LOX, LPAR, LPAR, LPL, LRPlB, LRP2, LRRC69,
LRRN1, LUM, LYRM1, MACC1, MAFG, MAMLD1, MAP2, MAPK6, MATN2, MBOAT2,
MCM4, MCM7, MDK, MEl, MED13, MELK, MET, METTL7B, MEX3C, MFGE8, MGAM,
MGAT1, MGAT4C, MGST1, MK167, MLLT4, MMP16, MMP16, MNDA, MORC4, MPPED2,
MPZL2, MRPL14, MT1F, MT1G, MT1H, MT1M, MT1P2, MT1P3, MTHFD1L, MUCI, MUC15,
MVP, MXRA5, MYEF2, MYH10, MYO1B, MYO1D, MYO5A, MYO6, NAB2, NAE1, NAG20,
NAV2, NCKAP1, NDC80, NDFIP2, NEDD4L, NELL2, NEXN, NFE2, NFIB, NIPAL3, NOD1,
NPC2, NPEPPS, NPL, NPYlR, NRCAM, NRIP1, NRP2, NT5E, NUCB2, NUDT6, NUSAPI,
OCIAD2, OCRI, ODZl, ORAOV1, OSBPL1A, OSGEP, OSMR, P2RY13, P4HA2, PAM, PAPSS2,
PARP4, PARVA, PBX1, PDE5A, PDE9A, PDGFRL, PDLIM1, PDLIM4, PDZRN4, PEG1O, PERP,
PGCP, PHEX, PHF16, PHLDB2, PHYHIP, PKHD1L1, PKP4, PLA2G16, PLA2G7, PLA2R1,
PLAG1, PLAU, PLCD3, PLCL1, PLEKHA4, PLEKHA5, PLK2, PLS3, PLSCR4, PMEPA1, PON2,
PPARGC1A, PPBP, PPL, PPP1R14C, PRCP, PRICKLES, PRINS, PROK2, PROS1, PRR15,
PRRG1, PRSS23, PSD3, PSD3, PTPN14, PTPRE, PTPRF, PTPRG, PTPRK, PTRF, QTRT1,
RAB25, RAB27A, RAB32, RAB34, RAD23B, RAG2, RAI2, RAPGEF5, RARG, RASA1, RASD2,
RBBP7, RBBP8, RBMS2, RCBTB2, RCE1, RDH5, RGS18, RGS2, RHOU, RND3, ROSI, RPL39L,
RPRD1A, RPS6KA6, RRAS, RXRG, S100A12, S100A14, S100A16, S100A8, S100A9, SALLI,
SAV1, SC4MOL, SCARA3, SCARNA1 1, SCEL, SCG5, SCNN1A, SCRN1, SDC4, SEHIL, SELL,
SEMA3C, SEMA3D, SEPT11, SERINC2, SERPINA1, SERPINA2, SERPINE2, SERPING1, SFN,
SFTPB, SGCB, SGCE, SGEF, SGMS2, SH2D4A, SH3PXD2A, SIRPA, SIRPBl, SLA, SLC12A2,
SLC16A4, SLC16A6, SLC17A5, SLC24A5, SLC26A4, SLC26A7, SLC27A2, SLC27A6, SLC34A2,
SLC35F2, SLC39A6, SLC4A4, SLC5A8, SLC7A1 1, SLC7A2, SLIT2, SLPI, SMOC2, SMURF2,
SNCA, SNX1, SNX22, SNX7, SOATI, SORBS2, SPATS2, SPATS2L, SPINTI, SPRED2, SPRY1,
SPRY2, SRL, SSPN, ST3GAL5, STK32A, STXBP6, SULF1, SYNE1, SYT14, SYTL5, TACSTD2,
TBC1D3F, TDRKH, TEAD1, TEAD1, TFCP2L1, TFF3, TFPI, TGFA, TGFB2, TGFBR1, TIMPI,
TIPARP, TJP1, TJP2, TLCD1, TLR8, TM4SF1, TM4SF4, TM7SF4, TMEM100, TMEM117,
TMEM133, TMEM163, TMEM171, TMEM215, TMEM90A, TMEM98, TMPRSS4, TNC,
                                         -61-

   WO 2010/056374                                                          PCT/US2009/006162
TNFRSF12A, TNFSF15, TOMM34, TPD52L1, TPO, TPX2, TRIP10, TRPC5, TSC22D1, TSPAN13,
TSPAN6, TUBBI, TUBB6, TULP3, TUSC3, TXNRD1, TYMS, UCHL5, VNN1, VNN2, VNN3,
WDR40A, WDR54, WIPIl, WNT5A, XKRX, XPR1, YIF1B, YTHDC2, ZBTB33, ZCCHC12,
ZCCHC16, ZFP36L1, ZMAT3, ZMAT4, ZNF643, ZNF804B, ZYG11 A.
 [00205]     (vii) List 10: MTC subtype, n=48:
         ANXA3, ATP13A4, BLNK, ClOorfl31, C6orfl74, C8orf79, CALCA, CHGB, CP, CPE,
DSG2, FREM2, GPR98, IGJ, IYD, KIAA0408, LOC100129171, LPCAT2, LRRC69, MACC1,
MAPK6, MGAT4C, MGST1, MMP16, MT1G, MT1H, MT1M, MT1P2, MT1P3, MUC15, MYEF2,
NT5E, PKHD1L1, PLS3, RBMS2, RIMS2, SCG3, SEMA3D, SLA, SLC24A5, SMOC2, SULFI,
TOX, TSHZ2, TSPAN6, WDR72, ZFP36L1, ZNF208.
 [00206]    (viii) List 11: HC subtype, n=65:
         AIM2, APOBEC3F, APOBEC3G, ARHGAP19, BAG3, BCL2A1, BMP8A, C9orf68,
CARD17, CARD8, CASP1, CD3D, CD96, CEP110, CLEC2B, CNN2, CPE, CYTHI, DENND4A,
DNAJB14, DOCK8, DPYD, DUOXI, DUOX2, DYNC1I2, EGF, EPDR1, ETS1, GBP5, GIMAP2,
GIMAP5, GIMAP7, GPR174, GZMK, HNRNPM, HSD17B6, IFI16, IFNAR2, IKZF3, L7R,
ITM2A, JAK2, KCNAB1, KHDRBS2, KLRC4, KLRG1, KLRK1, KYNU, LOC646358, MED13L,
ND1, NFATC3, PAPSS2, PGCP, PTPRC, PYHIN1, SLIT1, SP140, SP140L, ST20, STAT4, TC2N,
TLE4, ZEB2, ZNF143.
[00207]     (ix) List 12: HA subtype, n=24:
         BCL2, CADM1, CAV1, CRABP1, CTNNB1, CYTH1, DIRAS3, IFITMI, IGFBP5, IGFBP6,
LOX, MAP2, MATN2, MET, MK167, MYO1B, ND1, NUCB2, SCG5, SCNN1A, SEL1L3, SGCE,
TNFSF10, TRPC6.
[00208]     (x) List 13: ATC subtype, n=12:
         CASC5, CEP55, COL12A1, DLGAP5, HMMR, KIF1 1, MELK, MK167, NDC80, NUSAP1,
PYGL, TPX2.
[00209]     Dominant gene ontology of top 948 thyroid biomarkers are listed below:
[00210]     List 14: Angiogenesis, n=23
         ACTA2, ANXA2, ARHGAP24, CALCA, CAV1, CITED, COL1A1, CXCL17, EGF, ELK3,
IL8, LOX, PLCD3, PROK2, RASA1, SEMA3C, TCF7L2, TGFA, TGFB2, TIPARP, TNFRSF12A,
ZFP36L1, ZFPM2.
[00211]     List 15: Apoptosis, n=43
         AHR, ANXA1, BAG3, BCL2, BCL2A1, BIRC5, C8orf4, CADM1, CD2, CLU, CTNNB1,
DAPK2, DLC1, DNASE1L3, ECE1, ELMO1, FAM176A, FGF2, GADD45A, GULPI, GZMA,
HIPK2, IL2RA, IL8RB, JAK2, NCKAP1, NOD1, NUPR1, PEG10, PERP, PROK2, RYR2, SLC5A8,
STK17B, SULF1, TCF7L2, TGFB2, TNFAIP8, TNFRSF11B, TNFRSF12A, TNFSF1O, VNN1,
ZMAT3.
[00212]     List 16: Cell Cycle, Transcription Factors, n= 184
                                                 -62-

  WO 2010/056374                                                  PCT/US2009/006162
        AEBP1, AHR, AK1, ANXA1, APOBEC3F, APOBEC3G, ARHGAP24, ARNTL, ATM,
BCL2, BHLHE40, BHLHE41, BIRC5, BMP1, BMP8A, CADMI, CAND1, CARD8, CASPI,
CCND1, CCND2, CDK2, CEP110, CEP55, CHAFIB, CHD4, CITED, CKS2, CLU, CRABP2,
CSGALNACT1, CTNNB1, CXCL1, CXCL17, DENND4A, DLGAP5, DST, DZIP1, EGF, EHF,
EIF2B2, EIF4H, ELK3, EMP2, EPS8, ERBB2, ERBB3, ESRRG, ETS1, ETV1, ETV4, ETV5,
FABP4, FGF2, GOS2, GADD45A, GLDN, GLIS3, GTF3A, HEMGN, HEY2, HIPK2, HLF,
HMGA2, HPN, ID3, IF116, IFNAR2, IGSF1, IKZF2, IKZF3, IKZF4, IL2RA, IL8, ITPR1, JAK2,
JUB, KHDRBS2, KIF11, KLF8, KLK10, KRT18, LGALS3, LIFR, LMO3, LMO4, LRP2, LTBP2,
LTBP3, MACC1, MAFG, MAMLD1, MAPK4, MAPK6, MCM4, MCM7, MDK, MED13, MED13L,
MIS12, MK167, MLLT3, MNDA, MTIF3, MYH1O, NAB2, NAE1, NDC80, NFATC3, NFE2, NFIB,
NFKBIZ, NODI, NPAS3, NPAT, NRIP1, NRP2, NUDT6, NUPR1, NUSAP1, OSMR, PARD6B,
PARP14, PARP4, PBX1, PDLIM1, PEG10, PIAS3, PLAGI, POU2F3, PPARGC1A, PPBP, PRMT6,
PROK2, PTRF, PYHINI, RARG, RBBP7, RBBP8, RGS2, RHOH, RRM2, RUNX1, RUNX2,
RXRG, SALL1, SEMA3D, SERPINE2, SLITI, SLIT2, SMAD9, SMURF2, SP140, SPC25,
SPOCKI, STAT4, SYNE1, TACSTD2, TCF7L2, TCFL5, TEAD1, TFCP2L1, TGFA, TGFB2,
TGFBR1, TLE4, TNFAIP8, TNFRSF12A, TNFRSF17, TPX2, TSC22D1, TSHZ2, TULP3, TYMS,
WNT5A, ZBTB33, ZCCHC12, ZEB2, ZFP36L1, ZFPM2, ZNF143, ZNF208, ZNF487, ZNF643.
[002131    List 17: Cell Membrane, n=410
        ABCC3, ABCD2, ACSL1, ADAMTS5, ADAMTS9, ADORAl, AFAPI, AK1, ALOX5,
AMIGO2, ANK2, ANOS, AP3S1, APOLl, APOO, AQP4, AQP9, ARMCX3, ARMCX6, ASAP2,
ATP13A4, ATP6VOD2, ATP8A1, AVPR1A, B3GNT3, BCL2, BLNK, BTBD11, ClOorf72,
C17orf87, Clorfl15, C4orf34, C5orf28, C6orfl74, CADMI, CAMK2N1, CAVI, CAV2,
CCDC109B, CD151, CD180, CD2, CD200, CD36, CD3D, CD48, CD48, CD52, CD69, CD79A,
CD96, CDCP1, CDH11, CDH3, CDH6, CDON, CFB, CFI, CHI3L1, CLDN1, CLDN10, CLDN16,
CLDN4, CLDN7, CLEC2B, CLEC4E, COL12A1, COLlAl, COPZ2, CP, CPE, CR2, CSF3R,
CSGALNACT1, CTNNAL1, CTNNB1, CWH43, CYPiB1, CYP27A1, CYP4B1, CYSLTR1,
CYSLTR2, CYTH1, DCAF17, DCBLD2, DHRS3, DIO1, DIRAS3, DLG2, DLG4, DNAJB14,
DOCK9, DPP4, DPYSL3, DSG2, DUOXI, DUOX2, DUOXA1, DUOXA2, ECE1, EDNRB,
EFEMPI, EGF, EGFR, EHBP1, EHD2, ELMO1, EMP2, EMR3, ENTPD1, EPB41, EPHA4, EPHX4,
ERBB2, ERBB3, ERO1LB, F2RL2, F8, FAAH2, FAM176A, FAM84B, FAT4, FBLN5, FLRT3,
FN1, FPRI, FPR2, FREM2, FRMD3, FXYD6, FZD4, FZD6, FZD7, GABBR2, GABRB2,
GALNT12, GALNT3, GALNT7, GBP1, GBP3, GBP5, GIMAP2, GIMAP5, GJA4, GLDN, GNG12,
GOLT1A, GPAM, GPR1 10, GPR125, GPR155, GPR174, GPR98, GPRC5B, GYPB, GYPC, GYPE,
HIGD1A, HK1, HLA-DPB1, HNRNPM, HPN, HSD17B6, ICAM1, IFITMI, IFNAR2, IGSF1,
ILIRAP, IL1RLI, IL2RA, IL7R, IL8RA, IL8RB, IPCEF1, ITGA2, ITGA3, ITGA4, ITGA9, ITGB1,
ITGB4, ITGB6, ITGB8, ITM2A, ITPR1, IYD, JAK2, JUB, KAL1, KCNA3, KCNABI, KCNK5,
KCNQ3, KCTD14, KDELR3, KIAA1305, KIT, KLRB1, KLRC4, KLRG1, KLRK1, LAMBI,
                                             -63-

  WO 2010/056374                                              PCT/US2009/006162
 LAMC1, LEMD1, LGALS3, LIFR, LILRA1, LILRB1, LINGO2, LIPH, LPAR1, LPAR5, LPCAT2,
 LPL, LRP1B, LRP2, LRRN1, LRRN3, LUM, MATN2, MBOAT2, MET, MFGE8, MGAM, MGAT1,
 MGAT4C, MGST1, MMP16, MPZL2, MRC2, MUC1, MUC15, MYH1O, MYO6, NAE1, NCAM1,
NCKAP1, ND1, NDFIP2, NIPAL3, NPY1R, NRCAM, NRP2, NT5E, NUCB2, ODZ1, OSMR,
 P2RY13, PAM, PARD6B, PARP14, PARVA, PCDH1, PCNXL2, PERP, PHEX, PHLDB2, PIGN,
PKHD1L1, PKP2, PLA2G16, PLA2R1, PLAU, PLCD3, PLEK, PLEKHA4, PLP2, PLSCR4,
PLXNC1, PMEPA1, PON2, POR, PPAP2C, PPL, PPP1R14C, PRICKLES, PRRG1, PSD3, PTK7,
PTPRC, PTPRE, PTPRF, PTPRG, PTPRK, PTPRU, PTRF, RAB25, RAB27A, RARG, RASA1,
RASD2, RCE1, RDH5, RGS13, RHOH, RHOU, RIMS2, RND3, ROSI, RRAS, RRAS2, RRBP1,
RYR2, S100A12, SC4MOL, SCARA3, SCEL, SCNN1A, SDC4, SDK1, SELlL3, SELL, SEMA3C,
 SEMA3D, SEMA4C, SERINC2, SERPINA1, SGCB, SGCE, SGMS2, SGPP2, SIRPA, SIRPBl,
SLC12A2, SLC16A4, SLC16A6, SLC17A5, SLC24A5, SLC25A33, SLC26A4, SLC26A7,
SLC27A2, SLC27A6, SLC34A2, SLC35D2, SLC35F2, SLC39A6, SLC4A4, SLC5A8, SLC7Al 1,
SLC7A2, SMURF2, SNCA, SNX1, SOAT1, SPINT1, SPOCK1, SPRED2, SPRYl, SPRY2, SQLE,
SSPN, ST3GAL5, STEAP2, STXBP6, SYNE1, SYT14, SYTL5, TACSTD2, TFCP2L1, TFF3, TFPI,
TGFA, TGFB2, TGFBR1, TIMPI, TJP1, TJP2, TLCD1, TLR1O, TLR8, TM4SFl, TM4SF4,
TM7SF4, TMEM100, TMEM117, TMEM133, TMEM156, TMEM163, TMEM171, TMEM215,
TMEM220, TMEM90A, TMEM98, TMPRSS4, TNC, TNFRSF11 B, TNFRSF12A, TNFRSF17,
TNFSF10, TNFSF15, TOMM34, TPO, TRIP1O, TRPC5, TRPC6, TSPAN13, TSPAN6, TSPAN8,
TULP3, TUSC3, VAMP1, VNN1, VNN2, VNN3, WNT5A, XKRX, XPR1, YIFlB, YIPF1, ZBTB33.
1002141    List 18: Rare Membrane Components, n=55
        AMOT, ANXA1, ANXA2, CALCA, CAMK2N1, CAVI, CAV2, CCDC80, CLU, CST6,
CTNNB1, CTTN, DLC1, DPP4, DSG2, DSP, DST, ENAH, GJA4, HIPK2, ITGB1, ITGB4, JAK2,
JUB, KRT19, LCP1, LRP2, MYH10, MYO5A, MYO6, NEB, PARVA, PCDH1, PERP, PKP2, PKP4,
PLEK, PPL, PTRF, RAB34, RASA1, RYR2, SCEL, SGCB, SGCE, SLC27A6, SLITI, SPRYl, SRL,
SSPN, SYNEl, TGFB2, TIAM2, TJP1, TNFRSF12A.
[00215]    List 19: Cell-cell adhesion, n=85
        AEBP1, AFAPI, AMIGO2, ARHGAP24, BCL2, CADMI, CALCA, CD151, CD2, CD36,
CD96, CDH3, CDH6, CDON, CLDN1, CLDN1O, COL12A1, CSF3R, CTNNAL1, CTNNB1,
DCBLD2, DLCl, DSG2, DST, EGFR, ENAH, ENTPD1, EPDR1, F8, FAT4, FBLN5, FLRT3, FN,
FPR2, FREM2, GPR98, ICAMI, IGFBP7, ILIRLI, ITGA2, ITGA3, ITGA4, ITGA9, ITGB1,
ITGB4, ITGB6, ITGB8, JUB, KAL1, LAMBI, LAMB3, LAMC1, LAMC2, LIMA1, MFGE8,
MLLT4, MPZL2, NCAM1, NELL2, NRCAM, NRP2, PARVA, PCDH1, PERP, PKP2, PKP4,
PLXNC1, PTK7, PTPRC, PTPRF, PTPRK, PTPRU, RHOU, RND3, SDK1, SELL, SGCE, SIRPA,
SPOCK1, SPP1, SSPN, TJP1, TNC, TNFRSF12A, VNN1.
[002161    List 20: Apical cell membrane, n=15
                                               -64-

  WO 2010/056374                                                   PCT/US2009/006162
        ANK2, ATP6VOD2, CTNNB1, CTNNB1, DPP4, DUOX1, ERBB2, ERBB3, F2RL2, FZD6,
LRP2, SCNN1A, SLC26A4, SLC34A2, TFF3.
[00217]    List 21: Basolateral, Lateral cell membrane, n=28
        ANK2, ANXA1, ANXA2, CADM1, CCDC80, CTNNB1, CTTN, DSP, DST, EGFR, EPB41,
ERBB2, ERBB3, FREM2, LAMBI, LAMB3, LAMC1, LAMC2, MET, MYH10, MYO6, PTPRK,
SLC26A7, SMOC2, SNCA, TIMP3, TJPI, TRIP10.
           List 22: Integrins, n=14
        ADAMTS5, DST, FBLN5, ICAMI, ITGA2, ITGA3, ITGA4, ITGA9, ITGB1, ITGB4,
ITGB6, ITGB8, MFGE8, PLEK.
[002181    List 23: Cell Junction, n=40
        AMOT, ARHGAP24, ARHGAP24, CADMI, CAMK2N1, CLDN1, CLDN10, CLDN16,
CLDN4, CLDN7, CNN2, DLG2, DLG4, DPYSL3, DSP, ENAH, GABBR2, GABRB2, GJA4, JUB,
LIMA1, MLLT4, NCKAP1, NEXN, PARD6B, PARVA, PCDH1, PERP, PPL, PSD3, PTPRK,
PTPRU, RHOU, RIMS2, SH3PXD2A, SSPN, TGFB2, TJP1, TJP2, VAMP1.
[00219]    List 24: Cell surface, n=17
        CD36, DCBLD2, DPP4, GPR98, HMMR, IL1RL1, lL8RB, ITGA4, ITGB1, KAL1, MMP16,
PTPRK, SDC4, SULF1, TGFA, TM7SF4, TNFRSF12A.
[002201    List 25: Extracellular space, n=1 56
        ADAMTS5, ADAMTS9, AEBP1, AGR2, ANGPTL1, ANXA2, APOL1, APOO, BMP1,
BMP8A, C12orf49, C2, C2orf4O, C3, C4A, C4B, C4orf7, CAl l, CALCA, CCDC80, CCL13, CCL19,
CDCP1, CFB, CFH, CFHR1, CFI, CHGB, CHI3L1, CLU, COL12A1, COLlA1, CP, CPE, CSF3R,
CST6, CXCL1, CXCL11, CXCL13, CXCL14, CXCL17, CXCL2, CXCL3, CXCL9, DPP4, EFEMP1,
EGF, EGFR, EMR3, ENDODI, EPDR1, ERBB3, F8, FAM20A, FAM55C, FBLN5, FCN1, FCN2,
FGF2, FIBIN, FN1, FXYD6, GLA, GSN, GZMA, GZMK, ICAM1, IFNAR2, IGFBP5, IGFBP6,
IGFBP7, IGJ, IGKC, IGKV1-5, IGKV3-20, IGKV3D-11, IGSF1, IL1RAP, IL1RL1, IL7R, IL8,
KAL1, KIT, KLK10, KLK7, LAMB1, LAMB3, LAMC1, LAMC2, LCN2, LIFR, LIPH, LOC652694,
LOX, LPL, LTBP2, LTBP3, LUM, LYZ, MATN2, MDK, MFGE8, MMP16, MUC1, MUC15,
MXRA5, NCAM1, NELL2, NPC2, NUCB2, ODZ1, PAM, PDGFRL, PGCP, PLA2G7, PLA2R1,
PLAU, PON2, PPBP, PROK2, PROSI, PRRG1, PRSS23, PXDNL, RNASEl, RNASET2, SCG3,
SCG5, SEMA3C, SEMA3D, SEPPI, SERPINA1, SERPINE2, SERPING1, SFN, SFTPB, SLITI,
SLIT2, SLPI, SMOC2, SPINT1, SPOCKI, SPP1, SULFI, TFF3, TFPI, TGFA, TGFB2, THSD4,
TIMP1, TIMP3, TNC, TNFRSF1 IB, TNFSF10, TNFSF15, WNT5A.
[00221]    List 26: Cytoskeleton, n=94
        ACTA2, ADORA1, AFAPI, AMOT, ANK2, ANXA2, AP3S1, ARHGAP24, ATM,
ATP8A1, BCL2, BIRC5, C2orf4O, CASC5, CLU, CNN2, CNN3, COL12A1, COLlAl, COPZ2,
CTNNAL1, CTNNB1, CTTN, CXCL1, DLG4, DLGAP5, DPYSL3, DST, DYNC1I2, DYNLT1,
EGFR, ELMO1, ENAH, EPB41, EPS8, FAM82B, FRMD3, GPRC5B, GSN, GYPC, IGF2BP2,
                                                -65-

     WO 2010/056374                                                              PCT/US2009/006162
   IQGAP2, JAK2, JUB, KATNAL2, KIAA0284, KIF11, KRT18, LCA5, LCP1, LIMAl, LOX, LUM,
   MAP2, MPZL2, MYH10, MYO1B, MYO1D, MYO5A, MYO6, NEB, NEXN, NFE2, NUSAP1,
   PARVA, PDLIM1, PKP2, PLEK, PLS3, PPL, PTPN14, RHOU, RND3, S10OA9, SCNN1A, SDC4,
   SGCB, SGCE, SNCA, SORBS2, SPRED2, SPRY2, STK17B, SYNE1, TGFB2, TGFBR1, TMSB1O,
   TMSB15A, TPX2, TRIP10, TUBB1, TUBB6, VAMPl, WIPIl.
   1002221      In some embodiments, the present invention provides a method of classifying cancer
   comprising the steps of: obtaining a biological sample comprising gene expression products;
   determining the expression level for one or more gene expression products of the biological sample;
   and identifying the biological sample as cancerous wherein the gene expression level is indicative of
  the presence of thyroid cancer in the biological sample. This can be done by correlating the gene
   expression levels with the presence of thyroid cancer in the biological sample. In one embodiment,
  the gene expression products are selected from one or more genes listed in Table 2. In some
  embodiments, the method further includes identifying the biological sample as positive for a cancer
  that has metastasized to thyroid from a non-thyroid organ if there is a difference in the gene
  expression levels between the biological sample and a control sample at a specified confidence level.
   [002231     Biomarkers involved in metastasis to thyroid from a non-thyroid organ are provided. Such
  metastatic cancers that metastasize to thyroid and can be diagnosed using the subject methods of the
  present invention include but are not limited to metastatic parathyroid cancer, metastatic melanoma,
  metastatic renal carcinoma, metastatic breast carcinoma, and metastatic B cell lymphoma. Exemplary
  biomarkers that can be used by the subject methods to diagnose metastasis to thyroid are listed in
  Table 2.
                               Table 2 Biomarkers involved in metastasis to thyroid
Type of metastasis             Number of              Genes
                               genes
Top Biomarkers of Non-                 73    ACADL, ATP1 3A4, BIRC5, BTG3, C2orf4O, C7orf62, CD24,
thyroid Metastases to the                    CHEKI, CP, CRABP1, CXADR, CXADRP2, DIOl, D102,
Thyroid                                      EPCAM, EPRI, GPX3, HSD17B6, IQCA1, IYD, KCNJ15,
                                             KCNJ16, KRT7, LMO3, LOC100129258, LOC100130518,
                                             LPCAT2, LRRC2, LRRC69, MAL2, MAPK6, MGAT4C,
                                             MGC9913, MT1F, MTlG, MTlIH, MT1P2, MUC15, NEBL,
                                             NPNT, NTRK2, PARI, PCP4, PDE1A, PDE8B, PKHD1L1,
                                             PLS3, PVRL2, PVRL3, RGN, RPL3, RRM2, SCD, SEMA3D,
                                             SH3BGRL2, SLC26A4, SLC26A7, SNRPN, SPC25, SYT14,
                                             TBCKL, TCEAL2, TCEAL4, TG, TPO, TSHR, WDR72,
                                             ZBED2, ZNF208, ZNF43, ZNF676, ZNF728, ZNF99
Parathyroid Metastasis to              101   TCID-2688277, ACSL3, ACTR3B, ADAM23, ADH5,
Thyroid                                      ARP 11, AS3MT, BANK1, COorf32, C 11orf41, C2orf67,
                                                     -66-

   WO 2010/056374                                         PCT/US2009/006162
                            C7orf62, C8orf34, CA8, CASR, CD109, CD226, CD24,
                            CD44, CDCA7L, CHEKI, CLDN1, CP, D102, DMRT2,
                            DNAH1 1, DPP4, ELOVL2, ENPEP, EPHA7, ESRRG, EYAl,
                            FMN2, GCM2, GPR160, GPR64, HSD17B6, ID2, ID2B,
                            IYD, KIDINS220, KIF13B, KL, LGI2, LMO3,
                            LOC100131599, LOC150786, LPL, LRRC69, MAPK6,
                            MGST1, MT1F, MT1G, MT1H, MT1P2, MUC15,
                            NAALADL2, NPNT, OGN, PDE8B, PEX5L, PKHD1L1,
                            PLA2G4A, PLCB1, PRLR, PTH, PTN, PTPRD, PTTG1,
                            PTTG2, PVALB, PVRL2, RAB6A, RAB6C, RAPGEF5,
                            RARRES2, RGN, RNF217, RPE, SACS, SEMA3D, SGK1,
                            SLA, SLC15A1, SLC26A4, SLC26A7, SLC7A8, SPOCK3,
                            ST3GAL5, STXBP5, SYCP2L, TBCKL, TG, TINF2,
                           TMEM167A, TPO, TSHR, TTR, WDR72, YAPI, ZBED2
Melanoma Metastasis to 190 TCID-2840750, ABCB5, AHNAK2, ALX1, ANLN, APIS2,
Thyroid                    APOD, ASB11, ATP13A4, ATP1B1, ATRNL1, AZGP1,
                           BACE2, BAMBI, BCHE, BIRC5, BRIP1, BZW1, BZW1L1,
                           C2orf4O, C6orf218, C7orf62, CA4, CASC1, CCNB2, CD24,
                           CDH19, CDK2, CDKN3, CENPF, CHRNA5, CP, CRABP1,
                           DCT, DEPDC1, DIO1, D102, DLGAP5, DSCC1, DSP,
                           EDNRB, EIF1AY, EIF4A1, ENPP1, EPCAM, EPRI, ESRP1,
                           FABP7, FANCI, GAS2L3, GGH, GPM6B, GPNMB, GPR19,
                           GPX3, GULPI, GYG2, HAS2, HEATR5A, HMCN1, HTN1,
                           IL13RA2, IQCA1, IYD, KCNJ15, KCNJ16, KIAA0894,
                           KIF23, KRT7, KRTAP19-1, LGALS1, LMO3,
                           LOC100129171, LOC100129258, LOC100130275,
                           LOC100130357, LOC100130518, LOC100131821,
                           LOC145694, LOC653653, LRP2, LRRC69, LSAMP, LUM,
                           MAL2, MAPK6, MGC87042, MITF, MLANA, MME,
                           MND1, MOXD1, MSMB, MUC15, NDC80, NEBL, NLGN1,
                           NOX4, NPNT, NTRK2, NUDT10, NUDT1 1, PAX3, PBK,
                           PCP4, PDE3B, PDE8B, PI15, PIGA, PIR, PKHD1L1, PLP1,
                           PLXNC1, POLG, POMGNT1, POPDC3, POSTN, PRAME,
                           PRAMEL, PTPRZ1, PVRL2, PYGL, QPCT, RGN, RNF128,
                           ROPN1, ROPN1B, RPL3, RPSA, RPSAP15, RPSAP58,
                           S1OOB, SACS, SAMD12, SCD, SEMA3C, SERPINA3,
                           SERPINE2, SERPINFI, SHC4, SILV, SLA, SLC16A1,
                                  -67-

    WO 2010/056374                                         PCT/US2009/006162
                           SLC26A4, SLC26A7, SLC39A6, SLC45A2, SLC5A8,
                           SLC6A15, SNAI2, SNCA, SNORA48, SNORA67, SORBS1,
                           SPC25, SPP1, SPRY2, SRPX, ST3GAL6, STEAPI, STK33,
                           TBC1D7, TBCKL, TCEAL2, TCEAL4, TCN1, TF, TFAP2A,
                           TG, TIMP2, TMSB15A, TMSB15B, TNFRSFIlB, TOP2A,
                           TPO, TPX2, TRPM1, TSHR, TSPAN1, TUBB4, TYR,
                           TYRL, TYRP1, WDR72, ZBED2, ZNF208, ZNF43, ZNF676,
                          ZNF728, ZNF99
Renal Carcinoma       130  TCID-2763154, ADFP, AKRIC3, ALPK2, APOL1, ASPA,
Metastasis to Thyroid     ATP13A4, ATP8A1, BHMT, BHMT2, BICCI, BIRC3,
                          C12orf75, C IS, C2orf4O, C3, C7orf62, CA12, CDH6,
                          CLRN3, CP, CYB5A, DAB2, DEFB1, D102, EFNA5,
                          EGLN3, EIF1AY, ENPEP, ENPP1, ENPP3, EPCAM, ESRP1,
                          FABP6, FABP7, FAM133B, FCGR3A, FCGR3B, FXYD2,
                          GAS2L3, GLYAT, GSTA1, GSTA2, GSTA5, HAVCR1,
                          HLA-DQA1, HPS3, IGFBP3, IL20RB, lYD, KMO,
                          LEPREL1, LMO3, LOC100101266, LOC100129233,
                          LOC100129518, LOC100130232, LOC100130518,
                          LOC100133763, LOC728640, LOX, LRRC69, MAPK6,
                          MGC9913, MME, MMP7, MT1G, MUC15, NEBL, NLGN1,
                          NNMT, NPNT, NRlH4, OPN3, OSMR, PCOLCE2, PCP4,
                          PDE8B, PDZK1IP1, PIGA, PKHD1L1, POSTN, PREPL,
                          PTHLH, RPS6KA6, S10OA10, SAAl, SAA2, SCD,
                          SLC16A1, SLC16A4, SLC17A3, SLC26A4, SLC26A7,
                          SLC3A1, SLCO4C1, SNX1O, SOD2, SPINK1, SPP1, SYT14,
                          TBCKL, TCEAL2, TCEAL4, TG, TMEM161B, TMEM76A,
                          TMEM45A, TNFAIP6, TNFSF10, TPO, TSHR, UGTIA1,
                          UGT1A1O, UGT1A3, UGT1A4, UGT1A5, UGT1A6,
                          UGT1A7, UGT1A8, UGT1A9, UGT2A3, UGT2B7, VCAM1,
                          VCAN, ZNF208, ZNF43, ZNF676, ZNF728, ZNF99
Breast Carcinoma      117 TCID-3777770, ACADL, AGR2, AGR3, ALDH1A1, ANLN,
Metastasis to Thyroid     ASPM, ATP13A4, AZGP1, BIRC5, BRIP1, COorf81,
                          C7orf62, C8orf79, CA2, CCNB2, CCNE2, CDC2, CDC6,
                          CDKN3, CENPF, CHEKI, CP, CSNK1G1, DEPDC1, DIOl,
                          D102, DLGAP5, DTL, EHF, EPR1, EZH2, FAMI11B,
                          FANCI, GALNT5, GPX3, HHEX, HPS3, IQCA1, ITGB3,
                          IYD, KCNJ15, KCNJ16, KIAA0101, KIF23, LMO3,
                                 -68-

    WO 2010/056374                                        PCT/US2009/006162
                          LOC100129258, LOC100130518, LOC100131821,
                          LOC145694, LRP2, LRRC2, LRRC69, MAPK6, MELK,
                          MGAT4C, MK167, MND1, MUC15, MYB, NDC80, NPYlR,
                          NUF2, NUSAPI, PARI, PARP8, PBK, PCP4, PDElA,
                          PDE8B, P115, PIP, PKHD1L1, POLG, PPARGC1A, PRC1,
                          PVRL2, PVRL3, RAD51AP1, RGN, RPL3, RRM2, SAAl,
                          SAA2, SCD, SCGB1D2, SCGB2A2, SEMA3C, SERP1NA3,
                          SLA, SLC26A4, SLC26A7, SNRPN, SPC25, ST3GAL5,
                          STK33, SULT1C2, SYCP2, SYT14, TFF1, TG, THBS1,
                          TOP2A, TPO, TPX2, TRPS1, TSHR, TTK, UNQ353,
                          VTCN1, WDR72, ZBED2, ZNF208, ZNF43, ZNF676,
                          ZNF728, ZNF99
B cell Lymphoma       160 ACADL, AIM2, ALDH1A1, ALG9, APP, ARHGAP29,
Metastasis to Thyroid     ATP13A4, ATP1B1, BCL2A1, BIRC3, BIRC5, BTG3,
                          Cl lorf74, C2orf4O, C7orf62, CALCRL, CALD1, CD180,
                          CD24, CD48, CD52, CD53, CDHl, CNN3, COX11, CP, CPE,
                          CR2, CRYAB, CXADR, CXADRP2, CXorf65, DCBLD2,
                          DI02, DLGAP5, DSP, EAF2, EFCAB2, ENPP1, EPCAM,
                          EPRI, ESRP1, FABP4, FDXACB1, FNBPlL, GJA1, GNAIl,
                          GNG12, GPR174, GPX3, GTSF1, HCGl l, IKZF3, IL2RG,
                          IQCA1, IYD, KCNJ16, KLHL6, LAPTM5, LCP1, LIFR,
                          LMO3, LOC100128219, LOC100129258, LOC100130518,
                          LOC100131821, LOC100131938, LOC647979, LOC729828,
                          LPCAT2, LPHN2, LRIG3, LRMP, LRP2, LRRC6, LRRC69,
                          MAL2, MAOA, MAPK6, MATN2, MCOLN2, MGC9913,
                          MGP, MK67, MS4Al, MTlF, MT1G, MT1H, MT1L,
                          MT1P2, MUC15, NCKAP1, NCKAPL, NEBL, NME5,
                          NPNT, NUDT12, PAR1, PBX1, PCP4, PDE8B, PDK4,
                          PERP, PFN2, PKHD1Ll, PLOD2, PLS3, POMGNT1,
                          PPARGC1A, PPIC, PTPRC, PTPRM, PVRL3, RASEF, RGN,
                          RGS13, RGS5, RHOH, RPL3, RPL37AP8, RRM2, S100A1,
                          S100A13, SDC2, SELL, SEMA3D, SH3BGRL2, SLC26A4,
                          SLC26A7, SMARCA1, SNRPN, SP140, SP140L, SPARCLI,
                          SPC25, SPTLC3, ST20, STK17B, SYT14, TBCKL, TCEAL2,
                          TCEAL4, TEADI, TG, TJP1, TLR1O, TOMLl,       TOP2A,
                          TSHR, TSPAN1, TSPAN6, UACA, VNN2, WBP5, WDR72,
                          ZNF208, ZNF43, ZNF676, ZNF728, ZNF99
                                 -69-

   WO 2010/056374                                                            PCT/US2009/006162
         (viii) Classification ErrorRates
 [002241      In some embodiments, top thyroid biomarkers (948 genes) are subdivided into bins (50
TCIDs per bin) to demonstrate the minimum number of genes required to achieve an overall
classification error rate of less than 4% (Figure 1). The original TCIDs used for classification
correspond to the Affymetrix Human Exon 1.OST microarray chip and each may map to more than
one gene or no genes at all (Affymetrix annotation file: HuEx-1 0-st-v2.na29.hgl 8.transcript.csv).
When no genes map to a TCID the biomarker is denoted as TCID-######.
 [00225]      List 27: ErrorRate Bin 1 (TCID 1-50 (n=50), gene symbols, n=58)
         AMIGO2, Cl lorf72, C 11orf8O, C6orfl74, CAMK2N1, CDH3, CITEDI, CLDN1, CLDN16,
CST6, CXorf27, DLC1, EMP2, ERBB3, FZD4, GABRB2, GOLTIA, HEY2, HMGA2, IGFBP6,
ITGA2, KCNQ3, KIAA0408, KRT19, LIPH, LOC100129115, MACC1, MDK, MET, METTL7B,
MFGE8, MPZL2, NAB2, NOD1, NRCAM, PDE5A, PDLIM4, PHYHIP, PLAG1, PLCD3,
PRICKLE1, PROS1, PRR15, PRSS23, PTPRF, QTRT1, RCE1, RDH5, ROSI, RXRG, SDC4,
SLC27A6, SLC34A2, SYTL5, TNFRSF12A, TRPC5, TUSC3, ZCCHC12.
[00226]       List 28: Error Rate Bin 2 (TCID 5 1-100 (n=50), gene symbols, n=59)
         AHNAK2, AIDA, AMOT, ARMCX3, BCL9, Clorfl 15, Clorfl 16, C4A, C4B, C6orfl 68,
CCDC121, CCND1, CDH6, CFI, CLDN10, CLU, CRABP2, CXCL14, DOCK9, DZIP1, EDNRB,
EHD2, ENDOD1, EPHA4, EPS8, ETNK2, FAM176A, FLJ42258, HPN, ITGA3, ITGB8, KCNK5,
KLK10, LAMB3, LEMD1, LOC100129112, LOC100132338, LOC554202, MAFG, MAMLD1,
MED13, MYH10, NELL2, PCNXL2, PDE9A, PLEKHA4, RAB34, RARG, SCG5, SFTPB,
SLC35F2, SLIT2, TACSTD2, TGFA, TIMP1, TMEM100, TMPRSS4, TNC, ZCCHC16.
[00227]       List 29: Error Rate Bin 3 (TCID 10 1-150 (n=50), gene symbols, n=52)
         ABTB2, ADAMTS9, ADORA1, B3GNT3, BMP1, C19orf33, C3, CDH11, CLIP3, COLlAl,
CXCL17, CYSLTR2, DAPK2, DHRS3, DIRAS3, DPYSL3, DUSP4, ECE1, FBXO2, FGF2, FN1,
GALE, GPRC5B, GSN, IKZF4, IQGAP2, ITGB4, KIAA0284, KLF8, KLK7, LONRF2, LPAR5,
MPPED2, MUC1, NRIP1, NUDT6, ODZ1, PAM, POU2F3, PPL, PTRF, RAPGEF5, RASD2,
SCARA3, SCEL, SEMA4C, SNX22, SPRY1, SSPN, TM4SF4, XPR1, YIF1B.
[002281       List 30: Error Rate Bin 4 (TCID 151-200 (n=50), gene symbols, n=58)
         AFAPI, ARMCX6, ARNTL, ASAP2, C2, C8orf4, CCDC148, CFB, CHAF1B, CLDN4,
DLG4, DUSP6, ELMOI, FAAH2, FAM20A, FLRT3, FRMD3, GALNT12, GALNT7, IGFBP5,
IKZF2, ISYNA1, LOC100131490, LOC648149, LOC653354, LRP1B, MAP2, MRC2, MT1F,
MT1G, MT1H, MT1P2, MYEF2, NPAS3, PARD6B, PCDH1, PMEPA1, PPAP2C, PSD3, PTPRK,
PTPRU, RAI2, RRAS, SDK1, SERPINA1, SERPINA2, SGMS2, SLC24A5, SMURF2, SPATS2L,
SPINT1, TDRKH, TIPARP, TM4SF1, TMEM98, WNT5A, XKRX, ZMAT4.
[00229]      List 31: Error Rate Bin 5 (TCID 201-250 (n=50), gene symbols, n=53)
                                                  -70-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                   PCT/US2009/006162
          ABCC3, AEBP1, Cl6orf45, C19orf33, CAll, CCND2, CDO1, CYP4B1, DOK4, DUSP5,
ETV4, FAMI 1 A, FN1, GABBR2, GGCT, GJA4, GPR1 10, HIPK2, ITGA9, JUB, KDELR3,
KIAA1217, LAMC2, LCA5, LTBP2, LTBP3, MAPK6, NAV2, NIPAL3, OSMR, PDZRN4,
PHLDB2, PIAS3, PKHD1Ll, PKP2, PKP4, PRINS, PTK7, PTPRG, RAB27A, RAD23B, RASA1,
RICH2, SCRN1, SFN, ST3GAL5, STK32A, TCERG1L, THSD4, TJP2, TM7SF4, TPO, YIF1B.
IX. Compositions
(i) Gene Expression Products and splice variants of the present invention
1002301        Molecular profiling may also include but is not limited to assays of the present disclosure
including assays for one or more of the following: proteins, protein expression products, DNA, DNA
polymorphisms, RNA, RNA expression products, RNA expression product levels, or RNA expression
product splice variants of the genes provided in Figures 2-6, 9-13, 16 or 17. In some cases, the
methods of the present invention provide for improved cancer diagnostics by molecular profiling of
about 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 120, 140, 160, 180,
200, 240, 280, 300, 350, 400, 450, 500, 600, 700, 800, 1000, 1500, 2000, 2500, 3000, 3500, 4000,
5000 or more DNA polymorphisms, expression product markers, and/or alternative splice variant
markers.
[002311        In one embodiment, molecular profiling involves microarray hybridization that is
performed to determine gene expression product levels for one or more genes selected from: Figures
2, 6, 9-13, 16 or 17. In some cases, gene expression product levels of one or more genes from one
group are compared to gene expression product levels of one or more genes in another group or
groups. As an example only and without limitation, the expression level of gene TPO may be
compared to the expression level of gene GAPDH. In another embodiment, gene expression levels
are determined for one or more genes involved in one or more of the following metabolic or signaling
pathways: thyroid hormone production and/or release, protein kinase signaling pathways, lipid kinase
signaling pathways, and cyclins. In some cases, the methods of the present invention provide for
analysis of gene expression product levels and or alternative exon usage of at least one gene of 1, 2, 3,
4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, or 15 or more different metabolic or signaling pathways.
(ii) Compositions of the present invention
[002321        Compositions of the present disclosure are also provided which composition comprises
one or more of the following: nucleotides (e.g. DNA or RNA) corresponding to the genes or a portion
of the genes provided in Figures 2-6, 9-13, 16 or 17, and nucleotides (e.g. DNA or RNA)
corresponding to the complement of the genes or a portion of the complement of the genes provided
in Figures 2-6, 9-13, 16 or 17. The nucleotides of the present invention can be at least about 10, 15,
20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 100, 150, 200, 250, 300, 350, or about 400 or 500
nucleotides in length. In some embodiments of the present invention, the nucleotides can be natural
or man-made derivatives of ribonucleic acid or deoxyribonucleic acid including but not limited to
                                                      -71-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                 PCT/US2009/006162
peptide nucleic acids, pyranosyl RNA, nucleosides, methylated nucleic acid, pegylated nucleic acid,
 cyclic nucleotides, and chemically modified nucleotides. In some of the compositions of the present
 invention, nucleotides of the present invention have been chemically modified to include a detectable
 label. In some embodiments of the present invention the biological sample has been chemically
modified to include a label.
 [00233]      A further composition of the present disclosure comprises oligonucleotides for detecting
(i.e. measuring) the expression products of the genes provided in Figures 2-6, 9-13, 16 or 17 and their
complement. A further composition of the present disclosure comprises oligonucleotides for detecting
(i.e. measuring) the expression products of polymorphic alleles of the genes provided in Figures 2-6,
9-13, 16 or 17 and their complement. Such polymorphic alleles include but are not limited to splice
site variants, single nucleotide polymorphisms, variable number repeat polymorphisms, insertions,
deletions, and homologues. In some cases, the variant alleles are between about 99.9% and about 70%
identical to the genes listed in Figure 6, including about 99.75%, 99.5%, 99.25%, 99%, 97.5%, 95%,
92.5%, 90%, 85%, 80%, 75%, and about 70% identical. In some cases, the variant alleles differ by
between about 1 nucleotide and about 500 nucleotides from the genes provided in Figures 2-6, 9-13,
 16 or 17, including about 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 50, 75, 100, 150, 200, 250, 300, and
about 400 nucleotides.
[002341       In some embodiments, the composition of the present invention may be specifically
selected from the top differentially expressed gene products between benign and malignant samples,
or the top differentially spliced gene products between benign and malignant samples, or the top
differentially expressed gene products between normal and benign or malignant samples, or the top
differentially spliced gene products between normal and benign or malignant samples. In some cases
the top differentially expressed gene products may be selected from Figure 2 and/or Figure 4. In
some cases, the top differentially spliced gene products may be selected from Figure 3 and/or Figure
5.
IX. Business Methods
[00235]       As described herein, the term customer or potential customer refers to individuals or
entities that may utilize methods or services of the molecular profiling business. Potential customers
for the molecular profiling methods and services described herein include for example, patients,
subjects, physicians, cytological labs, health care providers, researchers, insurance companies,
government entities such as Medicaid, employers, or any other entity interested in achieving more
economical or effective system for diagnosing, monitoring and treating cancer.
1002361       Such parties can utilize the molecular profiling results, for example, to selectively
indicate expensive drugs or therapeutic interventions to patients likely to benefit the most from said
drugs or interventions, or to identify individuals who would not benefit or may be harmed by the
unnecessary use of drugs or other therapeutic interventions.
                                                     -72-

   WO 2010/056374                                                               PCT/US2009/006162
(i) Methods of Marketing
 [00237]      The services of the molecular profiling business of the present invention may be marketed
to individuals concerned about their health, physicians or other medical professionals, for example as
a method of enhancing diagnosis and care; cytological labs, for example as a service for providing
enhanced diagnosis to a client; health care providers, insurance companies, and government entities,
for example as a method for reducing costs by eliminating unwarranted therapeutic interventions.
Methods of marketing to potential clients, further includes marketing of database access for
researchers and physicians seeking to find new correlations between gene expression products and
diseases or conditions.
[00238]       The methods of marketing may include the use of print, radio, television, or internet based
advertisement to potential customers. Potential customers may be marketed to through specific
media, for example, endocrinologists may be marketed to by placing advertisements in trade
magazines and medical journals including but not limited to The Journalof the American Medical
Association, PhysiciansPractice,American Medical News, Consultant,Medical Economics,
Physician'sMoney Digest, American Family Physician,Monthly PrescribingReference, Physicians'
Travel and Meeting Guide, Patient Care, CortlandtForum, InternalMedicine News, Hospital
Physician,Family PracticeManagement,InternalMedicine World Report, Women's Health in
PrimaryCare,Family PracticeNews, Physician's Weekly, Health Monitor, The Endocrinologist,
Journalof Endocrinology, The Open EndocrinologyJournal,and The Journalof Molecular
Endocrinology. Marketing may also take the form of collaborating with a medical professional to
perform experiments using the methods and services of the present invention and in some cases
publish the results or seek funding for further research. In some cases, methods of marketing may
include the use of physician or medical professional databases such as, for example, the American
Medical Association (AMA) database, to determine contact information.
[002391       In one embodiment methods of marketing comprises collaborating with cytological
testing laboratories to offer a molecular profiling service to customers whose samples cannot be
unambiguously diagnosed using routine methods.
(ii) Business methods utilizing a computer
[002401      The molecular profiling business may utilize one or more computers in the methods of the
present invention such as a computer 800 as illustrated in Figure 22. The computer 800 may be used
for managing customer and sample information such as sample or customer tracking, database
management, analyzing molecular profiling data, analyzing cytological data, storing data, billing,
marketing, reporting results, or storing results. The computer may include a monitor 807 or other
graphical interface for displaying data, results, billing information, marketing information (e.g.
demographics), customer information, or sample information. The computer may also include means
for data or information input 816, 815. The computer may include a processing unit 801 and fixed
803 or removable 811 media or a combination thereof. The computer may be accessed by a user in
                                                    -73-

   WO 2010/056374                                                               PCT/US2009/006162
physical proximity to the computer, for example via a keyboard and/or mouse, or by a user 822 that
does not necessarily have access to the physical computer through a communication medium 805 such
as a modem, an internet connection, a telephone connection, or a wired or wireless communication
signal carrier wave. In some cases, the computer may be connected to a server 809 or other
communication device for relaying information from a user to the computer or from the computer to a
user. In some cases, the user may store data or information obtained from the computer through a
communication medium 805 on media, such as removable media 812. It is envisioned that data
relating to the present invention can be transmitted over such networks or connections for reception
and/or review by a party. The receiving party can be but is not limited to an individual, a health care
provider or a health care manager. In one embodiment, a computer-readable medium includes a
medium suitable for transmission of a result of an analysis of a biological sample, such as exosome
bio-signatures. The medium can include a result regarding an exosome bio-signature of a subject,
wherein such a result is derived using the methods described herein.
 [002411      The molecular profiling business may enter sample information into a database for the
purpose of one or more of the following: inventory tracking, assay result tracking, order tracking,
customer management, customer service, billing, and sales. Sample information may include, but is
not limited to: customer name, unique customer identification, customer associated medical
professional, indicated assay or assays, assay results, adequacy status, indicated adequacy tests,
medical history of the individual, preliminary diagnosis, suspected diagnosis, sample history,
insurance provider, medical provider, third party testing center or any information suitable for storage
in a database. Sample history may include but is not limited to: age of the sample, type of sample,
method of acquisition, method of storage, or method of transport.
[002421       The database may be accessible by a customer, medical professional, insurance provider,
third party, or any individual or entity which the molecular profiling business grants access. Database
access may take the form of electronic communication such as a computer or telephone. The database
may be accessed through an intermediary such as a customer service representative, business
representative, consultant, independent testing center, or medical professional. The availability or
degree of database access or sample information, such as assay results, may change upon payment of
a fee for products and services rendered or to be rendered. The degree of database access or sample
information may be restricted to comply with generally accepted or legal requirements for patient or
customer confidentiality. The molecular profiling company may bill the individual, insurance
provider, medical provider, or government entity for one or more of the following: sample receipt,
sample storage, sample preparation, cytological testing, molecular profiling, input and update of
sample information into the database, or database access.
(iii) Business Flow
1002431      Figure 18a is a flow chart illustrating one way in which samples might be processed by
the molecular profiling business. Samples of thyroid cells, for example, may be obtained by an
                                                    -74-

   WO 2010/056374                                                              PCT/US2009/006162
endocrinologist perhaps via fine needle aspiration 100. Samples are subjected to routine cytological
staining procedures 125. Said routine cytological staining provides four different possible preliminary
diagnoses non-diagnostic 105, benign 110, ambiguous or suspicious 115, or malignant 120. The
molecular profiling business may then analyze gene expression product levels as described herein
 130. Said analysis of gene expression product levels, molecular profiling, may lead to a definitive
diagnosis of malignant 140 or benign 135. In some cases only a subset of samples are analyzed by
molecular profiling such as those that provide ambiguous and non-diagnostic results during routine
cytological examination. Alternative embodiments by which samples may be processed by the
methods of the present invention are provided in Figures 18b and 21.
 [002441      In some cases the molecular profiling results confirms the routine cytological test results.
In other cases, the molecular profiling results differ. In such cases, samples may be further tested,
data may be reexamined, or the molecular profiling results or cytological assay results may be taken
as the correct diagnosis. Benign diagnoses may also include diseases or conditions that, while not
malignant cancer, may indicate further monitoring or treatment. Similarly, malignant diagnoses may
further include diagnosis of the specific type of cancer or a specific metabolic or signaling pathway
involved in the disease or condition. Said diagnoses, may indicate a treatment or therapeutic
intervention such as radioactive iodine ablation, surgery, thyroidectomy; or further monitoring.
XI. Kits
[00245]      The molecular profiling business may provide a kit for obtaining a suitable sample. Said
kit 203 as depicted in Figure 19 may comprise a container 202, a means for obtaining a sample 200,
reagents for storing the sample 205, and instructions for use of said kit. In another embodiment, the
kit further comprises reagents and materials for performing the molecular profiling analysis. In some
cases, the reagents and materials include a computer program for analyzing the data generated by the
molecular profiling methods. In still other cases, the kit contains a means by which the biological
sample is stored and transported to a testing facility such as the molecular profiling business or a third
party testing center.
[002461      The molecular profiling business may also provide a kit for performing molecular
profiling. Said kit may comprise a means for extracting protein or nucleic acids including all
necessary buffers and reagents; and, a means for analyzing levels of protein or nucleic acids including
controls, and reagents. The kit may further comprise software or a license to obtain and use software
for analysis of the data provided using the methods and compositions of the present invention.
                                                Examples
                 Example 1: Gene Expression Product Analysis of Thyroid Samples
[002471      75 thyroid samples were examined for gene expression analysis using the Affymetrix
Human Exon 10ST array according to manufacturer's instructions to identify genes that showed
significantly differential expression and/or alternative splicing between malignant, benign, and normal
samples. Three groups were compared and classified according to pathological surgical diagnosis of
                                                   -75-

   WO 2010/056374                                                              PCT/US2009/006162
the tissue: benign (n=29), malignant (n=37), and normal (n=9). The samples were prepared from
 surgical thyroid tissue, snap frozen and then the RNA was prepared by standard methods. The names
 and pathological classification of the 75 samples are depicted in Figure 1.
 [00248]      Microarray analysis was run with XRAY version 2.69 (Biotique Systems Inc.).Input files
were normalized with full quantile normalization (Irizarry et al. Biostatistics 2003 April 4 (2): 249
64). For each input array and each probe expression value, the array -ith percentile probe value was
replaced with the average of all array -ith percentile points. A total of 6,553,590 probes were
manipulated in the analysis. Probes with GC count less than 6 and greater than 17 were excluded
from the analysis. The expression score for each probe-set was derived via application of median
polish (exon RMA) to the probe scores across all input hybridizations and probe-sets with fewer than
3 probes (that pass all of the tests defined above) were excluded from further analysis. Only 'Core'
probe-sets, corresponding to probe-sets matching entries in the high quality databases RefSeq and
Ensemble, were analyzed. Non-expressed probes and invariant probes were also removed from
analysis for both gene level and probe set level analyses. One-way ANOVA analysis was used to
examine gene expression at the probe set level between groups malignant and benign.
[00249]      The top 100 differentially expressed genes by gene level analysis (i.e. those genes which
showed the greatest differential expression) were obtained from the dataset in which benign malignant
and normal thyroid samples were compared. Markers were selected based on statistical significance
after Benjamini and Hochberg correction for false discover rate (FDR). An FDR filter value of p<
0.01 was used, followed by ranking with absolute fold change (>1.9) calculated per maker as the
highest differential gene expression value in any group (benign malignant or normal) divided by the
lowest differential expression in the remaining two groups. The results of this analysis are shown in
Figure 2. This table lists three sets of calculated fold changes for any given marker to allow
comparison between the groups. The fold changes malignant/benign, malignant/normal, and
benign/normal were all calculated by dividing the expression of one group by the expression of
another.
100250]      The top 100 alternatively spliced genes were obtained from the dataset in which benign
malignant and normal thyroid samples were compared. Markers were selected based on statistical
significance after Benjamini and Hochberg correction for false discovery rate (FDR). An FDR filter
value of p<0.01 was used, and markers were ranked starting with lowest p-value. The threshold for
listing a numerical value with the software used was p<l.OE-301, any numbers having a smaller p
value were automatically assigned a value of 0.00E+00. The results of this analysis are shown in
Figure 3. All the markers depicted are highly significant for alternative exon splicing.
[00251]      The top 100 differentially expressed genes in the thyroid samples from Figure 1 by
probe-set level analysis were obtained from the dataset in which benign and malignant samples were
analyzed. Markers were selected based on significance after Benjamini and Hochberg correction for
false discovery rate (FDR). Markers were selected based on significance after Benjamini and
                                                    -76-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                  PCT/US2009/006162
 Hochberg correction for false discovery rate (FDR). An FDR filter value of p<0.01 was used,
 followed by ranking with absolute fold-change (>2.0) calculated per marker as Malignant expression
 divided by Benign expression. The results of this analysis are shown in Figure 4.
 [00252]      The top 100 statistically significant diagnostic markers determined by gene level analysis
 of the thyroid samples shown in Figure 1 were also compiled. Data from the comparison between
benign, malignant, and normal and from comparison between benign and malignant datasets were
used. Markers were selected based on significance after Benjamini and Hochberg correction for false
discovery rate (FDR). An FDR filter value of p<0.01 was used, followed by ranking with absolute
 fold-change (>1.6) calculated per marker as the highest differential expression value in any group
(benign, malignant or normal) divided by the lowest differential expression in the remaining two
groups. The fold-changes for Malignant/Benign, Malignant/Normal, and Benign/Normal were all
calculated in similar fashion by dividing the expression of one group by the expression of another.
The results of this analysis are shown in Figure 5.
 [00253]      The full list of 4918 genes identified as statistically significantly differentially expressed,
differentially spliced or both between benign and malignant, benign and normal, or malignant and
normal samples at either the probe-set or gene level was also compiled. Markers were selected based
on statistical significance after Benjamini and Hochberg correction for false discovery rate (FDR), and
an FDR filter value of p<0.01 was used. The results are depicted in Figure 6.
              Example 2: Gene Expression Product Analysis of Thyroid Tissue Samples
[00254]       A total of 205 thyroid tissue samples (Figure 7) are examined with an Affymetrix
HumanExonlOST array chip to identify genes that differ significantly in RNA expression levels
between benign and malignant samples. Samples are classified according to post-surgical thyroid
pathology: samples exhibiting follicular adenoma (FA), lymphocytic thyroiditis (LCT), or nodular
hyperplasia (NIHP) are classified as benign; samples exhibiting Hurthle cell carcinoma (HC), follicular
carcinoma (FC), follicular variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma (FVPTC), papillary thyroid
carcinoma (PTC), medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC), or anaplastic carcinoma (ATC) are classified
as malignant.
[002551       Affymetrix software is used to extract, normalize, and summarize intensity data from
roughly 6.5 million probes. Approximately 280,000 core probe sets are subsequently used in feature
selection and classification. The models used are LIMMA for feature selection and random forest and
support vector machine (SVM) for classification. Iterative rounds of training, classification, and cross
validation are performed using random subsets of data. Top features are identified in two separate
analyses (malignant vs. benign and MTC vs. rest) using the classification engine described above.
[002561       Markers are selected based on significance after Benjamini and Hochberg correction for
false data discovery rate (FDR). An FDR filter of p<0.05 is used.
[00257]       A malignant vs. benign comparison of thyroid tissue samples finds 413 markers that are
diagnostic for thyroid diseases or conditions. The top 100 markers are listed in Figure 9.
                                                    -77-

  WO 2010/056374                                                                PCT/US2009/006162
[00258]       An MTC vs. the rest (i.e. non-MTC) comparison of thyroid tissue samples finds 671
markers that are diagnostic for thyroid diseases or conditions. The top 100 markers are listed in
Figure 10.
        Example 3: Meta-analysis of Gene Expression Product Data from Thyroid Samples
[00259]       Surgical thyroid tissue samples (Figure 7) and thyroid samples obtained via fine needle
aspiration (Figure 8) are identified as benign or malignant by pathological examination and then
examined by hybridization to an Affymetrix HumanExonlOST array. A meta-analysis approach is
utilized which allows the identification of genes with repeatable features in each classification.
Affymetrix software is used to extract, normalize, and summarize intensity data from approximately
6.5 million probes. Roughly 280,000 probe sets are used for feature selection and classification.
LIMMA is used for feature selection. Classification is performed with random forest and SVM
methods. Markers that repeatedly appear in multiple iterative rounds of training, classification, and
cross validation of the surgical and fine needle aspirate samples are identified and ranked. A joint set
of core features are created using the top ranked features that appear for both the surgical and fine
needle aspirate data. Markers with a non-zero repeatability score are selected as significant. A total of
102 markers are found to be significant and are listed in Figure 11.
      Example 4: Bayesian Analysis of Gene Expression Product Data from Thyroid Samples
[00260]       Two groups of well-characterized samples are compared in order to identify genes that
distinguish benign from malignant nodules in the human thyroid. Samples are derived from surgical
thyroid tissue (tissue; n=205, Figure 7) or from fine needle aspirates (FNA; n=74, Figure 8) and are
examined by hybridization to the HumanExonlOST microarray. Pathology labels for each distinct
thyroid subtype are coded as either benign (B) or malignant (M). A total of 499 markers that show
distinct differential expression between benign and malignant samples are identified.
[00261]       Affymetrix software is used to extract, normalize, and summarize intensity data from
approximately 6.5 million probes. Roughly 280,000 core probe sets are subsequently used in feature
selection and classification of ~22,000 genes. The models used are LIMMA (for feature selection)
and SVM (for classification) respectively.
[00262]       Next, we previously published molecular profile studies are examined in order to derive
the type I and type II error rates of assigning a gene into the "benign" or "malignant" category. The
error rates are calculated based on the sample size reported in each particular published study with an
estimated fold-change value of two. Lastly, these prior probabilities are combined with the output of
the Tissue dataset to estimate the posterior probability of differential gene expression, and then
combined with the FNA dataset to formulate the final posterior probabilities of differential expression
(Smyth 2004). These posterior probabilities are used to rank the genes and those that exceed a
posterior probability threshold of 0.9 are selected. A total of 499 markers are identified as significant
and the top 100 are listed in Figure 12.
                                                    -78-

   WO 2010/056374                                                              PCT/US2009/006162
      Example 5: Subtype Analysis of Gene Expression Product Data from Thyroid Samples
 1002631      Well-characterized samples are examined in order to distinguish benign nodules from
those with distinct pathology in the human thyroid. 205 hybridizations to the HumanExonlOST
microarray are examined. Pathology labels for each distinct thyroid subtype are used to
systematically compare one group versus another. A total of 250 mRNA markers that separate
thyroid into a wide range of pathology subtypes are identified.
 [00264]      A total of 205 thyroid tissue samples are examined with the Affymetrix HumanExonl0ST
array chip to identify genes that differ significantly in mRNA expression between distinct thyroid
pathology subtypes (Figure 7). Samples classified according to post-surgical thyroid pathology as:
follicular adenoma (FA, n=22), lymphocytic thyroiditis (LCT, n=39), nodular hyperplasia (NHP,
n=24)), are all collectively classified as benign (n=85). In contrast, samples classfied as Hurthle cell
carcinoma (HC, n=27), follicular carcinoma (FC, n=19), follicular variant of papillary thyroid
carcinoma (FVPTC, n=2 1), papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC, n=26), medullary thyroid carcinoma
(MTC, n=22), and anaplastic carcinoma (ATC, n=5) are all collectively classified as malignant
(n= 120).
 [00265]      Affymetrix software is used to extract, normalize, and summarize intensity data from
roughly 6.5 million probes. Approximately 280,000 core probe sets are subsequently used in feature
selection and classification. A given benign subtype (e.g., NHP) set is compared against a pool of all
other malignant subtypes (e.g., NHP vs. M) next the benign subset is compared again against each set
of malignant subtypes (NHP vs. FC, NHP vs. PTC, etc). The models used in the classification engine
are LIMMA (for feature selection), and random forest and SVM are used for classification. Iterative
rounds of training, classification, and cross-validation are performed using random subsets of data. A
joint core-set of genes that separate distinct thyroid subtypes is created.
[00266]      Markers are selected based on the set of genes that optimizes the classifier after pair-wise
classification. A total of 251 markers mapping to 250 distinct genes allow the separation of 1-3
distinct thyroid subtypes (Figure 13).
   Example 6: Differentially Expressed miRNAs Identified via the Agilent vs microRNA Array
100267]      Thyroid samples are hybridized to the Agilent Human v2 microRNA (miRNA) array.
This array contains probes to 723 human and 76 viral miRNAs, and these are targeted using -15,000
probesets. A comparison between benign (B) and malignant (M) thyroid samples is performed to
identify significant differentially expressed miRNAs. All samples are derived from clinical fine
needle aspirates (n=89, Figure 14).
[00268]      Array intensity data is extracted, normalized, and summarized, followed by modeling
using classification engine. Briefly, the models used are LIMMA (for feature selection), and random
forest and support vector machine (SVM) are used for classification. Iterative rounds of training,
classification, and cross-validation are performed using random subsets of data. Although several
                                                    -79-

  WO 2010/056374                                                                PCT/US2009/006162
miRNAs are differentially expressed in malignant as compared to benign (Figure 16), no stand-alone
classifiers were identified with this approach.
      Example 7 Differentially Expressed miRNAs that are Diagnostic for Thyroid Diseases
[002691      Thyroid nodule samples are hybridized to the Illumina Human v2 miRNA array. This
array contains probes to 1146 human miRNAs. A comparison between benign and malignant thyroid
samples is performed to identify significant differentially expressed miRNAs. All samples are
derived from clinical FNAs (n=24, Figure 15).
[00270]      Array intensity data is extracted, normalized, and summarized, followed by modeling
using a classification engine. Briefly, the models used are LIMMA (for feature selection), and
random forest, and support vector machine (SVM) for classification. An additional "hot probes"
method is added to the classification engine, which in part incorporates a meta-analysis approach to
the algorithm. Iterative rounds of training, classification, and cross-validation are performed using
random subsets of data. The "hot probes" method identifies probes that appear in every loop of cross
validation, thereby creating a set of robust, repeatable features. Markers are selected based on the p
value (P) of a comparison between malignant and benign samples. A total of 145 miRNAs are
identified whose differential expression is identified as diagnostic for benign or malignant thyroid
conditions (Figure 17).
                      Example 8: An Exemplary Device for Molecular Profiling
[002711      The molecular profiling business of the present invention compiles the list of 4918 genes
of Figure 6 that are differentially expressed, differentially spliced or both between benign and
malignant, benign and normal, or malignant and normal samples at either the probe-set or the gene
level. A subset of the 4918 genes are chosen for use in the diagnosis of biological samples by the
molecular profiling business. Compositions of short (i.e. 12-25 nucleotide long) oligonucleotides
complimentary to the subset of 4918 genes chose for use by the molecular profiling business are
synthesized by standard methods known in the art and immobilized on a solid support such as
nitrocellulose, glass, a polymer, or a chip at known positions on the solid support.
                        Example 9: Molecular Profiling of a Biological Sample
[00272]      A biological sample is obtained by fine needle aspiration and stored in two aliquots, one
for molecular profiling and one for cytological analysis. The aliquot of biological sample for
molecular profiling is added to lysis buffer and triturated which results in lysing of the cells of the
biological sample. Lysis buffer is prepared as follows: For 1 ml of cDNA lysis buffer, the following
were mixed together on ice: 0.2 ml of Moloney murine leukemia virus (MMLV) reverse transcriptase,
5X (Gibco-BRL), 0.76 ml of H20 (RNAse, DNAse free, Specialty Media), 5 1d          of Nonidet P40
(USB), 10 pd of PrimeRNase inhibitor (3'5' Incorporated), 10 pl of RNAguard (Pharmacia), and 20 l
of freshly made, 1/24 dilution of stock primer mix. The stock primer mix, kept aliquoted at -20'C,
includes 10 jil each of 100 mM dATP, dCTP, dGTP, dTTP solutions (12.5 mM fmal)(Boehringer);
10 pl of 50 OD/ml pd(T)19-24 (Pharmacia); and 3 0 pl H20.
                                                   -80-

   WO 2010/056374                                                              PCT/US2009/006162
 1002731      Cell RNA is then primed with an oligo dT primer. Reverse transcription with reverse
transcriptase is then performed in limiting conditions of time and reagents to facilitate incomplete
extension and to prepare short cDNA of between about 500 bp to about 1000 bp. The cDNA is then
tailed at the 5' end with multiple dATP using polyA (dATP) and terminal transferase.
 [002741      The cDNA is then amplified with PCR reagents using a 60mer primer having 24(dT) at
the 3' end. PCR cycling is performed at 940 C for 1 minute, then 420 C for 2 minutes and then 72* C
for 6 minutes with 10 second extension times at each cycle. 10 cycles are performed. Then additional
Taq polymerase is added and an additional 25 cycles are performed.
 100275]      cDNA is extracted in phenol-chloroform, precipitated with ethanol and then half of the
sample is frozen at -80'C as a stock to avoid thawing and freezing the entire amount of cDNA while
analyzing it.
[00276]       5 gg of PCR product is combined with 15.5 p EF sin (Tris in Qiagen kit PCR
purification), 4pl of lox One-Phor-All buffer from Promega, and 0.5 units of DNase I. The total
volume is then held at 37*C for 14 minutes, then held at 99'C for 15 minutes and then put on ice for 5
minutes to fragment the PCR product into segments about 50 bp to about 100 bp in length. The
fragments are then end-labeled by combining the total volume with 1 pt 1 of Biotin-N6-ddATP
("NEN") and 1.5 pl of TdT (terminal transferase) (I5unit/ pl). The total volume is then held at 37*C
for 1 hour, then held at 99*C for 15 minutes and then held on ice for 5 minutes.
1002771       The labeled and fragmented cDNA is hybridized with the probeset of the present
invention in 200 microliters of hybridization solution containing 5-10 microgram labeled target in IX
MES buffer (0.1 M MES, 1.0 M NaCl, 0.01% Triton X-100, pH 6.7) and 0.1 mg/ml herring sperm
DNA. The arrays used are Affymetrix Human Exon lOST arrays. The arrays are placed on a
rotisserie and rotated at 60 rpm for 16 hours at 45*C. Following hybridization, the arrays are washed
with 6X SSPE-T (0.9 M NaCl, 60 mM NaH2PO4, 6 mM EDTA, 0.005% Triton X-100, pH 7.6) at
22*C on a fluidics station (Affymetrix) for 10x2 cycles, and then washed with 0.1 MES at 45*C for 30
min. The arrays are then stained with a streptavidin-phycoerythrin conjugate (Molecular Probes),
followed by 6X SSPE-T wash on the fluidics station for 10x2 cycles again. To enhance the signals,
the arrays are further stained with Anti-streptavidin antibody for 30 min followed by a 15 min staining
with a streptavidin-phycoerythrin conjugate again. After 6X SSPE-T wash on the fluidics station for
10x2 cycles, the arrays are scanned at a resolution of 3 microns using a modified confocal scanner to
determine raw fluorescence intensity values at each position in the array, corresponding to gene
expression levels for the sequence at that array position.
[002781      The raw fluorescence intensity values are converted to gene expression product levels,
normalized via the RMA method, filtered to remove data that may be considered suspect, and input to
a pre-classifier algorithm which corrects the gene expression product levels for the cell-type
composition of the biological sample. The corrected gene expression product levels are input to a
                                                   -81-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                PCT/US2009/006162
 trained algorithm for classifying the biological sample as benign, malignant, or normal. The trained
 algorithm provides a record of its output including a diagnosis, and a confidence level.
                          Example 10: Molecular Profiling of Thyroid Nodule
 1002791      An individual notices a lump on his thyroid. The individual consults his family
physician. The family physician decides to obtain a sample from the lump and subject it to molecular
profiling analysis. Said physician uses a kit from the molecular profiling business to obtain the
 sample via fine needle aspiration, perform an adequacy test, store the sample in a liquid based
cytology solution, and send it to the molecular profiling business. The molecular profiling business
divides the sample for cytological analysis of one part and for the remainder of the sample extracts
mRNA from the sample, analyzes the quality and suitability of the mRNA sample extracted, and
analyses the expression levels and alternative exon usage of a subset of the genes listed in Figure 5.
In this case, the particular gene expression products profiled is determined by the sample type, by the
preliminary diagnosis of the physician, and by the molecular profiling company.
 [002801      The molecular profiling business analyses the data and provides a resulting diagnosis to
the individual's physician as illustrated in Figure 20. The results provide 1) a list of gene expression
products profiled, 2) the results of the profiling (e.g. the expression level normalized to an internal
standard such as total mRNA or the expression of a well characterized gene product such as tubulin,
3) the gene product expression level expected for normal tissue of matching type, and 4) a diagnosis
and recommended treatment for Bob based on the gene product expression levels. The molecular
profiling business bills the individual's insurance provider for products and services rendered.
             Example 11: Molecular Profiling as an Adjunct to Cytological Examination
[002811       An individual notices a suspicious lump on her thyroid. The individual consults her
primary care physician who examines the individual and refers her to an endocrinologist. The
endocrinologist obtains a sample via fine needle aspiration, and sends the sample to a cytological
testing laboratory. The cytological testing laboratory performs routine cytological testing on a portion
of the fine needle aspirate, the results of which are ambiguous (i.e. indeterminate). The cytological
testing laboratory suggests to the endocrinologist that the remaining sample may be suitable for
molecular profiling, and the endocrinologist agrees.
[00282]       The remaining sample is analyzed using the methods and compositions herein. The
results of the molecular profiling analysis suggest a high probability of early stage follicular cell
carcinoma. The results further suggest that molecular profiling analysis combined with patient data
including patient age, and lump or nodule size indicates thyroidectomy followed by radioactive iodine
ablation. The endocrinologist reviews the results and prescribes the recommended therapy.
1002831      The cytological testing laboratory bills the endocrinologist for routine cytological tests
and for the molecular profiling. The endocrinologist remits payment to the cytological testing
laboratory and bills the individual's insurance provider for all products and services rendered. The
                                                    -82-

   WO 2010/056374                                                                PCT/US2009/006162
cytological testing laboratory passes on payment for molecular profiling to the molecular profiling
business and withholds a small differential.
                    Example 12: Molecular Profiling Performed by a Third Party
 [002841     An individual complains to her physician about a suspicious lump on her neck. The
physician examines the individual, and prescribes a molecular profiling test and a follow up
examination pending the results. The individual visits a clinical testing laboratory also known as a
CLIA lab. The CLIA lab is licensed to perform molecular profiling of the current invention. The
individual provides a sample at the CLIA lab via fine needle aspiration, and the sample is analyzed
using the molecular profiling methods and compositions herein. The results of the molecular profiling
are electronically communicated to the individual's physician, and the individual is contacted to
schedule a follow up examination. The physician presents the results of the molecular profiling to the
individual and prescribes a therapy.
                  Example 13: Overlapping genes using different analysis methods
[002851      The results described in Example 2 were obtained by examining surgical thyroid nodule
tissue samples and comparing gene expression in malignant versus benign ("malignant vs. benign"
data set). This analysis identified 412 genes that are differentially expressed (FDR p<0.05). In a
previous study described in Example 1, using i) a different cohort of samples and ii) a different
analysis method, we describe 4918 genes that can distinguish between malignant and benign thyroid
nodules ("4918"). The "malignant vs. benign" tissue discovery dataset shares 231/412 genes with the
"4918" discovery dataset, while 181/412 genes have been newly discovered.
[002861      A similar comparison between medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) and the "Rest" of the
thyroid subtypes using the tissue cohort pointed to 668 significant genes that are differentially
expressed between these two groups (Figure 10). When cross-checked against our previous "4918"
gene list, we note that 305/668 genes had been previously described, while 363/668 genes have been
newly discovered.
[002871      We next combined the surgical tissue dataset with a fine needle aspirate (FNA) dataset
and once again compared malignant versus benign using i) a "hot probes" and ii) a "Bayes" approach.
Each analysis identified 102 and 498 significant genes, respectively (Tables 11 and 12).
[00288]      Up until this point a total of 1343 significant genes were identified. However, a
subsequent subset analysis aimed at identifying those genes that separate distinct pathology subtypes
from one another was also performed. This analysis used the surgical tissue cohort and resulted in
250 significant genes (Figure 13).
[002891      In sum, the five comparisons described here give rise to 1437 significant genes. Of these,
636/1437 genes are described for the first time as distinguishing malignant versus benign thyroid
pathology. As of today, 568/636 have not yet been described in published scientific literature or
patent applications as diagnostic markers of thyroid cancer.
                                                    -83-

   WO 2010/056374                                                               PCT/US2009/006162
                                   Example 14: Clinical Thyroid FNA
         Methods
 [002901     Prospective clinical thyroid FNA samples were examined with the Affymetrix Human
Exon 1.OST microarray in order to identify genes that differ significantly in mRNA expression
between benign and malignant samples.
 1002911     Affymetrix software was used to extract, normalize, and summarize intensity data from
roughly 6.5 million probes. Approximately 280,000 core probe sets were subsequently used in feature
 selection and classification. The models used were LIMMA (for feature selection), random forest and
 SVM were used for classification (Smyth 2004; Diaz-Uriarte and Alvarez de Andres 2006). Iterative
rounds of training, classification, and cross-validation were performed using random subsets of data.
Top features were identified in three separate analyses using the classification engine described above.
 1002921     While the annotation and mapping of genes to transcript cluster indentifiers (TCID) is
constantly evolving, the nucleotide sequences in the probesets that make up a TCID do not change.
Furthermore, a number of significant TCIDs do not map any known genes, yet these are equally
important biomarkers in the classification of thyroid malignancy. Results are described using both the
TCID and the genes currently mapped to each (Affymetrix annotation file: HuEx-l_0-st
v2.na29.hgl 8.transcript.csv).
         Results
 [002931     The study of differential gene expression in prospectively collected, clinical thyroid FNA
required a number of statistical sub-analyses. These sub-analyses alone resulted in the discovery of
genes that are valuable in the classification of thyroid nodules of unknown pathology. However, the
joining of the datasets has resulted in the novel characterization of thyroid gene panels, which can
correctly classify thyroid FNA with improved accuracy over current cytopathology, and molecular
profiling methods.
         Table 3 Top Benign vs. Malignant Analysis.
         This analysis resulted in 175 unique TCIDs, currently mapping to 198 genes.
                                 Gene Symbol (Affy         FDR LIMMA p
                TCID             v.na29)                   value            Fold Change
                2884845                   GABRB2                 2.85E-35             3.22
                2400177                   CAMK2N1                8.23E-30             2.50
                3638204                   MFGE8                  2.16E-29             1.75
                3638204                   QTRT1                  2.16E-29             1.75
                2708855                   C11orf72               4.11E-27             2.27
                                                   -84-

WO 2010/056374                             PCT/US2009/006162
            2708855  LIPH         4.11E-27       2.27
            3415744  IGFBP6       5.44E-27       1.81
            3136178  PLAG1        1.64E-26       1.76
            2657808  CLDN16       3.63E-26       3.01
            3451375  PRICKLE1     3.63E-26       1.78
            2442008  RXRG         7.62E-26       2.17
            3329343  MDK          3.60E-24       1.34
            3666366  CDH3        3.60E-24        1.25
            3757108 KRT19         1.06E-23       1.44
            3040518 MACC1         1.14E-23       1.73
            3988596 ZCCHC12      2.14E-23        2.22
            3416895 METTL7B      2.90E-23        1.33
            2721959 ROS1         6.26E-23        3.05
            2721959 SLC34A2      6.26E-23        3.05
            3125116 DLC1         9.12E-23        0.82
           2828441  PDLIM4       9.51 E-23       0.81
           2783596  PDE5A        1.60E-22        1.93
           3645555  TNFRSF12A    1.71E-22        1.25
           3973891  CXorf27      1.75E-22        1.38
           3973891  SYTLS        1.75E-22        1.38
           2827645  SLC27A6      2.02E-22       2.28
           3020343  MET          2.02E-22       2.25
           3452478  AMIGO2       2.03E-22       1.17
           2451931  GOLT1A       2.15E-22       0.84
           3679959  EMP2         3.81E-22       1.51
           3417249  ERBB3        1.11E-21       1.05
           3087167  TUSC3        1.16E-21       1.90
           2924492  HEY2         1.38E-21       1.38
           2685304  PROS1        1.48E-21       2.15
           3335894  CST6         1.50E-21       2.50
                            -85-

WO 2010/056374                                PCT/US2009/006162
            3393720  MPZL2           1.52E-21        1.86
            3907234  SDC4            1.60E-21        1.64
            4012178  CITEDI          4.03E-21       2.42
            2994981  PRR15           5.89E-21       0.94
            2973232  C6orf1 74       6.09E-21       1.07
            2973232  KIAA0408        6.09E-21       1.07
            2809245  ITGA2           6.13E-21       1.84
            3067478  NRCAM           9.01E-21       1.70
            3420316  HMGA2           1.13E-20       0.94
            4018327 TRPC5            1.14E-20       1.78
            3416921 RDH5             1.24E-20       0.55
            2333318 PTPRF            1.42E-20       0.78
            3336486 C11orf8O         1.71E-20       0.58
            3336486 RCE1             1.71E-20       0.58
            3044072 NOD1            3.06E-20        1.01
            3417809 NAB2            3.40E-20        0.57
           2710599  CLDN1           4.47E-20        2.53
           3343452  FZD4            4.93E-20        1.49
           3343452  PRSS23          4.93E-20        1.49
           2720584  SLIT2           6.84E-20        1.45
           3389976  SLC35F2         1.16E-19       0.94
           3587495  SCG5            1.45E-19       1.60
           3744463  MYH10           1.58E-19       1.40
           3987607  CCDC121         1.87E-19       1.56
           3987607  ZCCHC16         1.87E-19       1.56
           3984945  ARMCX3          3.69E-19       1.11
           2558612  TGFA            9.18E-19       0.89
           3522398  AIDA            1.02E-18       1.33
           3522398  DOCK9           1.02E-18       1.33
           2781736  CFI             1.04E-18       1.91
                               -86-

WO 2010/056374                               PCT/US2009/006162
            3338192  CCND1          1.09E-18        1.25
            3338192  FLJ42258       1.09E-18        1.25
            2414958  TACSTD2        1.12E-18       0.91
            2991860  ITGB8          1.51E-18        1.30
            2805078  CDH6           1.64E-18        1.58
            3976341  TIMP1          1.98E-18       1.68
            2562435  EDNRB          1.98E-18       1.61
            2562435  SFTPB          1.98E-18       1.61
            3726154  ITGA3          2.04E-18       1.17
            2381249  Clorfl15       4.38E-18       0.92
            2356818  BCL9           6.05E-18       0.63
            3451814  MAFG           7.13E-18       1.92
            3451814  NELL2          7.13E-18       1.92
            3445908 EPS8           7.19E-18        1.60
            2451870 ETNK2          8.68E-18        1.00
            3201345 LOC554202      1.08E-17        1.05
            3581221 AHNAK2         1.14E-17        1.28
            2966193 C6orfl68       1.23E-17        0.85
            2876608 CXCL14         1.85E-17        1.76
            3129065 CLU            1.85E-17        1.37
           3222170  TNC            1.94E-17        1.24
           2438458  CRABP2         2.16E-17        1.24
           2600689  EPHA4          2.17E-17        1.51
           3763390  TMEM100        2.61E-17       1.34
           2902958  C4A            3.56E-17       1.36
           2902958  C4B            3.56E-17       1.36
           2952834  KCNK5          6.07E-17       0.51
           2452478  LEMD1          9.66E-17       1.27
           3751002  RAB34          1.14E-16       0.83
           3489138  CYSLTR2        1.72E-16       1.61
                              -87-

WO 2010/056374                              PCT/US2009/006162
           2417362  DIRAS3        1.72E-16         1.15
           2370123  XPRI          1.81E-16         0.89
           2680046  ADAMTS9       1.83E-16         1.40
           3494629  SCEL          2.04E-16         1.61
           3040967  RAPGEF5       2.04E-16         0.92
           3554452  KIAA0284      2.33E-16         0.59
           4020655  ODZI          2.44E-16         1.97
           2400518  ECE1          3.31 E-16        0.98
           2598261  FN1           3.58E-16         2.41
           3187686  GSN          4.03E-16         0.78
           2742224 SPRY1         3.51 E-15         1.18
           3628832  DAPK2        4.59E-15          1.17
           3408831 SSPN          4.69E-15         0.99
           3925639 NRIP1         5.01E-15          1.02
           3683377 GPRC5B        5.39E-15          1.10
           2397025 DHRS3         5.83E-15         1.14
           2816298 IQGAP2        6.56E-15        -1.04
           3848039 C3            7.85E-15         1.62
           3367673 MPPED2        7.93E-15        -1.71
           2822215 PAM           8.70E-15         1.08
           2567167 LONRF2        1.12E-14         1.40
           2522094 SPATS2L       2.21E-14         0.96
           3898355 FLRT3         2.70E-14         1.96
           3717870 TMEM98        2.72E-14         1.51
           3212008 FRMD3         3.50E-14         1.43
           2597867 IKZF2         3.58E-14         0.91
           3007960 CLDN4         6.44E-14         1.27
           2468811 ASAP2         7.11E-14         0.89
           3046197 ELMO1         8.04E-14       -1.10
           3132616 ZMAT4         8.04E-14       -1.29
                            -88-

WO 2010/056374                             PCT/US2009/006162
            3181600  GALNT12      8.25E-14        0.74
            3095313  C8orf4       8.38E-14         1.28
            2525533  LOC648149    8.38E-14         1.01
            2525533  MAP2         8.38E-14        1.01
            3464860  DUSP6        9.39E-14        1.10
            3464860 LOC100131490  9.39E-14        1.10
           2751936  GALNT7        1.52E-13        0.93
           2578790  LRP1B         1.65E-13       -1.33
           2700365  TM4SF1        2.19E-13        1.60
           2598828  IGFBPS       2.87E-13         1.67
           3126191  PSD3         3.12E-13         1.34
           3979101  FAAH2        3.88E-13         0.68
           3577612  SERPINAl     3.99E-13         1.12
           3577612  SERPINA2     3.99E-13         1.12
           3622934  MYEF2        4.25E-13         0.92
           3622934  SLC24A5      4.25E-13         0.92
           2738664  SGMS2        4.47E-13         1.13
           3692999  MT1G         4.65E-13       -2.43
           2902844  C2           7.40E-13         1.36
           2902844  CFB          7.40E-13         1.36
           3662201  MT1F         8.84E-13       -1.87
           3662201  MT1H         8.84E-13       -1.87
           3662201  MT1P2        8.84E-13       -1.87
           2617188  ITGA9        1.07E-12         1.05
           3401704  CCND2        1.09E-12        0.86
           2562529  ST3GAL5      1.34E-12        0.88
           2371139  LAMC2        1.53E-12        0.99
           2626802  PTPRG        1.83E-12         1.06
           2834282  STK32A       2.53E-12        1.23
           2526806  FN1          3.12E-12        1.84
                            -89-

WO 2010/056374                              PCT/US2009/006162
            3111561  MAPK6         3.66E-12       -2.04
            3111561  PKHD1L1       3.66E-12       -2.04
            3238962  KIAA1217      7.24E-12        1.21
            3238962  PRINS         7.24E-12        1.21
            3110608  TM7SF4        7.72E-12        1.92
            2466554  TPO           1.14E-11       -1.78
            3126368  PSD3          2.30E-11        1.39
            3558418  STXBP6        3.35E-11        0.94
            2980449  IPCEF1        3.42E-11       -1.05
            3907190  SLPI          4.25E-11        1.61
            2955932  GPR110        5.17E-11        1.29
            2976360  PERP          7.31E-11        1.31
            2686023  DCBLD2        8.03E-11        0.98
            2915828  NT5E          9.40E-11        1.19
            3219621  CTNNAL1       1.17E-10        1.01
           3971451   PHEX          1.39E-10        1.53
           3417583   RBMS2         1.39E-10        1.09
           2424102  CNN3           1.58E-10        1.07
           3369931  RAG2          2.12E-10       -1.41
           2730746  SLC4A4        2.24E-10       -1.21
           3010503  CD36          2.91 E-10      -1.42
           3446137  LMO3          3.09E-10         1.44
           3933536  TFF3          3.09E-10       -1.10
           4021777  IGSF1         3.11E-10         1.55
           3467949  SLC5A8        4.08E-10       -1.34
           3288518  ClOorf72      4.26E-10        1.18
           2336891  DIO1          4.31E-10       -1.73
           2498274  C2orf4O       4.39E-10        1.71
           2740067  ANK2          5.52E-10       -0.90
           2924330  TPD52L1       6.04E-10        1.09
                             -90-

WO 2010/056374                                                             PCT/US2009/006162
           2427469                   SLC16A4                6.71E-10              1.37
           2727587                   KIT                    1.23E-09            -1.24
            3464417                  MGAT4C                 1.45E-09              1.26
           2331558                   BMP8A                  3.61E-09            -1.55
           2711205                   ATP13A4                6.51E-09              1.15
           3142381                   FABP4                  7.25E-09            -1.59
           3743551                   CLDN7                  8.01 E-09             1.13
           3662150                   MT1M                   8.06E-09            -1.47
           3662150                   MT1P3                  8.06E-09            -1.47
           3166644                   TMEM215                9.05E-09             1.51
           3087659                   SLC7A2                 1.32E-08             1.28
           3321055                   TEADI                  1.37E-07             1.10
           3059667                   SEMA3D                 1.43E-07            -1.83
     Table 4 Top Subtype Analysis
     This analysis resulted in 599 unique TCIDs, currently mapping to 681 genes.
               Gene Symbol
TCID           (Affy vna29)       Subtype 1       Subtype 2         Subtype 3       Subtype 4
3153400        3153400            NHP PTC
3749600        3749600            NHP PTC
3726691        ABCC3                              FA FVPTC
3368940        ABTB2              NHP PTC
3279058        ACBD7              NHP PTC
2796553        ACSL1              NHP PTC
3299504        ACTA2              NHP PTC
3927480        ADAMTS5            NHP PTC
2680046        ADAMTS9            NHP PTC         FA FVPTC          NHP FVPTC       LCT REST
3252170        ADK                NHP PTC
3039791        AGR2               NHP PTC
3581221        AHNAK2             NHP PTC
2991233        AHR                NHP PTC
                                             -91-

WO 2010/056374                                      PCT/US2009/006162
3522398        AIDA     NHP PTC               NHP FVPTC
3226138        AK1      NHP PTC
3233049        AKR1 C3                        NHP FVPTC
4009849        ALAS2    NHP PTC
3611625        ALDH1A3  NHP PTC
3169331        ALDH1B1               FA FVPTC
3571727        ALDH6A1               FA FVPTC
3452478        AMIGO2   NHP PTC
4018454        AMOT     NHP PTC
2740067        ANK2     NHP PTC               NHP FVPTC
3323748        ANOS                  FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
3174816        ANXA1    NHP PTC
2732844        ANXA3    NHP PTC
2881747        ANXA6                          NHP FVPTC
3046062        AOAH     NHP PTC
2455418        AP3S1    NHP PTC
4002809        APOO                  FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
3595594        AQP9     NHP PTC
2734421        ARHGAP24 NHP PTC
2632453        ARL13B   NHP PTC
2931391        ARL4A    NHP PTC
3984945        ARMCX3   NHP PTC
4015838        ARMCX6   NHP PTC
3321150        ARNTL    NHP PTC
3768474        ARSG                           NHP FVPTC
2468811        ASAP2    NHP PTC
2526759        ATIC     NHP PTC
2711225        ATP13A4  NHP PTC
2711205        ATP13A4  NHP PTC
3105749        ATP6VOD2                       NHP FVPTC
                                -92-

WO 2010/056374                                       PCT/US2009/006162
 3824596        B3GNT3   NHP PTC
 2356818        BCL9     NHP PTC
 2608725        BHLHE40  NHP PTC
 3448088        BHLHE41  NHP PTC
 3772187        BIRC5                                        LCT REST
 2331558       BMP8A     NHP PTC                NHP FVPTC
 3926080       BTG3      NHP PTC
 3288518       C1Oorf72                FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
 2708855       C11orf72 NHP PTC        FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
 3327166       C11orf74                FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
3336486        C11orf8O NHP PTC
3473331        C12orf49 NHP PTC
3571727        C14orf45               FA FVPTC
3649714        C16orf45 NHP PTC
3832280        C19orf33 NHP PTC
2381249        Clorfl15 NHP PTC
2453065        Clorfl16 NHP PTC
2902844        C2       NHP PTC
3963676        C22orf9                          NHP FVPTC
2498274        C2orf4O  NHP PTC       FA FVPTC  NHP FVPTC
3848039        C3       NHP PTC
2902958        C4A      NHP PTC       FA FVPTC  NHP FVPTC
2902958        C4B      NHP PTC       FA FVPTC  NHP FVPTC
2766492        C4orf34  NHP PTC
2730303        C4orf7                                       LCT REST
2855578        C5orf28                FA FVPTC
2966193        C6orfl68 NHP PTC
2973232        C6orfl74 NHP PTC       FA FVPTC
3060450        C7orf62  NHP PTC
3095313        C8orf4   NHP PTC
                                 -93-

WO 2010/056374                                    PCT/US2009/006162
3086809        C8orf79              FA FVPTC
3867264        CAl1    NHP PTC
 3392332       CADM1   NHP PTC
2400177        CAMK2N1 NHP PTC      FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
3420713        CAND1   NHP PTC
3020302        CAV1    NHP PTC
3020273        CAV2    NHP PTC
3987607        CCDC121 NHP PTC      FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
2582701        CCDC148 NHP PTC
2688813        CCDC80  NHP PTC
3718204        CCL13   NHP PTC
3204285        CCL19                                     LCT REST
3338192        CCND1   NHP PTC      FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
3380065        CCND1                         NHP FVPTC
3401704        CCND2   NHP PTC               NHP FVPTC
3316344        CD151   NHP PTC
2860178        CD180                                     LCT REST
2636125        CD200   NHP PTC
3010503        CD36    NHP PTC               NHP FVPTC
3834502        CD79A                                     LCT REST
2671728        CDCP1   NHP PTC
3694657        CDH11   NHP PTC
3666366        CDH3    NHP PTC      FA FVPTC
2805078        CDH6    NHP PTC
3417146        CDK2    NHP PTC
2773719        CDKL2   NHP PTC
2871896        CDO1    NHP PTC
4024373        CDR1    NHP PTC
2902844        CFB     NHP PTC
2373336        CFH     NHP PTC
                               -94-

WO 2010/056374                                        PCT/US2009/006162
 2373336       CFHR1       NHP PTC
 2781736       CFI         NHP PTC
 3920003       CHAF1B      NHP PTC
 3442054       CHD4       NHP PTC
4012178        CITED      NHP PTC       FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
3178583        CKS2       NHP PTC
3862108        CLC        NHP PTC
2710599        CLDN1      NHP PTC                NHP FVPTC
3497195        CLDNIO     NHP PTC
2657808        CLDN16     NHP PTC       FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
3007960        CLDN4      NHP PTC                NHP FVPTC
3743551        CLDN7      NHP PTC
3443183        CLEC4E     NHP PTC
3129065        CLU        NHP PTC       FA FVPTC
2424102        CNN3       NHP PTC
3762198        COLlAl     NHP PTC
3761054        COPZ2                    FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
3106559        CP         NHP PTC
3105904        CPNE3                    FA FVPTC
2377283        CR2                                           LCT REST
3603295        CRABP1     NHP PTC
2438458        CRABP2     NHP PTC       FA FVPTC
2406783        CSF3R      NHP PTC
3126504        CSGALNACTI               FA FVPTC
3335894        CST6       NHP PTC       FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
3219621        CTNNAL1    NHP PTC
2618940        CTNNB1     NHP PTC
3634811        CTSH       NHP PTC
3338552        CTTN       NHP PTC
2773434        CXCL1      NHP PTC
                                   -95-

WO 2010/056374                                      PCT/US2009/006162
 2732508       CXCL13                                       LCT REST
 2876608       CXCL14   NHP PTC
 3863640       CXCL17   NHP PTC
 2773434       CXCL2   NHP PTC
 2773434       CXCL3   NHP PTC
 4024420       CXorfl8 NHP PTC
 3973891       CXorf27 NHP PTC
 3910429       CYP24A1                         NHP FVPTC
2528093        CYP27A1                         NHP FVPTC
3489138        CYSLTR2 NHP PTC        FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
3628832        DAPK2   NHP PTC       FA FVPTC  NHP FVPTC
2686023        DCBLD2  NHP PTC
3683845        DCUN1D3 NHP PTC
2420832        DDAH1   NHP PTC
3329649        DDB2    NHP PTC
3754736        DDX52   NHP PTC
3487095        DGKH    NHP PTC
3074912        DGKI    NHP PTC
3558118        DHRS1   NHP PTC
2397025        DHRS3   NHP PTC
2336891        DiO1    NHP PTC       FA FVPTC  NHP FVPTC
2417362        DIRAS3  NHP PTC                 NHP FVPTC
3125116        DLCI    NHP PTC       FA FVPTC
3522398        DOCK9   NHP PTC                 NHP FVPTC
3913483        DPH3B                 FA FVPTC
2584018        DPP4    NHP PTC
2880292        DPYSL3  NHP PTC
3783529        DSG2    NHP PTC
2893794        DSP     NHP PTC
2958325        DST     NHP PTC
                                -96-

WO 2010/056374                                   PCT/US2009/006162
 3622176       DUOX1                        NHP FVPTC
 3622176       DUOX2                        NHP FVPTC
 3622239       DUOXA1                       NHP FVPTC
 3622239       DUOXA2                       NHP FVPTC
 3129731       DUSP4  NHP PTC
 3263743       DUSP5  NHP PTC
 3464860       DUSP6  NHP PTC
 3497195       DZIP1  NHP PTC
 2400518       ECE1   NHP PTC      FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
2562435        EDNRB  NHP PTC
 3002640       EGFR   NHP PTC
2484970        EHBP1  NHP PTC
3837431        EHD2   NHP PTC
3326461        EHF    NHP PTC
3544387        EIF2B2              FA FVPTC
3427098        ELK3   NHP PTC
3046197        ELMO1  NHP PTC
3679959        EMP2   NHP PTC      FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
3852832        EMR3   NHP PTC
2458338        ENAH   NHP PTC
3345427        ENDOD1 NHP PTC
2327677        EPB41  NHP PTC
2600689        EPHA4  NHP PTC
2346625        EPHX4  NHP PTC
3772187        EPR1                                     LCT REST
3445908        EPS8   NHP PTC
3720402        ERBB2              FA FVPTC
3417249        ERBB3  NHP PTC
3683845        ER12   NHP PTC
2462329        ERO1LB             FA FVPTC
                              -97-

WO 2010/056374                                      PCT/US2009/006162
3445768         ERP27   NHP PTC
2451870         ETNK2   NHP PTC
3039177        ETV1     NHP PTC
2709132        ETV5     NHP PTC
2863363        F2RL2    NHP PTC
3979101        FAAH2    NHP PTC
3142381        FABP4    NHP PTC               NHP FVPTC
3331926        FAM111A  NHP PTC
3331903        FAM111B  NHP PTC
3104323        FAM164A  NHP PTC
2560625        FAM176A  NHP PTC
3768535        FAM20A   NHP PTC
3143330        FAM82B                FA FVPTC
3152558        FAM84B   NHP PTC
2396750        FBXO2    NHP PTC
3473480        FBXO21   NHP PTC
3229338        FCN1     NHP PTC
3229338        FCN2     NHP PTC
2742109        FGF2     NHP PTC
3413950        FGFR1OP2 NHP PTC
3324447        FIBIN                 FA FVPTC
2738244        FLJ20184 NHP PTC
3346147        FLJ32810 NHP PTC
3338192        FLJ42258 NHP PTC      FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
3380065        FLJ42258                       NHP FVPTC
3898355        FLRT3    NHP PTC
2526806        FN1      NHP PTC
2598261        FN1      NHP PTC      FA FVPTC
3869237        FPR1     NHP PTC
3839910        FPR2     NHP PTC
                                -98-

WO 2010/056374                                     PCT/US2009/006162
3212008        FRMD3   NHP PTC      FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
3393479        FXYD6                         NHP FVPTC
3343452        FZD4    NHP PTC
3110272        FZD6    NHP PTC
2523045        FZD7    NHP PTC
3217242        GABBR2  NHP PTC
2884845        GABRB2  NHP PTC      FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
2341083        GADD45A NHP PTC
2401581        GALE    NHP PTC
3181600        GALNT12 NHP PTC
2585129        GALNT3  NHP PTC
2751936        GALNT7  NHP PTC
2684187        GBE1                          NHP FVPTC
2421843        GBPI    NHP PTC
2421843        GBP3    NHP PTC
3044129        GGCT    NHP PTC
4015763        GLA                           NHP FVPTC
3593931        GLDN    NHP PTC
2417272        GNG12   NHP PTC
2451931        GOLT1A  NHP PTC
2955932        GPR110  NHP PTC
2955999        GPR110  NHP PTC
2819779        GPR98   NHP PTC               NHP FVPTC
3683377        GPRC5B  NHP PTC
2827057        GRAMD3  NHP PTC
3187686        GSN     NHP PTC
2787958        GYPB    NHP PTC
2504328        GYPC    NHP PTC
2787958        GYPE    NHP PTC
2809793        GZMK                                       LCT REST
                               -99-

WO 2010/056374                                        PCT/US2009/006162
 3217077        HEMGN     NHP PTC
 2924492        HEY2     NHP PTC        FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
 2946194        HIST1H1A NHP PTC
 2946215        HIST1H3B                                      LCT REST
2947081         HIST1H4L                                      LCT REST
2950125         HLA-DQB2 NHP PTC
 3420316        HMGA2    NHP PTC
3830065         HPN      NHP PTC
2658275         HRASLS                  FA FVPTC
3508330         HSPH1    NHP PTC
3820443         ICAM1    NHP PTC
2401493         ID3                     FA FVPTC
2708922        IGF2BP2                  FA FVPTC
2598828        IGFBP5    NHP PTC
3415744        IGFBP6    NHP PTC        FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
4021777        IGSF1     NHP PTC        FA FVPTC
2597867   '    IKZF2                    FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
3755862        IKZF3                   FA FVPTC
2497082        IL1RL1    NHP PTC
3275729        IL2RA                             NHP FVPTC
2731332        IL8                               NHP FVPTC
2599303        IL8RA     NHP PTC
2599303        IL8RB     NHP PTC
2527580        IL8RB     NHP PTC
2599303        IL8RBP    NHP PTC
2527580        IL8RBP    NHP PTC
2673873        IMPDH2    NHP PTC
3267382        INPP5F    NHP PTC
2980449        IPCEFI    NHP PTC
2816298        IQGAP2    NHP PTC
                                  -100-

WO 2010/056374                                       PCT/US2009/006162
2809245         ITGA2    NHP PTC
3726154         ITGA3    NHP PTC
2617188        ITGA9     NHP PTC       FA FVPTC
3852832        ITGB1     NHP PTC
2583465        ITGB6     NHP PTC
2991860        ITGB8     NHP PTC
4013549        ITM2A                                        LCT REST
2608469        ITPR1     NHP PTC
3556990        JUB       NHP PTC
3998766        KALl      NHP PTC
2628260        KBTBD8                                       LCT REST
2952834        KCNK5     NHP PTC
3154002        KCNQ3     NHP PTC
3383130        KCTD14    NHP PTC
2827525        KDELCI    NHP PTC
3945314        KDELR3    NHP PTC
2959039        KHDRBS2   NHP PTC
3554452        KIAA0284  NHP PTC                NHP FVPTC
2973232        KIAA0408  NHP PTC       FA FVPTC
3238962        KIAA1217  NHP PTC                NHP FVPTC
3529951        KIAA1 305               FA FVPTC
2727587        KIT       NHP PTC       FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
3978943        KLF8      NHP PTC
2708066        KLHL6                                        LCT REST
3868828        KLK10     NHP PTC
3868783        KLK7      NHP PTC
3415576        KRT18     NHP PTC
3757108        KRT19     NHP PTC       FA FVPTC
2453793        LAMB3     NHP PTC
2371065        LAMC1     NHP PTC
                                 -101-

WO 2010/056374                                           PCT/US2009/006162
 2371139        LAMC2        NHP PTC
 2962026        LCA5         NHP PTC
 3653619        LCMT1        NHP PTC
 3190190        LCN2         NHP PTC
 4024420        LDOC1        NHP PTC
 2452478        LEMD1        NHP PTC
 2854092        LIFR                       FA FVPTC
 3841545        LILRA1       NHP PTC
 3841545       LILRB1        NHP PTC
 3454331       LIMA1         NHP PTC
 3202528       LINGO2        NHP PTC
 2708855       LIPH          NHP PTC       FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
 3446137       LMO3          NHP PTC       FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
2345286        LMO4          NHP PTC
3028011        LOC100124692 NHP PTC
3442054        LOC100127974 NHP PTC
3765689        LOC100129112 NHP PTC
3759587        LOC100129115 NHP PTC
2601414        LOC100129171 NHP PTC
2577482        LOC100129961 NHP PTC
2504328        LOC100130248 NHP PTC
3110272        LOC100131102 NHP PTC
3464860        LOC100131490 NHP PTC
2364677        LOC100131938 NHP PTC
3922793        LOC100132338 NHP PTC
3392332        LOC100132764 NHP PTC
3487095        LOC283508    NHP PTC
3724698        LOC440434    NHP PTC
3201345        LOC554202    NHP PTC
2455418        LOC643454    NHP PTC
                                     -102-

WO 2010/056374                                        PCT/US2009/006162
 2525533       LOC648149 NHP PTC
4015838        LOC653354 NHP PTC
 3724698       LOC653498 NHP PTC
2936857        LOC730031 NHP PTC
2567167        LONRF2    NHP PTC                              LCT REST
2872848        LOX       NHP PTC
3220384        LPAR1                            NHP FVPTC
3442137        LPAR5     NHP PTC
3088486        LPL       NHP PTC
2578790        LRP1B     NHP PTC                NHP FVPTC
3106559        LRRC69    NHP PTC
2608309        LRRNI     NHP PTC
3465248        LUM       NHP PTC
3683845        LYRM1     NHP PTC
3040518        MACC1     NHP PTC       FA FVPTC
3451814        MAFG      NHP PTC       FA FVPTC
3994710        MAMLD1    NHP PTC
2525533        MAP2      NHP PTC
3111561        MAPK6     NHP PTC                NHP FVPTC
3108526        MATN2                   FA FVPTC
2539607        MBOAT2    NHP PTC
3097152        MCM4      NHP PTC
3063685        MCM7      NHP PTC
3329343        MDK       NHP PTC       FA FVPTC
2962820        ME1                              NHP FVPTC
3765689        MED13     NHP PTC
3020343        MET       NHP PTC       FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
3416895        METTL7B   NHP PTC      FA FVPTC  NHP FVPTC
3808096        MEX3C     NHP PTC
3638204        MFGE8     NHP PTC      FA FVPTC  NHP FVPTC
                                 -103-

WO 2010/056374                                      PCT/US2009/006162
3028011        MGAM    NHP PTC
2890859        MGAT1                          NHP FVPTC
3464417        MGAT4C  NHP PTC
2658275        MGC2889               FA FVPTC
3406589        MGST1   NHP PTC
3707759        MIS12                 FA FVPTC
2936857        MLLT4   NHP PTC
3143660        MMP16   NHP PTC
3143643        MMP16   NHP PTC
2362333        MNDA    NHP PTC
4017212        MORC4   NHP PTC
3367673        MPPED2  NHP PTC
3393720        MPZL2   NHP PTC      FA FVPTC  NHP FVPTC
2955025        MRPL14  NHP PTC
3662201        MT1 F   NHP PTC      FA FVPTC
3692999        MT1G    NHP PTC                NHP FVPTC
3662201        MT1H    NHP PTC      FA FVPTC
3662150        MT1M    NHP PTC
3662201        MT1 P2  NHP PTC      FA FVPTC
3662150        MT1P3   NHP PTC
2931391        MTHFD1L NHP PTC
2437118        MUCI    NHP PTC
3366903        MUC15   NHP PTC
3655723        MVP     NHP PTC
3997825        MXRA5   NHP PTC
3622934        MYEF2   NHP PTC
3744463        MYH10   NHP PTC
2520429        MYO1B   NHP PTC
3752709        MYO1D   NHP PTC
3624607        MYO5A                          NHP FVPTC
                               -104-

WO 2010/056374                                         PCT/US2009/006162
 2914070        MYO6      NHP PTC
 3417809       NAB2       NHP PTC
 3695268       NAE1       NHP PTC
 3074912       NAG20      NHP PTC     '
 3323052       NAV2                      FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
 3349293       NCAM1                     FA FVPTC
 2590736       NCKAP1    NHP PTC
 3495076       NDFIP2    NHP PTC
 3789947       NEDD4L    NHP PTC
 3451814       NELL2     NHP PTC         FA FVPTC
2343231        NEXN      NHP PTC
3456666        NFE2      NHP PTC
3199207        NFIB      NHP PTC
2325410        NIPAL3    NHP PTC
3182957        NIPSNAP3A                FA FVPTC
3182957        NIPSNAP3B                FA FVPTC
3044072        NOD1      NHP PTC        FA FVPTC
3571904        NPC2      NHP PTC
3724698        NPEPPS    NHP PTC
2370926        NPL                                NHP FVPTC
2792127        NPY1R     NHP PTC
3067478        NRCAM     NHP PTC                  NHP FVPTC
3925639        NRIP1     NHP PTC
2524301        NRP2      NHP PTC
2915828        NT5E      NHP PTC
3143330        NTAN1                    FA FVPTC
3322251        NUCB2                    FA FVPTC  NHP FVPTC
2742109        NUDT6     NHP PTC
3654699        NUPR1                    FA FVPTC
2768654        OCIAD2    NHP PTC     I_1_1
                                  -105-

WO 2010/056374                                      PCT/US2009/006162
 2375338       OCR1    NHP PTC
 4020655       ODZ1    NHP PTC       FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
 3380065       ORAOV1                         NHP FVPTC
 3801621       OSBPL1A                        NHP FVPTC
 3555461       OSGEP   NHP PTC
2807359        OSMR    NHP PTC
2701071        P2RY13  NHP PTC
2875193        P4HA2   NHP PTC
2822215        PAM     NHP PTC
3256590        PAPSS2                         NHP FVPTC
3505781        PARP4   NHP PTC
3320865        PARVA   NHP PTC
2364677        PBX1    NHP PTC
3134922        PCMTD1                FA FVPTC
2783596        PDE5A   NHP PTC                NHP FVPTC
3922793        PDE9A   NHP PTC
3087703        PDGFRL  NHP PTC
3301218        PDLIM1  NHP PTC
2828441        PDLIM4  NHP PTC
3411810        PDZRN4  NHP PTC
3013255        PEG10   NHP PTC
2976360        PERP    NHP PTC
3971451        PHEX    NHP PTC
3975893        PHF16   NHP PTC
2635906        PHLDB2  NHP PTC
3127385        PHYHIP  NHP PTC
3811086        PIGN                FA FVPTC
3111561        PKHD1L1 NHP PTC                NHP FVPTC
2511820        PKP4    NHP PTC
3376529        PLA2G16 NHP PTC
                               -106-

WO 2010/056374                                       PCT/US2009/006162
 2955827        PLA2G7                          NHP FVPTC
 2583374        PLA2R1   NHP PTC
 3136178        PLAGI    NHP PTC       FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
 3252036        PLAU     NHP PTC
 3759587        PLCD3    NHP PTC
 2521574        PLCL1                           NHP FVPTC
 3867458        PLEKHA4  NHP PTC
 3407096        PLEKHA5  NHP PTC
 2858023        PLK2     NHP PTC
 3987996        PLS3     NHP PTC
 3911217       PMEPA1    NHP PTC
 3061997       PON2      NHP PTC
 2763550       PPARGC1A  NHP PTC
 2773358       PPBP      NHP PTC
 3678462       PPL       NHP PTC
2931090        PPP1R14C NHP PTC
3384270        PRCP                             NHP FVPTC
3451375        PRICKLE1 NHP PTC
3238962        PRINS    NHP PTC                 NHP FVPTC
2682271        PROK2    NHP PTC
2685304        PROS1    NHP PTC
2994981        PRR15    NHP PTC
3973692        PRRG1    NHP PTC
3343452        PRSS23   NHP PTC
3175971        PSAT1                  FA FVPTC
3126368        PSD3     NHP PTC
3126191        PSD3     NHP PTC
2455418        PTPN14   NHP PTC
2333318        PTPRF    NHP PTC
2626802        PTPRG    NHP PTC
                                 -107-

WO 2010/056374                                      PCT/US2009/006162
2973376        PTPRK   NHP PTC
3757917        PTRF    NHP PTC
3134922        PXDNL                 FA FVPTC
3638204        QTRT1   NHP PTC       FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
2361257        RAB25   NHP PTC
3625271        RAB27A  NHP PTC
2929699        RAB32                          NHP FVPTC
3751002        RAB34   NHP PTC
3183757        RAD23B  NHP PTC
3369931        RAG2    NHP PTC       FA FVPTC
4001223        RA12    NHP PTC
3040967        RAPGEF5 NHP PTC
3456081        RARG    NHP PTC
2819044        RASAl   NHP PTC
3944210        RASD2   NHP PTC
4000944        RBBP7   NHP PTC
3781429        RBBP8   NHP PTC
3417583        RBMS2   NHP PTC
3336486        RCE1    NHP PTC
3416921        RDH5    NHP PTC
2779335        RG9MTD2              FA FVPTC
2372812        RGS13                                       LCT REST
2372719        RGS18   NHP PTC
2372858        RGS2    NHP PTC
2384401        RHOU    NHP PTC
2580802        RND3    NHP PTC
2721959        ROS1    NHP PTC      FA FVPTC  NHP FVPTC
2709606        RPL39L  NHP PTC
3804143        RPRD1A  NHP PTC
3867965        RRAS    NHP PTC
                               -108-

WO 2010/056374                                      PCT/US2009/006162
2469252        RRM2                                         LCT REST
2442008        RXRG     NHP PTC       FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
2435981        S100A12  NHP PTC
4045665        S100A14  NHP PTC
4045643        S100A16  NHP PTC
2435989        S100A8   NHP PTC
2359664        S100A9   NHP PTC
3691326        SALL1    NHP PTC                NHP FVPTC
3564027        SAV1     NHP PTC
2750594        SC4MOL   NHP PTC
3091475        SCARA3   NHP PTC
3442054        SCARNA11 NHP PTC
3494629        SCEL     NHP PTC
3587495        SCG5     NHP PTC                NHP FVPTC
3441885        SCNN1A   NHP PTC
3043895        SCRN1    NHP PTC
3907234        SDC4     NHP PTC      FA FVPTC  NHP FVPTC
3779756        SEH1L    NHP PTC
2443450        SELL     NHP PTC
3058759        SEMA3C                          NHP FVPTC
3059667        SEMA3D   NHP PTC
2732273        SEPT11   NHP PTC
2328273        SERINC2  NHP PTC
3577612        SERPINAl NHP PTC     FA FVPTC
3577612        SERPINA2 NHP PTC     FA FVPTC
2601414        SERPINE2 NHP PTC
3331355        SERPING1 NHP PTC
2326774        SFN      NHP PTC
2562435        SFTPB    NHP PTC
2768981        SGCB     NHP PTC
                                -109-

WO 2010/056374                                       PCT/US2009/006162
 3061805       SGCE      NHP PTC
 2648535       SGEF      NHP PTC
 2738664       SGMS2     NHP PTC
 3088213       SH2D4A   NHP PTC
 3304970       SH3PXD2A NHP PTC
3894727        SIRPA    NHP PTC
3894727        SIRPB1   NHP PTC
3154263        SLA      NHP PTC
2827525        SLC12A2  NHP PTC
2427469        SLC16A4  NHP PTC
3768412        SLC16A6                          NHP FVPTC
2960955        SLC17A5  NHP PTC
3622934        SLC24A5  NHP PTC
3018605        SLC26A4  NHP PTC
3106559        SLC26A7  NHP PTC
3593575        SLC27A2  NHP PTC
2827645        SLC27A6  NHP PTC
2721959        SLC34A2  NHP PTC        FA FVPTC NHP FVPTC
3216276        SLC35D2                 FA FVPTC
3389976        SLC35F2  NHP PTC
3804195        SLC39A6  NHP PTC
2730746        SLC4A4   NHP PTC
3467949        SLC5A8   NHP PTC
2786322        SLC7A1 1               FA FVPTC  NHP FVPTC
3087659        SLC7A2   NHP PTC
2720584        SLIT2    NHP PTC
3907190        SLPI     NHP PTC
3509842        SMAD9                  FA FVPTC
2937144        SMOC2    NHP PTC
3766960        SMURF2   NHP PTC
                                 -110-

WO 2010/056374                                       PCT/US2009/006162
 2777714        SNCA     NHP PTC
 3597857        SNX1     NHP PTC
 3597914        SNX22    NHP PTC
 2348437        SNX7     NHP PTC
 2369557        SOATI                           NHP FVPTC
 2797202        SORBS2  NHP PTC
 3413950        SPATS2  NHP PTC
 2522094        SPATS2L NHP PTC
 2585933        SPC25                                        LCT REST
 3590164        SPINT1  NHP PTC
 2556752        SPRED2  NHP PTC
2742224         SPRY1   NHP PTC        FA FVPTC
3519309         SPRY2   NHP PTC
3677969        SRL      NHP PTC
3408831        SSPN     NHP PTC
2562529        ST3GAL5  NHP PTC
3011861        STEAP2                  FA FVPTC
2834282        STK32A   NHP PTC                 NHP FVPTC
3558418        STXBP6                           NHP FVPTC
3102372        SULF1    NHP PTC
2979871        SYNE1    NHP PTC
2378256        SYT14    NHP PTC
3973891        SYTL5    NHP PTC
2414958        TACSTD2  NHP PTC
3898126        TASP1                  FA FVPTC
3724698        TBC1 D3F NHP PTC
3264621        TCF7L2                 FA FVPTC
3913483        TCFLS                  FA FVPTC
2435218        TDRKH    NHP PTC
3320944        TEAD1    NHP PTC
                                 -111-

WO 2010/056374                                          PCT/US2009/006162
  3321055        TEAD1    NHP PTC
  2573570        TFCP2LI  NHP PTC
  3933536       TFF3      NHP PTC
 2591421        TFPI                               NHP FVPTC
 2558612        TGFA      NHP PTC
 2380590        TGFB2     NHP PTC
 3181728        TGFBR1    NHP PTC
 3976341        TIMP1     NHP PTC        FA FVPTC
 2649113        TIPARP    NHP PTC
 3615579        TJP1      NHP PTC
 3173880        TJP2      NHP PTC
 3751042        TLCD1     NHP PTC
 3969115        TLR8      NHP PTC
 2700365        TM4SF1    NHP PTC
 2647315        TM4SF4    NHP PTC
 3110608        TM7SF4   NHP PTC
 3763390        TMEM100  NHP PTC
 3412345        TMEM117  NHP PTC
 3346147       TMEM133   NHP PTC
 2577482       TMEM163   NHP PTC
2815220        TMEM171                  FA FVPTC  NHP FVPTC
3166644        TMEM215   NHP PTC                  NHP FVPTC
3571904        TMEM90A   NHP PTC
3717870        TMEM98    NHP PTC
3351200        TMPRSS4   NHP PTC
3222170        TNC       NHP PTC
3150455        TNFRSF11B               FA FVPTC
3645555        TNFRSF12A NHP PTC      FA FVPTC    NHP FVPTC
3648391        TNFRSF17                                        LCT REST
3222128        TNFSF15   NHP PTC
                                  -112-

WO 2010/056374                                        PCT/US2009/006162
3907111        TOMM34  NHP PTC
3136888        TOX                                            LCT REST
2924330        TPD52L1 NHP PTC
2466554        TPO     NHP PTC       FA FVPTC   NHP FVPTC
3818515        TRIP10  NHP PTC
4018327        TRPC5   NHP PTC       FA FVPTC   NHP FVPTC
3512294        TSC22D1 NHP PTC
2991150        TSPAN13 NHP PTC
4015397        TSPAN6  NHP PTC
3891342        TUBBI   NHP PTC
3779579        TUBB6   NHP PTC
3401217        TULP3   NHP PTC
3087167        TUSC3   NHP PTC
3809324        TXNL1                 FA FVPTC
3429460        TXNRD1                           NHP FVPTC
3775842        TYMS    NHP PTC
2448971        UCHL5                            NHP FVPTC
2974592        VNN1                             NHP FVPTC
2974635        VNN2    NHP PTC
2974610        VNN3    NHP PTC
3203855        WDR40A  NHP PTC
2489228        WDR54   NHP PTC
3625052        WDR72                 FA FVPTC
3768474        WIPIl                            NHP FVPTC
2677356        WNT5A   NHP PTC
4015548        XKRX    NHP PTC
2370123        XPR1    NHP PTC
3832280        YlF1B   NHP PTC
2413484        YIPF1                FA FVPTC
4024373        YTHDC2  NHP PTC    I_          1_1
                               -113-

  WO 2010/056374                                                              PCT/US2009/006162
   3989089         ZBTB33            NHP PTC
   3988596         ZCCHC12           NHP PTC         FA FVPTC          NHP FVPTC
   3987607         ZCCHC16           NHP PTC         FA FVPTC          NHP FVPTC
   3569754         ZFP36L1           NHP PTC
   2706791        ZMAT3              NHP PTC
   3132616        ZMAT4              NHP PTC         FA FVPTC          NHP FVPTC
   2331903        ZNF643             NHP PTC
   3011675        ZNF804B            NHP PTC
        Table 5 Trident Analysis
[002941    This benign vs. malignant analysis resulted in 210 unique TCIDs, currently mapping to
237 genes. These genes represent the union of three statistically significant sub-analyses (Repeatable,
Bayes, and Tissue) using a single dataset.
            Gene Symbol
  TCID      (Affy v.na29)    Repeatable     Bayes              Tissue           DE        P value
  3393720   MPZL2                 TRUE           TRUE              TRUE         1.49      1.87E-32
  2400177   CAMK2N1               TRUE           TRUE              FALSE        1.67      2.27E-29
  3067478   NRCAM                 TRUE           TRUE              FALSE        1.42      2.53E-29
  3445908   EPS8                  TRUE           TRUE              TRUE         1.44      6.34E-29
  3020343   MET                   TRUE           TRUE              FALSE        1.49      1.47E-27
  4012178   CITED1                TRUE           TRUE              FALSE        1.50      2.37E-27
  2710599   CLDN1                TRUE            TRUE              FALSE        1.41      9.07E-27
  3338192   CCND1                TRUE            TRUE              TRUE         1.36      2.63E-26
  3338192   FLJ42258             TRUE            TRUE              TRUE         1.36      2.63E-26
  3126191   PSD3                 TRUE            TRUE              TRUE         1.32      3.49E-25
  2884845   GABRB2               TRUE            TRUE              FALSE        1.73      4.07E-25
  3087167   TUSC3                TRUE            TRUE              FALSE        1.49      6.22E-25
  3907234   SDC4                 TRUE            TRUE             FALSE         1.46      2.08E-24
  2721959   ROS1                 TRUE            TRUE             FALSE         1.48      2.82E-24
  2721959   SLC34A2              TRUE            TRUE             FALSE         1.48      2.82E-24
  3679959   EMP2                 FALSE           TRUE             FALSE         1.50      2.83E-24
  2708855  C11orf72              TRUE            TRUE              TRUE         1.59      1.31E-23
                                               -114-

WO 2010/056374                            PCT/US2009/006162
 2708855  LIPH       TRUE    TRUE   TRUE     1.59     1.31 E-23
 3416895  METTL7B    TRUE    TRUE   FALSE    1.49    2.12E-23
 3136178  PLAG1     FALSE    TRUE   TRUE     1.41    2.37E-23
 2442008  RXRG       TRUE    TRUE  FALSE     1.60    3.50E-23
 2657808  CLDN16    TRUE     TRUE   TRUE     1.51    2.63E-22
 3984945  ARMCX3    TRUE     TRUE  FALSE     1.45    3.13E-22
 2567167  LONRF2    TRUE     TRUE   TRUE     1.38    3.67E-22
 2685304  PROSI     TRUE     TRUE  FALSE     1.46    3.81E-22
 3744463  MYH10     TRUE     TRUE  FALSE    1.46     6.20E-22
 3415744  IGFBP6    TRUE     TRUE  FALSE    1.56     9.91E-22
 2834282  STK32A    TRUE     TRUE  TRUE     1.27     1.03E-21
 3554452  KIAA0284  TRUE     TRUE  FALSE    1.32     1.38E-21
 3040518  MACC1     TRUE     TRUE  FALSE    1.47     1.42E-21
 3587495  SCG5      TRUE     TRUE  FALSE    1.34     1.74E-21
 2686023  DCBLD2    TRUE    TRUE   FALSE    1.18     1.83E-21
 3335894  CST6     FALSE    TRUE   FALSE    1.43     2.29E-21
2783596   PDE5A     TRUE    TRUE   TRUE     1.55     2.63E-21
3522398  AIDA       TRUE    TRUE   FALSE    1.38    2.99E-21
3522398  DOCK9      TRUE    TRUE  FALSE     1.38    2.99E-21
3638204  MFGE8      TRUE    TRUE  FALSE     1.51    5.35E-21
3638204  QTRT1     TRUE     TRUE  FALSE     1.51    5.35E-21
3323052  NAV2      TRUE     TRUE  FALSE     1.30    7.OOE-21
2924492  HEY2      TRUE     TRUE  FALSE     1.48    2.01 E-20
3726154  ITGA3     TRUE     TRUE  FALSE     1.35    2.16E-20
2924330  TPD52L1   TRUE     TRUE  FALSE     1.17    2.21E-20
3988596  ZCCHC12   TRUE     TRUE  FALSE    1.52     2.85E-20
3683377  GPRC5B    TRUE     TRUE  FALSE    1.28     4.84E-20
3417249  ERBB3     FALSE    TRUE  FALSE    1.51     6.63E-20
2511820  PKP4      TRUE     TRUE  TRUE     1.22     7.51E-20
4020655  ODZ1      TRUE     TRUE  FALSE    1.34     8.32E-20
                          -115-

WO 2010/056374                          PCT/US2009/006162
3628832   DAPK2     FALSE   TRUE  FALSE   1.34     1.20E-19
3007960   CLDN4      TRUE   TRUE FALSE    1.20     1.42E-19
2598261   FN1        TRUE   TRUE FALSE    1.31     3.25E-19
2936857   LOC730031  TRUE   TRUE  TRUE    1.12     5.16E-19
2936857   MLLT4      TRUE   TRUE  TRUE    1.12     5.16E-19
3666366   CDH3       TRUE   TRUE  TRUE    1.48     6.10E-19
3757108   KRT19      TRUE   TRUE FALSE    1.41    6.20E-19
3451375   PRICKLE1  FALSE   TRUE  TRUE    1.42    8.79E-19
3338552  CTTN        TRUE   TRUE  TRUE    1.10    9.53E-19
2680046  ADAMTS9     TRUE   TRUE FALSE    1.40     1.06E-18
3867458   PLEKHA4   TRUE    TRUE FALSE    1.35     1.50E-18
3494629  SCEL       TRUE    TRUE FALSE    1.39     1.57E-18
3978943  KLF8       TRUE    TRUE FALSE    1.35    3.66E-18
2397025  DHRS3      TRUE    TRUE FALSE    1.22    3.89E-18
3420316  HMGA2      TRUE    TRUE  TRUE    1.48    4.63E-18
3126368  PSD3       TRUE    TRUE FALSE    1.19    5.77E-18
2809245  ITGA2      TRUE    TRUE FALSE    1.45    6.16E-18
2526806  FN1        TRUE    TRUE  TRUE    1.19    7.55E-18
2827645  SLC27A6    FALSE   TRUE FALSE    1.49    8.33E-18
3217361  ANKS6      TRUE    TRUE FALSE   1.19     8.37E-18
3743551  CLDN7      TRUE    TRUE FALSE   1.07     1.80E-17
3571904  NPC2       FALSE   TRUE FALSE   0.99     2.53E-17
3571904  TMEM90A    FALSE   TRUE FALSE   0.99     2.53E-17
2558612  TGFA       TRUE    TRUE FALSE   1.35     2.71E-17
3987607  CCDC121    TRUE    TRUE FALSE   1.46     3.28E-17
3987607  ZCCHC16    TRUE    TRUE FALSE   1.46     3.28E-17
3088213  SH2D4A     TRUE    TRUE FALSE   1.18     5.07E-17
3751002  RAB34      TRUE    TRUE FALSE   1.19     5.77E-17
3973891  CXorf27    TRUE    TRUE FALSE   1.52     6.03E-17
3973891  SYTL5      TRUE    TRUE FALSE   1.52     6.03E-17
                          -116-

WO 2010/056374                              PCT/US2009/006162
3044072   NOD1         TRUE     TRUE  TRUE    1.45     6.85E-17
2370123   XPR1         TRUE     TRUE  FALSE   1.26     7.13E-17
3174816   ANXA1        FALSE    TRUE  TRUE    1.08     7.85E-17
2966193   C6orfl68     TRUE     TRUE  FALSE   1.37     1.01E-16
2525533   LOC648149    TRUE     TRUE  FALSE   1.24     1.02E-16
2525533   MAP2         TRUE     TRUE  FALSE   1.24     1.02E-16
3154002   KCNQ3        TRUE     TRUE  FALSE   1.41     1.09E-16
3590164   SPINT1       TRUE     TRUE  FALSE   1.17     1.35E-16
3329343   MDK          TRUE     TRUE  TRUE    1.28     1.58E-16
2875193   P4HA2        TRUE     TRUE  FALSE   1.10     1.80E-16
3726691  ABCC3         TRUE     TRUE  FALSE   1.17     1.86E-16
2451870  ETNK2         TRUE     TRUE  TRUE    1.33     1.91E-16
4018327  TRPC5         TRUE     TRUE  TRUE    1.48    2.43E-16
3046197  ELMO1         TRUE     TRUE  TRUE   -1.26    2.80E-16
2460817  SIPA1L2       TRUE    TRUE   TRUE    1.17    3.16E-16
3976341  TIMP1         TRUE    TRUE   TRUE    1.15    3.39E-16
2973232  C6orf174      TRUE    TRUE  FALSE    1.42    3.78E-16
2973232  KIAA0408      TRUE    TRUE  FALSE    1.42    3.78E-16
3417809  NAB2          TRUE    TRUE  FALSE    1.25    5.50E-16
2751936  GALNT7        TRUE    TRUE  FALSE   1.17     5.95E-16
2648535  SGEF         TRUE     FALSE FALSE   1.16     1.33E-15
3759587  LOC100129115 TRUE     TRUE  FALSE   1.34     1.47E-15
3759587  PLCD3        TRUE     TRUE  FALSE   1.34     1.47E-15
3994710  MAMLD1       FALSE    TRUE  FALSE   1.37     1.80E-15
3581221  AHNAK2       TRUE     TRUE  FALSE   1.31     2.29E-15
3259253  ClOorfl31    FALSE    TRUE  TRUE    1.01     4.17E-15
3259253  ENTPDI       FALSE    TRUE  TRUE    1.01     4.17E-15
2562435  EDNRB        FALSE    TRUE  FALSE   1.37     5.28E-15
2562435  SFTPB        FALSE    TRUE  FALSE   1.37     5.28E-15
3489138  CYSLTR2      TRUE     TRUE  TRUE    1.30     5.69E-15
                             -117-

WO 2010/056374                             PCT/US2009/006162
3002640   EGFR         TRUE    TRUE  TRUE     1.11    8.20E-15
2578790   LRP1B       FALSE    TRUE  FALSE   -0.95    1.06E-14
3768535   FAM20A      FALSE    TRUE  FALSE   1.25     1.11E-14
3044129   GGCT         TRUE    TRUE FALSE    1.11     1.12E-14
2980449   IPCEF1       TRUE   TRUE   TRUE    -1.14    1.29E-14
4018454  AMOT          TRUE   TRUE  FALSE    1.34     1.47E-14
3763390  TMEM100       TRUE   TRUE   TRUE    1.40    2.44E-14
2740067  ANK2         FALSE   TRUE   TRUE    -0.89   2.57E-14
3622934   MYEF2        TRUE   TRUE   TRUE    1.03    4.13E-14
3622934  SLC24A5       TRUE   TRUE   TRUE    1.03    4.13E-14
2414958  TACSTD2      FALSE   TRUE  FALSE    1.29    5.50E-14
3321150  ARNTL         TRUE   TRUE   TRUE    1.18    7.68E-14
3464860  DUSP6        TRUE    TRUE  FALSE    1.10    1.17E-13
3464860  LOC100131490 TRUE    TRUE  FALSE    1.10    1.17E-13
3217242  GABBR2       TRUE    TRUE   TRUE    1.21    1.22E-13
3110608  TM7SF4       TRUE    TRUE   TRUE    1.23    2.16E-13
3110395  RIMS2        TRUE    TRUE  FALSE    1.13    2.54E-13
3649714  C16orf45     TRUE    TRUE  FALSE    1.10    7.74E-13
3867264  CAl1         TRUE    TRUE  FALSE    1.05    8.23E-13
3832280  C19orf33     TRUE    TRUE  FALSE    1.20    8.77E-13
3832280  YlF1B        TRUE    TRUE  FALSE    1.20    8.77E-13
2452440  KLHDC8A      TRUE    TRUE  FALSE    1.08    1.39E-12
2608469  ITPR1        TRUE    TRUE  TRUE    -1.10    1.71E-12
3577612  SERPINAl     FALSE   TRUE  FALSE   0.96     2.24E-12
3577612  SERPINA2     FALSE   TRUE  FALSE   0.96     2.24E-12
4015548  XKRX         TRUE    TRUE  FALSE   1.12     2.68E-12
3451814  MAFG         FALSE   TRUE  TRUE    1.04     2.91E-12
3451814  NELL2        FALSE   TRUE  TRUE    1.04     2.91E-12
2734421  ARHGAP24     FALSE   TRUE  FALSE   -1.05    3.17E-12
2816298  IQGAP2       TRUE    TRUE  FALSE   -1.10    5.75E-12
                            -118-

WO 2010/056374                         PCT/US2009/006162
2524301  NRP2     FALSE    TRUE  FALSE   0.93     7.41E-12
3132616  ZMAT4    FALSE    TRUE  TRUE    -0.89    1.03E-11
3365136  SERGEF   FALSE    TRUE  TRUE    0.98     1.04E-11
3367673  MPPED2   FALSE    TRUE  FALSE   -0.95    1.18E-11
2608309  LRRN1    FALSE   FALSE  TRUE    0.84     1.66E-11
2820925  RHOBTB3 FALSE     TRUE  TRUE    0.85     2.73E-11
3369931  RAG2    FALSE     TRUE  TRUE    -0.75    3.90E-1 1
2708922  IGF2BP2 FALSE     TRUE  TRUE    0.90     5.15E-11
3868783  KLK7     TRUE     TRUE  TRUE    1.19     7.94E-11
3006572  AUTS2    TRUE     TRUE FALSE    1.06     1.02E-10
3411810  PDZRN4   TRUE     TRUE FALSE    1.20     1.21E-10
2876897  SPOCK1   TRUE    FALSE FALSE    1.05     1.39E-10
3166644  TMEM215 FALSE    FALSE  TRUE    0.98     1.49E-10
3933536  TFF3    FALSE     TRUE FALSE   -0.80    2.50E-10
3159330  DOCK8   FALSE     TRUE  TRUE   -0.90    2.53E-10
3279058  ACBD7   FALSE    TRUE   TRUE    1.03    2.83E-10
3593931  GLDN     TRUE    TRUE  FALSE    1.13    3.46E-10
3404030  KLRG1   FALSE    TRUE   TRUE   -0.88    5.39E-10
2373842  PTPRC   FALSE    FALSE TRUE    -0.90    9.75E-10
3010503  CD36    FALSE    TRUE  TRUE    -0.81    3.46E-09
2583374  PLA2R1  FALSE    TRUE  TRUE    -0.72    6.14E-09
3856646  ZNF208  FALSE    FALSE TRUE    0.77     6.91E-09
3692999  MT1G    FALSE    TRUE  TRUE    -0.82    1.01 E-08
2587790  GPR155  FALSE    TRUE  FALSE   -0.86    1.12E-08
2362351  PYHIN1  FALSE    FALSE TRUE    -0.76    1.46E-08
2727587  KIT     FALSE    TRUE  FALSE   -0.75    1.50E-08
2427619  KCNA3   FALSE    FALSE TRUE    -0.78    1.50E-08
3142381  FABP4   FALSE    TRUE  FALSE   -0.72    1.82E-08
2584018  DPP4    FALSE    TRUE  TRUE    0.78     2.22E-08
2387126  RYR2    FALSE    TRUE  TRUE    -0.64    2.26E-08
                        -119-

WO 2010/056374                          PCT/US2009/006162
2823880  CAMK4      FALSE   FALSE  TRUE   -0.72   2.67E-08
3410384  C12orf35   FALSE   FALSE  TRUE   -0.78   2.74E-08
2466554  TPO        FALSE    TRUE FALSE   -0.77   5.30E-08
2806468  IL7R       FALSE   FALSE TRUE    -0.78    1.04E-07
2730746  SLC4A4     FALSE    TRUE TRUE    -0.73   1.12E-07
3467949  SLC5A8     FALSE   FALSE TRUE   -0.74    1.23E-07
2518272  CERKL      FALSE   FALSE TRUE   -0.74    1.58E-07
2518272  ITGA4      FALSE   FALSE TRUE   -0.74    1.58E-07
3450861  ABCD2      FALSE   FALSE TRUE   -0.66    1.63E-07
3389450  CARD16     FALSE   FALSE TRUE   -0.78    1.66E-07
3389450  CASP1      FALSE   FALSE TRUE   -0.78    1.66E-07
2657831  ILl RAP    FALSE    TRUE FALSE  0.78     1.85E-07
3059667  SEMA3D     FALSE   TRUE  TRUE   -0.71    2.04E-07
4013460  CYSLTR1    FALSE   FALSE TRUE   -0.71    2.12E-07
3126504  CSGALNACT1 FALSE   TRUE  TRUE   -0.65    2.29E-07
3811339  BCL2       FALSE   TRUE  TRUE   -0.76    2.29E-07
2724671  RHOH       FALSE   FALSE TRUE   -0.69    2.37E-07
3160895  JAK2       FALSE   FALSE TRUE   -0.74    2.48E-07
2486811  PLEK       FALSE   FALSE TRUE   -0.75    2.66E-07
3443804  KLRB1      FALSE   FALSE TRUE   -0.73    2.84E-07
3576704  TC2N       FALSE   TRUE  TRUE   -0.74    3.29E-07
3742627  C17orf87   FALSE   FALSE TRUE   -0.70    4.80E-07
3347658  ATM        FALSE   FALSE TRUE   -0.65    4.89E-07
3347658  NPAT       FALSE   FALSE TRUE   -0.65    4.89E-07
2815220  TMEM171    FALSE   FALSE TRUE   -0.60    5.OOE-07
3960174  LGALS2     FALSE   FALSE TRUE   -0.70    5.58E-07
2462329  ERO1LB     FALSE   TRUE  TRUE   -0.67    6.74E-07
2608725  BHLHE40    FALSE   TRUE  TRUE   0.72     8.08E-07
3389353  CARD17     FALSE   FALSE TRUE   -0.72    1.09E-06
3389353  CASP1      FALSE   FALSE TRUE   -0.72    1.09E-06
                          -120-

WO 2010/056374                          PCT/US2009/006162
3062082   PDK4     FALSE    FALSE  TRUE   0.67     1.22E-06
2593159   STK17B   FALSE    FALSE  TRUE   -0.65    1.88E-06
2353669   CD2      FALSE    FALSE  TRUE   -0.67    2.06E-06
2428796   PTPN22   FALSE    FALSE  TRUE   -0.66    2.70E-06
2422035   GBP5    FALSE    FALSE   TRUE   -0.69    3.37E-06
2766289  TMEM156  FALSE    FALSE   TRUE   -0.57   4.55E-06
3060450  C7orf62  FALSE    FALSE   TRUE   -0.61   5.81 E-06
2439554  AIM2     FALSE    FALSE  TRUE    -0.60   6.78E-06
3443891  CLEC2B   FALSE    FALSE  TRUE    -0.58   3.51E-05
2766192  TLR1O    FALSE    FALSE  TRUE    -0.51   3.87E-05
3536706  LGALS3   FALSE     TRUE  FALSE   0.52    4.67E-05
3009838  CCDC146  FALSE    FALSE  TRUE   -0.56    7.30E-05
3009838  POLR2J4  FALSE    FALSE  TRUE   -0.56    7.30E-05
2412312  TTC39A   FALSE    FALSE  TRUE   0.51     7.45E-05
2548699  CYP1B1   FALSE     TRUE  FALSE  0.49     3.52E-04
3443868  CD69     FALSE    FALSE  TRUE   -0.47    4.85E-04
3461981  TSPAN8   FALSE    FALSE  TRUE   -0.44    7.33E-04
3648391  TNFRSF17 FALSE    FALSE  TRUE   -0.44    7.66E-04
3018605  SLC26A4  FALSE    TRUE   TRUE   -0.46    9.81E-04
3107828  PLEKHF2  FALSE    FALSE  TRUE   -0.42    1.19E-03
2372812  RGS13    FALSE    FALSE  TRUE   -0.38    1.66E-03
3197955  GLDC     FALSE    FALSE  TRUE   -0.37    5.51E-03
2796995  SORBS2   FALSE    FALSE  TRUE   -0.32    1.01E-02
3135567  LYPLAI   FALSE    FALSE  TRUE   -0.32    1.78E-02
2732508  CXCL13   FALSE    FALSE  TRUE   -0.30    1.94E-02
3200982  MLLT3    FALSE    FALSE  TRUE   -0.30    2.03E-02
2735027  SPPI     FALSE    FALSE  TRUE   0.25     6.47E-02
2554018  EFEMP1   FALSE    FALSE  TRUE   -0.20    1.55E-01
2945882  CMAH     FALSE    FALSE  TRUE   -0.21    1.65E-01
2767378  ATP8A1   FALSE    FALSE  TRUE   0.20     1.79E-01
                         -121-

  WO 2010/056374                                                               PCT/US2009/006162
  4016193     TMSB15A              FALSE              FALSE           TRUE        -0.16    2.27E-01
  4016193     TMSB15B              FALSE              FALSE           TRUE        -0.16    2.27E-01
  3019158     LRRN3                FALSE              FALSE           TRUE        0.16     2.57E-01
  2700244     CP                   FALSE              FALSE           TRUE        0.12     4.37E-01
  2700244     HPS3                 FALSE              FALSE           TRUE        0.12     4.37E-01
  2855285     CCDC152              FALSE              FALSE           TRUE        -0.10    4.49E-01
  2855285     SEPP1                FALSE              FALSE           TRUE        -0.10    4.49E-01
  2773947     CXCL9                FALSE              FALSE           TRUE        -0.10    4.56E-01
  3108226     PGCP                 FALSE              TRUE            TRUE        0.04     7.65E-01
  2773972     CXCL11               FALSE              FALSE           TRUE        0.02     8.93E-01
[002951       While preferred embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described
herein, it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way of
example only. Numerous variations, changes, and substitutions will now occur to those skilled in the
art without departing from the invention. It should be understood that various alternatives to the
embodiments of the invention described herein may be employed in practicing the invention. It is
intended that the following claims define the scope of the invention and that methods and structures
within the scope of these claims and their equivalents be covered thereby.
                                                   -122-

                                              CLAIMS
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1.      A method of identifying a subject as benign or normal for a disease, the method
comprising:
        (a) assaying a level of expression of one or more gene expression products in a fine
needle aspirate (FNA) sample obtained from said subject; and
        (b) applying a trained algorithm to said level of expression from (a) to identify said
subject as benign or normal for said disease, wherein said trained algorithm is trained with a
training set of expression data obtained from a plurality of FNA training samples that are
independent of said FNA sample obtained from said subject.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein said trained algorithm identifies said subject as benign or
normal for said disease at an accuracy of greater than 80%.
3.      The method of claim 1, wherein said trained algorithm identifies said subject as benign or
normal for said disease at a specificity of greater than 80%.
4.      The method of claim 3, wherein said specificity is greater than 90%.
5.      The method of claim 1, wherein said trained algorithm identifies said subject as benign or
normal for said disease at a sensitivity of greater than 80%.
6.      The method of claim 5, wherein said sensitivity is greater than 90%.
7.      The method of claim 1, wherein said accuracy is greater than 95%.
8.      The method of any one of claims 1-7, wherein said one or more gene expression products
comprise ribonucleic acid molecules.
9.      The method of any one of claims 1-8, wherein said training set comprises over 500
training samples.
10.     The method of any one of claims 1-9, wherein said training set comprises over 300 FNA
samples.
                                                - 123 -

11.     The method of any one of claims 1-10, wherein said one or more gene expression
products comprises two or more gene expression products, each from a different ontology group.
12.     The method of any one of claims 1-11, wherein said level of said one or more gene
expression products is measured using a microarray, serial analysis of gene expression, blotting,
real time polymerase chain reaction (PCR), quantitative PCR, or sequencing.
13.     The method of any one of claims 1-12, wherein said training set comprises a training
sample with a pathology selected from the group consisting of normal thyroid, follicular
adenoma, parathyroid, follicular carcinoma, lymphocytic thyroiditis, follicular variant papillary
thyroid carcinoma, papillary thyroid carcinoma, nodular hyperplasia, medullary thyroid
carcinoma, Hurthle cell carcinoma, Hurthle cell adenoma, and anaplastic thyroid carcinoma.
14.     The method of claim 13, wherein said pathology is selected from the group consisting of
follicular adenoma, follicular carcinoma, papillary thyroid carcinoma, Hurthle cell carcinoma,
and follicular variant papillary thyroid carcinoma.
15.     The method of claim 13, wherein said pathology is selected from the group consisting of
follicular adenoma, follicular carcinoma, and papillary thyroid carcinoma.
16.     The method of claim 13, wherein said pathology is Hurthle cell carcinoma.
17.     The method of any one of claims 1-12, wherein said training set comprises a training
sample with a pathology selected from the group consisting of metastatic parathyroid cancer,
metastatic melanoma, metastatic renal carcinoma, metastatic breast carcinoma, and metastatic B
cell lymphoma.
18.     The method of claim 17, wherein said pathology is metastatic B cell lymphoma.
19. The method of any one of claims 1-18, wherein said training set comprises at least three
training samples, each of which exhibits a different pathology.
20.     The method of any one of claims 1-19, wherein said training set comprises at least three
training samples, each of which exhibits a different pathology.
                                               - 124 -

21.     The method of any one of claims 1-19, wherein said subject has not previously received a
definitive diagnosis for said disease.
22.     The method of any one of claims 1-20, wherein said FNA sample is a formalin-fixed
paraffin-embedded sample.
23.     The method of any one of claims 1-21, wherein said disease is cancer.
24.     The method of any one of claims 1-22, wherein said trained algorithm correlates said
level of expression from (a) with said expression data obtained from said training set.
25.     The method of any one of claims 1-24, wherein said disease is a thyroid disease.
26.     The method claim 24, wherein said thyroid disease is thyroid cancer.
27.     The method of any one of claims 1-24, wherein said disease is a lung disease.
28.     The method of claims 27, wherein said lung disease is lung cancer.
29.     A method of identifying a subject as benign or normal for a disease, the method
comprising:
        (a) subjecting a first portion of a sample from said subject to cytological testing that
indicates that said sample, is ambiguous or suspicious;
        (b) assaying a level of expression of one or more gene expression products in a second
portion of said sample; and
        (c) applying a trained algorithm to said level of expression from (b) to identify said
subject as benign or normal for said disease, wherein said trained algorithm is trained with a
training set of expression data obtained from training samples that are independent of said
sample.
30.     The method of claim 29, wherein said trained algorithm identifies said subject as benign
or normal for said disease at an accuracy of at least 80%.
31.     The method of claim 30, wherein said accuracy is at least 90%.
                                                - 125 -

32.    The method of claim 31, wherein said accuracy is at least 90%.
33.    The method of claim 29, wherein said trained algorithm identifies said subject as benign
or normal with respect to said disease at a negative predictive value (NPV) of at least 80%.
34.    The method of claim 33, wherein said NPV is at least 90%.
35.    The method of claim 34, wherein said NPV is at least 95%.
36.    The method of claim 29, wherein said disease is a lung disease.
37.    The method of claim 36, wherein said lung disease is lung cancer.
38.    The method of claim 29, wherein said disease is a thyroid disease.
39.    The method of claim 38, wherein said thyroid disease is thyroid cancer.
                                               - 126 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
