   Abstract
   A gaming system comprising: a credit meter storing a balance
   of wagerable credits; a points meter storing a balance of
 5 usable points; a game play mechanism operable by the player
   to input a play instruction for a game comprising a credit
   portion and a points portion; and a game controller arranged
   to control conduct of the game in response to the play
   instruction based on the credit portion and the points
10 portion and to determine whether to make an award of credits
   based on an outcome of the game.

                                       5/83
                   (N,
                                  <
                             (Y*) Cf)
                                          m
                                          CY)
                                                 u
                                                 ce)
                                    ~t    It     It
                ca                  a)    )   *:         3:
      a)  a)~-                                       0<
     ~LL               0)            D                   C')
   0n                                                    0
  0
     CDD
         CN
               U))
0                         04                  (N
                              ro              (61     U-

   Title
      A  GAMING SYSTEM, A GAME CONTROLLER AND A METHOD OF GAMING
 5 Related Application
   This application is a divisional application of Australian
   application no. <removed-apn>, which in turn is a divisional
   application of Australian application no. 2013202200, which
10 in turn is a divisional application of Australian
   application no. 2010224468. The disclosure of each of these
   applications is incorporated herein by reference.
   Field
15
   The invention relates to a gaming system, a game controller
   and a method of gaming.
   Background
20
   Some venues or groups of venues provide players of gaming
   machines with loyalty points based on their patronage of the
   venue and in particular their game play. Such loyalty points
   may be redeemed in shops or restaurants at the venue or may
25 entitle the player to use of exclusive facilities or
   benefits.
   While such loyalty systems have proved popular there is
   still a need for alternative loyalty points systems in order
30 to maintain or increase player enjoyment.
   Summary of the Invention
   In a first aspect, the invention provides a gaming system
35 comprising:
          a credit meter storing a balance of wagerable credits;
          a points meter storing a balance of usable points,
   wherein the usable points are associated with the wagerable
   credits such that the usable points expire when the
40 wagerable credits are cashed out;
          a game play mechanism operable by the player to input a

   play instruction for a game comprising a credit portion and
   a points portion; and
        a game controller arranged to control conduct of the
   game in response to the play instruction based on the credit
 5 portion and the points portion and to determine whether to
   make an award of credits based on an outcome of the game.
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
   determine how a specific instance of the game is to be
10 conducted based on the points portion of the game outcome.
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to control
   the possible outcomes of the game based on the points
   portion.
15
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
   determine a quantum of an award of credits from the credit
   portion.
20 In an embodiment, the points portion provides the player
   with a feature which affects what awards of credits are
   possible during play of the game.
   In an embodiment, the points portion provides the player
25 with a feature which modifies awards of credits made during
   play of the game.
   In an embodiment, the feature is not available when the play
   instruction does not include a points portion.
30
   In an embodiment, the gaming system is arranged to determine
   whether to make an award of points independently of the
   outcome of the game.
35 In a second aspect, the invention provides a game controller
   for a gaming system, the game controller arranged to:
        control a balance of wagerable credits and a balance of
   usable points, wherein the usable points are associated with
   the wagerable credits such that the usable points expire
40 when the wagerable credits are cashed out; and
        control conduct of a game based on a received play

   instruction for the game comprising a credit portion and a
   points portion, conduct of the game comprising:
        generating a game outcome; and
        evaluating the game outcome to determine whether to
 5 make an award in credits based on the game outcome.
   In an embodiment, the game controller comprises a game play
   controller arranged to determine how a specific instance of
   the game is to be conducted based on the points portion of
10 the game outcome.
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to control
   the possible outcomes of the game based on the points
   portion.
15
   In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
   determine a quantum of an award of credits from the credit
   portion.
20 In an embodiment, the game controller adds a feature to the
   game based on the points portion of the received play
   instruction which affects what awards of credits are
   possible during play of the game.
25 In an embodiment, the game controller adds a feature to the
   game based on the points portion of the received play
   instruction which modifies awards of credits made during
   play of the game.
30 In an embodiment, the feature is not available when the play
   instruction does not include a points portion.
   In an embodiment, the game controller is further arranged to
   determine whether to make an award of points independently
35 of the outcome of the game.
   In an embodiment, the game controller comprises an outcome
   generator arranged to generate the game outcome.
40 In an embodiment, the game controller comprises an outcome
   evaluator arranged to determine whether to make an award of

   credits based on the game outcome.
   In a third aspect, the invention provides a method of gaming
   in a gaming system comprising:
 5       controlling a balance of wagerable credits and a
   balance of usable points, wherein the usable points are
   associated with the wagerable credits such that the usable
   points expire when the wagerable credits are cashed out;  and
         controlling conduct of a game based on a received play
10 instruction for the game comprising a credit portion and a
   points portion, conduct of the game comprising:
         generating a game outcome; and
         evaluating the game outcome to determine whether to
   make an award in credits based on the game outcome.
15
   In an embodiment, the method comprises controlling conduct
   of the game by determining how a specific instance of the
   game is to be conducted based on the points portion of the
   game outcome.
20
   In an embodiment, the method comprises controlling the
   possible outcomes of the game based on the points portion.
   In an embodiment, the method comprises determining a quantum
25 of an award of credits from the credit portion.
   In an embodiment, the method comprises controlling conduct
   of the game by adding a feature to the game which affects
   what awards of credits are possible during play of the game.
30
   In an embodiment, the method comprises controlling conduct
   of the game will be played by adding a feature to the game
   which modifies awards of credits made during play of the
   game.
35
   In an embodiment, the feature is not available when the play
   instruction does not include a points portion.
   In an embodiment, the method comprises determining whether
40 to make an award of points independently of the outcome of
   the game.

   In a fourth aspect, the invention provides computer program
   code which when executed implements the above method.
 5 In a fifth aspect, the invention provides a tangible
   computer readable medium comprising the computer program
   code.
   Brief Description of Drawings
10
   An exemplary embodiment of the invention will now be
   described with reference to the accompanying drawings in
   which:
15 Figure 1 is a block diagram of the core components of a
   gaming system;
   Figure 2 is a perspective view of a stand alone gaming
   machine;
20
   Figure 3 is a block diagram of the functional components of
   a gaming machine;
   Figure 4 is a schematic diagram of the functional components
25 of a memory;
   Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of a network gaming system;
   Figure 6 is a further block diagram of a gaming system;
30
   Figure 7 is a flow chart of an embodiment;
   Figure 8 is a flow chart of an alternative embodiment;  and
35 Figure 9 is a block diagram of an alternative embodiment.
   Detailed Description
   Referring to the drawings, there is shown a gaming system
40 where in addition to placing a wager in credits, the player
   can use points to affect the possible outcomes of the game.

   Depending on the embodiment, the points may be used as part
   of a game play instruction prior to commencement of the game
   and/or during game play.
 5 General construction off gaming system
   The gaming system can take a number of different forms. In a
   first form, a stand alone gaming machine is provided wherein
   all or most components required for implementing the game
10 are present in a player operable gaming machine.
   In a second form, a distributed architecture is provided
   wherein some of the components required for implementing the
   game are present in a player operable gaming machine and
15 some of the components required for implementing the game
   are located remotely relative to the gaming machine.   For
   example, a "thick client" architecture may be used wherein
   part of the game is executed on a player operable gaming
   machine and part of the game is executed remotely, such as
20 by a gaming server; or a "thin client" architecture may be
   used wherein most of the game is executed remotely such as
   by a gaming server and a player operable gaming machine is
   used only to display audible and/or visible gaming
   information to the player and receive gaming inputs from the
25 player.
   However, it will be understood that other arrangements are
   envisaged.  For example, an architecture may be provided
   wherein a gaming machine is networked to a gaming server and
30 the respective functions of the gaming machine and the
   gaming server are selectively modifiable.  For example, the
   gaming system may operate in stand alone gaming machine
   mode, "thick client" mode or "thin client" mode depending on
   the game being played, operating conditions, and so on.
35 Other variations will be apparent to persons skilled in the
   art.
   Irrespective of the form, the gaming system has several core
   components. At the broadest level, the core components are a
40 player interface 50 and a game controller 60 as illustrated
   in Figure 1. The player interface is arranged to enable

   manual interaction between a player and the gaming system
   and for this purpose includes the input/output components
   required for the player to enter instructions to play the
   game and observe the game outcomes.
 5
   Components of the player interface may vary from embodiment
   to embodiment but will typically include a credit mechanism
   52 to enable a player to input credits and receive payouts,
   one or more displays 54, a game play mechanism 56 including
10 one or more input devices that enable a player to input game
   play instructions  (e.g. to place a wager), and one or more
   speakers 58.
   The game controller 60 is in data communication with the
15 player interface and typically includes a processor 62 that
   processes the game play instructions in accordance with game
   play rules and outputs game play outcomes to the display.
   Typically, the game play rules are stored as program code in
   a memory 64 but can also be hardwired. Herein the term
20 "processor" is used to refer generically to any device that
   can process game play instructions in accordance with game
   play rules and may include: a microprocessor,
   microcontroller, programmable logic device or other
   computational device, a general purpose computer (e.g. a PC)
25 or a server.
   A gaming system in  the form of a stand alone gaming machine
   10 is illustrated in Figure 2.  The gaming machine 10
   includes a console 12 having a display 14 on which are
30 displayed representations of a game 16 that can be played by
   a player.  A mid-trim 20 of the gaming machine 10 houses a
   bank of buttons 22 for enabling a player to interact with
   the gaming machine, in particular during game play.   The
   mid-trim 20 also houses a credit input mechanism 24 which in
35 this example includes a coin input chute 24A and a bill
   collector 24B.  Other credit input mechanisms may also be
   employed, for example, a card reader for reading a smart
   card, debit card or credit card.   Other gaming machines may
   configure for ticket in such that they have a ticket reader
40 for reading tickets having a value and crediting the player
   based on the face value of the ticker.   A player marketing

   module  (not shown) having a reading device may also be
   provided for the purpose of reading a player tracking
   device, for example as part of a loyalty program.   The
   player tracking device may be in the form of a card, flash
 5 drive or any other portable storage medium capable of being
   read by the reading device. In some embodiments, the player
   marketing module may provide an additional credit mechanism,
   either by transferring credits to the gaming machine from
   credits stored on the player tracking device or by
10 transferring credits from a player account in data
   communication with the player marketing module.
   A top box 26 may carry artwork 28, including for example pay
   tables and details of bonus awards and other information or
15 images relating to the game.   Further artwork and/or
   information may be provided on a front panel 29 of the
   console 12.   A coin tray 30 is mounted beneath the front
   panel 29 for dispensing cash payouts from the gaming machine
   10.
20
   The display 14 shown in Figure 2 is in the form of a video
   display unit, particularly a cathode ray tube screen device.
   Alternatively, the display 14 may be a liquid crystal
   display, plasma screen, any other suitable video display
25 unit, or the visible portion of an electromechanical device.
   The top box 26 may also include a display, for example a
   video display unit, which may be of the same type as the
   display 14, or of a different type.
30 Figure 3 shows a block diagram of operative components of a
   typical gaming machine which may be the same as or different
   to the gaming machine of Figure 2.
   The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101 having
35 a processor 102 mounted on a circuit board.   Instructions
   and data to control operation of the processor 102 are
   stored in a memory 103, which is in data communication with
   the processor 102.   Typically, the gaming machine 100 will
   include both volatile and non-volatile memory and more than
40 one of each type of memory, with such memories being
   collectively represented by the memory 103.

   The gaming machine has hardware meters 104 including a
   credit meter for wagerable credits and a points meter for
   storing usable points, an input/output    (I/O) interface 105
 5 for communicating with peripheral devices of the gaming
   machine 100.   The input/output interface 105 and/or the
   peripheral devices may be intelligent devices with their own
   memory for storing associated instructions and data for use
   with the input/output interface or the peripheral devices.
10 A random number generator module 113 generates random
   numbers for use by the processor 102.    Persons skilled in
   the art will appreciate that the reference to random numbers
   includes pseudo-random numbers.
15 In the example shown in Figure 3, a player interface 120
   includes peripheral devices that communicate with the game
   controller 101 including one or more displays 106, a touch
   screen and/or buttons 107   (which provide a game play
   mechanism),  a card and/or ticket reader 108, a printer 109,
20 a bill acceptor and/or coin input mechanism 110 and a coin
   output mechanism 111.   Additional hardware may be included
   as part of the gaming machine 100, or hardware may be
   omitted as required for the specific implementation. For
   example, while buttons or touch screens are typically used
25 in gaming machines to allow a player to place a wager and
   initiate a play of a game any input device that enables the
   player to input game play instructions may be used. For
   example, in some gaming machines a mechanical handle is used
   to initiate a play of the game.
30
   In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a
   communications interface, for example a network card 112.
   The network card may, for example, send status information,
   accounting information or other information to a bonus
35 controller, central controller, server or database and
   receive data or commands from the bonus controller, central
   controller, server or database.    In embodiments employing a
   player marketing module, communications over a network may
   be via player marketing module -   i.e. the player marketing
40 module may be in data communication with one or more of the
   above devices and communicate with it on behalf of the

   gaming machine.
   Figure 4 shows a block diagram of the main components of an
   exemplary memory 103.   The memory 103 includes RAM 103A,
 5 EPROM 103B and a mass storage device 103C.   The RAM 103A
   typically temporarily holds program files for execution by
   the processor 102 and related data.   The EPROM 103B may be a
   boot ROM device and/or may contain some system or game
   related code.   The mass storage device 103C is typically
10 used to store game programs, the integrity of which may be
   verified and/or authenticated by the processor 102 using
   protected code from the EPROM 103B or elsewhere.
   It is also possible for the operative components of the
15 gaming machine 100 to be distributed, for example
   input/output devices 106,107,108,109,110,111 to be provided
   remotely from the game controller 101.
   Figure 5 shows a gaming system 200 in accordance with an
20 alternative embodiment.   The gaming system 200 includes a
   network 201, which for example may be an Ethernet network.
   Gaming machines 202, shown arranged in three banks 203 of
   two gaming machines 202 in Figure 5, are connected to the
   network 201.  The gaming machines 202 provide a player
25 operable interface and may be the same as the gaming
   machines 10,100 shown in Figures 2 and 3, or may have
   simplified functionality depending on the requirements for
   implementing game play.   While banks 203 of two gaming
   machines are illustrated in Figure 5, banks of one, three or
30 more gaming machines are also envisaged.
   One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the
   network 201.  For example, the displays 204 may be
   associated with one or more banks 203 of gaming machines.
35 The displays 204 may be used to display representations
   associated with game play on the gaming machines 202, and/or
   used to display other representations, for example
   promotional or informational material.
40 In a thick client embodiment, game server 205 implements
   part of the game played by a player using a gaming machine

   202 and the gaming machine 202 implements part of the game.
   With this embodiment, as both the game server and the gaming
   device implement part of the game, they collectively provide
   a game controller. A database management server 206 may
 5 manage storage of game programs and associated data for
   downloading or access by the gaming devices 202 in a
   database 206A. Typically, if the gaming system enables
   players to participate in a Jackpot game, a Jackpot server
   207 will be provided to perform accounting functions for the
10 Jackpot game.   A loyalty program server 212 may also be
   provided.
   In a thin client embodiment, game server 205 implements most
   or all of the game played by a player using a gaming machine
15 202 and the gaming machine 202 essentially provides only the
   player interface.     With this embodiment, the game server 205
   provides the game controller. The gaming machine will
   receive player instructions, pass these to the game server
   which will process them and return game play outcomes to the
20 gaming machine for display.      In a thin client embodiment,
   the gaming machines could be computer terminals, e.g. PCs
   running software that provides a player interface operable
   using standard computer input and output components. Other
   client/server configurations are possible, and further
25 details of a client/server architecture can be found in WO
   2006/052213 and PCT/SE2006/000559, the disclosures of which
   are incorporated herein by reference.
   Servers are also typically provided to assist in the
30 administration of the gaming network 200, including for
   example a gaming floor management server 208, and a
   licensing server 209 to monitor the use of licenses relating
   to particular games.     An administrator terminal 210 is
   provided to allow an administrator to run the network 201
35 and the devices connected to the network.
   The gaming system 200 may communicate with other gaming
   systems,  other local   networks,  for example a corporate
   network,  and/or a wide area network such as the Internet,
40 for  example through a firewall 211.

   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in
   accordance with known techniques, functionality at the
   server side of the network may be distributed over a
   plurality of different computers.  For example, elements may
 5 be run as a single "engine" on one server or a separate
   server may be provided.  For example, the game server 205
   could run a random generator engine.  Alternatively, a
   separate random number generator server could be provided.
   Further, persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a
10 plurality of game servers could be provided to run different
   games or a single game server may run a plurality of
   different games as required by the terminals.
   Further detail of gaming system
15
   In Figure 6, the processor 62 of game controller 60 is shown
   implementing a number of modules based on program code and
   data stored in memory 64. Persons skilled in the art will
   appreciate that various of the modules could be implemented
20 in some other way, for example by a dedicated circuit.
   Figure 6 shows a gaming system of an embodiment where a
   player has the option to input a game play instruction which
   includes a credit portion and a points portion. To this end,
25 the player operates a first input device or devices 56A of
   the game play mechanism 56 to specify the wager in credits
   which will be evaluated for this play of the game. The
   player also optionally indicates an amount in points to be
   used in the play of the game using a second input device of
30 devices 56B. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that
   the order may be reversed or there may be arrangements to
   allow a player to use a single input device, for example a
   button corresponding to an amount in credits and an amount
   in points. After the wager has been placed, the player
35 operates the game play mechanism 56 to initiate a play of
   the game. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that
   the instruction placing the wager and/or the points may also
   initiate play of the game.
40 The credit portion of the play instruction is dependent on
   the game in relation to which the embodiment is implemented

   and dependent on player selections. In most spinning reel
   games, it is typical for the player's entitlement to be
   affected by the amount they wager and selections they make
   (i.e. the nature of the wager). For example, a player's
 5 wager in credits in a spinning reel game win entitlement may
   be based on how many lines they play in each game  (e.g. a
   minimum of one line up to the maximum number of lines
   allowed by the game) and how much they wager per line  (e.g.
   a minimum of one credit per line up to the maximum number of
10 credits per line allowed by the game).  Such win lines are
   typically formed by a combination of symbol display
   positions, one from each reel, the symbol display positions
   being located relative to one another such that they form a
   line.
15
   In many games, the player's opportunities to win are not
   strictly limited to the lines they have selected, for
   example, "scatter" pays are awarded independently of a
   players selection of pay lines and are an inherent part of
20 the credit wage.
   Persons skilled in the art, will appreciate that in other
   embodiments, the player may place a wager selecting a number
   of reels to play and selecting how much to wager per reel.
25 Such games are marketed under the trade name "Reel Power" by
   Aristocrat Leisure Industries Pty Ltd. The selection of the
   reel means that each displayed symbol of the reel can be
   substituted for a symbol at one or more designated display
   positions. In other words, all symbols displayed at symbol
30 display positions corresponding to a selected reel can be
   used to form symbol combinations with symbols displayed at a
   designated, symbol display positions of the other reels. For
   example, if there are five reels and three symbol display
   positions for each reel such that the symbol display
35 positions comprise three rows of five symbol display
   positions, the symbols displayed in the centre row are used
   for non-selected reels. As a result, the total number of
   ways to win is determined by multiplying the number of
   active display positions of each reels, the active display
40 positions being all display positions of each selected reel
   and the designated display position of the non-selected

   reels. As a result for five reels and fifteen display
   positions there are 243 ways to win.
   In the example of the embodiment, the points portion adds a
 5 feature to the game.  In this respect, the game play
   controller 624 includes a feature activator 624A responsive
   to a play instruction which includes a points portion.    When
   the player goes to initiate the play, a set of possible
   features which can be added to the game are displayed to the
10 player on display 54 together with the size of a wager of
   points required to activate them.   The player uses game play
   mechanism 56 to select one of the features and the added
   feature is activated by a feature activator 624A of the game
   play controller and the game controller 60 deducts the
15 points from points meter 643C.  In this respect, the
   features which can be added are stored in memory as possible
   game play features 641, the player selection causes the
   feature activator 624A to add the selected feature these to
   the current game play features 642.   Depending on the
20 implementation, the current game play features are used by
   the outcome generator 622 to generate game outcomes and/or
   the outcome evaluator 623 to evaluate outcomes.   In this
   sense, the game play controller 624 controls the conduct of
   each specific instance of the game by controlling the
25 operation of the outcome generator and/or outcome evaluator
   depending on the feature which is activated   - e.g. to
   control how the game will be played. Put another way, the
   players selection controls the parameters which are used in
   generating the game outcome.
30
   The activated feature may be an additional feature, or a
   modification of an existing feature.   As such, depending on
   the implementation the points portion of the wager may
   provide the player with a feature which affects what awards
35 of credits are possible during play of a game or which
   modifies awards of credits being made during play of a game.
   Examples of features which affect what awards of credits are
   possible include additional bonus features which can be
   triggered in accordance with particular symbol combinations
40 or additional winning combinations.   Examples of modifiers
   are an increment to a pay table or a multiplier that will

   apply to awards which are made during play of a game.   Other
   examples of features which may be added are additional free
   spins to a feature game.
 5 Accordingly, once the player has made the selection of a
   feature using the points portion of the play instruction,
   the relevant amounts in credits and points are deducted
   respectively from the credit 643A and points 643C portions
   of the meter data and conduct of the game begins.
10 Accordingly, in one sense, the use of points can be viewed
   as an additional wager in points which complements the wager
   in credits.
   If the game is a spinning reel game, one example of
15 selecting symbols of the reels for the outcome generator 622
   to select symbols for display from a plurality of symbol
   sets corresponding to respective ones of the plurality of
   spinning reels. The symbol sets specify a sequence of
   symbols for each reel such that the outcome generator 622
20 can select all of the symbols by selecting a stopping
   position in the sequence. In one example, three symbols of
   each of five reels may be displayed such that symbols are
   displayed at fifteen display positions on display 54. It is
   known to use a probability table stored in memory 64 to vary
25 the odds of a particular stop position being selected. Other
   techniques can be used to control the odds of particular
   outcomes occurring to thereby control the return to player
   of the game.
30 The outcome evaluator 623 evaluates the symbols which have
   been selected and determines whether any wins apply.  Such
   wins are added to win meter 643B and then credited to credit
   meter 643A.  The credits are also displayed together with
   the game outcome on the display by the display controller
35 625. In an embodiment, the quantum of the award in credits
   depends on the amount wagered in credits.
   Depending on the embodiment, if there is a feature game such
   as a free game series or re-spins or a second screen feature
40 or the like, the outcome generator 623 may generate further
   outcomes as part of the overall game outcome of the game in

   accordance with the current game play features 642.   These
   features are also evaluated by the outcome evaluator 623 and
   the win meter 643B updated as necessary.
 5 In addition to the above, the game controller 60 includes a
   points awarder 626.  The manner in which points are awarded
   may vary depending on the embodiment.  For example, every
   time the player is paid 10 credits they may also earn a
   single point.  In another embodiment the player earns points
10 as a percentage of turnover.  For example, 10 points for
   every $10 bet.  In other embodiments the player earns points
   as a percentage of games played, earns points when certain
   symbols appear on the wheels etc.
15 Depending on the embodiment, the points can have an infinite
   life until they are spent, can expire when the player cashes
   out, can expire at a certain time, can expire if an end
   condition occurs, can have their life extended based on a
   condition, can be transferred between machines or players
20 depending on the embodiment or may be required to be used
   when they reach a certain level.  Points can have different
   values.  For example, blue points, red points, etc with
   different values.
25 Depending on the embodiment, points may be used solely at
   the discretion of a player or must be used when they reach a
   certain level.  There may also be precursor conditions such
   as that a particular game outcome has previously occurred or
   that it is a certain time or, where the wager relates to a
30 specific game such as a community game, the specific game is
   active.  In one embodiment of a community game points, can
   be part of a wager in a community game if the player enters
   the community game such that when the community game occurs
   the winner of the community game wins all the points.
35
   The method of an embodiment of Figure 6 is summarised in
   Figure 7 and involves receiving a game play instruction 710,
   determining whether the game play instruction includes a
   points portion 720 and if it does configuring how the game
40 is to played based on the points portion 730.  The method
   then involves generating a game outcome 740 and evaluating

   that game outcome 750. In this respect, it will be
   appreciated that the overall game outcome may be composed of
   a plurality of sub-outcomes.
 5 Figure 9 shows an alternative embodiment. In this
   embodiment, points can be used during play of the game.     For
   example, in this example, points can be used during play of
   the game subject to conditions. Accordingly, there are point
   usage rules 945 stored in memory 64 which enable point usage
10 controller 924B to determine when the player can use points.
   This embodiment is suited to games where there is more than
   one action in the game for example, games which include a
   feature game or a series of game rounds such as plural
   spins.   In such games, the player is offered the opportunity
15 at certain stages during the game to add a feature to the
   game in the manner described above which will then affect
   ongoing conduct of the game after the points have been
   applied.   For example, when a feature game is triggered
   which involves five free spins, the player may be given the
20 opportunity to purchase five additional spins using their
   points. Accordingly, in such embodiments at least part of
   the game outcome depends on the use of the points and the
   manner in which the game outcome is generated by the outcome
   generator may change after the points are used.   Similarly
25 if a community game is triggered, the player may be given an
   option to place a wager in points.
   While it is intended that the points are to be used by the
   player during play of the game, it will be appreciated that
30 in some embodiments, the player may also cash out points to
   credits or currency. This could be done at a variable
   exchange rate.
   The method of the embodiment of Figure 9 is summarised in
35 Figure 8 which shows that a wager of wagerable credits is
   received 810, conduct of a game is initiated 820 in
   accordance with an initial configuration of the game.    At
   some point during the game is determined whether points are
   to be used 830.   If points are used, the configuration of
40 the game is altered by the game play controller 624 based on
   the use of the points 840.   Gaming continues to be conducted

   based on the revised current configuration of the game 850
   and the game outcome is evaluated 860. In this respect, it
   will be appreciated that the overall game outcome may be
   composed of a plurality of sub-outcomes, some of which occur
 5 prior to the configuration of the game being changed and
   some of which occur afterwards.
   In some embodiments, an eligibility criteria may be applied
   for the player to be eligible to be awarded point and/or use
10 points, for example that the player has made a certain sized
   wager, made an ante bet, selected all win lines, played
   sufficient games, or the player is a member of a loyalty
   program.
15 Further aspects of the method will be apparent from the
   above description of the gaming system. Persons skilled in
   the art will also appreciate that the method could be
   embodied in program code. The program code could be supplied
   in a number of ways, for example on a computer readable
20 storage medium, such as a disc or a memory  (for example,
   that could replace part of memory 103) or as a data signal
   (for example, by transmitting it from a server).
   Example
25
   In one example, a standalone electronic gaming machine EGM
   (such as shown in Figure 2) is provided which has a credit
   meter storing a balance of wagerable credits and a points
   meter storing a balance of usable points. A game play
30 mechanism is provided by buttons mounted to the cabinet
   below the display which include buttons which are operable
   to wager credits and use points. The game controller of the
   EGM is arranged to award points in addition to credits, for
   example based on the play of the game, turnover, amount won,
35 etc. The game controller provides, at defined times, the EGM
   the ability to operate the game play mechanism to select
   from two or more options to vary conduct of the game by
   using points. For example, the player may be offered at the
   beginning of a feature sequence the opportunity to use 10
40 points to add an additional number of free games or 20
   points for a multiplier to apply to the free games.

   Importantly, the player has control over which feature is
   added based on the points.
   It will be understood to persons skilled in the art of the
 5 invention that many modifications may be made without
   departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, in
   particular it will be apparent that certain features of
   embodiments of the invention can be employed to form further
   embodiments.
10
   It is to be understood that, if any prior art is referred to
   herein, such reference does not constitute an admission that
   the prior art forms a part of the common general knowledge
   in the art in any country.
15
   In the claims which follow and in the preceding description
   of the invention, except where the context requires
   otherwise due to express language or necessary implication,
   the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or
20 "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify
   the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the
   presence or addition of further features in various
   embodiments of the invention.
25

   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.   A gaming system comprising:
        a credit meter storing a balance of wagerable credits;
 5      a points meter storing a balance of usable points,
   wherein the usable points are associated with the wagerable
   credits such that the usable points expire when the
   wagerable credits are cashed out;
        a game play mechanism operable by the player to input a
10 play instruction for a game comprising a credit portion and
   a points portion; and
        a game controller arranged to control conduct of the
   game in response to the play instruction based on the credit
   portion and the points portion and to determine whether to
15 make an award of credits based on an outcome of the game.
   2.   A gaming system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the game
   controller is arranged to determine how a specific instance
   of the game is to be conducted based on the points portion
20 of the game outcome.
   3.   A gaming system as claimed in claim 2, wherein the game
   controller is arranged to control the possible outcomes of
   the game based on the points portion.
25
   4.   A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3,
   wherein the game controller is arranged to determine a
   quantum of an award of credits from the credit portion.
30 5.   A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4,
   wherein the points portion provides the player with a
   feature which affects what awards of credits are possible
   during play of the game.
35 6.   A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4,
   wherein the points portion provides the player with a
   feature which modifies awards of credits made during play of
   the game.
40 7.   A gaming system as claimed in claim 5 or claim 6,
   wherein the feature is not available when the play

   instruction does not include a points portion.
   8.   A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7,
   arranged to determine whether to make an award of points
 5 independently of the outcome of the game.
   9.   A game controller for a gaming system, the game
   controller arranged to:
        control a balance of wagerable credits and a balance of
10 usable points, wherein the usable points are associated with
   the wagerable credits such that the usable points expire
   when the wagerable credits are cashed out; and
        control conduct of a game based on a received play
   instruction for the game comprising a credit portion and a
15 points portion, conduct of the game comprising:
        generating a game outcome; and
        evaluating the game outcome to determine whether to
   make an award in credits based on the game outcome.
20 10.  A game controller as claimed in claim 9, comprising a
   game play controller arranged to determine how a specific
   instance of the game is to be conducted based on the points
   portion of the game outcome.
25 11.  A game controller as claimed in claim 10,  arranged to
   control the possible outcomes of the game based on the
   points portion.
   12.  A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 9 to
30 11, arranged to determine a quantum of an award of credits
   from the credit portion.
   13.  A game controller as claimed in any one if claims 9 to
   12, wherein the game controller adds a feature to the game
35 based on the points portion of the received play instruction
   which affects what awards of credits are possible during
   play of the game.
   14.  A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 9 to
40 12, wherein the game controller adds a feature to the game
   based on the points portion of the received play instruction

   which modifies awards of credits made during play of the
   game.
   15.  A game controller as claimed in claim 13 or claim 14,
 5 wherein the feature is not available when the play
   instruction does not include a points portion.
   16.  A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 9 to
   15, further arranged to determine whether to make an award
10 of points independently of the outcome of the game.
   17.  A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 9 to
   16, comprising an outcome generator arranged to generate the
   game outcome.
15
   18.  A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 9 to
   18, comprising an outcome evaluator arranged to determine
   whether to make an award of credits based on the game
   outcome.
20
   19.  A method of gaming in a gaming system comprising:
         controlling a balance of wagerable credits and a
   balance of usable points, wherein the usable points are
   associated with the wagerable credits such that the usable
25 points expire when the wagerable credits are cashed out;  and
         controlling conduct of a game based on a received play
   instruction for the game comprising a credit portion and a
   points portion, conduct of the game comprising:
         generating a game outcome; and
30       evaluating the game outcome to determine whether to
   make an award in credits based on the game outcome.
   20.  A method as claimed in claim 19, comprising controlling
   conduct of the game by determining how a specific instance
35 of the game is to be conducted based on the points portion
   of the game outcome.
   21.  A method as claimed in claim 20, comprising controlling
   the possible outcomes of the game based on the points
40 portion.

   22.  A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 19 to
   21, comprising determining a quantum of an award of credits
   from the credit portion.
 5 23.  A method as claimed in any one of claims 19 to 22,
   comprising controlling conduct of the game by adding a
   feature to the game which affects what awards of credits are
   possible during play of the game.
10 24.  A method as claimed in any one of claims 19 to 22,
   comprising controlling conduct of the game will be played by
   adding a feature to the game which modifies awards of
   credits made during play of the game.
15 25.  A method as claimed in claim 23 or claim 24, wherein
   the feature is not available when the play instruction does
   not include a points portion.
   26.  A method as claimed in any one of claims 19 to 25,
20 comprising determining whether to make an award of points
   independently of the outcome of the game.
   27.  Computer program code which when executed implements
   the method of any one of claims 19 to 26.
25
   28.  A tangible computer readable medium comprising the
   computer program code of claim 27.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
