Abstract
A new wear resistant powder with a much finer particle size (0.07 to 0.15mm) is
developed for better price and better performance. The new powder uses a mixed
compound of Boron (B), Silicon (Si) and Carbon (C)with much less Tungsten (W).
The comparison trial run of digging blades, hard faced with both new hard facing
powder and traditional course Tungsten Carbide particle, showed the blades with the
new mixed compound powder last approximately two times longer than blades hard
faced with traditional Tungsten Carbide particles. It also decreased the difficulty
when ploughing.
The advantages of the new fine mixed compound powder for wear resistant hard
facing are:
  1. Cheaper than traditional hard facing materials made of mostly Tungsten Carbide
      particles
  2. Comparison trial run of digging blades showed the service life of the blades
      hard faced with the new material is approximately double the blades hard faced
      with traditional Tungsten Carbide particles.
  3. The smoother hard faced surface with a lower coefficient of friction allows for
      easier ploughing

      Traditional
      hardfacing
  NIC
                                              PIP.
                                           1h
New hardfacing             4.1
                                        IM
                       41'
 New hard facing with 100-150 mesh fine
wear resistant powder, smooth finish.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

Full description of this invention
Hard facing, a technique which applies high temperatures to melt wear resistant
materials onto the surface of metal parts to improve their abrasion resistance has
been successfully used in the mining and farm industry for years.
Up to today, the most widely used wear resistant material for hard facing is coarse
Tungsten Carbide particles with a size between 0.60 to 0.90mm.
However, in recent years, the price of tungsten has increased rapidly to levels that
are very difficult for people to afford. Hard faced surfaces with coarse tungsten
carbide are also very rough with a high coefficient of friction, which is inefficient for
wear resistance.
A new wear resistant powder with a much finer particle size (0.07 to 0.15mm) for
hard facing has been developed for better price and better performance. The new
powder uses a mixed compound of Boron (B), Silicon (Si) and Carbon (C) with much
less Tungsten (W). The smoother hard facing surface with a low coefficient of
friction and fine powder, also improves the wear resistance of the hard facing.
A comparison trial run of digging blades, hard faced with the new hard facing powder
and traditional course Tungsten Carbide particle was conducted. It showed that the
blades with the new mixed compound powder lasted approximately two times
longer than blades hard faced with traditional Tungsten Carbide particles.
Additionally, ploughing is easier using blades with the new hard facing powder.
The chemical content of the mixed compound powder for wear resistant hard facing
is shown below:
    C%             B%         Si%        Co%        W%       Cr%        Fe%        Ni%
0.50    2.00   1.00  8.00 1.00    8.00 0     10  0     50  0     20   0     25     Rem.
  *The size of the particle is 0.07 to 0.15mm.
  The advantages of the new fine mixed compound powder for wear resistant hard
  facing are:
  1. Cheaper than traditional hard facing materials made of mostly Tungsten Carbide
       particles
  2. Comparison trial run of digging blades showed the service life of the blades
       hard faced with the new material is approximately double the blades hard faced
       with traditional Tungsten Carbide particles.
  3. The smoother hard faced surface with a lower coefficient of friction allows for
       easier ploughing

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

Claims of this invention
Fine particle (0.07-0.15mm) wear resistant powder for hard facing
Wear resistant powder mix with less tungsten content
Wear resistant powder for shiny hard facing
Wear resistant power for smooth surface finish of hard facing

                  Editorial Note
<removed-date>
                    <removed-apn>
              There are two pages of drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
