ABSTRACT
  A dust collector for a vacuum cleaner, comprising a first cyclone provided within an outer
case to filter out dust from air introduced from an outside of the outer case; at least one
second cyclone accommodated inside of the first cyclone to form a first space between the
first cyclone and the at least one second cyclone, wherein the at least one second cyclone
separates fine dust from the air introduced to the inside of the first cyclone; and at least one
guide vane spirally extended along an inner circumference of the at least one second
cyclone to induce rotational flow of the air introduced to an inside of the at least one second
cyclone through an inlet of the second cyclone via the first space, wherein the at least one
guide vane is integrally provided on the at least one second cyclone.

[Fig. 2]
             100 100b    140
      110a
           I V~     ILIC           f
                             -112    110
         120
                                101
        103
         150
                     D2

                                                 I
                     DUST COLLECTOR FOR VACUUM CLEANER
[1]   The present application is related to Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>,
    filed 19 January 2016, the specification of which, as originally filed, is hereby
    incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.
    Technical Field
[2]   The present disclosure relates to a dust collector for a vacuum cleaner, including a dust
    collector configured to collect dust and fine dust through a multi-cyclone.
    Background
[3]   A vacuum cleaner is an apparatus configured to introduce air using suction power
    formed by a suction motor and separate dust or dirt from the air to discharge clean air.
    The types of vacuum cleaners may be divided into i) a canister type, ii) an upright type,
    iii) a hand type, iv) a cylindrical floor type, and the like.
[4]   The canister type vacuum cleaner is a vacuum cleaner mostly used at home, which is a
    vacuum cleaner with a method of communicating a suction nozzle with a body through
    a connecting member. The canister type may include a cleaner body, a hose, a pipe, a
    brush, and the like, and be suitable to clean a solid floor due to performing cleaning
    only with suction power.
[5]   The upright type vacuum cleaner may include a suction nozzle and a body that are
    integrally shaped. The upright type vacuum cleaner may include a rotary brush, and thus
    clean up dust or the like within a carpet, contrary to the canister type vacuum cleaner.
    However, vacuum cleaners in the related art have drawbacks as follows.
[6]   For vacuum cleaners having a multi-cyclone structure, each cyclone is vertically
    oriented, which may cause a problem of increasing the height of a dust collector.
    Further, the dust collector is designed to have a slim profile to solve such a height
    increase issue, thereby causing a disadvantage of reducing the volume of a space for
    collecting actual dust.
[7]   In order to solve the foregoing problem, a structure in which a second cyclone is
    arranged within a first cyclone has been proposed, but it is difficult to efficiently locate
    the second cyclone within the first cyclone due to interference between the guide
    passages of the second cyclone. Even when the second cyclone is arranged within the
    first cyclone, the number of second cyclones may be decreased to reduce suction power,
    thereby resulting in the deterioration of cleaning performance.
[8]   In the case of a typical multi-cyclone in the related art, as air introduced into the
    collector passes through the first cyclone, the flow speed of air decreases, thereby
    causing a problem in which air that has passed through the first cyclone is unable to be

                                                  2
     efficiently introduced into the second cyclone. Even though air that has passed through
     the first cyclone is introduced into the second cyclone, air introduced into the second
     cyclone does not have a strong rotational force, thereby causing a problem in the
     performance of separating fine dust from the introduced air.
[9]    In particular, a tangential inhalation type cyclone structure in the related art may be
     provided with a guide passage for tangentially introducing air and fine dust to an inside
     of the cyclone. The foregoing tangential inhalation type cyclone structure has low
     passage usability, and the size of the cyclone decreases due to the installation of the
     guide passage, thereby causing a problem of increasing the entire passage loss.
[10]   Furthermore, in case of the first and the second cyclone, air containing dust may move
     within a small space, thus resulting in a complicated structure as well as causing a
     problem of requiring a complicated manufacturing process.          On the other hand, for
     cleaners in the related art, there exists a limit in providing the user's convenience during
     the dust discharge process. There are vacuum cleaners in which dust is blown away
     during the process of discharging the dust, as well as vacuum cleaners requiring a very
     complicated dust discharge process.
[11]   It is desired to address or ameliorate one or more disadvantages or limitations
     associated with the prior art, or to at least provide a useful alternative.
     Summary
[12]   In accordance with the present invention there is provided a dust collector for a
     vacuum cleaner, comprising:
     a first cyclone provided within an outer case to filter out dust from air introduced from
     an outside of the outer case;
     at least one second cyclone accommodated inside of the first cyclone to form a first
     space between the first cyclone and the at least one second cyclone, wherein the at least
     one second cyclone separates fine dust from the air introduced to the inside of the first
     cyclone; and
     at least one guide vane spirally extended along an inner circumference of the at least
     one second cyclone to induce rotational flow of the air introduced to an inside of the at
     least one second cyclone through an inlet of the second cyclone via the first space,
     wherein the at least one guide vane is integrally provided on the at least one second
     cyclone.
     Brief Description of Drawings
[13]   Some embodiments are hereinafter described, by way of non-limiting example only,
     with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
[14]   FIG. 1 is a perspective view illustrating an example of a vacuum cleaner according to
     an embodiment;

                                                 3
[15]   FIG. 2 is a view illustrating a dust collector according to an embodiment illustrated in
     FIG. 1;
[16]   FIG. 3 is a view in which the internal major configurations of a dust collector
     illustrated in FIG. 2 are shown in a separate manner;
[17]   FIG. 4 is a longitudinal cross-sectional view in which the dust collector of FIG. 2 is
     cut and seen along line IV-IV;
[18]   FIG. 5 is a longitudinal cross-sectional view in which the dust collector of FIG. 4 is
     cut and seen along line V-V;
[19]   FIG. 6 is a view in which a second cyclone illustrated in FIG. 3 is shown in an
     enlarged manner; and
[20]   FIG. 7 is a longitudinal cross-sectional view illustrating an example of a dust collector
     according to another embodiment.
     Detailed Description
[21]   An aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a dust collector for a vacuum cleaner
     with a new structure in which a multi-cyclone structure is improved to lower down the
     height without reducing the cleaning performance.
[22]   Furthermore, another aspect of the present disclosure is to propose a dust collector for
     efficiently introducing air that has passed through the first cyclone to the second
     cyclone as well as further enhancing the rotational flow of air introduced into the second
     cyclone
[23]   Moreover, still another aspect of the present disclosure is to present a cyclone structure
     capable of facilitating the manufacture as well as reducing the manufacturing cost and
     time.
[24]   On the other hand, yet still another aspect of the present disclosure is to propose a dust
     collector capable of collecting dust and fine dust in a separate manner as well as easily
     discharging them at the same time.
[25]   In order to solve the foregoing tasks of the present disclosure, a dust collector for a
     vacuum cleaner according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may include a
     first cyclone disposed within an outer case to filter out dust from air introduced from an
     outside thereof and introduce the air from which dust has been filtered out to an inside
     thereof, a second cyclone accommodated in the inside of the first cyclone to form a first
     space between the first cyclone and the second cyclone to separate fine dust from the air
     introduced to the inside of the first cyclone, and a guide vane spirally extended along an
     inner circumference of the second cyclone to induce rotational flow to the air introduced
     to an inside of the second cyclone through an inlet of the second cyclone via the first
     space, wherein the guide vane is integrally provided on the second cyclone.
[26]   According to an example associated with the present disclosure, the second cyclone

                                                4
     may include a cylindrically shaped casing forming an outer appearance, and a vortex
     finder provided at the center of the second cyclone to discharge air from which fine dust
     has been separated, wherein the guide vane is integrally formed with the casing and
     vortex finder on the inlet limited between an inner circumference of the casing and an
     outer circumference of the vortex finder.
[27]   A plurality of guide vanes may be provided and disposed to be spaced from each other
     at predetermined intervals along an outer circumference of the vortex finder.
[28]   An entrance extended toward an inner circumference of the outer case may be formed
     at an upper portion of the outer case to rotate air introduced from an outside thereof in
     one direction, and the guide vane may be formed in an inclined manner downward
     along the one direction to rotate air introduced into the inlet through the first space
     downward in the one direction to be introduced to an inside of the second cyclone.
[29]   The casing may be installed to pass through a bottom surface of the first cyclone, and
     an inner case provided with a fine dust storage unit configured to collect fine dust may
     be coupled to a lower portion of the first cyclone, and an outlet communicating an
     inside of the second cyclone with the fine dust storage unit to discharge fine dust to the
     fine dust storage unit may be provided on the second cyclone.
[30]   The outlet may include a first outlet cut and formed on an outer circumference of a
     lower side of the casing to discharge fine dust in an outer circumferential direction of
     the casing, and a second outlet formed at the center of a lower side of the casing to
     discharge fine dust in a downward direction of the casing, wherein the inner case
     accommodates the first and the second outlet to collect fine dust discharged from the
     first and the second outlet into the fine dust storage unit.
[31]   A cover forming a bottom surface of the casing may be mounted at a lower portion of
     the casing, and a discharge pipe formed with the second outlet may be provided at the
     center of the cover.
[32]   A skirt may be formed in a protruding manner along an outer circumferential surface
     at a lower portion of the first cyclone, and the inner case may be coupled to the skirt.
[33]   The inner case may include a first portion coupled to the skirt and formed in a tapering
     manner downward, and a second portion extended downward from the first portion and
     arranged in a direction parallel to the outer case.
[34]   According to another example associated with the present disclosure, the first cyclone
     may include a housing formed to accommodate the second cyclone therein, and
     provided with an opening portion communicating with an inside on an outer
     circumference thereof, and a mesh filter installed to cover the opening portion to filter
     out and separate the dust from the air.
[35]   An inner case configured to collect fine dust discharged from the second cyclone may

                                                5
     be installed at a lower portion of the housing, and dust filtered out through the mesh
     filter may be collected into a dust storage unit between an inner circumference of the
     outer case and an outer circumference of the inner case.
[36]   The dust collector for a vacuum cleaner may further include a lower cover
     hinge-coupled to the outer case to form a bottom surface of the outer case and the inner
     case during the closing, and discharge dust collected in the dust storage unit and fine
     dust collected in the fine dust storage unit at the same time during the opening.
[37]   According to the present disclosure having the foregoing configuration, the second
     cyclone may be accommodated into the first cyclone to reduce the height of the
     collector.
[38]   In such an arrangement, a guide vane is installed on an inlet of the second cyclone.
     The guide vane is configured to induce rotational flow to air introduced to an inside of
     the second cyclone through the first and the second space. Accordingly, an additional
     guide passage extended from one side of the second cyclone is not required, thereby
     reducing passage loss during the introduction of air from the second cyclone.
[39]   Due to the foregoing structure, a larger number of second cyclones may be arranged
     within the first cyclone. Accordingly, it may be possible to prevent the degradation of
     cleaning performance due to the arrangement in the second cyclone.
[40]   Moreover, a guide vane installed at an inlet of the second cyclone may strengthen
     rotational flow to air introduced to an inside of the second cyclone to enhance the
     separation performance of fine dust within the second cyclone. In this manner, the
     degradation of collection performance in a multi-cyclone may be prevented by the guide
     vane.
[41]   On the other hand, the guide vane may be integrally formed with the casing and vortex
     finder. A process of coupling one side of the guide vane to the casing may be omitted,
     thereby reducing the manufacturing cost and time.
[42]   According to the present disclosure, a dust storage unit and a fine dust storage unit
     may be configured to be both open during the separation of a lower cover, thereby
     discharging dust collected in the dust storage unit and fine dust collected in the fine dust
     storage unit at the same time during the opening.
[43]   FIG. 1 is a perspective view illustrating an example of a vacuum cleaner 10 according
     to an embodiment.      The vacuum cleaner 10 may include a power unit or system, a
     cleaner body 11, a suction unit or component 12, and a dust collector 100.      The power
     unit may be configured to receive power from an outside to supply power to an inside of
     the cleaner body 11. The power unit may be a battery incorporated in the body or a
     power cable connected to the body.
[44]   The cleaner body 11 may include a fan unit or fan configured to receive power from

                                                 6
     the power unit to generate suction power. The fan unit may include a suction motor and
     a suction fan, and the suction fan may be connected to the suction motor and rotate
     according to the driving of the suction motor to generate suction flow and inhale outside
     air.
[45]   The suction unit 12 provided with a suction nozzle may be formed at a lower end
     portion of the cleaner body 11. Air and foreign substances may be inhaled through the
     suction nozzle by suction power generated by the suction fan, and introduced into the
     dust collector 100.     The dust collector 100 may be configured to separate and collect
     foreign substances from the inhaled air, and discharge air from which dust is separated.
     The dust collector 100 may be detachably connected to the cleaner body 11.
[46]   Hereinafter, the dust collector 100 according to an embodiment will be described in
     detail.   The entire configuration of the dust collector 100 and the flow of air and
     foreign substances within the dust collector 100 will be described in FIGS. 2 through 5.
     FIG. 2 is a view illustrating the dust collector 100 according to an embodiment
     illustrated in FIG. 1, and FIG. 3 is a view in which the internal major configurations of
     the dust collector 100 illustrated in FIG. 2 are shown in a separate manner, and FIG. 4 is
     a longitudinal cross-sectional view in which the dust collector 100 of FIG. 2 is cut and
     seen along line IV-IV. FIG. 5 is a longitudinal cross-sectional view in which the dust
     collector 100 of FIG. 4 is cut and seen along line V-V.
[47]   A specific structure associated with the characteristics of embodiments will be
     described with reference to FIG. 6.      For reference, the present drawings illustrate the
     dust collector 100 applied to an upright type vacuum cleaner 10, but the dust collector
     100 may not be necessarily limited to the upright type vacuum cleaner 10. The dust
     collector 100 according to embodiments may also be applicable to a canister type
     vacuum cleaner 10.
[48]   Referring to the above drawings, air and foreign substances generated from the fan
     unit of the vacuum cleaner 10 may be introduced to an entrance 100a of the dust
     collector 100 through the suction unit 12 by suction power generated by the fan unit of
     the vacuum cleaner 10. The air introduced to the entrance 100a may be sequentially
     filtered at the first cyclone 110 and second cyclone 120 while flowing along a passage,
     and discharged through an exit 100b. Dust and fine dust separated from the air may be
     collected into a dust storage unit or compartment (D1) and a fine dust storage unit or
     compartment (D2) of the dust collector 100 which will be described later.
[49]   A cyclone may refer to an apparatus for providing rotational flow to a medium in
     which particles are floating to separate particles from the medium by a centrifugal force.
     The cyclone may separate foreign substances such as dust, fine dust, and the like from
     air introduced to an inside of the cleaner body 11 by suction power. According to the
     present specification, relatively large substances may be referred to as "dust," and

                                                 7
     relatively small substances may be referred to as "fine dust," and dust smaller than "fine
     dust" may be referred to as "ultra-fine dust."
[50]   The dust collector 100 may include an outer case 101, the first cyclone 110, the second
     cyclone 120 and a guide vane 123.       The outer case 101 may form a lateral appearance
     of the dust collector 100. The outer case 101 may be formed in a cylindrical shape as
     illustrated in the drawing, but may not necessarily be limited to this. For example, the
     outer case 101 may also be formed in a polygonal columnar shape.
[51]   The entrance 100a of the dust collector 100 may be formed on the outer case 101. The
     entrance 100a may be formed to be extended toward an inner circumference of the outer
     case 101 to allow air and foreign substances to be tangentially introduced into the outer
     case 101 and revolved along the inner circumference of the outer case 101. As
     illustrated in the drawing, the entrance 100a may be formed at an upper portion of the
     outer case 101.
[52]   Air and foreign substances may rotate in a first direction along an inner circumference
     of the outer case 101, and referring to FIG. 5, an example is illustrated in which the
     flow of air containing foreign substances may rotate in a clockwise direction. The first
     direction may coincide with a rotational flow direction when air and fine dust that have
     passed through the first cyclone 110 are introduced to an inside of the second cyclone
     120, and the structure of the guide vane 123.
[53]   The first cyclone 110 may be installed within the outer case 101. The first cyclone 110
     may be configured to filter out dust from air introduced along with foreign substances,
     and collect the filtered dust in the dust storage unit (D1). As illustrated in the drawing,
     the first cyclone 110 may be arranged at an upper portion within the outer case 101.
[54]   The first cyclone 110 may include a housing 111 and a mesh filter 112.         The housing
     111 forms an outer appearance of the first cyclone 110, and may be formed in a
     cylindrical shape similar to the outer case 101. The housing 111 may be provided at an
     upper portion of the outer case 101, wherein the housing 111 may be integrally formed
     with the outer case 101 or configured to be coupled to the outer case 101.
[55]   The housing 111 may be formed in a shape in which an inside of the housing is hollow
     to accommodate the second cyclone 120. An opening portion or an opening 11 lb
     communicating with an inside of the housing 111 may be formed on an outer
     circumference thereof. The opening portion 11 lb may be formed at a plurality of
     positions along the outer circumference of the housing 111 as illustrated in the drawing.
[56]   The casing 121 of the second cyclone 120 may be installed to pass through the bottom
     surface 11 Id of the first cyclone 110, and to this end a through hole 11Id' may be
     formed on the bottom surface 11Id of the first cyclone 110. FIG. 3 illustrates an
     example in which the bottom surface 11Id provided with a through hole 11Id' may be

                                                8
     integrally formed with the housing 111.      The housing 111 may be extended with the
     same cross-sectional area along a downward direction as illustrated in the drawing, but
     may have a structure of gradually narrowing downward.
[57]   The mesh filter 112 may be installed on the housing 11I to cover the opening portion
     11Ib, and may have a mesh or porous shape to allow air to pass therethrough. The mesh
     filter 112 may be formed to separate dust from air introduced into the housing 111.
     The criteria of separating dust from fine dust may be determined by the mesh filter 112.
     Foreign substances having a size of being allowed to pass through the mesh filter 112
     may be divided into fine dust, and foreign substances having a size of not being allowed
     to pass through the mesh filter 112 may be divided into dust.
[58]   Considering the process of separating dust by the first cyclone 110 in detail, air and
     foreign substances may be introduced into an annular space between the outer case 101
     and first cyclone 110 through the entrance 100a of the dust collector 100 to rotationally
     move in the annular space.     During this process, relatively heavy dust may gradually
     flow down while rotationally moving in a spiral shape in a space between the outer case
     101 and first cyclone 110 by a centrifugal force. A skirt 11Ic may be formed in a
     protruding manner at a lower portion or end of the housing 111 along an outer
     circumference of the housing to prevent the scattering of dust collected in the dust
     storage unit (D1). Referring to FIG. 3, an example is illustrated in which the skirt 11Ic
     may be extended in an inclined manner toward the lower side.
[59]   Air may be introduced into the housing 111 through the mesh filter 112 by suction
     power. Fine dust may be also introduced into the housing 111 along with the air.
     Referring to FIG. 4, it may be possible to check the internal structure of the dust
     collector 100 and the flow of air and foreign substances within the dust collector 100.
[60]   The second cyclone 120 may be arranged within the first cyclone 110, wherein the
     second cyclone 120 may be configured to separate air and fine dust introduced into the
     second cyclone 120 through an inlet 120a.      Contrary to a vertical arrangement in the
     related art in which the second cyclone is arranged on top of the first cyclone, the
     second cyclone 120 of this embodiment may be accommodated inside the first cyclone
     110, thereby reducing the height of the dust collector 100. The second cyclone 120 may
     be formed not to protrude from an upper portion of the first cyclone 110.
[61]   The second cyclone in the related art has a guide passage extended from one side
     thereof to allow air and fine dust to be tangentially introduced to an inside of the second
     cyclone to rotate along an inner circumference of the second cyclone, but the second
     cyclone 120 according to this embodiment may not have such a guide passage.
     Accordingly, the second cyclone 120 may have a circular shape when viewed from
     above.

                                                9
[62]   The second cyclone 120 may be provided with a casing 121 forming an outer
     appearance of the second cyclone 120, and the casing 121 may be formed in a
     cylindrical shape as a whole. The structure may be beneficial to secure a space of
     forming an upper and a lower mold of the casing 121 during the injection molding of
     the second cyclone 120. Accordingly, the guide vane 123 may be integrally formed into
     the second cyclone 120. In particular, the guide vane 123 may be integrally formed with
     the casing 121 and a vortex finder or chimney 122.
[63]   A plurality of second cyclones 120 may be provided within the first cyclone 110, and
     FIGS. 2 through 4 illustrate such an example in which four second cyclones 120 may be
     provided within the first cyclone 110. In a case where a plurality of second cyclones 120
     may be provided therein, the second cyclones 120 may be formed to be in contact with
     each other or arranged to be spaced from each other, and an example in which the
     second cyclones 120 are arranged to be spaced from each other at predetermined
     intervals is illustrated in the drawing. Meanwhile, a plurality of second cyclones 120
     may be provided in parallel to each other to efficiently discharge fine dust and air.
[64]   The second cyclone 120 may be configured to collect and deposit relatively heavy fine
     dust into the fine dust storage unit (D2) through the outlet 120b in a downward direction
     while discharging air from which fine dust is separated in an upward direction. The
     outlet 120b may form a structure of discharging fine dust in a circumferential direction
     and a downward direction of the casing 121, and may be beneficial in the performance
     of separating fine dust.
[65]   A cover 128 forming a bottom surface of the casing 121 may be mounted at a lower
     portion of the casing 121. In order to integrally form the guide vane 123, vortex finder
     122 and casing 121, a space for forming a mold (for an example, cavity or core) coupled
     to a lower portion of the casing 121 may be needed, and thus the cover 128 may be
     coupled to a lower portion of the casing 121 with an additional element. A discharge
     pipe 129 extended to an inside of the casing 121 may be provided at the center of the
     cover 128, and a second discharge port 120b2 which will be described later may be
     formed at a lower portion of the discharge pipe 129.
[66]   The inlet 120a that introduces air and fine dust may be formed at an upper portion
     within the casing 121, and the vortex finder 122 that discharges air from which fine dust
     is filtered to an outside of the casing may be installed at an upper center within the
     casing 121. The guide vane 123 may be provided in the inlet 120a between an inner
     circumference of the casing 121 and an outer circumference of the vortex finder 122,
     and a specific structure associated with the guide vane 123 will be described later.
[67]   The second cyclone 120 may be installed to pass through the bottom surface 11Id of
     the first cyclone 110, and a through hole 11Id' may be formed on the bottom surface
     11Id, and the casing 121 may be coupled to the through hole 11 d'.       The outlet 120b

                                                10
     of the second cyclone 120 that discharges fine dust may be provided at a lower end
     portion of the casing 121. An inner case 150 that accommodates the outlet 120b may be
     coupled to a lower portion of the first cyclone 110 to collect and deposit fine dust
     discharged from the outlet 120b into the fine dust storage unit (D2) within the inner case
     150.
[68]   The outlet 120b may be configured to communicate an inner space of the second
     cyclone 120 with the fine dust storage unit (D2). The outlet 120b may include a first
     outlet 120b1 to discharge fine dust to an outer circumferential portion of the casing 121
     and a second outlet 120b2 for discharging fine dust in a downward direction of the
     casing 121.
[69]   The first outlet 120b 1 may be cut and formed on a lower outer circumference of the
     casing 121 to discharge fine dust rotationally flowing within the casing 121 to the inner
     case 150. The first outlet 120b1 may be formed at a lower side of the bottom surface
     11Id of the first cyclone 110 to discharge fine dust to the fine dust storage unit (D2).
     The second outlet 120b2 may be formed at a lower portion of the discharge pipe 129 in
     the cover 128 forming a lower surface of the casing 121.
[70]   Air containing fine dust introduced to an inside of the second cyclone 120 through the
     inlet 120a may induce rotational flow due to the guide vane 123. Mainly, the first outlet
     120b1 may be configured to discharge rotationally flowing fine dust, and the second
     outlet 120b2 may be configured to discharge fine dust dropping by its own weight.
[71]   A first portion 151 of inner case 150 may be coupled to the skirt I I1c to allow the
     inner case 150 to accommodate the first and the second outlets 120b 1, 120b2 and collect
     fine dust. Furthermore, fine dust coming out of the first and the second outlets 120b 1,
     120b2 and dust collected on an inner surface of the first portion 151 may eventually be
     collected into an inner space of a second portion 152 of the fine dust storage unit (D2).
     Part of the fine dust may also remain on an inner circumference of the first portion 151.
[72]   Referring to FIGS. 4 and 5 together, a space between an inner circumference of the
     first cyclone 110 and an outer circumference of the second cyclone 120 is referred to as
     a first space (S 1). The first space (S1) may form a passage capable of introducing air
     and fine dust introduced to an inside of the first cyclone 110 to an upper portion of the
     second cyclone 120.      The cover member 130 may be provided at an upper portion of
     the second cyclone 120, and the cover member 130 may be provided to cover the inlet
     120a of the second cyclone 120 at predetermined intervals to form a second space (S2)
     communicating the first space (S1) with the inlet 120a.     According to the
     communication relationship, air introduced into the first cyclone 110 may be introduced
     into the inlet 120a at an upper portion of the second cyclone 120 through the first space
     (S1) and second space (S2).

                                                11
[73]   As described above, the entrance 100a of the outer case 101 may be extended toward
     an inner circumference of the outer case 101 to rotate air in the first direction.  FIG. 5
     illustrates an example in which air rotates in a clockwise direction.    Air containing fine
     dust may move upward in the first space (Si) and may pass through the second space
     (S2) to be introduced to the inlet 120a of the second cyclone, and the guide vane 123
     may be formed with a structure configured to slope in the same direction as the first
     direction and angle downward to enhance the rotational flow performance of the
     introduced air.
[74]   The vortex finder 122 configured to discharge air from which fine dust has been
     separated may be provided at the center of an upper portion of the second cyclone 120.
     Due to the upper structure, the inlet 120a may be defined as an annular space between
     an inner circumference of the second cyclone 120 and an outer circumference of the
     vortex finder 122.    The guide vane 123 which may extend in a spiral shape along an
     inner circumference may be provided at or in the inlet 120a of the second cyclone 120.
     According to the embodiment, the guide vane 123 may be integrally formed with the
     vortex finder 122 and casing 121. As described above, the casing 121 may have a
     cylindrical shape, and a lower surface of the casing 121 may be configured with a cover
     128, which may be an additional member.
[75]   As the guide vane 123 may be integrally formed with the vortex finder 122 and casing
     121 an additional process of coupling the guide vane 123 to an inner circumference of
     the casing 121 may not be required, which is a necessary process in a case where the
     guide vane 123 is configured as an additional member to the casing 121.        This may
     reduce the manufacturing cost and manufacturing time of the vacuum cleaner.
[76]   Rotational flow may be generated in air introduced to an inside of the second cyclone
     120 through the inlet 120a by the guide vane 123.       Considering the flow of air and fine
     dust introduced into the inlet 120a in detail, the fine dust may flow down while
     rotationally moving in a spiral shape along an inner circumference of the second
     cyclone 120, and may eventually be discharged through the outlet 120b and collected in
     the fine dust storage unit (D2).
[77]   Relatively light air compared to fine dust may be discharged to the vortex finder 122
     at an upper portion of the second cyclone 120 by suction power. Meanwhile, a plurality
     of ribs that extend in a radial direction may be provided on an inner circumference of
     the vortex finder 122 to mitigate the rotational flow of the discharged air. The plurality
     of ribs may be installed to be spaced from each other at predetermined intervals along
     the inner circumference of the vortex finder 122.
[78]   According to a structure in which the guide vane 123 is provided between the vortex

                                                  12
     finder 122 and the casing 121 as described above, contrary to the related art in which
     high-speed rotational flow is generated while being biased to one side by the guide
     passage, relatively uniform rotational flow may be generated over substantially an entire
     region. Accordingly, local high-speed flow may not be generated compared to the
     structure of the second cyclone in the related art, thereby reducing the flow loss due to
     this.
[79]   A plurality of guide vanes 123 may be arranged to be spaced from each other at
     predetermined intervals along an outer circumference of the vortex finder 122. Each of
     the guide vanes 123 may be configured to be started from the same first height 123b1
     and extended to the same second height 123b2 on an outer circumference of the vortex
     finder 122. FIG. 6 illustrates an example in which the first position 123b1 is located
     higher than the second position 123b2.        The guide vane 123 may be formed in an
     inclined manner downward along the first direction to further enhance the rotational
     flow of air inside the second cyclone 120.       The guide vane 123 may have a structure
     that rotates air and fine dust in the first direction to move them downward, and such a
     structure may minimize the loss of rotational flow in the guide vane 123.
[80]   Referring to FIG. 6, an example is illustrated in which the guide vane 123 may be
     formed in an inclined manner downward along a clockwise direction.          Four guide
     vanes 123 may be arranged at 90' intervals along an outer circumference of the vortex
     finder 122. A larger number of the guide vanes 123 may be provided compared to the
     illustrated example, and at least part of any one guide vane 123 may be positioned to
     overlap with another guide vane 123 in a vertical direction of the vortex finder 122.
[81]   A lower diameter of the vortex finder 122 may be formed to be less than an upper
     diameter thereof. According to the foregoing shape, an area of the inlet 120a may be
     decreased from an upper portion to a lower portion to increase a speed of air flowing
     into the second cyclone 120, and fine dust introduced into the second cyclone 120 may
     be limited from being discharged through the vortex finder 122 along with air. Further,
     the vortex finder 122 may have a taper portion having a diameter that gradually
     decreases toward a lower end of the vortex finder 122.
[82]   An upper cover 140 may be provided on the cover member 130 to form a discharge
     passage to discharge air discharged through the communication hole 130a to an outside
     of the dust collector 100. The exit 100b of the dust collector 100 may be formed on the
     upper cover 140 to discharge air. The upper cover 140 may form an upper appearance of
     the dust collector 100. Air discharged through the exit 100b of the dust collector 100
     may be discharged through an exhaust port of the cleaner body 11 to an outside of the
     cleaner body 11.
[83]   A porous pre-filter 145 configured to filter out ultra-fine dust from air may be installed
     on a passage extended from the exit 100b of the dust collector 100 to the exhaust port of

                                                 13
     the cleaner body 11.    The casing 121 of the second cyclone 120 may be installed to
     pass through a bottom surface 11Id of the first cyclone 110. A through hole 11 d' for
     the insertion of the second cyclone 120 may be formed on the bottom surface 11 Id of
     the first cyclone 110.
[84]   As described above, the inner case 150 accommodating the outlet 120b may be
     installed at a lower portion of the first cyclone 110 to form the fine dust storage unit
     (D2) for collecting fine dust discharged through the outlet 120b. A lower cover 160
     which will be described later forms a bottom surface of the fine dust storage unit (D2).
     Dust filtered out through the first cyclone 110 is collected into the dust storage unit (D1)
     between an inner circumference of the outer case 101 and an outer circumference of the
     inner case 150. The bottom surface of the dust storage unit (D1) may be formed by the
     lower cover 160.
[85]   Referring to FIG. 3, both the dust storage unit (D1) and fine dust storage unit (D2)
     may be formed to be open toward a lower portion of the outer case 101. The lower
     cover 160 may be coupled to the outer case 101 to cover an opening portion of the dust
     storage unit (D1) and fine dust storage unit (D2) so as to form a bottom surface of the
     dust storage unit (D1) and fine dust storage unit (D2).     As described above, the lower
     cover 160 may be coupled to the outer case 101 to open or close a lower portion thereof.
     According to the present embodiment, the lower cover 160 may be coupled to the outer
     case 101 through a hinge 161 to open or close a lower portion of the outer case 101
     according to the rotation thereof. However, embodiments may not necessarily be limited
     to this, and the lower cover 160 may also be coupled to the outer case 101 in a
     completely detachable manner.
[86]   The lower cover 160 may be coupled to the outer case 101 to form a bottom surface of
     the dust storage unit (D1) and fine dust storage unit (D2). The lower cover 160 may be
     rotated by the hinge 161 to discharge dust and fine dust at the same time so as to open
     the dust storage unit (D1) and fine dust storage unit (D2) at the same time. When the
     lower cover 160 is rotated by the hinge 161 to open the dust storage unit (DI)and fine
     dust storage unit (D2) at the same time, it may be possible to discharge dust and fine
     dust at the same time.
[87]   A plurality of ribs 103 for dust collection may be formed in a protruding manner on an
     inner circumference of the outer case 101 to collect the dust introduced into the dust
     storage unit (D1), and the ribs 103 for dust collection may be protruded toward the
     center of the outer case 101, for an example. A plurality of ribs 103 may be provided for
     dust collection, and in this case, they may be installed to be spaced from each other at
     predetermined intervals along an inner circumference of the outer case 101.       The ribs
     103 for dust collection may prevent dust collected in the dust storage unit (DI) from
     being rotated by the rotational flow of air introduced from an outside thereof, and

                                                  14
     prevent dust from being scattered or discharged to an unintentional place during the
     process of discharging dust, thereby facilitating the discharge of dust.
[88]   FIG. 7 is a longitudinal cross-sectional view illustrating an example of a dust collector
     200 according to another embodiment. Referring to FIG. 7, the dust collector 200
     according to another embodiment will be described.
[89]   The dust collector 200 according to another embodiment has a difference in providing
     an upward passage vane 223a between the first cyclone 210 and the second cyclone 220.
     The upward passage vane 223a spirally extends into a first space (SI) between the first
     cyclone 210 and the second cyclone 220 to induce rotational flow so as to introduce air
     to the inlet 220a of the second cyclone 220. A plurality of upward passage vanes 223a
     may be provided thereon, and arranged to be spaced from each other at predetermined
     intervals on an outer circumference of the casing 221.
[90]   When a plurality of second cyclones 220 are provided therein, the upward passage
     vane 223a may be provided at or in a first space (Si) between the first cyclone 210 and
     a second cyclone 220 and a space between two second cyclones 220. Meanwhile, when
     one second cyclone 220 is provided therein, the upward passage vane 223a is provided
     at or in the first space (S1). FIG. 7 illustrates an example in which a plurality of second
     cyclones 220 are provided therein and the upward passage vane 223a is provided at or
     in a first space (Si) and a space between two second cyclones 220.
[91]   As described above, air containing dust may be introduced to an inside of the outer
     case 201 through the entrance 200a to revolve in one direction, and the upward passage
     vane 223a may be formed in an inclined manner upward along the first direction to
     move fine dust containing air that has passed the mesh filter 212 upward while rotating
     in the first direction.   The guide vane 223 formed in an inclined manner downward
     along the first direction has been described in the description of the dust collector 200
     according to an embodiment.
[92]   Air that has passed through the first cyclone 110 may be easily introduced to the
     second cyclone 120 by the upward passage vane 223a without forming an additional
     passage on the inlet 120a of the second cyclone 120, thereby reducing introduction loss
     between the first cyclone 110 and the second cyclone 120.       Furthermore, air that has
     passed the upward passage vane 223a may induce rotational flow, and enhance
     rotational flow while passing through the guide vane 123, thereby enhancing the
     separation performance of fine dust within the second cyclone 220.
[93]   According to the foregoing configuration, the second cyclone may be accommodated
     into the first cyclone, thereby reducing the height of the dust collector.   A guide vane
     may be installed on an inlet of the second cyclone. The guide vane may be configured to
     induce rotational flow to air introduced to an inside of the second cyclone through the
     first and the second space. Accordingly, an additional guide passage extended from one

                                                 15
     side of the second cyclone is not required, thereby reducing passage loss during the
     introduction of air into the second cyclone.
[94]   A larger number of second cyclones may be arranged within the first cyclone.
     Accordingly, it may be possible to prevent the degradation of cleaning performance due
     to the arrangement in the second cyclone.      A guide vane installed at an inlet of the
     second cyclone may strengthen rotational flow to air introduced to an inside of the
     second cyclone to enhance the separation performance of fine dust within the second
     cyclone. In this manner, the degradation of collection performance in a multi-cyclone
     may be prevented by the guide vane.
[95]   The guide vane may be integrally formed with the casing and vortex finder. A process
     of coupling one side of the guide vane to the casing may be omitted, thereby reducing
     the manufacturing cost and time. A dust storage unit and a fine dust storage unit may
     be configured to be both open during the separation of a lower cover, thereby
     discharging dust collected in the dust storage unit and fine dust collected in the fine dust
     storage unit at the same time during the opening.
[96] A dust collector for a vacuum cleaner with a new structure in which a multi-cyclone
     structure is improved to lower down the height without reducing the cleaning
     performance is provided. A dust collector for efficiently introducing air that has
     passed through the first cyclone to the second cyclone as well as further enhancing the
     rotational flow of air introduced into the second cyclone is provided. A cyclone
     structure capable of facilitating the manufacture as well as reducing the manufacturing
     cost and time is also provided. A dust collector capable of collecting dust and fine
     dust in a separate manner as well as easily discharging them at the same time is also
     provided.
[97] A dust collector for a vacuum cleaner may include a first cyclone provided within an
     outer case to filter out dust from air introduced from an outside thereof and introduce
     the air from which dust has been filtered out to an inside thereof, a second cyclone
     accommodated in the inside of the first cyclone to form a first space between the first
     cyclone and the second cyclone to separate fine dust from the air introduced to the
     inside of the first cyclone, and a guide vane spirally extended along an inner
     circumference of the second cyclone to induce rotational flow to the air introduced to an
     inside of the second cyclone through an inlet of the second cyclone via the first space,
     wherein the guide vane is integrally provided on the second cyclone. The second
     cyclone may include a cylindrically shaped casing forming an outer appearance, and a
     vortex finder provided at the center of the second cyclone to discharge air from which
     fine dust has been separated, wherein the guide vane is integrally formed with the
     casing and vortex finder on the inlet limited between an inner circumference of the
     casing and an outer circumference of the vortex finder.
[98] A plurality of guide vanes may be provided and positioned to be spaced from each

                                                  16
      other at predetermined intervals along an outer circumference of the vortex finder.       An
      entrance extended toward an inner circumference of the outer case may be formed at an
      upper portion of the outer case to rotate air introduced from an outside thereof in a first
      direction, and the guide vane may be formed in an inclined manner downward along the
      first direction to rotate air introduced into the inlet through the first space downward in
      the first direction to be introduced to an inside of the second cyclone.
[99]    The casing may be installed to pass through a bottom surface of the first cyclone, and
      an inner case provided with a fine dust storage unit configured to collect fine dust may
      be coupled to a lower portion of the first cyclone, and an outlet communicating an
      inside of the second cyclone with the fine dust storage unit to discharge fine dust to the
      fine dust storage unit may be provided on the second cyclone.         The outlet may include
      a first outlet cut and formed on an outer circumference of a lower side of the casing to
      discharge fine dust in an outer circumferential direction of the casing, and a second
      outlet formed at the center of a lower side of the casing to discharge fine dust in a
      downward direction of the casing, wherein the inner case accommodates the first and
      the second outlet to collect fine dust discharged from the first and the second outlet into
      the fine dust storage unit.
[100]   A cover forming a bottom surface of the casing may be mounted at a lower portion of
      the casing, and a discharge pipe formed with the second outlet may be provided at the
      center of the cover.     A skirt may be formed in a protruding manner along an outer
      circumferential surface at a lower portion of the first cyclone, and the inner case may be
      coupled to the skirt.    The inner case may include a first portion coupled to the skirt and
      formed in a tapering manner downward, and a second portion extended downward from
      the first portion and arranged in a direction parallel to the outer case.
[101]   The first cyclone may include a housing formed to accommodate the second cyclone
      therein, and provided with an opening portion communicating with an inside on an
      outer circumference thereof, and a mesh filter installed to cover the opening portion to
      filter out and separate the dust from the air.    An inner case configured to collect fine
      dust discharged from the second cyclone may be installed at a lower portion of the
      housing, and dust filtered out through the mesh filter may be collected into a dust
      storage unit between an inner circumference of the outer case and an outer
      circumference of the inner case.
[102]   The dust collector for a vacuum cleaner may further include a lower cover
      hinge-coupled to the outer case to form a bottom surface of the outer case and the inner
      case during the closing, and discharge dust collected in the dust storage unit and fine
      dust collected in the fine dust storage unit at the same time during the opening.     The
      second cyclone may be accommodated into the first cyclone to reduce the height of the
      collector.

                                                  17
[103]   A guide vane may be installed on an inlet of the second cyclone. The guide vane may
      be configured to induce rotational flow to air introduced to an inside of the second
      cyclone through the first and the second space. Accordingly, an additional guide
      passage extended from one side of the second cyclone may not be required, thereby
      reducing passage loss during the introduction of air from the second cyclone.
[104]   A larger number of second cyclones may be arranged within the first cyclone.
      Accordingly, it may be possible to prevent the degradation of cleaning performance due
      to the arrangement in the second cyclone.      A guide vane installed at an inlet of the
      second cyclone may strengthen rotational flow to air introduced to an inside of the
      second cyclone to enhance the separation performance of fine dust within the second
      cyclone. In this manner, the degradation of collection performance in a multi-cyclone
      may be prevented by the guide vane.
[105]   The guide vane may be integrally formed with the casing and vortex finder. A
      process of coupling one side of the guide vane to the casing may be omitted, thereby
      reducing the manufacturing cost and time.       A dust storage unit and a fine dust storage
      unit may be configured to be both open during the separation of a lower cover, thereby
      discharging dust collected in the dust storage unit and fine dust collected in the fine dust
      storage unit at the same time during the opening.
[106]   The terms including an ordinal number such as first, second, etc. can be used to
      describe various elements, but the elements should not be limited by those terms. The
      terms are used merely for the purpose to distinguish an element from the other element.
[107]   In case where an element is "connected" or "linked" to the other element, it may be
      directly connected or linked to the other element, but also should be understood that
      another element may exist therebetween.
[108]   Unless clearly used otherwise, expressions in the singular number include a plural
      meaning.
[109]   In this application, the term "comprising," "including," or the like, intend to express
      the existence of the characteristic, the numeral, the step, the operation, the element, the
      part, or the combination thereof, and do not intend to exclude another characteristic,
      numeral, step, operation, element, part, or any combination thereof, or any addition
      thereto.
[110]   Any reference in this specification to "one embodiment," "an embodiment," "example
      embodiment," etc., means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described
      in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the
      invention. The appearances of such phrases in various places in the specification are not
      necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Further, when a particular feature,
      structure, or characteristic is described in connection with any embodiment, it is
      submitted that it is within the purview of one skilled in the art to effect such feature,

                                                 18
      structure, or characteristic in connection with other ones of the embodiments.
[111]   Although embodiments have been described with reference to a number of illustrative
      embodiments thereof, it should be understood that numerous other modifications and
      embodiments can be devised by those skilled in the art that will fall within the spirit and
      scope of the principles of this disclosure.   More particularly, various variations and
      modifications are possible in the component parts and/or arrangements of the subject
      combination arrangement within the scope of the disclosure, the drawings and the
      appended claims.     In addition to variations and modifications in the component parts
      and/or arrangements, alternative uses will also be apparent to those skilled in the art.
[112]   Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
      otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising",
      will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers
      or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
[113]   The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
      from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
      acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
      information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
      knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.

                                             19
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.       A dust collector for a vacuum cleaner, comprising:
          a first cyclone provided within an outer case to filter out dust from air
introduced from an outside of the outer case;
          at least one second cyclone accommodated inside of the first cyclone to form
a first space between the first cyclone and the at least one second cyclone, wherein
the at least one second cyclone separates fine dust from the air introduced to the
inside of the first cyclone; and
          at least one guide vane spirally extended along an inner circumference of the
at least one second cyclone to induce rotational flow of the air introduced to an inside
of the at least one second cyclone through an inlet of the second cyclone via the first
space, wherein the at least one guide vane is integrally provided on the at least one
second cyclone.
2.       The dust collector of claim 1, wherein the at least one second cyclone
includes:
          a cylindrically shaped casing; and
          a vortex finder provided within the casing at the center of the at least one
second cyclone to discharge air from which fine dust has been separated, wherein the
at least one guide vane is integrally formed with the casing and vortex finder on the
inlet between an inner circumference of the casing and an outer circumference of the
vortex finder.
3.       The dust collector of claim 2, wherein the at least one guide vane includes a
plurality of guide vanes provided to be spaced from each other at predetermined
intervals along an outer circumference of the vortex finder.
4.       The dust collector of claim 3, wherein an air entrance extended toward an
inner circumference of the outer case is formed at an upper portion of the outer case
to rotate air introduced from an outside of the outer case in a first direction, and

                                              20
wherein the plurality of guide vanes are formed in an inclined manner downward
along the first direction to rotate air introduced into the inlet of the second cyclone
through the first space downward in the first direction to be introduced to an inside of
the second cyclone.
5.       The dust collector of claim 2. wherein the casing passes through the bottom
surface of the first cyclone, wherein an inner case provided with a fine dust storage
compartment configured to collect fine dust is coupled to a lower portion of the first
cyclone, and wherein at least one outlet communicating an inside of the second
cyclone with the fine dust storage unit to discharge fine dust to the fine dust storage
compartment is provided on the second cyclone.
6.      The dust collector of claim 5, wherein the at least one outlet includes:
          a first outlet formed on an outer circumference of a lower side of the casing
to discharge fine dust in an outer circumferential direction of the casing; and
          a second outlet formed at the center of a lower side of the casing to discharge
fine dust in a downward direction of the casing, wherein the inner case
accommodates the first and the second outlet to collect fine dust discharged from the
first and the second outlet into the fine dust storage compartment.
7.      The dust collector of claim 6, wherein a cover forming a bottom surface of the
casing is mounted at a lower portion of the casing, and wherein a discharge pipe
formed with the second outlet is provided at the center of the cover.
8.      The dust collector of claim 5, wherein a skirt is formed in a protruding
manner along an outer circumferential surface of a lower portion of the first cyclone,
and wherein the inner case is coupled to the skirt.
9.      The dust collector of claim 8, wherein the inner case includes:
          a first portion coupled to the skirt and formed in a tapering manner
downward; and

                                             21
         a second portion extended downward from the first portion and arranged in a
direction parallel to the outer case.
10.     The dust collector of claim 1, wherein the first cyclone includes:
         a housing formed to accommodate the second cyclone therein, and provided
with an opening portion communicating with an inside on an outer circumference
thereof; and
         a mesh filter installed to cover the opening portion to filter out and separate
the dust from the air.
11.     The dust collector of claim 10, wherein an inner case configured to collect
fine dust discharged from the second cyclone is installed at a lower portion of the
housing, and
         dust filtered out through the mesh filter is collected into a dust storage
compartment between an inner circumference of the outer case and an outer
circumference of the inner case.
12.     The dust collector of claim 11, further including:
         a lower cover that is hinge-coupled to the outer case to form a bottom surface
of the outer case and the inner case in a closed position, and discharge dust collected
in the dust storage compartment and fine dust collected in the fine dust storage
compartment at the same time when opened.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
