IMPROVED METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR WOUND HEALING
ABSTRACT
Methods and compositions comprising combinations of one or more anti-connexin agents and
one or more other agents useful for the promotion and/or improvement of wound healing and/or
tissue repair.

                                                  1
       IMPROVED METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR WOUND HEALING
                                  RELATED APPLICATIONS
         This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Serial No.
60/859,437, filed on November 15, 2006, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by
reference in its entirety. This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
<removed-apn> which in turn is a divisional of 2014204451, which is a divisional of Australian
Patent Application No. 2007319811 being the national phase entry of PCT/AU2007/024085.
The content of each of the aforementioned applications is hereby incorporated by reference in
its entirety.
                                  FIELD OF THE INVENTION
         The field relates to wound-healing and tissue repair, and to connexins, connexion
hemichannels and gap junctions, including compositions with one or more anti-connexin
agents and one or more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing, and/or gap
junction modifying agents, articles and kits and delivery devices containing such
compositions, and formulations comprising such compositions, as well as methods of treating
wounds and diseases, disorders or conditions characterized in whole or in part by acute,
delayed or incomplete wound healing or which would benefit from improved tissue repair or
healing.
              BACKGROUND AND INTRODUCTION TO THE INVENTION
         The following includes information that may be useful in understanding the present
inventions. It is not an admission that any of the information provided herein is prior art, or
relevant, to the presently described or claimed inventions, or that any publication or ocument
that is specifically or implicitly referenced is prior art.
         In humans and other mammals wound injury triggers an organized complex cascade
of cellular and biochemical events that will in most cases result in a healed wound. An ideally
healed wound is one that restores normal anatomical structure, function, and appearance on
cellular, tissue, organ, and organism levels. Wound healing, whether initiated by trauma,
microbes or foreign materials, proceeds via a complex process encompassing a number of
overlapping phases, including inflammation, epithelialization, angiogenesis and matrix
deposition. Normally, these processes lead to a mature wound and a certain degree of

    scar formation. Although inflammation and repair mostly occur along a prescribed course,
    the sensitivity of the process is dependent on the balance of a variety of wound healing
    molecules, including for example, a network of regulatory cytokines and growth factors.
            Gap junctions     are cell membrane      structures that facilitate   direct cell-cell
 5  communication. A gap junction channel is formed of two connexons (hemichannels), each
    composed of six connexin subunits. Each hexameric connexon docks with a connexon in the
    opposing membrane to form a single gap junction. Gap junction channels are reported to be
    found throughout the body. Tissue such as the corneal epithelium, for example, has six to
    eight cell layers, yet expresses different gap junction channels in different layers with
 )  connexin 43 in the basal layer and connexin 26 from the basal to middle wing cell layers. In
   general, connexins are a family of proteins, commonly named according to their molecular
   weight or classified on a phylogenetic basis into alpha, beta, and gamma subclasses. At least
   20 human and 19 murine isoforms have been identified. Different tissues and cell types are
   reported to have characteristic patterns of connexin protein expression and tissues have been
 5 shown to alter connexin protein expression pattern following injury or transplantation (Qui,
   C. et al., (2003) Current Biology, 13:1967-1703; Brander et al., (2004), J. Invest Dermatol.
    122:1310-20).
           Antisense technology has been proposed for the modulation of the expression for
   genes implicated in viral, fungal and metabolic diseases. See, for example, U.S. Pat. No.
   5,166,195, (oligonucleotide inhibitors of HIV) and U.S. Pat. No. 5,004,810 (oligomers for
   hybridizing to herpes simplex virus Vmw65 mRNA and inhibiting replication). See also U.S.
   Pat. No. 7,098,190 issued to Becker and Green ("Formulations comprising antisense
   nucleotides to connexins"). Peptide inhibitors of gap junctions and hemichannels have also
   been reported. See for example Berthoud, V.M. et al., Am J. Physiol. Lung Cell Mol. Physiol.
5  279: L619 - L622 (2000); Evans, W.H. and Boitano, S. Biochem. Soc. Trans. 29: 606 - 612,
   and De Vriese A.S., et al. Kidney Int. 61: 177 - 185 (2001). See also Becker and Green
   PCT/US06/04131 ("Anti-connexin compounds and uses thereof').
           Various cytokines and growth factors have been investigated to determine their
   potential as therapeutic interventions in wound healing. Save platelet-derived growth factor,
0  however, the active ingredient in Regranex*, none have been approved for sale in the United
   States. And, despite advances in the understanding of the principles underlying the wound
   healing process, there remains a significant unmet need for suitable therapeutic options for
   wound care and improving and/or promoting wound healing, including delayed or

     compromised wound healing such as chronic wounds, as well treatment of swelling,
     inflammation, and scarring associated with wounds, including acute and subacute wounds.
                                          BRIEF SUMMARY
             The inventions described and claimed herein have many attributes and embodiments
 5  including, but not limited to, those set forth or described or referenced in this Brief Summary.
    It is not intended to be all-inclusive and the inventions described and claimed herein are not
    limited to or by the features or embodiments identified in this Brief Summary, which is
    included for purposes of illustration only and not restriction.
            The invention generally relates to the use of one or more anti-connexin agents (for
 )  example, connexin inhibitors such as alpha-l connexin oligodeoxynucleotides and alpha-I
    anti-connexin peptides or peptidomimetics) in combination with one or more therapeutic
    agents, agents useful for wound healing, and/or gap junction modifying agents for the
    treatment of wounds, including acute, subacute, delayed healing and chronic wounds.
            The present invention provides for an increase in the rate, extent and/or quality of
    wound healing through the use of one or more anti-connexin agents and one or more
    therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing, and/or gap junction modifying agents.
    In a preferred embodiment, the combined use of one or more anti-connexin agents and one or
    more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing, and/or gap junction modifying
    agents has an additive, synergistic or super-additive effect in the promotion of wound
    healing. In another preferred embodiment, the combined use of one or more anti-connexin
    agents and one or more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing, and/or gap
   junction modifying agents allows the use of reduced doses of such agents compared to the
    dose or doses that may be effective when the agent is administered alone.              In another
   preferred embodiment, the combined use of one or more anti-connexin agents and one or
5  more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing, and/or gap junction modifying
    agents allows a reduced frequency of administration compared to the frequency of
    administration when the agent is used alone.
            Compositions and methods of the invention that employ anti-connexin agents in
   combination with other therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing, and/or gap
0  junction modifying agents are disclosed and claimed.
            The invention includes pharmaceutical compositions comprising (a) a therapeutically
   effective amount of an anti-connexin agent, and (b) a therapeutically effective amount of
   another therapeutic agent useful in the treatment of wounds or the promotion of wound-

    healing.     The invention      includes pharmaceutical       compositions comprising    (a) a
    therapeutically effective amount of an anti-connexin agent, and (b) a therapeutically effective
    amount of a gap junction modifying agent.        Preferably, the pharmaceutical compositions
    further comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent or excipient.
 5           Pharmaceutical compositions are provided for combined, simultaneous, separate
    sequential or sustained administration. In one embodiment, a composition comprising one or
    more anti-connexin agents is administered at or about the same time as one ore more
    therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing, and/or gap junction modifying agents
            Pharmaceutical compositions are also provided in the form of a combined preparation,
 )  for example, as an admixture of one or more anti-connexin agents and one or more other
    agents useful for wound healing, e.g., growth factors that are effective in promoting or
    improving wound healing, such as platelet derived growth factor, epidermal growth factor,
    fibroblast growth factor (e.g., FGF2), vascular endothelial growth factor, and transforming
    growth factor   #3,  and/or cytokines that are effective in promoting or improving wound
 5  healing, such as IL-7 and IL-10, and/or other agents that are effective in promoting or
    improving wound healing, such as IGF (e.g., IGF-1) and IGFBP (e.g., IGFBP-2).
            The term "a combined preparation" includes a "kit of parts" in the sense that the
    combination partners as defined above can be dosed independently or by use of different
    fixed combinations with distinguished amounts of the combination partners (a) and (b), i.e.
    simultaneously, separately or sequentially. The parts of the kit can then, for example, be
   administered simultaneously or chronologically staggered, that is at different time points and
   with equal or different time intervals for any part of the kit of parts.
            In a preferred embodiment, the administration of a combined preparation will have
   fewer administration time points and/or increased time intervals between administrations as a
5  result of such combined use.
            In one aspect, the invention includes pharmaceutical compositions, including topical
   delivery forms and formulations, comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and
   therapeutically effective amounts of an anti-connexin agent and one or more agents described
   herein.    Examples of anti-connexin agents include anti-connexin oligodeoxynucleotides
0  ("ODN"), including antisense (including modified and unmodified backbone antisense),
   RNAi, and siRNA, as well as anti-connexin peptides and peptidomimetics. Suitable anti
   connexin agents include for example, antisense ODNs, peptides and peptidomimetics against
   connexins 43, 26, 37, 30, and 31.1 and 32. In certain embodiments, suitable compositions

   include multiple anti-connexin agents in combination, including for example, connexin 43,
   26, 30, and 31.1, together with one or more other agents useful in wound healing and/or
   tissue repair. Preferred anti-connexin agents are directed against connexin 43.         Preferred
   agents for use in wound healing in combination with one or more anti-connexin agents
   include certain growth factors including, for example, platelet derived growth factor,
   epidermal growth factor, fibroblast growth factor alpha, fibroblast growth factor beta,
   vascular endothelial growth factor, and transforming growth factor #3, as well as insulin-like
   growth factor. Other preferred agents for use in wound healing in combination with one or
   more anti-connexin agents include certain cytokines including, for example IL-7 and IL-10.
   Other preferred agents for use in wound healing in combination with one or more anti
   connexin agents include thymosin beta-4, secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor, beta
   adrenergic antagonists (e.g., timoptic), interleukin-1 receptor antagonists (e.g., anakinra), free
  radical scavengers (e.g., N-acetylcysteine), and gene therapy vectors comprising a coding
  sequence for a protein useful in the promotion or improvement of wound healing (e.g., an
  adenovirus vector including a sequence coding for platelet derived growth factor-B).
  Preferred therapeutic agents administered in combination with one or more anti-connexin
  agents    include, for example       anti-inflammatory     agents,  antimicrobial    agents (e.g.,
  trimethoprim),    local and topical anesthetics,        and topical   opioids (e.g.,    morphine,
  hydromorphone and fentanyl).
           In another aspect, the invention includes methods for administering a therapeutically
  effective amount of one or more pharmaceutically acceptable anti-connexin agent and one or
  more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing and/or gap junction modifying
  agents formulated in a delayed release preparation, a slow release preparation, an extended
  release preparation, a controlled release preparation, and/or in a repeat action preparation to a
5 subject with a wound, including wounds characterized in whole or in part by delayed or
  incomplete wound healing.
          In certain other aspects, the invention also relates to methods of using such
  compositions to treat subjects suffering from or at risk for various diseases, disorders, and
  conditions associated with a wound, including acute and subacute wounds, and delayed
) healing or chronic wounds.
          In yet another aspect, the invention includes methods for treating a subject having or
  suspected of having or predisposed to, or at risk for, any diseases, disorders and/or conditions

    characterized in whole or in part by a wound or a tissue in need of repair. Such compositions
    include, for example, topical delivery forms and formulations.
            Preferred methods include the sequential or simultaneous administration of one or
   more anti-connexin agents and one or more agents useful for wound healing, either or both of
   which are provided in amounts or doses that are less that those used when the agent or agents
   are administered alone, i.e., when they are not administered in combination, either physically
   or in the course of treatment of a wound. Such lesser amounts of agents administered are
   typically from about one-twentieth to about one-tenth the amount or amounts of the agent
   when administered alone, and may be about one-eighth the amount, about one-sixth the
   amount, about one-fifth the amount, about one-fourth the amount, about one-third the
   amount, and about one-half the amount when administered alone.                   Preferably, the
   administration is sequential. Preferably, the agents are administered sequentially within at
   least about one-half hour of each other. The agents may also be administered with about one
   hour of each other, with about one day to about one week of each other, or as otherwise
   deemed appropriate. Preferably, the anti-connexin agent is administered first. Preferably,
   where one or more anti-connexin agents are used, an anti-connexin peptide or anti-connexin
   peptidomimetic, e.g., an anti-connexin agent that can block or reduce hemichannel opening,
   is administered prior to the administration of an anti-connexin agent that blocks or reduce
   connexin expression or the formation of hemichannels or gap junctions, e.g., by
   downregulation of connexin protein expression. Preferably, the anti-connexin agent or agents
   is/are anti-connexin 43 agent(s).
           In a further aspect, the invention includes transdermal patches, dressings, pads, wraps,
   matrices and bandages capable of being adhered or otherwise associated with the skin of a
   subject, said articles being capable of delivering a therapeutically effective amount of one or
5  more pharmaceutically acceptable anti-connexin agents and one or more additional
  pharmaceutically acceptable therapeutics agents, agents useful for wound healing, and/or gap
  junction modifying agents to a subject.
           In another aspect, the invention includes an article of manufacture comprising a vessel
   containing a therapeutically effective amount of one or more pharmaceutically acceptable
D anti-connexin agents and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable therapeutic agents for
  promotion of wound healing and instructions for use, including use for the treatment of a
  subject.

           In another aspect, the invention includes an article of manufacture comprising a vessel
  containing a therapeutically effective amount of one or more pharmaceutically acceptable
  anti-connexin agents and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable agents useful for wound
  healing for promotion of wound healing and instructions for use, including use for the
  treatment of a subject.
           In another aspect, the invention includes an article of manufacture comprising a vessel
  containing a therapeutically effective amount of one or more pharmaceutically acceptable
  anti-connexin agents and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable gap junction modifying
   agents and instructions for use, including use for the treatment of a subject.
           The invention includes an article of manufacture comprising packaging material
   containing one or more dosage forms containing one or more pharmaceutically acceptable
   anti-connexin agents and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable therapeutic agents, agents
   useful for wound healing, and/or gap junction modifying agents, wherein the packaging
   material has a label that indicates that the dosage form can be used for a subject having or
   suspected of having or predisposed to any of the diseases, disorders and/or conditions
   described or referenced herein, including diseases, disorders and/or conditions characterized
   in whole or in part by acute, impaired, delayed or chronic wound healing. Such dosage forms
   include, for example, topical delivery forms and formulations.
            The invention includes a formulation comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable anti
   connexin agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable agent useful for wound healing in amounts
   effective to promote healing or tissue repair in a subject. The invention includes a
   formulation     comprising    a pharmaceutically     acceptable   anti-connexin agent    and a
   pharmaceutically acceptable therapeutic agent in amounts effective to promote wound
   healing in a subject. The invention includes a formulation comprising a pharmaceutically
5   acceptable anti-connexin agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable gap junction modifying
    agent in amounts effective to promote wound healing in a subject. Such formulations
    include, for example, topical delivery forms and formulations.           Preferred formulations
    include one or more anti-connexin agents and one or more agents useful for wound healing,
    either or both of which are provided in amounts or doses that are less that those used when
0   the agent or agents are administered alone, i.e., when they are not administered in
    combination, either physically or in the course of treatment of a wound. Such lesser amounts
    of agents administered or provided in combination are typically from about one-twentieth to
    about one-tenth the amount or amounts when administered alone, and may be about one-

  eighth the amount, about one-sixth the amount, about one-fifth the amount, about one-fourth
  the amount, about one-third the amount, and about one-half the amount when administered
  alone.
           The invention includes methods for the use of therapeutically effective amounts of
  compositions comprising one or more pharmaceutically acceptable anti-connexin agents and
  one or more pharmaceutically acceptable therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing
  and/or gap junction modifying agents in the manufacture of a medicament.                  Such
  medicaments include, for example, topical delivery forms and formulations.                Such
  medicaments include those for the treatment of a subject as disclosed herein.             Such
   medicaments preferably include the reduced amounts of the one or more anti-connexin agents
   and the one or more pharmaceutically acceptable therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound
   healing and/or gap junction modifying agents, as noted herein.
            The invention includes methods for the use of a therapeutically effective amount of
   one or more anti-connexin agents and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable therapeutic
   agents, agents useful for wound healing and/or gap junction modifying agents in the
   manufacture of a dosage form. Such dosage forms include, for example, topical delivery
   forms and formulations. Such dosage forms include those for the treatment of a subject as
   disclosed herein. Such dosage forms preferably include the reduced amounts of the one or
   more anti-connexin agents and the one or more pharmaceutically acceptable therapeutic
   agents, agents useful for wound healing and/or gap junction modifying agents, as noted
   herein.
            In another aspect, the invention provides method of treatment comprising
    administering to a subject a pharmaceutical composition of the invention for use in the
    treatment of a wound, including for example, acute, subacute, delayed and chronic wounds.
5           In another aspect, the invention provides for the use of an anti-connexin agent (for
    example, anti-alpha-I ODN, peptide or peptidomimetic) and a therapeutic agent, agent useful
    for wound healing, and/or gap junction modifying agent in the manufacture of a
    pharmaceutical product for the promotion of wound healing in a patient in need thereof.
             In yet another aspect, the invention provides a method of promoting or enhancing
0    wound healing or treatment, or the prevention or amelioration of fibrosis or other fibrotic
     conditions, the method comprising administering one or more anti-connexin agent and one or
     more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing and/or gap junction modifying
     agents to a patient in need thereof

            In certain other aspect, the invention provides: (i) a package comprising an anti
   connexin agent together with instructions for use in combination with a therapeutic agents,
   agents useful for wound healing and/or gap junction modifying agents for the promotion (e.g.
   decrease in healing time, better wound outcome) of wound healing, (ii) a package comprising
   one or more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing and/or gap junction
   modifying agents together with instructions for use in combination with one or more anti
   connexin agents for the promotion of wound healing; and (iii) a package comprising one or
   more anti-connexin agents and one or more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound
   healing and/or gap junction modifying agents, together with instructions for use in the
   promotion of wound healing or reduction of wound-associated fibrosis.
             In a one embodiment the pharmaceutical product of the invention is provided in
    combination with a wound dressing or wound healing promoting matrix. Suitably the wound
    dressing or matrix is provided including the form of a solid substrate with an anti-connexin
    agent and one or more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing and/or gap
    junction modifying agents dispersed on or in the solid substrate.
             The anti-connexin agent and therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing
    and/or gap junction modifying agents may be administered in the same composition or by
                                                                                              of the
    separate compositions. Preferably, the agents are administered in the reduced amounts
     one or more anti-connexin agents and the one or more pharmaceutically acceptable
 )   therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing and/or gap junction modifying agents, as
     noted herein.
              The anti-connexin agent and therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing
     and/or gap junction modifying agents may be administered to the patient simultaneously,
                                                                                          agent and
     sequentially or separately. If administered separately, preferably the anti-connexin
 5   the therapeutic agent, agent useful for wound healing and/or gap junction modifying agent are
      administered sequentially. Preferably, the agents are administered sequentially within at least
      about one-half hour of each other. The agents may also be administered with about one hour
      of each other, with about one day to about one week of each other, or as otherwise deemed
                                                                                          where one
      appropriate. Preferably, the anti-connexin agent is administered first. Preferably,
30    or more anti-connexin agents are used, an anti-connexin peptide or anti-connexin
      peptidomimetic, e.g., an anti-connexin agent that can block or reduce hemichannel opening,
      is administered prior to the administration of an anti-connexin agent that blocks or reduce
      connexin expression or the formation of hemichannels or gap junctions, e.g., by

  downregulation of connexin protein expression. Preferably, the anti-connexin agent or agents
  is/are anti-connexin 43 agent(s).
           These and other aspects of the present inventions, which are not limited to or by the
  information in this Brief Summary, are provided below.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
           Figure IA to Figure 11 depict expression of Cx43 at wound sites. Figure 1A depicts
  Real-Time PCR analysis of the gene expression of Cx43 at wound sites. Figure 1A depicts
  relative expression levels of Cx43 to GAPDH on days 1 and 7 in wounds treated with control
   sODN (n=4; open bars) and Cx43 asODN (n=4; filled bars); data are expressed as the mean
   s.e.m. *P < 0.05. Figures lB to IF depict Cx43 staining (green) with bis-benzimide nuclear
   staining (blue) of wounds treated with Cx43asODN (Figure 1B: 1 day, Figure ID: 2 days and
   Figure 1F: 7 days) or controls (Figure IC: 1 day, Figure 1E: 2 days and Figure 1G: 7 days).
   Figures 1H and 11 depict illustration of sites imaged in the wound edge. (Figure 1H) images
   B-E. (Figure 11) images F and G.
           Figure 2A to Figure 2H depict cell proliferation after wounding. Figures 2A to 2D
   depict analysis of cell proliferation at wound sites by immunohistochemical staining with the
   anti-BrdU monoclonal antibody in control ODN (Figure 2A: day 2 and Figure 2C: day 7) and
   Cx43 asODN (Figure 2B: day 2 and Figure 2D: day 7). Arrowhead and arrow indicate the
   wound margin and leading edge, respectively. Figures 2E to 2H depict BrdU-stained cells;
   (i) and the number of BrdU-positive cells per field in the wound margin in the epidermis
   (Figure 2E: n=5), and the nascent epidermis (Figure 2F: n=5); (ii) the number of BrdU
   positive cells in the dermal wound edge (Figure 2G: n=5) and in the forming granulation
   tissue (Figure 2H: n=5). Counts are expressed as the mean ± s.e.m. *P < 0.05. Scale bars
   represent 200 pim.
5           Figure 3A to Figure 3C depict neutrophil recruitment into a wound site. Figure 3A
    and Figure 3B depict neutrophil recruitment into skin wounds treated with control sODN
    (Figure 3A) and Cx43 as ODN-treated (Figure 3B), analyzed using an anti-MPO antibody on
    day 1. Figure 3C depicts numbers of MPO positive cells at the wound site after treatment
    with control sODN (open bars: n=4 on day 1; n=5 on day 2) and Cx43 asODN (filled bars;
0   n=3 on day 1; n=4 on day 2). Data are expressed as the mean ± s.e.m. *P < 0.05. Scale bars
    represent 50 pm.
            Figure 4A to Figure 4C depict macrophage recruitment into a wound site. Figure 4A
    and Figure 4B depict macrophage recruitment into skin wounds treated with control sODN

  (Figure 4A) and Cx43 asODN (Figure 4B), analyzed using an anti-F4/80 antibody on day 7.
  Figure 4C depicts macrophage recruitment into skin wounds on days 2 and 7 after treatment
  with control sODN (open bars: n=4 on day 2; n=7 on day 7) and Cx43 asODN (filled bars:
  n=4 on day 2; n=6 on day 7). Data are expressed as the mean ± s.e.m. *P < 0.01. Scale bars
  represent 50 pm.
           Figure 5A to Figure 5B depict expression of Ccl2 and TNF-a at wound sites. Figure
  5A and Figure 5B depict Real-Time PCR analysis of the gene expression of Ccl2 and TNF-a
  at wound sites. Relative expression levels of Ccl2 (Figure 5A) and TNF-a (Figure 5B) to
  GAPDH on days 1, 2 and 7 (n=5 for each) after treatment with control sODN (open bars) or
  Cx43 asODN (filled bars) are quantified. Data are expressed as the mean ± s.e.m. *P < 0.05.
           Figure 6A to Figure 6K depict expression of TGF-31.            Figures 6A to 6J depict
  immunohistochemistry for TGF-01 at wound sites treated with control sODN (Figures 6A
   6E) and with Cx43 asODN (Figures 6F-6J). Scale bars represent 200 Im (Figures 6A and
   6F) and 50 Im (Figures 6B-6E, and 6G-6J). Black arrows show the nascent edge of the
   epidermis. TGF-31 staining is considerably stronger in the epidermis of Cx43 asODN treated
   wounds (Figures 61 and 6J) compared to control sODN (Figures 6D and 6E) wounds.
   Arrowheads, red and black show representative TGF-#1 elongated fibroblast-like cells and
   rounded presumptive leukocytes, respectively. Figure 6K depicts Real-Time PCR analysis of
   the expression on days 1, 2 and 7 (n=5 for each) of mRNA for TGF-f1 at wound sites treated
   with control sODN (open bars) or Cx43 asODN (filled bars). Data are expressed as the mean
   + s.e.m. *P < 0.05.
            Figure 7A to Figure 7F depict granulation tissue formation and fibroblast migration.
   Figures 7A and 7B depict fibroblast-like cell recruitment into skin wounds treated with
   control sODN (Figure 7A) and Cx43 asODN (Figure 7B), analyzed using TRITC-Phalloidin
5   and DAPI nuclear staining on day 2. Figure 7C depicts numbers of fibroblast-like cells at
    each wound site per field of view for wounds treated with control sODN (open bars: n=5) or
    Cx43 asODN (filled bars: n=5). Figure 7D depicts results of a wound-healing assay of
    fibroblast migration that shows that migration is significantly faster after treatment with Cx43
    as ODNs. Figures 7E and 7F depict images of wounds in fibroblast cultures; at the time of
0   wounding (Figure 7E) and 4 hours after wounding (Figure 7F). Data are expressed as the
    mean ± s.e.m. *P < 0.02 **P < 0.01. Scale bars represent 50 pm.
            Figure 8A to Figure 8B depict collagen expression in a wound site. Figure 8A depicts
    collagen content assessed by quantitatively measuring the hydroxyproline (HP) content on

  days 7, 10 and 14 after wounding at wound sites treated with control sODN (open bars) and
  Cx43 asODN (filled bars) and in uninjured skin (n=5). Data are expressed as the mean ±
  s.e.m. P <0.05. Figure 8B depicts Real-Time PCR analysis of the expression of mRNA on
  days 1, 2 and 7 (n=5 for each) for Col lal at wound sites treated with control sODN (open
  bars) and Cx43 asODN (filled bars). Data are expressed as the mean ± s.e.m. *P < 0.05.
            Figure 9A to Figure 9C depict granulation tissue contraction. Figures 9A and 9B
  depict H&E staining of 14 days wound granulation tissue in control sODN treated (Figure
  9A) and asODN treated (Figure 9B) wounds. Figure 9C depicts an area of granulation tissue
  after treatment with control sODN (open bars) or Cx43 asODN (filled bars) analyzed on day
  5 (control; n=7, asODN; n=6), day 7 (control; n=5, asODN; n=5), day 10 (control; n=5,
  asODN; n=6), and day 14 (control; n=5, asODN; n=6).                     Granulation tissue area
  measurements at day 5 already showed a slightly smaller area after treatment with asODN but
   the reduction became significant on days 7, 10 and 14 (*P < 0.05. **P < 0.01). Data are
   expressed as the mean ± s.e.m. Scale bars represents 1 mm.
            Figure 1OA to Figure 1OC depict apoptosis at wound sites. Figure 10A and 1OB
   depict TUNEL staining of granulation tissue in control sODN (Figure 1OA) and Cx43 asODN
   (Figure 1OB) treated wounds on day 7. Apoptotic cells appear as bright green spots, some of
   which have been highlighted with arrowheads.         Scale bars represents 50 Im. Figure 1OC
   depicts numbers of apoptotic cells per field of view on days 5, 7 and 10 (n=6 for each) in
   wound sites treated with control sODN (open bars) and Cx43 asODN (filed bars). Data are
   expressed as the mean ± s.e.m. Scale bars represent 50 im.
             Figure 11 A to Figure 11 F depict myofibroblast maturation at wound sites. Figure
    11 A and I1D depict anti-a smooth muscle actin (SMA) staining (green) with bis-benzimide
    nuclear staining (blue) of the edge of the granulation tissue in a 7 day wound (Figures 11 A
5   and 11 B) and the center of the granulation tissue in a 10 day wound (Figures 11 C and 1ID).
    Figure 1E depicts quantification of staining levels showed there to be significantly more
    SMA staining in Cx43 asODN treated wounds than controls at 7 days (P= 0. 004) indicating
    earlier maturation and differentiation of myofibroblasts. This more advanced maturation was
    still present at 10 days when most of the SMA staining and myofibroblasts were lost in Cx43
0   asODN-treated wounds, but staining was still very strong in control wounds (P=0.000002).
    Figure 11 F depicts illustration of sites imaged in the granulation tissue: zone I (Figures 11 A
    and 11B) and zone II (Figures 11 C and 11 D). Data are expressed as the mean ± s.e.m. Scale
    bars represent 25 tm.

           Figure 12A to Figure 12H depict angiogenesis at wound sites. Figures 12A to 12F
  depict von Willebrand factor staining of granulation tissue nacent blood vessels (green) with
  bis-benzimide nuclear stain (blue) at 7 days, (Figures 12A and 12B) 10 days, (Figures 12C
  and 12D) and 14 days (Figures 12E and 12F) after wounding. In antisense-treated wounds
  (Figures 12A, 12C and 12E) blood vessels were more pervasive at early time points (7 days
  Figures 12A and 12B and 10 days Figures 12C and 12D) but considerably finer than those
  treated with control ODN (Figures 12B, 12D, andl2F) resulting in significantly reduced
  staining compared to controls (7 days *P=0.0019; 10 days **P=0.015). By 14 days, blood
  vessels had increased in size in the asODN group and were a similar size to those of controls
  (Figure 12G). Figure 12H depicts illustration of sites imaged in the granulation tissue: zone I
   (Figures 12A and 12B) and zone II (Figures 12C to 12E). Data are expressed as the mean
   s.e.m. Scale bars represent 25 tm.
            Figure 13A to Figure 13B depict macroscopic images of wound healing (Figure 13A)
   and relative changes in the wound area (Figure 13B) following As ODN treatment as
   compared with control treatment.
            Figure 14 depicts a Human Limbal rim - denuded pig stromal matrix chimera.
            Figure 15 depicts examples of growth factor and cytokines binding to the antibody
   arrays used to detect protein levels for 120 different growth factors and cytokines. Four
   samples were run on each of the two array membranes (60 growth factors / cytokines per
   membrane with repeats and both positive and negative controls).
            Figure 16 depicts analysis of growth factor levels in chimeric stroma compared with
   limbal rim regions of the chimera after two weeks in culture. This is a control cornea (not
    antisense treated). Two growth factors are of particular interest (arrows). These are the very
    high levels of IGFBP-2 in the chimeric stroma and higher levels of IGF-1 in the limbal rim.
5   The former has been reported to be important in promoting cellular migration (which may be
    important for the stromal keratocytes to repopulate the stoma from the limbal rim) and the
    latter has been reported to be important in promoting cell proliferation (which may be
    important in the limbal rim to provide the source of cells repopulating the stroma).
             Figure 17 depicts analysis of growth factor levels in chimeric stroma compared with
0   limbal rim regions of the chimera after two weeks in culture (based on data from from a
     Cx43As ODN treated cornea). Two growth factors are of particular interest (arrows). These
     are the high levels of IGF-7 in the antisense treated chimeric stroma compared with the
     untreated controls and higher levels of IGFBP-2 in both the limbal rim and stroma compared

  with untreated controls, especially control limbal rims. The former has been reported to be
  important in promoting epithelial growth (consistent with the increased re-epithelialistaion
  seen in antisense treated chimeras) and the latter has been reported to be important in
  promoting cell migration (consistent with the increased epithelial repopulation from the
  limbal rim with antisense treatment).
           Figure 18 illustrates a group of representative cytokines which were identified based
  on their increased levels of expression in an inflammatory compared to low inflammatory
  wound models. These representative cytokines can serve as suitable targets for modulation of
  wound healing.
            Figure 19 illustrates a group of representative cytokines which were identified based
   on their increased levels of expression in low inflammatory wound model compared to the
   inflammatory model. These representative cytokines can serve as suitable targets for
   modulation of wound healing.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   Definitions
            As used herein, a "disorder" is any disorder, disease, or condition that would benefit
    from an agent that promotes wound healing and/or reduces swelling, inflammation, and/or
    scar formation. For example, included are wounds resulting from surgery or trauma, and
    wound associated abnormalities in connection with neuropathic, ischemic, microvascular
    pathology, pressure over bony area (tailbone (sacral), hip (trochanteric), buttocks (ischial), or
    heel of the foot), reperfusion injury, and valve reflux etiology and conditions.
             As used herein, "subject" refers to any mammal, including humans, domestic and
    farm animals, and zoo, sports, or pet animals, such as dogs, horses, cats, sheep, pigs, cows,
    etc. The preferred mammal herein is a human, including adults, children, and the elderly.
5            As used herein, "preventing" means preventing in whole or in part, or ameliorating or
     controlling.
             As used herein, a "therapeutically effective amount" in reference to the compounds or
     compositions of the instant invention refers to the amount sufficient to induce a desired
     biological, pharmaceutical, or therapeutic result. That result can be alleviation of the signs,
                                                                                                  of a
0    symptoms, or causes of a disease or disorder or condition, or any other desired alteration
     biological system. In the present invention, the result will involve the promotion of wound
     healing and decreases in swelling, inflammation and/or scar formation in whole or in part.

            As used herein, the term "treating" refers to both therapeutic treatment and
  prophylactic or preventative measures. Those in need of treatment include those already with
  a wound or other related disorder as well as those prone to having a wound or related disorder
  or diagnosed with the disorder or those in which the disorder is to be prevented.
            As used herein, "anti-connexin agents" are compounds that affect or modulate the
  activity, expression or formation of a connexin, a connexin hemichannel (connexon), or a gap
  junction.      Anti-connexin agents include, without limitation, antisense compounds (e.g.
  antisense polynucleotides), RNAi and siRNA compounds, antibodies and binding fragments
  thereof, and peptides and polypeptides, which include "peptidomimetics," and peptide
   analogs. Preferred anti-connexin agents are anti-connexin 43 agents. Exemplary anit
   connexin agents are discussed in further detail herein.
            As used herein, the term "treating" refers to both therapeutic treatment and
   prophylactic or preventative measures. Those in need of treatment include those already with
   the disorder as well as those prone to having the disorder or diagnosed with the disorder or
   those in which the disorder is to be prevented.
             The terms "peptidomimetic" and "mimetic" include naturally occurring and synthetic
   chemical compounds that may have substantially the same structural and functional
   characteristics of protein regions which they mimic. In the case of connexins, these may
   mimic, for example, the extracellular loops of opposing connexins involved in connexon
    connexon docking and cell-cell channel formation.
             "Peptide analogs" refer to the compounds with properties analogous to those of the
    template peptide and may be non-peptide drugs. "Peptidomimetics" (also known as "mimetic
    peptides"), which include peptide-based compounds, also include such non-peptide based
    compounds such as peptide analogs. Peptidomimetics that are structurally similar to
5   therapeutically useful peptides may be used to produce an equivalent or enhanced therapeutic
    or prophylactic effect. Generally, peptidomimetics are structurally identical or similar to a
    paradigm polypeptide (i.e., a polypeptide that has a biological or pharmacological function or
    activity), but can also have one or more peptide linkages optionally replaced by a linkage
     selected from the group consisting of, for example, -CH2NH-, -CH2S-, -CH2-CH2-,
0    CH=CH- (cis and trans), -COCH2-, -CH(OH)CH2-, and -CH2SO-. The mimetic can be
     either entirely composed of natural amino acids, or non-natural analogues of amino acids, or,
     is a chimeric molecule of partly natural peptide amino acids and partly non-natural analogs of
     amino acids. The mimetic can also comprise any amount of natural amino acid conservative

   substitutions as long as such substitutions also do not substantially alter mimetic activity. For
                                                                                                    of
   example, a mimetic composition may be useful as an anti-connexin agent if it is capable
   down-regulating biological actions or activities of connexins proteins or connexons, such as,
   for example, preventing the docking of connexons to form gap-junction-mediated cell-cell
   communications, or preventing the opening connexons to expose the cell cytoplasm to the
   extracellular millieu. Peptidomimetics, mimetic peptides, and connexin modulating peptides
   encompass those described such peptidomimetics,              mimetic peptides, and connexin
   modulating peptides set forth herein, as well as those as may be known in the art, whether
   now known or later developed.
            The terms "modulator" and "modulation" of connexin activity, as used herein in its
    various forms, refers to inhibition in whole or in part of the expression or action or activity of
    a connexin or connexin hemichannel and may function as anti-connexin agents.
             In general, the term "protein" refers to any polymer of two or more individual amino
    acids (whether or not naturally occurring) linked via peptide bonds, as occur when the
    carboxyl carbon atom of the carboxylic. acid group bonded to the alpha-carbon of one amino
    acid (or amino acid residue) becomes covalently bound to the amino nitrogen atom of the
    amino group bonded to the alpha-carbon of an adjacent amino acid. These peptide bond
    linkages, and the atoms comprising them (i.e., alpha-carbon atoms, carboxyl carbon atoms
                                                                                           substituent
    (and their substituent oxygen atoms), and amino nitrogen atoms (and their
                                                                                               as used
    hydrogen atoms)) form the "polypeptide backbone" of the protein. In addition,
    herein, the term "protein" is understood to include the terms "polypeptide" and "peptide"
     (which, at times, may be used interchangeably herein). Similarly, protein fragments, analogs,
     derivatives, and variants are may be referred to herein as "proteins," and shall be deemed to
     be a "protein" unless otherwise indicated. The term "fragment" of a protein refers to a
                                                                                          A "domain"
5    polypeptide comprising fewer than all of the amino acid residues of the protein.
     of a protein is also a fragment, and comprises the amino acid residues of the protein often
     required to confer activity or function.
              As used herein, "simultaneously" is used to mean that the one or more agents of the
      invention are administered concurrently, whereas the term "in combination" is used to mean
30    they are administered, if not simultaneously or in physical combination, then "sequentially"
      within a timeframe that they both are available to act therapeutically. Thus, administration
      "sequentially" may permit one agent to be administered within minutes (for example, 1, 2, 3,
                                                                                              the other
      4, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30) minutes or a matter of hours, days, weeks or months after

  provided that both the one or more anti-connexin agents and one or more therapeutic agents,
  agents useful for wound healing, and/or gap junction modifying agents are concurrently
  present in effective amounts. The time delay between administration or administrations of
  the components will vary depending on the exact nature of the components, the interaction
  there between, and their respective half-lives.
           By "wound" is meant an injury to any tissue, including for example, acute, subacute,
  delayed or difficult to heal wounds, and chronic wounds. Examples of wounds may include
  both open and closed wounds. Wounds include, for example, bums, incisions, excisions,
  lacerations, abrasions, puncture or penetrating wounds, surgical wounds, contusions,
  hematomas, crushing injuries, and ulcers.
           As described herein, a delayed or difficult to heal wound may include, for example, a
   wound that is characterized at least in part by one or more of 1) a prolonged inflammatory
   phase, 2.) a slow forming extracellular matrix (ECM), and 3) a stalled or decreased rate of
   epithelialization.
           As used herein, chronic wound may refer to, for example, a wound that is
   characterized at least in part by one or more of 1) a chronic self-perpetuating state of wound
   inflammation, 2) a deficient and defective wound ECM, 3) poorly responding (senescent)
   wound cells especially fibroblasts, limiting ECM production, and 4) failure of re
   epithelialization due in part to lack of the necessary ECM orchestration and lack of scaffold
   for migration. Chronic wounds include venous ulcers, arterial ulcers, pressure ulcers,
   vasculitic ulcers, and diabetic ulcers.
            The term "dressing" refers to a dressing for topical application to a wound and
   excludes compositions suitable for systemic administration. For example, the one or more
    anti-connexin agents and or the one or more agents useful for wound healing, therapeutic
5   agents, and/or gap junction modifying agents may be dispersed in or on a solid sheet of
    wound contacting material such as a woven or nonwoven textile material, or may be
    dispersed in a layer of foam such as polyurethane foam, or in a hydrogel such as a
    polyurethane hydrogel, a polyacrylate hydrogel, gelatin, carboxymethyl cellulose, pectin,
    alginate, and/or hyaluronic acid hydrogel, for example in a gel or ointment. In certain
0   embodiments the anti-connexin agent and/or said one or more agents useful for wound
    healing, therapeutic agents, and/or gap junction modifying agents are dispersed in or on a
    biodegradable sheet material that provides sustained release of the active ingredients into the
    wound, for example a sheet of freeze-dried collagen, freeze-dried collagen/alginate mixtures

   (available under the Registered Trade Mark FIBRACOL from Johnson & Johnson Medical
   Limited) or freeze-dried collagen/oxidized regenerated cellulose (available under the
   Registered Trade Mark PROMOGRAN from Johnson & Johnson Medical Limited).
             As used herein, "matrix" includes for example, matrices such as collagen, acellular
   matrix, crosslinked biological scaffold molecules, tissue based bioengineered structural
   framework, biomanufactured bioprostheses, and other implanted structures such as for
    example, vascular grafts suitable for cell infiltration and proliferation useful in the promotion
    of wound healing. Additional suitable biomatrix material may include chemically modified
    collagenous tissue to reduce antigenicity and immunogenicity. Other suitable examples
    include collagen sheets for wound dressings, antigen-free or antigen reduced acellular matrix
    (Wilson et al., Trans Am Soc Artif Intern 1990; 36:340-343) or other biomatrix which have
    been engineered to reduce the antigenic response to the xenograft material. Other matrix
    useful in promotion of wound healing may include for example, processed bovine
    pericardium proteins comprising insoluble collagen and elastin (Courtman et al., J Biomed
    Mater Res 1994; 28:655-666) and other acellular tissue which may be useful for providing a
     natural microenvironment for host cell migration to accelerate tissue regeneration (Malone et
     al., J Vasc Surg 1984; 1:181-91).        In certain embodiments, the matrix material may be
     supplemented with agents useful for wound healing such as growth factors or other wound
     healing promoting agents for site specific release, therapeutic agents, and/or gap junction
 I   modifying agents.
     Wounds and Wound Classification
              In addition to the definition previously provided, the term "wound" may also include
     for example, injuries to the skin and subcutaneous tissue initiated in different ways (e.g.,
     pressure sores from extended bed rest and wounds induced by trauma) and with varying
5    characteristics. Wounds may be classified into one of four grades depending on the depth of
     the wound: i) Grade I: wounds limited to the epithelium; ii) Grade II: wounds extending into
     the dermis; iii) Grade III: wounds extending into the subcutaneous tissue; and iv) Grade IV
      (or full-thickness wounds): wounds wherein bones are exposed (e.g., a bony pressure point
      such as the greater trochanter or the sacrum). The term "partial thickness wound" refers to
0     wounds that encompass Grades I-III; examples of partial thickness wounds include burn
      wounds, pressure sores, venous stasis ulcers, and diabetic ulcers. The term "deep wound" is
      meant to include both Grade III and Grade IV wounds. The compositions and methods of the
      present invention contemplate treating all wound types, including deep wounds and chronic

  wounds. The term "chronic wound" refers to a wound that has not healed. Preferably, it is
  selected from the group consisting of venous ulcers, pressure sores, vasculitic ulcers, diabetic
  ulcers and decubitus ulcers.     Chronic skin wounds include, for example, pressure ulcers,
  diabetic ulcers, venous ulcers, vasculitic ulcers, arterial ulcers, and mixed ulcers.        The
  chronic wound may be an arterial ulcer which comprises ulcerations resulting from complete
  or partial arterial blockage. The chronic wound may be a venous stasis ulcer which
  comprises ulcerations resulting from a malfunction of the venous valve and the associated
  vascular disease. The chronic wound may be a trauma-induced ulcer, a diabetic ulcer, or a
  vasculitic ulcer.
            Pressure ulcer: Pressure ulcers may be classified into 4 stages based on AHCPR
  (Agency for Health Care Policy and Research, U.S. Department of Health and Human
   Services) guidelines: Stage 1: A stage I pressure ulcer is an observable pressure related
   alteration of intact skin whose indicators as compared to the adjacent or opposite area on the
   body may include changes in one or more of the following: skin temperature (warmth or
   coolness), tissue consistency (firm or boggy feel) and/or sensation (pain, itching). The ulcer
   appears as a defined area of persistent redness in lightly pigmented skin, whereas in darker
   skin tones, the ulcer may appear with persistent red, blue, or purple hues. Stage 1 ulceration
   may include nonblanchable erythema of intact skin and the heralding lesion of skin
   ulceration. In individuals with darker skin, discoloration of the skin, warmth, edema,
I  induration, or hardness may also be indicators of stage 1 ulceration.           Stage 2: stage 2
   ulceration may be characterized by partial thickness skin loss involving epidermis, dermis, or
   both. The ulcer is superficial and presents clinically as an abrasion, blister, or shallow crater.
   Stage 3: stage 3 ulceration may be characterized by full thickness skin loss involving damage
   to or necrosis of subcutaneous tissue that may extend down to, but not through, underlying
5   fascia. The ulcer presents clinically as a deep crater with or without undermining of adjacent
    tissue. Stage 4: stage 4 ulceration may be characterized by full thickness skin loss with
    extensive destruction, tissue necrosis, or damage to muscle, bone, or supporting structures
    (e.g., tendon, joint capsule). In certain embodiments compositions and methods of treating a
    chronic wound are provided where the chronic wound is characterized by one or more of the
0   following AHCPR stages of pressure ulceration: stage 1, stage 2, stage 3, and/or stage 4.
             Decubitus ulcers: Decubitus ulcer may arise as a result of prolonged and unrelieved
    pressure over a bony prominence that leads to ischemia. The wound tends to occur in
    patients who are unable to reposition themselves to off-load weight, such as paralyzed,

   unconscious, or severely debilitated persons. As defined by the U.S. Department of Health
   and Human Services, the major preventive measures include identification of high-risk
   patients; frequent assessment; and prophylactic measures such as scheduled repositioning,
                                                                                              status.
   appropriate pressure-relief bedding, moisture barriers, and adequate nutritional
   Treatment options may include for example, pressure relief, surgical and enzymatic
   debridement, moist wound care, and control of the bacterial load. In certain embodiments
   compositions and methods of treating a chronic wound are provided wherein the chronic
   wound is characterized by decubitus ulcer or ulceration which results from prolonged,
   unrelieved pressure over a bony prominence that leads to ischemia.
             Arterial ulcers: Arterial ulcers may be characterized by complete or partial arterial
    blockage which may lead to tissue necrosis and/or ulceration. Signs of arterial ulcer may
    include, for example, pulselessness of the extremity; painful ulceration; small, punctate ulcers
    that are usually well circumscribed; cool or cold skin; delayed capillary return time (briefly
                                                                                                    3
    push on the end of the toe and release, normal color should return to the toe in about
    seconds or less); atrophic appearing skin (for example, shiny, thin, dry); and loss of digital
                                                                                             chronic
     and pedal hair. In certain embodiments compositions and methods of treating a
     wound are provided wherein the chronic wound is characterized by arterial ulcers or
     ulcerations due to complete or partial arterial blockage.
             Venous ulcers: Venous ulcers are the most common type of ulcer affecting the lower
     extremities and may be characterized by malfunction of the venous valve. The normal vein
     has valves that prevent the backflow of blood. When these valves become incompetent, the
     backflow of venous blood causes venous congestion. Hemoglobin from the red blood cells
     escapes and leaks into the extravascular space, causing the brownish discoloration commonly
     noted. It has been shown that the transcutaneous oxygen pressure of the skin surrounding a
5    venous ulcer is decreased, suggesting that there are forces obstructing the normal vascularity
     of the area. Lymphatic drainage and flow also plays a role in these ulcers. The venous ulcer
     may appear near the medial malleolus and usually occurs in combination with an edematous
      and indurated lower extremity; it may be shallow, not too painful and may present with a
      weeping discharge from the affected site. In certain embodiments compositions and methods
30    of treating a chronic wound are provided wherein the chronic wound is characterized by
      venous ulcers or ulcerations due to malfunction of the venous valve and the associated
      vascular disease.

           Venous stasis ulcers: Venous stasis ulcer may be characterized by chronic passive
  venous congestion of the lower extremities results in local hypoxia. One possible mechanism
  of pathogenesis of these wounds includes the impediment of oxygen diffusion into the tissue
  across thick perivascular fibrin cuffs. Another mechanism is that macromolecules leaking
  into the perivascular tissue trap growth factors needed for the maintenance of skin integrity.
  Additionally, the flow of large white blood cells slows due to venous congestion, occluding
  capillaries, becoming activated, and damaging the vascular endothelium to predispose to
  ulcer formation.      Thus, in certain embodiments compositions and method of treating a
  chronic wound are provided wherein the chronic wound is characterized by venous stasis
  ulcers or ulcerations due to chronic passive venous congestion of the lower extremities and/or
  the resulting local hypoxia.
           Diabetic Ulcers: Diabetic patients are prone to foot and other ulcerations due to both
  neurologic and vascular complications. Peripheral neuropathy can cause altered or complete
  loss of sensation in the foot and /or leg. Diabetic patients with advanced neuropathy looses
   all ability for sharp-dull discrimination. Any cuts or trauma to the foot may go completely
  unnoticed for days or weeks in a patient with neuropathy.             A patient with advanced
   neuropathy looses the ability to sense a sustained pressure insult, as a result, tissue ischemia
   and necrosis may occur leading to for example, plantar ulcerations. Microvascular disease is
   one of the significant complication for diabetics which may also lead to ulcerations. In
   certain embodiments compositions and methods of treating a chronic wound are provided
   wherein the chronic wound is characterized by diabetic foot ulcers and/or ulcerations due to
   neurologic. and/or vascular complications of diabetes.
            Traumatic Ulcers: Formation of traumatic ulcers may occur as a result of traumatic
   injuries to the body. These injuries include, for example, compromises to the arterial, venous
5  or lymphatic systems; changes to the bony architecture of the skeleton; loss of tissue layers
   epidermis, dermis, subcutaneous soft tissue, muscle or bone; damage to body parts or organs
   and loss of body parts or organs. In certain embodiments, compositions and methods of
   treating a chronic wound are provided wherein the chronic wound is characterized by
   ulcerations associated with traumatic injuries to the body.
0           Bum ulcers: Ulceration may also occur as a result of a bum injury, including 1st
   degree bum (i.e., superficial, reddened area of skin); 2nd degree bum (a blistered injury site
   which may heal spontaneously after the blister fluid has been removed); 3rd degree bum
   (bum through the entire skin and usually require surgical intervention for wound healing);

  scalding (may occur from scalding hot water, grease or radiator fluid); thermal (may occur
  from flames, usually deep bums); chemical (may come from acid and alkali, usually deep
  bums); electrical (either low voltage around a house or high voltage at work); explosion flash
  (usually superficial injuries); and contact bums (usually deep and may occur from muffler tail
  pipes, hot irons and stoves). In certain embodiments, compositions and methods of treating a
  chronic wound are provided wherein the chronic wound is characterized by ulcerations
  associated with bum injuries to the body.
  Anti-Connexin Agents
           Anti-connexin agents of the invention described herein are capable of modulating or
  affecting the transport of molecules into and out of cells (e.g., blocking or inhibiting or
  downregulating).     Thus certain anti-connexin agents described herein modulate cellular
  communication (e.g., cell to cell).         Certain anti-connexin agents modulate or effect
  transmission of molecules between the cell cytoplasm and the periplasmic or extracellular
  space.    Such anti-connexin agents are generally targeted to connexins and/or connexin
  hemichannels (connexons).         Hemichannels and resulting gap junctions that comprise
  connexins are independently involved in the release or exchange of small molecules between
  the cell cytoplasm and an extracellular space or tissue in the case of open hemichannels, and
  between the cytoplasm of adjoining cell in the case of open gap junctions. Thus, an anti
  connexin agents provided herein may directly or indirectly reduce coupling and
  communication between cells or reduce or block communication (or the transmission of
  molecules) between a cell and extracellular space or tissue, and the modulation of transport of
  molecules from a cell into an extracellular space or tissue (or from an extracellular space or
  tissue into a cell) or between adjoining cells is within the scope of anti-connexin agents and
  embodiments of the invention.
5          Any anti-connexin agent that is capable of eliciting a desired inhibition of the passage
  (e.g. transport) of molecules through a gap junction or connexin hemichannel may be used in
  embodiments of the invention. Any anti-connexin agents that modulates the passage of
  molecules through a gap junction or connexin hemichannel are also provided in particular
  embodiments (e.g., those that modulate, block or lessen the passage of molecules from the
0 cytoplasm of a cell into an extracellular space or adjoining cell cytoplasm).          Such anti
  connexin agents may modulate the passage of molecules through a gap junction or connexin
  hemichannel with or without gap junction uncoupling (blocking the transport of molecules
  through gap junctions). Such compounds include, for example, proteins and polypeptides,

  polynucleotides, and other organic compounds, and they may, for example block the function
  or expression of a gap junction or a hemichannel in whole or in part, or downregulate the
  production of a connexin in whole or in part. Certain gap junction inhibitors are listed in
  Evans, W.H. and Boitano, S. Biochem. Soc. Trans. 29: 606-612 (2001).
           Certain anti-connexin agents provide downregulation of connexin expression (for
  example, by downregulation of mRNA transcription or translation) or otherwise decrease or
  inhibit the activity of a connexin protein, a connexin hemichannel or a gap junction. In the
  case of downregulation, this will have the effect of reducing direct cell-cell communication
  by gap junctions, or exposure of cell cytoplasm to the extracellular space by hemichannels, at
  the site at which connexin expression is downregulated.
           Examples of anti-connexin agents include agents that decrease or inhibit expression or
   function of connexin mRNA and/or protein or that decrease activity, expression or formation
   of a connexin, a connexin hemichannel or a gap junction. Anti-connexin agents include anti
   connexin polynucleotides, such as antisense polynucleotides and other polynucleotides (such
   as polynucleotides having siRNA or ribozyme functionalities), as well as antibodies and
   binding fragments thereof, and peptides and polypeptides, including peptidomimetics and
   peptide analogs that modulate hemichannel or gap junction activity or function.
           Anti-Connexin Polynucleotides
           Anti-connexin polynucleotides include connexin antisense polynucleotides as well as
   polynucleotides which have functionalities which enable them to downregulate connexin
    expression. Other suitable anti-connexin polynucleotides include RNAi polynucleotides and
    siRNA polynucleotides.
            Synthesis of antisense polynucleotides and other anti-connexin polynucleotides such
    as RNAi, siRNA, and ribozyme polynucleotides as well as polynucleotides having modified
5   and mixed backbones is known to those of.skill in the art. See e.g. Stein C.A. and Krieg
    A.M. (eds), Applied Antisense Oligonucleotide Technology, 1998 (Wiley-Liss). Methods of
    synthesizing antibodies and binding fragments as well as peptides and polypeptides,
    including peptidomimetics and peptide analogs are known to those of skill in the art. See e.g.
    Lihu Yang et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A., 1; 95(18): 10836-10841 (Sept 1 1998);
0   Harlow and Lane (1988) "Antibodies: A Laboratory Manuel" Cold Spring Harbor
    Publications, New York; Harlow and Lane (1999) "Using Antibodies" A Laboratory Manuel,
    Cold Spring Harbor Publications, New York.

          According to one aspect, the downregulation of connexin expression may be based
  generally upon the antisense approach using antisense polynucleotides (such as DNA or RNA
 polynucleotides), and more particularly upon the use of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides
 (ODN).      These polynucleotides (e.g., ODN) target the connexin protein (s) to be
 downregulated. Typically the polynucleotides are single stranded, but may be double
 stranded.
          The antisense polynucleotide may inhibit transcription and/or translation of a
 connexin. Preferably the polynucleotide is a specific inhibitor of transcription and/or
 translation from the connexin gene or mRNA, and does not inhibit transcription and/or
 translation from other genes or mRNAs. The product may bind to the connexin gene or
 mRNA either (i) 5' to the coding sequence, and/or (ii) to the coding sequence, and/or (iii) 3'
 to the coding sequence.
         The antisense polynucleotide is generally antisense to a connexin mRNA. Such a
 polynucleotide may be capable of hybridizing to the connexin mRNA and may thus inhibit
 the expression of connexin by interfering with one or more aspects of c6nnexin mRNA
metabolism including transcription, mRNA processing, mRNA transport from the nucleus,
 translation or mRNA degradation. The antisense polynucleotide typically hybridizes to the
 connexin mRNA to form a duplex which can cause direct inhibition of translation and/or
destabilization of the mRNA. Such a duplex may be susceptible to degradation by nucleases.
         The antisense polynucleotide may hybridize to all or part of the connexin mRNA.
Typically the antisense polynucleotide hybridizes to the ribosome binding region or the
coding region of the connexin mRNA. The-polynucleotide may be complementary to all of
or a region of the connexin mRNA.          For example, the polynucleotide may be the exact
complement of all or a part of connexin mRNA. However, absolute complementarity is not
required and polynucleotides which have sufficient complementarity to form a duplex having
a melting temperature of greater than about 20"C, 300 C or 40*C under physiological
conditions are particularly suitable for use in the present invention.
         Thus the polynucleotide is typically a homologue of a sequence complementary to the
mRNA. The polynucleotide may be a polynucleotide which hybridizes to the connexin
mRNA under conditions of medium to high stringency such as 0.03M sodium chloride and
0.03M sodium citrate at from about 50"C to about 60"C.
         For certain aspects, suitable polynucleotides are typically from about 6 to 40
nucleotides in length. Preferably a polynucleotide may be from about 12 to about 35

   nucleotides in length, or alternatively from about 12 to about 20 nucleotides in length or more
   preferably from about 18 to about 32 nucleotides in length. According to an alternative
   aspect, the polynucleotide may be at least about 40, for example at least about 60 or at least
   about 80, nucleotides in length and up to about 100, about 200, about 300, about 400, about
   500, about 1000, about 2000 or about 3000 or more nucleotides in length.
           The connexin protein or proteins targeted by the polynucleotide will be dependent
   upon the site at which downregulation is to be effected. This reflects the non-uniform make
   up of gap junction(s) at different sites throughout the body in terms of connexin sub-unit
   composition. The connexin is a connexin that naturally occurs in a human or animal in one
   aspect or naturally occurs in the tissue in which connexin expression or activity is to be
  decreased. The connexin gene (including coding sequence) generally has homology with the
  coding sequence of one or more of the specific connexins mentioned herein, such as
  homology with the connexin 43 coding sequence shown in Table 8.                The connexin is
  typically an a or 1 connexin. Preferably the connexin is an a connexin and is expressed in the
  tissue to be treated.
           Some connexin proteins are however more ubiquitous than others in terms of
  distribution in tissue. One of the most widespread is connexin 43. Polynucleotides targeted
  to connexin 43 are particularly suitable for use in the present invention. In other aspects
  other connexins are targeted.
          Anti-connexin polynucleotides include connexin antisense polynucleotides as well as
  polynucleotides which have functionalities which enable them to downregulate connexin
  expression. Other suitable anti-connexin polynucleotides include RNAi polynucleotides and
  SiRNA polynucleotides.
          In one preferred aspect, the antisense polynucleotides are targeted to the mRNA of
5 one connexin protein only. Most preferably, this connexin protein is connexin 43. In another
  aspect, connexin protein is connexin 26, 30, 31.1, 32, 36, 37, 40, or 45. In other aspects, the
  connexin protein is connexin 30.3, 31, 40.1, or 46.6.
          It is also contemplated that polynucleotides targeted to separate connexin proteins be
  used in combination (for example 1, 2, 3, 4 or more different connexins may be targeted).
  For example, polynucleotides targeted to connexin 43, and one or more other members of the
  connexin family (such as connexin 26, 30, 30.3, 31.1, 32, 36, 37, 40, 40.1, 45, and 46.6) can
  be used in combination.

            Alternatively, the antisense polynucleotides may be part of compositions which may
    comprise polynucleotides to more than one connexin protein. Preferably, one of the connexin
    proteins to which polynucleotides are directed is connexin 43. Other connexin proteins to
    which oligodeoxynucleotides are directed may include, for example, connexins 26, 30, 30.3,
 5  31.1, 32, 36, 37, 40, 40.1, 45, and 46.6. Suitable exemplary polynucleotides (and ODNs)
    directed to various connexins are set forth in Table 1.
            Individual antisense polynucleotides may be specific to a particular connexin, or may
    target 1, 2, 3 or more different connexins.     Specific polynucleotides will generally target
    sequences in the connexin gene or mRNA which are not conserved between connexins,
    whereas non-specific polynucleotides will target conserved sequences for various connexins.
            The polynucleotides for use in the invention may suitably be unmodified
    phosphodiester oligomers.     Such oligodeoxynucleotides may vary in length.       A 30 mer
    polynucleotide has been found to be particularly suitable.
            Many aspects of the invention are described with reference to oligodeoxynucleotides.
    However it is understood that other suitable polynucleotides (such as RNA polynucleotides)
   may be used in these aspects.
           The antisense polynucleotides may be chemically modified. This may enhance their
   resistance to nucleases and may enhance their ability to enter cells. For example,
   phosphorothioate oligonucleotides may be used. Other deoxynucleotide analogs include
   methylphosphonates, phosphoramidates, phosphorodithioates, N3'P5'-phosphoramidates and
   oligoribonucleotide phosphorothioates and their 2'-O-alkyl analogs and 2'-0
   methylribonucleotide methylphosphonates. Alternatively mixed backbone oligonucleotides
   ("MBOs") may be used. MBOs contain segments of phosphothioate oligodeoxynucleotides
   and appropriately placed segments of modified oligodeoxy-or oligoribonucleotides. MBOs
5  have segments of phosphorothioate linkages and other segments of other modified
   oligonucleotides, such as methylphosphonate, which is non-ionic, and very resistant to
   nucleases or 2'-O-alkyloligoribonucleotides.     Methods of preparing modified backbone and
   mixed backbone oligonucleotides are known in. the art.
           The precise sequence of the antisense polynucleotide used in the invention will
   depend upon the target connexin protein. In one embodiment, suitable connexin antisense
   polynucleotides can include polynucleotides such as oligodeoxynucleotides selected from the
   following sequences set forth in Table 1:

  TABLE 1
  5' GTA ATF GCG GCA AGA AGA ATT GTT TCT GTC 3'                  (connexin 43)       (SEQ.ID.NO:1)
  5' GTA ATT GCG GCA GGA GGA ATT GTT TCT GTC 3'                  (connexin 43)       (SEQ.ID.NO:2)
  5' GGC AAG AGA CAC CAA AGA CAC TAC CAG CAT 3'                  (connexin 43)       (SEQ.ID.NO:3)
  5' TCC TGA GCA ATA CCT AAC GAA CAA ATA 3'                      (connexin 26)       (SEQ.ID.NO:4)
  5' CAT CTC CTT GGT GCT CAA CC 3'                               (connexin 37)       (SEQ.ID.NO:5)
 5' CTG AAG TCG ACT TGG CTT GG 3'                                (connexin 37)       (SEQ.ID.NO:6)
 5' CTC AGA TAG TGG CCA GAA TGC 3'                               (connexin 30)      (SEQ.ID.NO:7)
 5' TTG TCC AGG TGA CTC CAA GG 3'                               (connexin 30)       (SEQ.ID.NO:8)
 5' CGT CCG AGC CCA GAA AGA TGA GGT C 3'                        (connexin 31.1)     (SEQ.ID.NO:9)
 5' AGA GGC GCA CGT GAG ACA C 3'                                (connexin 31.1)     (SEQ.ID.NO:10)
 5' TGA AGA CAA TGA AGA TGT T 3'                                (connexin 31.1)     (SEQ.ID.NO:11)
 5' TTT CTT TTC TAT GTG CTG TTG GTG A 3'                        (connexin 32)       (SEQ.ID.NO:12)
         Suitable polynucleotides for the preparation of the combined polynucleotide
 compositions described herein include for example, polynucleotides to Connexin Cx43 and
 polynucleotides for connexins 26, 30, 31.1, 32 and 37 as described in Table I above.
         Although the precise sequence of the antisense polynucleotide used in the invention
will depend upon the target connexin protein, for connexin 43, antisense polynucleotides
having the following sequences have been found to be particularly suitable:
GTA      ATT     GCG    GCA    AGA      AGA     ATT    GTT     TCT     GTC      (SEQ.ID.NO:1);
GTA ATT GCG GCA GGA GGA ATT GTT TCT GTC (SEQ.ID.NO:2);                                       and
GGC AAG AGA CAC CAA AGA CAC TAC CAG CAT (SEQ.ID.NO:3).
        For example, suitable antisense polynucleotides for connexins 26, 31.1 and 32 have
the following sequences:

    5' TCC TGA GCA ATA CCT AAC GAA CAA ATA (connexin 26) (SEQ.ID.NO:4);
    5' CGT CCG AGC CCA GAA AGA TGA GGT C (connexin 31.1) (SEQ.ID.NO:9); and
    5' TTT CTT TTC TAT GTG CTG TTG GTG A (connexin 32) (SEQ.ID.NO:12).
    Other connexin antisense polynucleotide sequences useful according to the methods of the
 5  present invention include:
    5' CAT CTC CTT GGT GCT CAA CC 3' (connexin 37) (SEQ.ID.NO: 5);
    5' CTG AAG TCG ACT TGG CTT GG 3' (connexin 37) (SEQ.ID.NO: 6);
    5' CTC AGA TAG TGG CCA GAA TGC 3' (connexin 30) (SEQ.ID.NO: 7);
    5' TTG TCC AGG TGA CTC CAA GG 3' (connexin 30) (SEQ.ID.NO: 8);
    5' AGA GGC GCA CGT GAG ACA C 3' (connexin 31.1) (SEQ.ID.NO: 10); and
    5' TGA AGA CAA TGA AGA TGT T 3' (connexin 31.1) (SEQ.ID.NO: 11).
   Polynucleotides, including ODN's, directed to connexin proteins can be selected in terms of
   their nucleotide sequence by any convenient, and conventional, approach. For example, the
   computer programs MacVector and OligoTech (from Oligos etc. Eugene, Oregon, USA) can
 i be used. Once selected, the ODN's can be synthesized using a DNA synthesizer.
           Polynucleotide Homologues
           Homology and homologues are discussed herein (for example, the polynucleotide
   may be a homologue of a complement to a sequence in connexin mRNA).                   Such a
   polynucleotide typically has at least about 70% homology, preferably at least about 80%, at
0  least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about 97% or at least about 99% homology with
   the relevant sequence, for example over a region of at least about 15, at least about 20, at
   least about 40, at least about 100 more contiguous nucleotides (of the homologous sequence).
           Homology may be calculated based, on any method in the art. For example the
   UWGCG Package provides the BESTFIT program which can be used to calculate homology
5  (for example used on its default settings) (Devereux et al (1984) Nucleic Acids Research 12,
   p387-395). The PILEUP and BLAST algorithms can be used to calculate homology or line
   up sequences (typically on their default settings), for example as described in Altschul S. F.
   (1993) J Mol Evol 36: 290-300; Altschul, S, F et al (1990) J Mol Biol 215: 403-10.
           Software for performing BLAST analyses is publicly available through the National
0  Center for Biotechnology Information (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/).          This algorithm

  involves first identifying high scoring sequence pair (HSPs) by identifying short words of
  length W in the query sequence that either match or satisfy some positive-valued threshold
  score T when aligned with a word of the same length in a database sequence. T is referred to
  as the neighbourhood word score threshold (Altschul et al, supra).                 These initial
  neighbourhood word hits act as seeds for initiating searches to find HSPs containing them.
  The word hits are extended in both directions along each sequence for as far as the
  cumulative alignment score can be increased. Extensions for the word hits in each direction
   are halted when: the cumulative alignment score falls off by the quantity X from its
  maximum achieved value; the cumulative score goes to zero or below, due to the
   accumulation of one or more negative-scoring residue alignments; or the end of either
   sequence is reached.
            The BLAST algorithm parameters W, T and X determine the sensitivity and speed of
   the alignment. The BLAST program uses as defaults a word length (W), the BLOSUM62
   scoring matrix (see Henikoff and Henikoff (1992) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89: 10915
    10919) alignments (B) of 50, expectation (E) of 10, M=5, N=4, and a comparison of both
   strands.
            The BLAST algorithm performs a statistical analysis of the similarity between two
    sequences; see e.g., Karlin and Altschul (1993) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90: 5873-5787.
    One measure of similarity provided by the BLAST algorithm is the smallest sum probability
    (P(N)), which provides an indication of the probability by which a match between two
    nucleotide or amino acid sequences would occur by chance. For example, a sequence is
    considered similar to another sequence if the smallest sum probability in comparison of the
    first sequence to a second sequence is less than about 1, preferably less than about 0.1, more
    preferably less than about 0.01, and most preferably less than about 0.001.
5            The homologous sequence typically differs from the relevant sequence by at least
    about (or by no more than about) 2, 5, 10, 15, 20 more mutations (which may be
    substitutions, deletions or insertions). These mutations may be measured across any of the
    regions mentioned above in relation to calculating homology.
             The homologous sequence typically hybridizes selectively to the original sequence at
0   a level significantly above background. Selective hybridization is typically achieved using
     conditions of medium to high stringency (for example 0.03M sodium chloride and 0.03M
     sodium citrate at from about 500C to about 60"C). However, such hybridization may be
     carried out under any suitable conditions known in the art (see Sambrook et al. (1989),

  Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual).            For example, if high stringency is required,
  suitable conditions include 0.2 x SSC at 60"C. If lower stringency is required, suitable
  conditions include 2 x SSC at 60*C.
           Peptide and Polypeptide Anti-Connexin Agents
           Binding    proteins,   including peptides,      peptidomimetics,   antibodies,  antibody
  fragments, and the like, are also suitable modulators of gap junctions and hemichannels.
           Binding proteins include, for example, monoclonal antibodies, polyclonal antibodies,
  antibody fragments (including, for example, Fab, F(ab') 2 and Fv fragments; single chain
  antibodies; single chain Fvs; and single chain binding molecules such as those comprising,
  for example, a binding domain, hinge, CH2 and CH3 domains, recombinant antibodies and
  antibody fragments which are capable of binding an antigenic determinant (i.e., that portion
  of a molecule, generally referred to as an epitope) that makes contact with a particular
  antibody or other binding molecule. These binding proteins, including antibodies, antibody
   fragments, and so on, may be chimeric or humanized or otherwise made to be less
   immunogenic in the subject to whom they are to be administered, and may be synthesized,
   produced recombinantly, or produced in expression libraries. Any binding molecule known
   in the art or later discovered is envisioned, such as those referenced herein and/or described
   in greater detail in the art. For example, binding proteins include not only antibodies, and the
   like, but also ligands, receptors, peptidomimetics, or other binding fragments or molecules
   (for example, produced by phage display) that bind to a target (e.g. connexin, hemichannel,
   or associated molecules).
            Binding molecules will generally have a desired specificity, including but not limited
   to binding specificity, and desired affinity. Affinity, for example, may be a Ka of greater than
   or equal to about 104 M-, greater than or equal to about 106 M-, greater than or equal to
5   about 10' M_', greater than or equal to about 108 M-1. Affinities of even greater than about
    108 M-   are suitable, such as affinities equal to or greater than about 109 M~', about 1010 M',
    about 1011 M-, and about 1012 M'. Affinities of binding proteins according to the present
    invention can be readily determined using conventional techniques, for example those
    described by Scatchard et al., 1949 Ann. NY. Acad. Sci. 51: 660.
0           By using data obtained from hydropathy plots, it has been proposed that a connexin
    contains four-transmembrane-spanning regions and two short extra-cellular loops. The
    positioning of the first and second extracellular regions of connexin was further characterized
    by the reported production of anti-peptide antibodies used for immunolocalization of the

   corresponding epitopes on split gap junctions. Goodenough D.A. J Cell Biol 107: 1817-1824
   (1988); Meyer R.A., J Cell Biol 119: 179-189 (1992).
             The extracellular domains of a hemichannel contributed by two adjacent cells "dock"
   with each other to form complete gap junction channels. Reagents that interfere with the
   interactions of these extracellular domains can impair cell-to-cell communication. Peptide
   inhibitors of gap junctions and hemichannels have been reported. See for example Berthoud,
   V.M. et al., Am J. Physiol. Lung Cell Mol. Physiol. 279: L619 - L622 (2000); Evans, W.H.
   and Boitano, S. Biochem. Soc. Trans. 29: 606 - 612, and De Vriese A.S., et al. Kidney Int.
    61: 177 - 185 (2001). Short peptides corresponding to sequences within the extracellular
    loops of connexins were said to inhibit intercellular communication. Boitano S. and Evans
    W. Am J Physiol Lung Cell Mol Physiol 279: L623-L630 (2000). The use of peptides as
    inhibitors of cell-cell channel formation produced by connexin (Cx) 32 expressed in paired
   Xenopus oocytes has also been reported. Dahl G, et al., Biophys J 67: 1816-1822 (1994).
    Berthoud, V.M. and Seul, K.H., summarized some of these results. Am J., Physiol. Lung Cell
    Mol. Physiol. 279: L619 - L622 (2000).
             Anti-connexin agents include peptides         comprising an amino acid sequence
    corresponding to a transmembrane region (e.g. 1"to 4th) of a connexin (e.g. connexin 45, 43,
    26, 30, 31.1, and 37). Anti-connexin agents may comprise a peptide comprising an amino
    acid sequence corresponding to a portion of a transmembrane region of a connexin 45. Anti
 I   connexin agents include a peptide having an amino acid sequence that comprises about 5 to
     20 contiguous amino acids of SEQ.ID.NO: 13, a peptide having an amino acid sequence that
     comprises about 8 to 15 contiguous amino acids of SEQ.ID.NO:13, or a peptide having an
     amino acid sequence that comprises about 11 to 13 contiguous amino acids of
     SEQ.ID.NO:13. Other embodiments are directed to an anti-connexin agent that is a peptide
5    having an amino acid sequence that comprises at least about 5, at least about 6, at least about
     7, at least about 8, at least about 9, at least about 10, at least about 11, at least about 12, at
     least about 13, at least about 14, at least about 15, at least about 20, at least about 25, or at
     least about 30 contiguous amino acids of SEQ.ID.NO:13. In certain anti-connexin agents
     provided herein, the extracellular domains of connexin 45 corresponding to the amino acids
0    at positions 46-75 and 199-228 of SEQ ID NO: 13 may be used to develop the particular
     peptide sequences.       Certain peptides described herein have an amino acid sequence
     corresponding to the regions at positions 46-75 and 199-228 of SEQ.ID.NO: 13. The
     peptides need not have an amino acid sequence identical to those portions of SEQ.ID.NO: 13,

   and conservative amino acid changes may be made such that the peptides retain binding
   activity or functional activity. Alternatively, the peptide may target regions of the connexin
   protein other than the extracellular domains (e.g. the portions of SEQ.ID.NO:13 not
   corresponding to positions 46-75 and 199-228).
           Also, suitable anti-connexin agents comprise a peptide comprising an amino acid
   sequence corresponding to a portion of a transmembrane region of a connexin 43. Anti
   connexin agents include peptides having an amino acid sequence that comprises about 5 to 20
   contiguous amino acids of SEQ.ID.NO:14, peptides having an amino acid sequence that
   comprises about 8 to 15 contiguous amino acids of SEQ.ID.NO:14, or peptides having an
   amino acid sequence that comprises about 11 to 13 contiguous amino acids of
   SEQ.ID.NO: 14. Other anti-connexin agents include a peptide having an amino acid sequence
   that comprises at least about 5, at least about 6, at least about 7, at least about 8, at least about
   9, at least about 10, at least about 11, at least about 12, at least about 13, at least about 14, at
   least about 15, at least about 20, at least about 25, or at least about 30 contiguous amino acids
    of SEQ.ID.NO:14.        Other anti-connexin agents comprise the extracellular domains of
    connexin 43 corresponding to the amino acids at positions 37-76 and 178-208 of
    SEQ.ID.NO: 14. Anti-connexin agents include peptides described herein which have an
    amino acid sequence corresponding to the regions at positions 37-76 and 178-208 of
    SEQ.ID.NO: 14. The peptides need not have an amino acid sequence identical to those
    portions of SEQ.ID.NO: 14, and conservative amino acid changes may be made such that the
    peptides retain binding activity or functional activity. Alternatively, peptides may target
    regions of the connexin protein other than the extracellular domains (e.g. the portions of
    SEQ.ID.NO:14 not corresponding to positions 37-76 and 178-208).
    Connexin 45      (SEQ ID NO.13)
5
    Met Ser Trp Ser Phe Leu Thr Arg Leu Leu Glu Glu Ile His Asn His
     1                   5                          10                         15
     Ser Thr Phe Val Gly Lys Ile Trp Leu Thr Val Leu Ile Val Phe Arg
0                   20                         25                         30
     Ile Val Leu Thr Ala Val Gly Gly Glu Ser Ile Tyr Tyr Asp Glu Gln
               35                         40                         45
5    Ser Lys Phe Val Cys Asn Thr Glu Gln Pro Gly Cys Glu Asn Val Cys
          50                        55                         60
     Tyr Asp Ala Phe Ala Pro Leu Ser His Val Arg Phe Trp Val Phe Gln
     65                        70                         75                        8.0
0o

   Ile Ile Leu Val Ala Thr Pro Ser Val Met Tyr Leu Gly Tyr Ala Ile
                    85                  90                  95
   His Lys Ile Ala Lys Met Glu His Gly Glu Ala Asp Lys Lys Ala Ala
               100                  105                 110
   Arg Ser Lys Pro Tyr Ala Met Arg Trp Lys Gln His Arg Ala Leu Glu
           115                  120                 125
   Glu Thr Glu Glu Asp Asn Glu Glu Asp Pro Met Met Tyr Pro Glu Met
       130                  135                 140
   Glu Leu Glu S.er Asp Lys Glu Asn Lys Glu Gln Ser Gln Pro Lys Pro
   145                  150                 155                 160
   Lys His Asp Gly Arg Arg Arg Ile Arg Glu Asp Gly Leu Met Lys Ile
                    165                 170                 175
   Tyr Val Leu Gln Leu Leu Ala Arg Thr Val Phe Glu Val Gly Phe Leu
               180                  185                 190
   Ile Gly Gln Tyr Phe Leu Tyr Gly Phe Gln Val His Pro Phe Tyr Val
           195                  200                 205
 5 Cys Ser Arg Leu Pro Cys Pro His Lys Ile Asp Cys Phe Ile Ser Arg
       210                  215                 220
   Pro Thr Glu Lys Thr Ile Phe Leu Leu Ile Met Tyr Gly Val Thr Gly
   225                  230                 235                 240
)
   Leu Cys Leu Leu Leu Asn Ile Trp Glu Met Leu His Leu Gly Phe Gly
                    245                 250                 255
   Thr Ile Arg Asp Ser Leu Asn Ser Lys Arg Arg Glu Leu Glu Asp Pro
               260                  265                 270
   Gly Ala Tyr Asn Tyr Pro Phe Thr Trp Asn Thr Pro Ser Ala Pro Pro
           275                  280                 285
0  Gly Tyr Asn Ile Ala Val Lys Pro Asp Gln Ile Gln Tyr Thr Glu Leu
       290                  295                 300
   Ser Asn Ala Lys Ile Ala Tyr Lys Gln Asn Lys Ala Asn Thr Ala Gln
   305                  310                 315                 320
5
   Glu Gln Gln Tyr Gly Ser His Glu Glu Asn Leu Pro Ala Asp Leu Glu
                    325                 330                 335
   Ala Leu Gln Arg Glu Ile Arg Met Ala Gln Glu Arg Leu Asp Leu Ala
               340                  345                 350
   Val Gln Ala Tyr Ser His Gln Asn Asn Pro His Gly Pro Arg Glu Lys
           355                  360                 365
5  Lys Ala Lys Val Gly Ser Lys Ala Gly Ser Asn Lys Ser Thr Ala Ser
       370                  375                 380
   Ser Lys Ser Gly Asp Gly Lys Asn Ser Val Trp Ile
   385                  390                 395
0

   Connexin 43      (SEQ ID NO. 14)
   Met Gly Asp Trp Ser Ala Leu Gly Lys Leu Leu Asp Lys Val Gln Ala
   1                     5                           10                         15
                                                                                     Phe
   Tyr Ser Thr Ala Gly Gly Lys Val Trp Leu Ser Val Leu Phe Ile
                   20                          25                          30
   Arg Ile Leu Leu Leu Gly Thr Ala Val Glu Ser Ala Trp Gly Asp Glu
              35                         40                          45
   Gln Ser Ala Phe Arg Cys Asn Thr Gln Gln Pro Gly Cys Glu Asn Val
         50                         55                         60
   Cys Tyr Asp Lys Ser Phe Pro Ile Ser His Val Arg Phe Trp Val Leu
    65                         70                         75                         80
   Gln Ile Ile Phe Val Ser Val Pro Thr Leu Leu Tyr Leu Ala His Val
                         85                          90                         95
    Phe Tyr Val Met Arg Lys Glu Glu Lys Leu Asn Lys Lys Glu Glu Glu
                    100                        105                         110
    Leu Lys Val Ala Gln Thr Asp Gly Val Asn Val Asp Met His Leu Lys
              115                         120                        125
    Gln Ile Glu Ile Lys Lys Phe Lys Tyr Gly Ile Glu Glu His Gly Lys
         130                        135                        140
    Val Lys Met Arg Gly Gly Leu Leu Arg Thr Tyr Ile Ile Ser Ile Leu
    145                        150                        155                         160
    Phe Lys Ser Ile Phe Glu Val Ala Phe Leu Leu Ile Gln Trp Tyr Ile
                          165                         170                        175
    Tyr Gly Phe Ser Leu Ser Ala Val Tyr Thr Cys Lys Arg Asp Pro Cys
                     180                        185                         190
0    Pro His Gln Val Asp Cys Phe Leu Ser Arg Pro Thr Glu Lys Thr Ile
               195                        200                         205
     Phe Ile Ile Phe Met Leu Val Val Ser Leu Val Ser Leu Ala Leu Asn
          210                        215                        220
 5
     Ile Ile Glu Leu Phe Tyr Val Phe Phe Lys Gly Val Lys Asp Arg Val
     225                        230                        235                        240
                                                                                 Ser Pro
     Lys Gly Lys Ser Asp Pro Tyr His Ala Thr Ser Gly Ala Leu
 0                         245                        250                        255
     Ala Lys Asp Cys Gly Ser Gln Lys Tyr Ala Tyr Phe Asn Gly Cys Ser
                     260                         265                        270
55    Ser Pro Thr Ala Pro Leu Ser Pro Met Ser Pro Pro Gly Tyr Lys Leu
                275                        280                         285
     Val Thr Gly Asp Arg Asn Asn Ser Ser Cys Arg Asn Tyr Asn Lys Gln
          290                         295                        300
50

    Ala Ser Glu Gln Asn Trp Ala Asn Tyr Ser Ala Glu Gln Asn Arg Met
    305                        310                       315                     320
    Gly Gln Ala Gly Ser Thr Ile Ser Asn Ser His Ala Gln Pro Phe Asp
 5                        325                      330                      335
    Phe Pro Asp Asp Asn Gln Asn Ser Lys Lys Leu Ala Ala Gly His Glu
                   340                         345                     350
 ) Leu Gln Pro Leu Ala Ile Val Asp Gln Arg Pro Ser Ser Arg Ala Ser
              355                          360                    365
    Ser Arg Ala Ser Ser Arg Pro Arg Pro Asp Asp Leu Glu Ile
         370                         375                      380
           The anti-connexin peptides may comprise sequences corresponding to a portion of the
   connexin extracellular domains with conservative amino acid substitutions such that peptides
   are functionally active anti-connexin         agents.     Exemplary   conservative amino acid
   substitutions include for example the substitution of a nonpolar amino acid with another
   nonpolar amino acid, the substitution of an aromatic amino acid with another aromatic amino
   acid, the substitution of an aliphatic amino acid with another aliphatic amino acid, the
   substitution of a polar amino acid with another polar amino acid, the substitution of an acidic
   amino acid with another acidic amino acid, the substitution of a basic amino acid with
   another basic amino acid, and the substitution of an ionizable amino acid with another
   ionizable amino acid.
           Exemplary peptides targeted to connexin 43 are shown below in Table 2. Ml, 2, 3
   and 4 refer to the  1 St to 4 * transmembrane regions of the connexin 43 protein respectively.
   El and E2 refer to the first and second extracellular loops respectively.
0              Table 2. Peptidic Inhibitors of Intercellular Communication (cx43)
   FEVAFLLIQWI                          M3 & E2                                       (SEQ.ID.NO:15)
   LLIQWYIGFSL                          E2                                            (SEQ.ID.NO: 16)
   SLSAVYTCKRDPCPHQ                     E2                                            (SEQ.ID.NO: 17)
   VDCFLSRPTEKT                         E2                                            (SEQ.ID.NO: 18)
   SRPTEKTIFII                          E2 & M4                                       (SEQ.ID.NO: 19)
   LGTAVESAWGDEQ                        M1 & El                                       (SEQ.ID.NO:20)
   QSAFRCNTQQPG                         El                                            (SEQ.ID.NO:21)
   QQPGCENVCYDK                         El                                            (SEQ.ID.NO:22)

   VCYDKSFPISHVR                     El                                              (SEQ.ID.NO:23)
           Table 3 provides additional exemplary connexin peptides used in inhibiting
   hemichannel or gap junction function.       In other embodiments, conservative amino acid
   changes are made to the peptides or fragments thereof.
     Table 3. Additional Peptidic Inhibitors of Intercellular Communication (cx32,-cx43)
   Connexin        Location                                                              AA's and
                                                                                         Sequence
   Cx32            El 39-77        AAESVWGDEIKSSFICNTLQPGCNSVCYDHFFPIS                   (SEQ.ID.NO: 24)
                                  HVR
   Cx32            El 41-52       ESVWGDEKSSFI                                           (SEQ.ID.NO: 25)
   Cx32            El 52-63       ICNTLQPGCNSV                                           (SEQ.ID.NO: 26)
  Cx32             El 62-73       SVCYDHFFPISH                                           (SEQ.ID.NO: 27)
  Cx32             E2 64-188      RLVKCEAFPCPNTVDCFVSRPTEKT                              (SEQ.ID.NO: 28)
  Cx32             E2 166-177     VKCEAFPCPNTV                                          (SEQ.ID.NO: 29)
  Cx32             E2 177-188     VDCFVSRPTEKT                                          (SEQ.ID.NO: 30)
  Cx32             El 63-75       VCYDHFFPISHVR                                         (SEQ.ID.NO: 31)
  Cx32             El 45-59       VWGDEKSSFICNTLQPGY                                    (SEQ.ID.NO: 32)
  Cx32             El 46-59       DEKSSFICNTLQPGY                                       (SEQ.ID.NO: 33)
  Cx32             E2 182-192     SRPTEKTVFTV                                           (SEQ.ID.NO: 34)
  Cx32/Cx43        E2 182-188/    SRPTEKT                                               (SEQ.ID.NO: 35)
                       201-207
  Cx32            El 52-63        ICNTLQPGCNSV                                          (SEQ.ID.NO: 36)
  Cx40            E2 177-192      FLDTLFVCRRSPCPHP                                      (SEQ.ID.NO: 37)
  Cx43            E2 188-205      KRDPCHQVDCFLSRPTEK                                    (SEQ.ID.NO: 38)
5
          Table 4 provides the extracellular loops for connexin family members which are used
  to develop peptide inhibitors for use as described herein. The peptides and provided in Table
  4, and fragments thereof, are used as peptide inhibitors in certain non-limiting embodiments.
  In other non-limiting embodiments, peptides comprising from about 8 to about 15, or from
3 about 11 to about 13 amino contiguous amino acids of the peptides in this Table 4 are peptide

 inhibitors.  Conservative amino acid changes may be made to the peptides or fragments
 thereof
             Table 4. Extracellular loops for various connexin family members
 El
 huCx26                   KEVWGDEQADFVCNTLQPGCKNVCYDHYFPISHIR                  (SEQ.ID.NO: 39)
 huCx30                  QEVWGDEQEDFVCNTLQPGCKNVCYDHFFPVSHIR                   (SEQ.ID.NO: 40)
 huCx30.3                EEVWDDEQKDFVCNTKQPGCPNVCYDEFFPVSHVR                   (SEQ.ID.NO: 41)
 huCx31                   ERVWGDEQKDFDCNTKQPGCTNVCYDNYFPISNIR                  (SEQ.ID.NO: 42)
huCx3 1.1                ERVWSDDHKDFDCNTRQPGCSNVCFDEFFPVSHVR                   (SEQ.ID.NO: 43)
huCx32                      ESVWGDEKSSFICNTLQPGCNSVCYDQFFPISHVR                (SEQ.ID.NO: 44)
huCx36                     ESVWGDEQSDFECNTAQPGCTNVCYDQAFPISHIR                 (SEQ.ID.NO: 45)
huCx37                     ESVWGDEQSDFECNTAQPGCTNVCYDQAFPISHIR                 (SEQ.ID.NO: 46)
huCx40.l                 RPVYQDEQERFVCNTLQPGCANVCYDVFS PVSHLR                  (SEQ.ID.NO: 47)
huCx43                    ESAWGDEQSAFRCNTQQPGCENVCYDKSFPISHVR                  (SEQ.ID.NO: 48)
huCx46                    EDVWGDEQSDFTCNTQQPGCBNVCYBRAFPISHIR                  (SEQ.ID.NO: 49)
huCx46.6                  EAIYSDEQAKFTCNTRQPGCDNVCYDAFAPLSHVR                  (SEQ.ID.NO: 50)
huCx40                     ESSWGDEQADFRCDTIQPGCQNVCTDQAFPISHIR                (SEQ.ID.NO: 51)
huCx45                  GESIYYDEQSKFVCNTEQPGCENVCYDAFAPLSHVR                  (SEQ.ID.NO: 52)
E2
huCx26           MYVFYVMYDGFSMQRLVKCNAWPCPNTVDCFVSRPTEKT                      (SEQID.NO: 53)
huCx30              MYVFYFLYNGYHLPWVLKCGIDPCPNLVDCFISRPTEKT                   (SEQ.ID.NO: 54)
huCx30.3            LYIFHRLYKDYDMPRVVACSVEPCPHTVDCYISRPTEKK                   (SEQ.ID.NO: 55)
huCx31           LYLLHTLWHGFNMPRLVQCANVAPCPNIVDCYIARPTEKK                     (SEQ.ID.NO: 56)
huCx31.1              LYVFHSFYPKYILPPVVKCHADPCPNIVDCFISKPSEKN                 (SEQ.ID.NO: 57)
huCx32            MYVFYLLYPGYAMVRLVKCDVYPCPNTVDCFVSRPTEKT                       SEQ.ID.NO: 58)
huCx36                       LYGWTMEPVFVCQRAPCPYLVDCFVSRPTEKT                 (SEQ.ID.NO: 59)
huCx37                       LYGWTMEPVFVCQRAPCPYLVDCFVSRPTEKT                 (SEQ.ID.NO: 60)
huCx40.I              GALHYFLFGFLAPKKFPCTRPPCTGVVDCYVSRPTSKS                  (SEQ.ID.NO: 61)

 huCx43                 LLIQWYIYGFSLSAVYTCKRDPCPHQVDCFLSRPTEKT                   (SEQ.ID.NO: 62)
huCx46                  IAGQYFLYGFELKPLYRCDRWPCPNTVDCFISRPTEKT                   (SEQ.ID.NO: 63)
huCx46.6               LVGQYLLYGFEVRPFFPCSRQPCPHVVDCFVSRPTEKT                    (SEQ.ID.NO: 64)
huCx40                   IVGQYFIYGIFLTTLHVCRRSPCPHPVNCYVSRPTEKN                  (SEQ.ID.NO: 65)
huCx45                    LIGQYFLYGFQVHPFYVCSRLPCHPKIDCFISRPTEKT                 (SEQ.ID.NO: 66)
        Table 5 provides the extracellular domain for connexin family members which may
be used to develop peptide anti-connexin agents. The peptides and provided in Table 5, and
fragments thereof, may also be used as peptide anti-connexin agents. Such peptides may
comprise from about 8 to about 15, or from about 11 to about 13 amino contiguous amino
acids of the peptide sequence in this Table 5. Conservative amino acid changes may be made
to the peptides or fragments thereof.
                               Table 5. Extracellular domains
Peptide                                                      VDCFLSRPTEKT(SEQ.ID.NO: 18)
Peptide                                                         SRPTEKTIFII(SEQ.ID.NO: 19)
huCx43               LLIQWYIYGFSLSAVYTCKRDPCPHQVDCFLSRPTEKTIFII(SEQ.ID.NO: 67)
huCx26      MYVFYVMYDGFSMQRLVKCNAWPCPNTVDCFVSRPTEKTVFTV(SEQ.ID.NO:                       68)
huCx30            YVFYFLYNGYHLPWVLKCGIDPCPNLVDCFISRPTEKTVFTI(SEQ.ID.NO:                  69)
huCx30.3       LYIFHRLYKDYDMPRVVACSVEPCPHTVDCYISRPTEKKVFTY(SEQ.ID.NO:                    70)
huCx31          LYLLHTLWHGFNMPRLVQCANVAPCPNIVDCYIARPTEKKTY(SEQ.ID.NO:                    71)
huCx3 1.1          LYVFHSFYPKYILPPVVKCHADPCPNIVDCFISKPSEKNIFTL(SEQ.ID.NO:                72)
huCx32       MYVFYLLYPGYAMVRLVKCDVYPCPNTVDCFVSRPTEKTVFTV(SEQ.ID.NO:                      73)
huCx36                      LYGWTMEPVFVCQRAPCPYLVDCFVSRPTEKTIFII(SEQ.ID.NO: 74)
huCx37                      LYGWTMEPVFVCQRAPCPYLVDCFVSRPTEKTIFII(SEQ.ID.NO: 75)
huCx40.1         GALHYFLFGFLAPKKFPCTRPPCTGVVDCYVSRPTEKSLLML(SEQ.ID.NO:                   76)
huCx46              IAGQYFLYGFELKPLYRCDRWPCPNTVDCFISRPTEKTIFII(SEQ.ID.NO:                77)
huCx46.6         LVGQYLLYGFEVRPFFPCSRQPCPHVVDCFVSRPTEKTVFLL(SEQ.ID.NO:                   78)
huCx40               IVGQYFIYGIFLTTLHVCRRSPCPHPVNCYSRPTEKNVFIV(SEQ.ID.NO: 79)

   huCx45              LIGQYFLYGFQVHPFYVCSRLPCHPKIDCFISRPTEKTIFLL(SEQ.ID.NO:             80)
           Table 6 provides peptides inhibitors of connexin 40 shown with reference to the
   extracellular loops (El and E2) of connexin 40. The bold amino acids are directed to the
   transmembrane regions of connexin 40.
                               Table 6. Cx4O peptide inhibitors
  E2
                 LGTAAESSWGDEQADFRCDTIQPGCQNVCTDQAFPISHIRFWVLQ                (SEQ.ID. NO: 94)
                 LGTAAESSWGDEQA                                               (SEQ.ID.NO: 94)
                             DEQADFRCDTIQP                                    (SEQ.ID.NO: 94)
                                         TIQPGCQNVCTDQ                        (SEQ.ID.NO:94)
                                                   VCTDQAFPISHIR              (SEQ.ID.NO: 94)
                                                         AFPISHIRFWVLQ        (SEQ.ID.NO: 94)
  E2
                 MEVGFIVGQYFIYGIFLTTLHVCRRSPCPHPVNCYVSRPTEKNVFIV              (SEQ.ID. NO: 94)
                 MEVGFIVGQYF                                                  (SEQ.ID.NO:94)
                        IVGQYFIYGIFL                                          (SEQ.ID.NO: 94)
                                 GIFLTTLHVCRRSP                               (SEQ.ID.NO:94)
                                              RRSPCPHPVNCY                    (SEQ.ID.NO: 94)
                                                        VNCYVSRPTEKN          (SEQ.ID.NO: 94)
                                                              SRPTEKNVFIV     (SEQ.ID.NO: 94)
          Table 7 provides peptides inhibitors of connexin 45 shown with reference to the
  extracellular loops (El and E2) of connexin 45. The bold amino acids are directed to the
  transmembrane regions of connexin 45
0                              Table 7. Cx45 peptide inhibitors
  El
            LTAVGGESIYYDEQSKFVCNTEQPGCENVCYDAFAPLSHVRFWVFQ                     (SEQ.ID.NO: 94)

           LTAVGGESIYYDEQS                                                       (SEQ.ID.NO: 95)
                 DEQSKFVCNTEQP                                                   (SEQ.D.NO: 96)
                      TEQPGCENVCYDA                                              (SEQ.ID.NO: 97)
                            VCYDAFAPLSHVR                                       (SEQ.ID.NO: 98)
                                APLSHVRFWVFQ                                    (SEQ.ID.NO: 99)
 E2
          FEVGFLIGQYFLYGFQVHPFYVCSRLPCHPKIDCFISRPTEKTIFLL                       (SEQ.ID.NO: 100)
          FEVGFLIGQYF                                                           (SEQ.ID.NO: 101)
             LIGQYFLYGFQV                                                       (SEQ.ID.NO: 102)
                  GFQVHPFYVCSRLP                                                (SEQ.ID.NO: 103)
                       SRLPCHPKIDCF                                             (SEQ.ID.NO: 104)
                              IDCFISRPTEKT                                      (SEQ.ID.NO: 105)
                                 SRPTEKTIFLL                                    (SEQ.ID.NO: 106)
        In certain embodiments, it is preferred that certain peptide inhibitors block
 hemichannels without disrupting existing gap junctions. While not wishing to be bound to
 any particular theory or mechanism, it is also believed that certain peptidomimetics (e.g.
 VCYDKSFPISHVR, (SEQ.ID.NO: 23) block hemichannels without causing uncoupling of
 gap junctions (See Leybeart et al., Cell Commun. Adhes. 10: 251-257 (2003)), or do so in
lower dose amounts. The peptide SRPTEKTIFII (SEQ.ID.NO: 19) may also be used, for
example to block hemichannels without uncoupling of gap junctions.             The peptide
SRGGEKNVFIV (SEQ.ID.NO: 107) may be used that as a control sequence (DeVriese et al.,
Kidney Internat. 61: 177-185 (2002)).      Examples of peptide inhibitors for connexin 45
YVCSRLPCHP              (SEQ.ID.NO: 108),       QVHPFYVCSRL              (SEQ.ID.NO: 109),
FEVGFLIGQYFLY              (SEQ.ID.NO:1 10),    GQYFLYGFQVHP             (SEQ.ID.NO:1 11),
GFQVHPFYVCSR                 (SEQ.ID.NO: 112),     AVGGESIYYDEQ              (SEQ.ID.NO),
YDEQSKFVCNTE              (SEQ.ID.NO: 114),     NTEQPGCENVCY             (SEQ.ID.NO: 115),
CYDAFAPLSHVR (SEQ.ID.NO:116), FAPLSHVRFWVF (SEQ.ID.NO:117) and LIGQY
(SEQ.ID.NO:118), QVHPF (SEQ.ID.NO:119), YVCSR (SEQ.ID.NO:120), SRLPC
(SEQ.ID.NO:121), LPCHP (SEQ.ID.NO:122) and GES1Y (SEQ.ID.NO:123), YDEQSK

   (SEQ.ID.NO:124),          SKFVCN         (SEQ.ID.NO:125),      TEQPGCEN       (SEQ.ID.NO:126),
   VCYDAFAP (SEQ.ID.NO:127), LSHVRFWVFQ (SEQ.ID.NO:128) The peptides may only
   be 3 amino acids in length, including SRL, PCH, LCP, CHP, IYY, SKF, QPC, VCY, APL,
   HVR, or longer, for example: LIQYFLYGFQVHPF (SEQ.ID.NO:129), VHPFYCSRLPCHP
   (SEQ.ID.NO:130),                  VGGESIYYDEQSKFVCNTEQPG                     (SEQ.ID.NO:131),
   TEQPGCENVCYDAFAPLSHVRF (SEQ.ID.NO:132), AFAPLSHVRFWVFQ (SEQ.ID.NO:
   133).
                                                   Table 8
   Table 8A
   Human Connexin 43 from GenBank Accession No. M65188 (SEQ.ID.NO:134)
         1     ggcttttagc gtgaggaaag taccaaacag cagcggagtt ttaaacttta aatagacagg
        61    tctgagtgcc tgaaettgcc ttttcatttt acttcatcct ccaaggagtt caatcacttg
       121     gcgtgactte actactttta agcaaaagag tggtgcccag gcaacatggg tgactggagc
       181    gccttaggca aactecttga caaggttcaa gcctactcaa ctgctggagg gaaggtgtgg
       241    ctgtcagtac ttttcatttt ccgaatcctg ctgctgggga cagcggttga gtcagcctgg
       301    ggagatgagc agtctgcctt tcgttgtaac actcagcaac ctggttgtga aaatgtctgc
       361    tatgacaagt ctttcccaat etctcatgtg cgcttctggg tcctgcagat catatttgtg
       421    tctgtaccca cactcttgta cctggctcat gtgttctatg tgatgcgaaa ggaagagaaa
       481    ctgaacaaga aagaggaaga actcaaggtt gcccaaactg atggtgtcaa tgtggacatg
       541    cacttgaagc agattgagat aaagaagttc aagtacggta ttgaagagca tggtaaggtg
       601    aaaatgegag gggggttgct gcgaacctac atcatcagta tcctcttcaa gtctatcttt
       661    gaggtggcct tettgctgat ccagtggtac atctatggat tcagcttgag tgctgtttac
       721    acttgcaaaa gagatccctg cccacatcag gtggactgtt tcctctctcg ccccacggag
       781    aaaaccatct tcatcatctt catgctggtg gtgtccttgg tgtccctggc cttgaatatc
       841    attgaactct tctatgtttt cttcaagggc gttaaggatc gggttaaggg aaagagcgac
       901    ccttaccatg cgaccagtgg tgcgctgagc cctgccaaag actgtgggtc tcaaaaatat
       961    gcttatttca atggctgctc ctcaccaacc gctcccctct cgcctatgtc tcctcctggg
D     1021    tacaagctgg ttactggcga cagaaacaat tcttcttgcc gcaattacaa caagcaagca
      1081    agtgagcaaa actgggetaa ttacagtgca gaacaaaatc gaatggggca ggcgggaagc
      1141    accatctcta actcccatgc acagcctttt gatttccccg atgataacca gaattetaaa
      1201    aaactagctg ctggacatga attacageca ctagccattg tggaccagcg accttcaagc
      1261    agagccagca gtcgtgecag cagcagacct cggcctgatg acctggagat ctag
5
  Table 8B
  Human Connexin 43 (SEQ.ID.NO:135)
  1        atgggtgactggagcgcctt aggcaaactc cttgacaagg ttcaagccta ctcaactgct
  61       ggagggaaggtgtggctgtc agtacttttc attttcegaatcctgctgct ggggacagcg
  121      gttgagtcagcctggggaga tgagcagtct gectttcgtt gtaacactca gcaacctggt
  181      tgtgaaaatg tctgetatga caagtctttcccaatctctc atgtgcgctt ctgggtcctg
  241      cagatcatat ttgtgtctgt acccacactcttgtacctgg ctcatgtgttctatgtgatg
5 301      cgaaaggaag agaaactgaa caagaaagag gaagaactca aggttgccca aactgatggt
  361      gtcaatgtgg acatgcactt gaagcagatt gagataaagaagttcaagta cggtattgaa

  421      gagcatggta aggtgaaaat gcgagggggg ttgctgcgaa cctacatcat cagtatcctc
  481      ttcaagtcta tctttgaggt ggccttcttg ctgatccagt ggtacatcta tggattcagc
  541      ttgagtgctg tttacacttg caaaagagat ccctgcccac atcaggtgga ctgtttcctc
  601      tctcgcccca cggagaaaac catcttcatc atcttcatgc tggtggtgtc cttggtgtcc
  661      ctggccttga atatcattga actcttctat gttttcttca agggcgttaa ggatcgggtt
  721      aagggaaaga gcgaccctta ccatgcgacc agtggtgcgc tgagccctgc caaagactgt
  781      gggtctcaaa aatatgctta tttcaatggc tgctcctcac caaccgctcc cctctcgcct
  841      atgtctcctc ctgggtacaa gctggttact ggcgacagaa acaattcttc ttgccgcaat
  901      tacaacaagc aagcaagtga gcaaaactgg gctaattaca gtgcagaaca aaatcgaatg
  961      gggcaggcgg gaagcaccat ctctaactcc catgcacagccttttgattt ccccgatgat
  1021      aaccagaatt ctaaaaaactagctgctgga catgaattac agccactagc cattgtggac
   1081     cagcgacctt caagcagagc cagcagtcgtgccagcagca gacctcggcctgatgacctg
   1141     gagatctag
  Therapeutic Agents
            Therapeutic agents include pharmaceutically acceptable agents useful in the treatment
  of wounds or the promotion of wound-healing, whether currently existing and known or later
   developed. Therapeutic agents include, for example, anti-infectives, anesthetics, analgesics,
   antibiotics, narcotics, and steroidal and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents. Preferred
   therapeutic agents include topical steroid anti-inflammatory agents, antimicrobial agents,
   local and topical anesthetics, and topical opioids. In certain embodiments, one, two three,
   four, five or six therapeutic agents may be used in combination.
   Agents Useful for Wound Healing
              As used herein, agents useful for wound healing include stimulators, enhancers or
   positive mediators of the wound healing cascade which 1) promote or accelerate the natural
   wound healing process or 2) reduce effects associated with improper or delayed wound
   healing, which effects include, for example, adverse inflammation, epithelialization,
    angiogenesis and matrix deposition, and scarring and fibrosis.
              Positive mediators, enhancers and stimulators include for example, an agent which
0   may stimulate, enhance, facilitate, or accelerate (i.e., agonize) the quantity, quality or efficacy
    of wound healing or the active wound healing process, or a wound healing-associated growth
    factor or cytokine at a wound site, or the activation of a wound healing-associated growth
    factor or cytokine receptor. Such agents may include a wound healing-associated growth
    factor or cytokine or a partially modified form of a wound healing-associated growth factor
5   or cytokine, for example. A partially modified form of wound healing-associated growth
    factor or cytokine may, for example, have a longer half-life than the natural wound healing
    associated growth factor or cytokine. Alternatively, it may be an inhibitor of wound healing
     associated growth factor or cytokine metabolism.

               Partial modification of such an agent may be by way of addition, deletion or
   substitution of amino acid residues. A substitution may for example be a conserved
   substitution. Hence a partially modified molecule may be a homologue of the molecule from
   which it was derived. It may have at least about 40%, for example about 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 or
   95%, homology with the molecule from which it is derived.
               As used herein, agents useful for wound healing may include for example, wound
                                                                                                    in the
   healing-promoting or scar-reducing agents for wound treatment modalities now known
                                                                                            or synthetic
   art or later-developed; exemplary factors, agents or modalities including natural
                                                                                        wound healing
    growth factors, cytokines, or modulators thereof to promote wound healing,
                                                                                         examples may
    promoting bioengineered matrix, dressings bandages, and the like. Suitable
    include, but not limited to 1) topical or dressing and related therapies and debriding agents
                                                                                              iodine); 2)
    (such as, for example, Santyl@ collagenase) and Iodosorb@ (cadexomer
    antimicrobial agents, including systemic or topical creams or gels, including, for example,
     silver-containing agents such as SAGs (silver antimicrobial gels), (CollaGUARD(TM),
     Innocoll, Inc) (purified type-I collagen protein based dressing), CollaGUARD Ag (a
                                                                                           or wounds at
     collagen-based bioactive dressing impregnated with silver for infected wounds
     risk of infection), DermaSIL(TM) (a collagen- synthetic foam composite dressing for deep
                                                                             skin substitutes, and skin
     and heavily exuding wounds); 3) cell therapy or bioengineered skin,
                                                                         matrix cultivation of human
      equivalents, including, for example, Dermograft (3-dimensional
                                                                           (human keratinocytes and
 0    fibroblasts that secrete cytokines and growth factors), Apligraf@
      fibroblasts), Graftskin@ (bilayer of epidermal cells and fibroblasts that is histologically
      similar to normal skin and produces growth factors similar to those produced by normal skin),
                                                                                and Oasis@ (an active
      TransCyte (a Human Fibroblast Derived Temporary Skin Substitute)
                                                                                   components such as
      biomaterial that comprises both growth factors and extracellular matrix
                                                                                   factors or hormones
25     collagen, proteoglycans, and glycosaminoglycans); 4) cytokines, growth
                                                                                     healing, including,
       (both natural and synthetic) introduced to the wound to promote wound
                                                                                 blood-derived growth
       for example, NGF, NT3, BDGF, integrins, plasmin, semaphoring,
                                                                             TGF-beta, PDGF (one or
       factor, keratinocyte growth factor, tissue growth factor, TGF-alpha,
                                                                                    TGF-beta 3, factors
       more of the three subtypes may be used: AA, AB, and B), PDGF-BB,
                                                                                      (e.g., Mannose-6
30      that modulate the relative levels of TGF03, TGFI1, and TGF02
                                                                                      oestrogen receptor
        phosphate), sex steroids, including for example, estrogen, estradiol, or an
                                                                                dienoestrol, mestranol,
        agonist selected from the group consisting of ethinyloestradiol,
                                                                                               stilboestrol,
        oestradiol, oestriol, a conjugated oestrogen, piperazine oestrone sulphate,

  fosfesterol tetrasodium, polyestradiol phosphate, tibolone, a phytoestrogen, 17-beta-estradiol;
  thymic hormones such as Thymosin-beta-4, EGF, HB-EGF, fibroblast growth factors (e.g.,
  FGFI, FGF2, FGF7), keratinocyte growth factor, TNF, interleukins family of inflammatory
  response modulators such as, for example, IL-10, IL-1, IL-2, IL-6, IL-8, and IL-10 and
  modulators thereof; INFs (INF-alpha, -beta, and -delta); stimulators of activin or inhibin, and
  inhibitors of interferon gamma prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and of mediators of the adenosine
  3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) pathway; adenosine Al agonist, adenosine A2
  agonist or 5) other agents useful for wound healing, including, for example, both natural or
  synthetic    homologues,   agonist    and antagonist    of VEGF, VEGFA,          IGF; IGF-1,
  proinflammatory cytokines, GM-CSF, and leptins and 6) IGF-1 and KGF cDNA, autologous
  platelet gel, hypochlorous acid (Sterilox@ lipoic acid, nitric oxide synthase3, matrix
   metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9), CCT-ETA, alphavbeta6 integrin, growth factor-primed
   fibroblasts and Decorin, silver containing wound dressings, XenadermTM, papain wound
   debriding agents, lactoferrin, substance P, collagen, and silver-ORC, placental alkaline
   phosphatase or placental growth factor, modulators of hedgehog signaling, modulators of
   cholesterol synthesis pathway, and APC (Activated Protein C), keratinocyte growth factor,
   TNF, Thromboxane A2, NGF, BMP bone morphogenetic protein, CTGF (connective tissue
   growth factor), wound healing chemokines, decorin, modulators of lactate induced
   neovascularization, cod liver oil, placental alkaline phosphatase or placental growth factor,
    and thymosin beta 4. In certain embodiments, one, two three, four, five or six agents useful
    for wound healing may be used in combination.
             It is to be understood that the agents useful for wound healing (including for
    example, growth factors and cytokines) above encompass all naturally occurring polymorphs
    (for example, polymorphs of the growth factors or cytokines). Also, functional fragments,
5   chimeric proteins comprising one of said agents useful for wound healing or a functional
    fragment thereof, homologues obtained by analogous substitution of one or more amino acids
    of the wound healing agent, and species homologues are encompassed. It is contemplated
    that one or more agents useful for wound healing may be a product of recombinant DNA
    technology, and one or more agents useful for wound healing may be a product of transgenic
0   technology. For example, platelet derived growth factor may be provided in the form of a
     recombinant PDGF or a gene therapy vector comprising a coding sequence for PDGF.
              A fragment or partially modified form thereof refers to a fragment or partially
     modified form of the wound healing agent which retains the biological or wound healing

  functionality of the factor, although it may of course have additional functionality. Partial
  modification may, for example, be by way of addition, deletion or substitution of amino acid
  residues. For example, a substitution may be a conserved substitution. Hence the partially
  modified molecules may be homologues of the wound healing agent. They may, for example,
  have at least about 40% homology with said factor. They may for example have at least about
  50, 60, 70, 80, 90 or 95% homology with said factor. For example, in certain embodiments,
  IL-10 or a fragment or a partially modified form thereof may be administered at a
   concentration of between about I tM and about 10 piM. It may be administered at a
   concentration of between about 2.5 pM and about 5 pM. In certain other embodiments, IL-10
   or a fragment or a partially modified form thereof may be administered immediately prior to
   wound healing, but may be effective if administered within about 7 days of wounding. It
   could be administered on at least two occasions.
   Gap Junction Modifying Agents
           As used herein, "gap junction modifying agent" may broadly include those agents or
   compounds that prevent, decrease or modulate, in whole or in part, the activity, function, or
   formation of a hemichannel or a gap junction.
            In other embodiments, a gap junction modifying agent prevents or decreases, in whole
   or in part, the formation or activity of a hemichannel or a gap junction.
            In certain embodiments, a gap junction modifying agent induces closure, in whole or
   in part, of a hemichannel or a gap junction. In other embodiments, a gap junction modifying
   agent blocks, in whole or in part, a hemichannel or a gap junction. In certain embodiments, a
   gap junction modifying agent decreases or prevents, in whole or in part, the opening of a
   hemichannel or gap junction.
            In certain embodiments, said blocking or closure of a gap junction or hemichannel by
5  a gap junction modifying agent can reduce or inhibit extracellular                hemichannel
   communication by preventing or decreasing the flow of small molecules through an open
   channel to and from an extracellular or periplamic space.
            In certain embodiments, a gap junction modifying agent prevents, decreases or alters
   the activity or function of a connexin, a hemichannel or a gap junction. As used herein,
0  modification of the gap junction activity or function may include the opening or closing of
    gap junctions, opening or closing of connexon hemichannel, and/or passage of molecules or
    ions through the gap junctions.

           In certain another aspect, gap junction modifying agent may include, for example,
  aliphatic alcohols; octanol; heptanol; anesthetics (e.g. halothane), ethrane, fluothane, propofol
  and thiopental; anandamide; arylaminobenzoate (FFA: flufenamic acid and similar
  derivatives that are lipophilic); carbenoxolone; Chalcone: (2',5'- dihydroxychalcone); CHFs
  (Chlorohydroxyfuranones); CMCF (3-chloro-4-(chloromethyl)-5-hydroxy-2(5H)-furanone);
  dexamethasone; doxorubicin (and other anthraquinone derivatives); eicosanoid thromboxane
  A(2) (TXA(2)) mimetics; NO (nitric oxide); Fatty acids (e.g. arachidonic acid, oleic acid and
  lipoxygenase metabolites; Fenamates (flufenamic (FFA), niflumic (NFA) and meclofenamic
   acids (MFA)); Genistein; glycyrrhetinic acid (GA):18a-glycyrrhetinic acid and 18-beta
   glycyrrhetinic acid, and derivatives thereof; lindane; lysophosphatidic acid; mefloquine;
   menadione; 2-Methyl-1,4-naphthoquinone, vitamin K(3); nafenopin; okadaic acid; oleamide;
   oleic acid; PH, gating by intracellular acidification; e.g. acidifying agents; polyunsaturated
   fatty acids; fatty acid GJIC inhibitors (e.g. oleic and arachidonic acids); quinidine; quinine;
   all trans-retinoic acid; and tamoxifen.
            Exemplary compounds used for altering gap junction functions (e.g., gap junction
   blocking agents, gap junction protein phosphorylating and dephosphorylating agents) have
   been previously reported by Jensen et al., see U.S. Pat. No. 7,153,822, Larsen et al., see U.S.
   Pat. No. 7,250,397,        Gourdie et al., see W02006069181,           and Tudor et al., see
   W02003032964, and other assorted published patent applications.
            As used herein, "gap junction phosphorylating agent"                or   "gap   junction
    dephosphorylating agent" may include those agents or compounds capable of inducing
    phosphorylation or de-phosphorylation on connexin residues.               Exemplary sites of
    phosphorylation or dephosphorylation include one or more of a tyrosine, shrine or threonine
    residue on the connexin protein. In certain embodiments, modulation of phosphorylation
5   may -occur on one or more residues on one or more connexin proteins. Exemplary gap
    junction phosphorylating or dephosphorylating agent are well know in the art and may
    include, for example, c-Src tyrosine kinase or other G protein-coupled receptor agonists. See
     Giepmans B, J. Biol. Chem., Vol. 276, Issue 11, 8544-8549, March 16, 2001. In one
     embodiment, modulation of phosphorylation on one or more of these residues impacts
0    hemichannel function, particularly by closing the hemichannel. In another embodiment,
     modulation of phosphorylation on one or more of these residues impacts gap junction
     function, particularly by closing the gap junction.
     Dosage Forms and Formulations and Administration

           A therapeutically effective amount of each of the combination partners (e.g. an anti
  connexin agent and a wound healing agent) may be administered simultaneously, separately
  or sequentially and in any order. The agents may be administered separately or as a fixed
  combination. When not administered as a fixed combination, preferred methods include the
  sequential administration of one or more anti-connexin agents and one or more agents useful
  for wound healing, either or both of which are provided in amounts or doses that are less that
  those used when the agent or agents are administered alone, i.e., when they are not
  administered in combination, either physically or in the course of treatment of a wound.
  Such lesser amounts of agents administered are typically from about one-twentieth to about
  one-tenth the amount or amounts of the agent when administered alone, and may be about
   one-eighth the amount, about one-sixth the amount, about one-fifth the amount, about one
   fourth the amount, about one-third the amount, and about one-half the amount when
   administered alone. Preferably, the agents are administered sequentially within at least about
   one-half hour of each other. The agents may also be administered with about one hour of
   each other, with about one day to about one week of each other, or as otherwise deemed
   appropriate. Preferably, the anti-connexin agent is administered first. Preferably, where one
   or more anti-connexin agents are used, an anti-connexin peptide or anti-connexin
   peptidomimetic, e.g., an anti-connexin agent that can block or reduce hemichannel opening,
   is administered prior to the administration of an anti-connexin agent that blocks or reduce
    connexin expression or the formation of hemichannels or gap junctions, e.g., by
    downregulation of connexin protein expression. Preferably, the anti-connexin agent or agents
    is/are anti-connexin 43 agent(s).
            The agents of the invention of the may be administered to a subject in need of
    treatment, such as a subject with any of the diseases or conditions mentioned herein. The
5   condition of the subject can thus be improved. The anti-connexin agent and combinational
    partner may thus be used in the treatment of the subject's body by therapy. They may be
    used in the manufacture of a medicament to treat any of the conditions mentioned herein.
    Thus, in accordance with the invention, there are provided formulations by which cell-cell
     communication can be downregulated in a transient and site-specific manner.
0            The anti-connexin agent may be present in a substantially isolated form. It will be
     understood that the product may be mixed with carriers or diluents which will not interfere
     with the intended purpose of the product and still be regarded as substantially isolated. A
     product of the invention may also. be in a substantially purified form, in which case it will

  generally comprise about 90%, e.g. at least about 95%, at least about 98% or at least about
  99% of the polynucleotide (or other anti-connexin agent) or dry mass of the preparation.
           Depending on the intended route of administration, the pharmaceutical products,
  pharmaceutical compositions, combined preparations and medicaments of the invention may,
  for example, take the form of solutions, suspensions, instillations, salves, creams, gels, foams,
  ointments, emulsions, lotions, paints, sustained release formulations, or powders, and
  typically contain about 0.1 %-95% of active ingredient(s), preferably about 0.2%-70%. Other
  suitable         formulations       include       pluronic        gel-based         formulations,
  carboxymethylcellulose(CMC)-based                          formulations,                      and
  hyroxypropylmethylcellulose(HPMC)-based formulations. Other useful formulations include
  slow or delayed release preparations.
            Gels or jellies may be produced using a suitable gelling agent including, but not
  limited to, gelatin, tragacanth, or a cellulose derivative and may include glycerol as a
  humectant, emollient, and preservative. Ointments are semi-solid preparations that consist of
  the active ingredient incorporated into a fatty, waxy, or synthetic base. Examples of suitable
  creams include, but are not limited to, water-in-oil and oil-in-water emulsions. Water-in-oil
  creams may be formulated by using a suitable emulsifying agent with properties similar, but
  not limited, to those of the fatty alcohols such as cetyl alcohol or cetostearyl alcohol and to
   emulsifying wax. Oil-in-water creams may be formulated using an emulsifying agent such as
   cetomacrogol emulsifying wax. Suitable properties include the ability to modify the viscosity
   of the emulsion and both physical and chemical stability over a wide range of pH. The water
   soluble or miscible cream base may contain a preservative system and may also be buffered
   to maintain an acceptable physiological pH.
          . Foam preparations may be formulated to be delivered from a pressurized aerosol
5  canister, via a suitable applicator, using inert propellants.       Suitable excipients for the
   formulation of the foam base include, but are not limited to, propylene glycol, emulsifying
   wax, cetyl alcohol, and glyceryl stearate. Potential preservatives include methylparaben and
   propylparaben.
            Preferably the agents of the invention are combined with a pharmaceutically
0  acceptable carrier or diluent to produce a pharmaceutical composition. Suitable carriers and
   diluents include isotonic saline solutions, for example phosphate-buffered saline. Suitable
   diluents and excipients also include, for example, water, saline, dextrose, glycerol, or the like,

    and combinations thereof In addition, if desired substances such as wetting or emulsifying
    agents, stabilizing or ph buffering agents may also be present.
            The term "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" refers to any pharmaceutical carrier
    that does not itself induce the production of antibodies harmful to the individual receiving the
    composition, and which can be administered without undue toxicity. Suitable carriers can be
   large, slowly metabolized macromolecules such as proteins, polysaccharides, polylactic
   acids, polyglycolic acids, polymeric amino acids, and amino acid copolymers.
            Pharmaceutically acceptable salts can also be present, e.g., mineral acid salts such as
   hydrochlorides, hydrobromides, phosphates, sulfates, and the like; and the salts of organic
   acids such as acetates, propionates, malonates, benzoates, and the like.
            Suitable carrier materials include any carrier or vehicle commonly used as a base for
   creams, lotions, gels, emulsions, lotions or paints for topical administration.         Examples
   include emulsifying agents, inert carriers including hydrocarbon bases, emulsifying bases,
   non-toxic solvents or water-soluble bases. Particularly suitable examples include pluronics,
   HPMC, CMC and other cellulose-based ingredients, lanolin, hard paraffin, liquid paraffin,
   soft yellow paraffin or soft white paraffin, white beeswax, yellow beeswax, cetostearyl
   alcohol,    cetyl    alcohol,   dimethicones,    emulsifying    waxes,     isopropyl   myristate,
   microcrystalline wax, oleyl alcohol and stearyl alcohol.
           Preferably, the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or vehicle is a gel, suitably a
   nonionic polyoxyethylene-polyoxypropylene copolymer gel, for example, a Pluronic gel,
  preferably Pluronic F-127 (BASF Corp.). This gel is particularly preferred as it is a liquid at
   low temperatures but rapidly sets at physiological temperatures, which confines the release of
  the agent to the site of application or immediately adjacent that site.
           An auxiliary agent such as casein, gelatin, albumin, glue, sodium alginate,
5 carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose or polyvinyl alcohol may
  also be included in the formulation of the invention.
           Other      suitable   formulations    include    pluronic     gel-based     formulations,
  carboxymethylcellulose(CMC)-based                            formulations,                     and
  hyroxypropylmethylcellulose(HPMC)-based           formulations.     The composition      may be
  formulated for any desired form of delivery, including topical, instillation, parenteral,
  intramuscular, subcutaneous, or transdermal administration. Other useful formulations
  include slow or delayed release preparations.

          Where the anti-connexin agent is a nucleic acid, such as a polynucleotide, uptake of
  nucleic acids by mammalian cells is enhanced by several known transfection techniques for
 example those including the use of transfection agents. Such techniques may be used with
 certain anti-connexin agents, -including polynucleotides.           The formulation which is
 administered may contain such transfection agents.           Examples of these agents include
 cationic agents (for example calcium phosphate and DEAE-dextran) and lipofectants (for
 example lipofectamTm and transfectam "), and surfactants.
         Where the anti-connexin agent comprises a polynucleotide, conveniently, the
 formulation further includes a surfactant to assist with polynucleotide cell penetration or the
 formulation may contain any suitable loading agent. Any suitable non-toxic surfactant may
 be included, such as DMSO. Alternatively a transdermal penetration agent such as urea may
 be included.
         The effective dose for a given subject or condition can be determined by routine
 experimentation or other methods known in the art or later developed. For example, in order
to formulate a range of dosage values, cell culture assays and animal studies can be used.
The dosage of such compounds preferably lies within the dose that is therapeutically effective
for at least 50% of the population, and that exhibits little or no toxicity at this level.
         The effective dosage of each of the anti-connexin agents employed in the methods
and compositions of the invention may vary depending on a number of factors including the
particular anti-connexin agent or agents employed, the combinational partner, the mode of
administration, the frequency of administration, the condition being treated, the severity of
the condition being treated, the route of administration, the needs of a patient sub-population
to be treated or the needs of the individual patient which different needs can be due to age,
sex, body weight, relevant medical condition specific to the patient.
         The dose at which an anti-connexin agent is administered to a patient will depend
upon a variety of factors such as the age, weight and general condition of the patient, the
condition that is being treated, and the particular anti-connexin agent that is being
administered.
         A suitable dose may be from about 0.001 to about 100 mg/kg body weight such as
about 0.01 to about 40 mg/kg body weight. A suitable dose may however be from about
0.001 to about 0.1 mg/kg body weight such as about 0.01 to about 0.050 mg/kg body weight.
Doses from about I to 100, 200, 300, 400, and 500 micrograms are appropriate.

           For example, in certain embodiments, the anti-connexin agent composition may be
  applied at about 0.01 micromolar (pM) or 0.05 piM to about 200 pM final concentration at
  the treatment site and/or adjacent to the treatment site.           Preferably, the antisense
  polynucleotide composition is applied at about 0.05 pM to about 100 pM final concentration,
  more preferably, the anti-connexin agent composition is applied at about 1.0 PM to about 50
  jM final. concentration, and more preferably, the anti-connexin agent composition is applied
  at about 5-10 pM to about 30-50 piM final concentration. Additionally, the combined anti
  connexin agent composition is applied at about 8 piM to about 20 piM final concentration, and
   alternatively the anti-connexin agent composition is applied at about 10 pM to about 20 [tM
   final concentration, or at about 10 to about 15 pM final concentration. In certain other
   embodiments, the anti-connexin agent is applied at about 10 pM final concentration. In yet
   another embodiment, the anti-connexin agent composition is applied at about 1-15 ptM final
   concentration. Anti-connexin agent dose amounts include, for example, about 0.1-1, 1-2, 2-3,
   3-4, or 4-5 micrograms (pg), from about 5 to about 10 pg, from about 10 to about 15 pg,
   from about 15 to about 20 pg, from about 20 to about 30 pg, from about 30 to about 40 pg,
   from about 40 to about 50 pg, from about 50 to about 75 pg, from about 75 to about 100 jig,
   from about 100 pg to about 250 pg, and from 250 pg to about 500 jig. Dose amounts from
   0.5 to about 1.0 milligrams or more or also provided, as noted above. Dose volumes will
   depend on the size of the site to be treated, and may range, for example, from about 25-100
    jiL to about 100-200 pL, from about 200-500 pL to about 500-1000 pL. Milliliter doses are
    also appropriate for larger treatment sites.
            Still other dosage levels between about 1 nanogram (ng)/kg and about 100 mg/kg
    body weight per day of each of the agents described herein. In certain embodiments, the
    dosage of each of the subject compounds will generally be in the range of about 1 ng to about
5    1 microgram per kg body weight, about 1 ng to about 0.1 microgram per kg body weight,
    about 1 ng to about 10 ng per kg body weight, about 10 ng to about 0.1 microgram per kg
    body weight, about 0.1 microgram to about 1 microgram per kg body weight, about 20 ng to
     about 100 ng per kg body weight, about 0.001 mg to about 100 mg per kg body weight, about
     0.01 mg to about 10 mg per kg body weight, or about 0.1 mg to about 1 mg per kg body
0    weight. In certain embodiments, the dosage of each of the subject compounds will generally
     be in the range of about 0.001 mg to about 0.01 mg per kg body weight, about 0.01 mg to
     about 0.1 mg per kg body weight, about 0.1 mg to about 1 mg per kg body weight, about 1
     mg to about 10 mg per kg body weight or about 10 mg to about 100 mg per kg body weight.

 If more than one anti-connexin agent is used, the dosage of each anti-connexin agent need not
 be in the same range as the other. For example, the dosage of one anti-connexin agent may
 be between about 0.01 mg to about 10 mg per kg body weight, and the dosage of another
 anti-connexin agent may be between about 0.1 mg to about I mg per kg body weight. Other
 amounts will be known to those of skill in the art and readily determined.
         Conveniently, the anti-connexin agent is administered in a sufficient amount to
 downregulate expression of a connexin protein, or modulate gap junction formation or
 connexon opening for at least about 0.5 to 1 hour, at least about 1-2 hours, at least about 2-4
hours, at least about 4-6 hours, at least about 6-8 hours, at least about 8-10 hours, at least
about 12 hours, or at least about 24 hours post-administration.
        The dosage of each of the anti-connexin agents in the compositions and methods of
the subject invention may also be determined by reference to the concentration of the
composition relative to the size, length, depth, area or volume of the area to which it will be
applied. For example, in certain topical and other applications, e.g., instillation, dosing of the
pharmaceutical compositions may be calculated based on mass (e.g. micrograms) of or the
concentration in a pharmaceutical composition (e.g. pg/l) per length, depth, area, or volume
of the area of application.
        Agents useful for wound healing suitable for the preparation of the pharmaceutical
compositions described herein may be prepared and administered using methods as known in
the art (see, for example, U.S. Patent Nos. 7,098,190, 6,319,907, 6,331,298, 6,387,364,
6,455,569, 6,566,339, 6,696,433, 6,855,505, 6,900,181, 7,052,684 and EP1100529 Bl. The
concentration of each anti-connexin agent and agents useful for wound healing need not be in
the same range as the other.. Other amounts will be known to those of skill in the art and
readily determined.      For example, suitable combination dosages and formulations in
accordance with various aspects and embodiments as described herein may be administered
according to the dosing regimen as described in US6903078 to Lewis entitled "Combination
PDGF, KGF, IGF, and IGFBP for wound healing."
        The initial and any subsequent dosages administered will depend upon the patient's
age, weight, condition, and the disease, wound, disorder or biological condition being treated.
Depending on the wound healing agent, the dosage and protocol for administration will vary,
and the dosage will also depend on the method of administration selected, for example, local
or systemic administration.

           The wound healing agent may be applied internally or externally, and may be directed
  towards any tissue exhibiting a wound. For topical administration of IGF, for example, a zinc
  oxide formulation can be applied, which induces the local production of IGF, as described in
  Tarnow et al, Scand J. Plast Reconstr Hand Surg. 28: 255-259 (1994). An effective dose of
  PDGF has been reported to be 5 ng/mm2 or higher when applied topically as described in
  U.S. Pat. No. 4,861,757, and at least 1 ng/ml local concentration of an isoform of PDGF (for
  example, PDGF-AA, PDGF-BB, or PDGF-AB), up to about 30 ng/ml local concentration
   applied to a population of fibroblasts as described in Lepisto et al., Biochem Biophys Res.
   Comm 209: 393-399 (1995). PDGF can be administered in a carboxymethylcellulose gel
   formulation at concentrations of about 10 pg/gm to about 500 pg/gm of gel, about 20 pg/gm
   to about 200 pg/gm, and about 30 pg/gm to about 100 p g/gm of gel, optimally about 100
   pg/gm of gel. Efficacy of PDGF has been achieved within the range of about 3 pg/ml
   solution to about 300 pg/ml of solution administered.
            About 50 pl of KGF of a concentration of about 5 pg/ml may be effective for wound
   healing by topical application to epithelial tissue as described in Sotozono et al, Invest.
   Opthal. Vis. Science 36: 1524-29 (1995).        As described in U.S. Pat. No. 4,861,757, an
   effective amount of IGF when co-administered with PDGF is in the range of at least 2.5
   ng/mm 2 to about 5 ng/mm 2, with a ratio of PDGF to IGF in the range of about 1:10 to about
    25:1 weight to weight, with the most effective ratios being PDGF to IGF of about 1:1 to
    about 2:1 weight to weight. IGFBP administered in combination with IGF has been shown to
    increase wound healing at dose levels of about 5 ptg of IGF with about 1.5 pg of
    phosphorylated IGFBP in a molar ration of about 11:1 IGF:IGFBP, as described in Jyung et
    al, Surgery 115:233-239 (1994).
            For administration of polypeptide therapeutics, for example, PDGF, KGF, IGF and
5   IGFBP polypeptides, the dosage can be in the range of about 5 pg to about 50 pg/kg of tissue
    to which the application is directed, also about 50 pg to about 5 mg/kg, also about 100 pg to
    about 500 pg/kg of tissue, and about 200 to about 250 pig/kg.             For polynucleotide
    therapeutics, for example in a gene therapy administration protocol, depending on the
     expression strength the polynucleotide in the patient, for tissue targeted administration,
0   vectors containing expressible constructs including PDGF, KGF, IGF, and IGFBP coding
     sequences can be administered in a range of about 100 ng to about 200 mg of DNA for local
     administration in a gene therapy protocol, also about 500 ng to about 50 mg, also about 1 jig
     to about 2 mg of DNA, about 5 pig of DNA to about 500 pig of DNA, and about 20 jig to

    about 100 ptg during a local administration in a gene therapy protocol, and about 250 pg, per
    injection or administration. Factors such as method of action and efficacy of transformation
    and expression are therefore considerations that will effect the dosage required for ultimate
    efficacy for administration of DNA therapeutics. Where greater expression is desired, over a
 5  larger area of tissue, larger amounts of DNA or the same amounts re-administered in a
    successive protocol of administrations, or several administrations to different adjacent or
    close tissue portions of for example, a wound site may be required to effect a positive
    therapeutic outcome.
            Therapeutic agents and gap junction modifying agents suitable for the preparation of
   the pharmaceutical compositions described herein may be formulated and administered using
   methods as known in the art. The initial and any subsequent dosages administered will
   depend upon the patient's age, weight, condition, and the disease, wound, disorder or
   biological condition being treated. Depending on the therapeutic, the dosage and protocol for
   administration will vary, and the dosage will also depend on the method of administration
   selected, for example, local or systemic administration.
            As noted herein, the doses of either an anti-connexin agent or another agent
   administered in combination can be adjusted down from the doses administered when given
   alone.
            The combined use of several agents may reduce the required dosage for any
   individual agent because the onset and duration of effect of the different agents may be
   complementary. In a preferred embodiment, the combined use of one or more anti-connexin
   agents and one or more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing, and/or gap
   junction modifying agents has an additive, synergistic or super-additive effect.
            In some cases, the combination of one or more anti-connexin agents and one or more
5  therapeutic agents and/or one or more agents useful for wound healing, and/or one or more
   gap junction modifying agents have an additive effect. In other cases, the combination can
   have greater-than-additive effect. Such an effect is referred to herein as a "supra-additive"
   effect, and may be due to synergistic or potentiated interaction.
            The term "supra-additive promotion of wound healing" refers to a mean wound
0  healing produced by administration of a combination of an anti-connexin agent and one or
   more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing and/or gap junction modifying
   agents, is statistically significantly higher than the sum of the wound healing produced by the
   individual administration of either any of the agents alone.            Whether produced by

   combination administration of an anti-connexin agent and one or more therapeutic agents,
   agents useful for wound healing and/or gap junction modifying agents is "statistically
   significantly higher" than the expected additive value of the individual compounds may be
   determined by a variety of statistical methods as described herein and/or known by one of
 5 ordinary skill in the art. The term "synergistic" refers to a type of supra-additive inhibition in
   which both the anti-connexin agent and one or more therapeutic agents, agents useful for
   wound healing and/or gap junction modifying agents individually have the ability to promote
   wound healing or reduce fibrosis and scarring. The term "potentiated" refers to type of supra
   additive effect in which one of the anti-connexin agent or one or more therapeutic agents,
   agents useful for wound healing and/or gap junction modifying agents individually has the
   increased ability to promote wound healing.
            In general, potentiation may be assessed by determining whether the combination
   treatment produces a mean wound healing increase in a treatment group that is statistically
   significantly supra-additive when compared to the sum of the mean wound healing increases
   produced by the individual treatments in their treatment groups respectively.          The mean
   wound healing increase may be calculated as the difference between control group and
   treatment group mean wound healing. The fractional increase in wound healing, "fraction
   affected" (Fa), may be calculated by dividing the treatment group mean wound healing
   increase by control group mean wound healing.              Testing for statistically significant
   potentiation requires the calculation of Fa for each treatment group. The expected additive
   Fa for a combination treatment may be taken to be the sum of mean Fas from groups
   receiving either element of the combination.        The Two-Tailed One-Sample T-Test, for
   example, may be used to evaluate how likely it is that the result obtained by the experiment is
   due to chance alone, as measured by thep-value. Ap-value of less than.05 is considered
5  statistically significant, that is, not likely to be due to chance alone.      Thus, Fa for the
   combination treatment group must be statistically significantly higher than the expected
   additive Fa for the single element treatment groups to deem the combination as resulting in a
   potentiated supra-additive effect.
            Whether a synergistic effect results from a combination treatment may be evaluated
0  by the median-effect/combination-index isobologram method (Chou, T., and Talalay, P.
   (1984) Ad. Enzyme Reg. 22:27-55).          In this method, combination index (CI) values are
   calculated for different dose-effect levels based on parameters derived from median-effect
   plots of the anti-connexin agent alone, the one or more agents useful for wound healing

   alone, and the combination of the two at fixed molar ratios. CI values of & It; I indicate
   synergy, CI- indicates an additive effect, and CP1 indicates .an antagonistic effect. This
   analysis may be performed using computer software tools, such as CalcuSyn, Windows
   Software for Dose Effect Analysis (Biosoft(D, Cambridge UK).
           Any method known or later developed in the art for analyzing whether a supra
   additive effect exists for a combination therapy is contemplated for use in screening for
   suitable anti-connexin agents for use in combination with one or more therapeutic agents,
   agents useful for wound healing and/or gap junction modifying agents.
           In another preferred embodiment, the combined use of one or more anti-connexin
   agents and one or more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing, and/or gap
  junction modifying agents reduces the effective dose of any such agent compared to the
  effective dose when said agent administered alone. In certain embodiments, the effective
  dose of the agent when used in combination with one or more anti-connexin agents is about
   1/15 to about 1/2, about 1/10 to about 1/3, about 1/8 to about 1/6, about 1/5, about 1/4, about
   1/3 or about 1/2 the dose of the agent when used alone.
           In another preferred embodiment, the combined use of one or more anti-connexin
  agents and one or more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing, and/or gap
  junction modifying agents reduces the frequency in which said agent is administered
  compared to the frequency when said agent is administered alone. Thus, these combinations
  allow the use of lower and/or fewer doses of each agent than previously required to achieve
  desired therapeutic goals.
           The doses may be administered in single or divided applications. The doses may be
  administered once, or application may be repeated.
           One or more anti-connexin agents and one or more therapeutic agents, agents useful
5 for wound healing and/or gap junction modifying agents may be administered by the same or
  different routes.    The various agents of the invention can be administered separately at
  different times during the course of therapy, or concurrently in divided or single combination
  forms.
           In one aspect of the invention the anti-connexin agent is administered in one
0 composition and the therapeutic agent, wound healing agent and/or gap junction modifying
  agent is administered in a second composition. In one embodiment the first composition
  comprising one or more anti-connexin agents is administered before the second composition
  comprising one or more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing and/or gap

  junction modifying agents. In one embodiment the first composition comprising one or more
  anti-connexin agents is administered after the second composition comprising one or more
  therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing and/or gap junction modifying agents. In
  one embodiment the first composition comprising one or more anti-connexin agents is
  administered before and after the second composition comprising one or more therapeutic
  agents, agents useful for wound healing and/or gap junction modifying agents. In one
  embodiment the first composition comprising one or more anti-connexin agents is
  administered about the same time as the second composition comprising one or more
  therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing and/or gap junction modifying agents.
          Preferably one or more anti-connexin agents and one or more therapeutic agents,
  agents useful for wound healing and/or gap junction modifying agents are delivered by
 topical administration (peripherally or directly to a site), including but not limited to topical
 administration using solid supports (such as dressings and other matrices) and medicinal
 formulations (such as gels, mixtures, suspensions and ointments). In one embodiment, the
 solid support comprises a biocompatible membrane or insertion into a treatment site. In
 another embodiment, the solid support comprises a dressing or matrix. In one embodiment of
 the invention, the solid support composition may be a slow release solid support composition,
 in which the one or more anti-connexin agents and one or more therapeutic agents, agents
 useful for wound healing and/or gap junction modifying agents is dispersed in a slow release
 solid matrix such as a matrix of alginate, collagen, or a synthetic bioabsorbable polymer.
 Preferably, the solid support composition is sterile or low bio-burden. In one embodiment, a
 wash solution comprising one or more anti-connexin agents can be used.
         The delivery of one or more anti-connexin agents and one or more therapeutic agents,
 agents useful for wound healing and/or gap junction modifying agents of the formulation
over a period of time, in some instances for about 1-2 hours, about 2-4 hours, about 4-6
hours, about 6-8, or about 24 hours or longer, may be a particular advantage in more severe
injuries or conditions. In some instances, cell loss may extend well beyond the site of a
procedure to surrounding cells. Such loss may occur within 24 hours of the original
procedure and is mediated by gap junction cell-cell communication. Administration of anti
connexin agent(s), e.g., for downregulation of connexin expression, or blockade of connexon
opening, therefore will modulate communication between the cells, or loss into the
extracellular space in the case of connexon regulation, and minimize additional cell loss or
injury or consequences of injury.

           While the delivery period will be dependent upon both the site at which the
  downregulation is to be induced and the therapeutic effect which is desired, continuous or
  slow-release delivery for about 1-2 hours, about 2-4 hours, about 4-6 hours, about 6-8, or
  about 24 hours or longer is provided. In accordance with the present invention, this is
  achieved by inclusion of the anti-connexin agents and/or one or more therapeutic agents,
  agents useful for wound healing and/or gap junction modifying agents in a formulation
  together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or vehicle, particularly in the form of a
  formulation for continuous or slow-release administration.
           As noted, the one or more agents of the invention may be administered before, during,
  immediately following wounding, for example, or within about 180, about 120, about 90,
   about 60, or about 30 days, but preferably within about 10, about 9, about 8, about 7, about 6,
   about 5, about 4, about 3, or about 2 days or less, and most preferably within about 24, about
   12, about 10, about 9, about 8, about 7, about 6, about 5, about 4, about 3, about 2 hours or
   within about 60, about 45, about 30, about 15, about 10, about 5, about 4, about 3, about 2,
   about 1 minute following wounding, for example.
            The routes of administration and dosages described herein are intended only as a
   guide since a skilled physician will determine the optimum route of administration and
   dosage for any particular patient and condition.
            Any of the methods of treating a subject having or suspected of having or predisposed
   to, or at risk for, a disease, disorder, and/or condition, referenced or described herein may
   utilize the administration of any of the doses, dosage forms, formulations, and/or
   compositions herein described.
            Dressings and Matrices
            In one aspect, the one or more anti-connexin agents, one or more therapeutic agents,
5   agents useful for wound healing and/or gap junction modifying agents are provided in the
    form of a dressing or matrix. In certain embodiments, the one or more agents of the
    invention are provided in the form of a liquid, semi solid or solid composition for application
    directly, or the composition is applied to the surface of, or incorporated into, a solid
    contacting layer such as a dressing gauze or matrix.       The dressing composition may be
0   provided for example, in the form of a fluid or a gel. The one or more anti-connexin agents
    and one or more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing and/or gap junction
    modifying agents may be provided in combination with conventional pharmaceutical
    excipients for topical application. Suitable carriers include: Pluronic gels, Polaxamer gels,

  Hydrogels containing cellulose derivatives, including hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxymethyl
  cellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose and mixtures thereof; and
  hydrogels containing      polyacrylic acid (Carbopols).        Suitable carriers also include
  creams/ointments used for topical pharmaceutical preparations, e.g., creams based on
  cetomacrogol emulsifying ointment. The above carriers may include alginate (as a thickener
  or stimulant), preservatives such as benzyl alcohol, buffers to control pH such as disodium
  hydrogen phosphate/sodium dihydrogen phosphate, agents to adjust osmolarity such as
  sodium chloride, and stabilizers such as EDTA.
           Suitable dressings or matrices may include, for example, the following with one or
  more anti-connexin agents with one or more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound
  healing and/or gap junction modifying agents:
           1) Absorptives: suitable absorptives may include, for example, absorptive dressings,
  which can provide, for example, a semi-adherent quality or a non-adherent layer, combined
   with highly absorptive layers of fibers, such as for example, cellulose, cotton or rayon.
   Alternatively, absorptives may be used as a primary or secondary dressing.
           2) Alginates: suitable alginates include, for example, dressings that are non-woven,
   non-adhesive pads and ribbons composed of natural polysaccharide fibers or xerogel derived
   from seaweed. Suitable alginates dressings may, for example, form a moist gel through a
   process of ion exchange upon contact with exudate. In certain embodiments, alginate
I  dressings are designed to be soft and conformable, easy to pack, tuck or apply over irregular
   shaped areas. In certain embodiments, alginate dressings may be used with a second
   dressing.
            3) Antimicrobial Dressings:       suitable antimicrobial dressings may include, for
   example, dressings that can facilitate delivery of bioactive agents, such as, for example, silver
5   and polyhexamethylene biguanide (PHMB), to maintain efficacy against infection, where this
    is needed or desirable.    In certain embodiments, suitable antimicrobial dressings may be
    available as for example, as sponges, impregnated woven gauzes, film dressings, absorptive
    products, island dressings, nylon fabric, non-adherent barriers, or a combination of materials.
            4) Biological & Biosynthetics: suitable biological dressings or biosynthetic dressings
0   may include, for example, gels, solutions or semi-permeable sheets derived from a natural
     source. In certain embodiments, a gel or solution is applied to the treatment site and covered
    with a dressing for barrier protection. In another embodiment, a sheet is placed in situ which
     may act as membrane, remaining in place after a single application.

            5) Collagens:   suitable collagen dressings may include, for example, gels, pads,
   particles, pastes, powders, sheets or solutions derived from for example, bovine, porcine or
   avian sources or other natural sources or donors.        In certain embodiments, the collagen
   dressing may interact with treatment site exudate to form a gel. In certain embodiments,
   collagen dressing may be used in combination with a secondary dressing.
           6) Composites: suitable composite dressings may include, for example, dressings that
   combine physically distinct components into a single product to provide multiple functions,
   such as, for example, a bacterial barrier, absorption and adhesion. In certain embodiment, the
   composite dressings are comprised of, for example, multiple layers and incorporate a semi-or
  non-adherent pad. In certain embodiment, the composite may also include for example, an
   adhesive border of non-woven fabric tape or transparent film. In certain other embodiment,
  the composite dressing may function as for example, either a primary or a secondary dressing
  and in yet another embodiment, the dressing may be used in combination with topical
  pharmaceutical composition.
           7) Contact Layers: suitable contact layer dressings may include, for example, thin,
  non-adherent sheets placed on an area to protect tissue from for example, direct contact with
  other agents or dressings applied to the treatment site. In certain embodiments, contact layers
  may be deployed to conform to the shape of the area of the treatment site and are porous to
  allow exudate to pass through for absorption by an overlying, secondary dressing. In yet
  another embodiment, the contact layer dressing may be used in combination with topical
  pharmaceutical composition.
           8) Elastic Bandages: suitable elastic bandages may include, for example, dressings
  that stretch and conform to the body contours. In certain embodiment, the fabric composition
  may include for example, cotton, polyester, rayon or nylon. In certain other embodiments,
5 the elastic bandage may for example, provide absorption as a second layer or dressing, to
  hold a cover in place, to apply pressure or to cushion a treatment site.
           9) Foams: suitable foam dressings may include, for example, sheets and other shapes
  of foamed polymer solutions (including polyurethane) with small, open cells capable of
  holding fluids.      Exemplary foams may be for example, impregnated or layered in
0 combination with other materials. In certain embodiment, the absorption capability may be
  adjusted based on the thickness and composition of the foam. In certain other embodiments,
  the area in contact with the treatment site may be non-adhesive for easy removal. In yet

  another embodiment, the foam may be used in combination with an adhesive border and/or a
  transparent film coating that can serve as an anti-infective barrier.
            10) Gauzes & Non-Woven dressings: suitable gauze dressings and woven dressings
  may include, for example, dry woven or non-woven sponges and wraps with varying degrees
  of absorbency. Exemplary fabric composition may include, for example, cotton, polyester or
  rayon. In certain embodiment, gauzes and non-woven dressing may be available sterile or
  non-sterile in bulk and with or without an adhesive border. Exemplary gauze dressings and
  woven dressings may be used for cleansing, packing and covering a variety of treatment sites.
            11) Hydrocolloids: suitable hydrocolloid dressings may include, for example, wafers,
  powders or pastes composed of gelatin, pectin or carboxymethylcellulose.            In certain
   embodiment, wafers are self-adhering and available with or without an adhesive border and
   in a wide variety of shapes and sizes. Exemplary hydrocolloids are useful on areas that
   require contouring. In certain embodiments, powders and pastes hydrocolloids may use used
   in combination with a secondary dressing.
            12) Hydrogels (Amorphous): suitable amorphous hydrogel dressings may include, for
   example, formulations of water, polymers and other ingredients with no shape, designed to
   donate moisture and to maintain a moist healing environments and or to rehydrate the
   treatment site. In certain embodiment, hydrogels may be used in combination with a
   secondary dressing cover.
             13) Hydrogels: Impregnated Dressings: suitable impregnated hydrogel dressings may
   include, for example, gauzes and non-woven sponges, ropes and strips saturated with an
   amorphous hydrogel. Amorphous hydrogels may include for example, formulations of water,
   polymers and other ingredients with no shape, designed to donate moisture to a dry treatment
    site and to maintain a moist healing environment.
5            14) Hydrogel Sheets: suitable hydrogel sheets may include for example, three
    dimensional networks of cross-linked hydrophilic polymers that are insoluble in water and
    interact with aqueous solutions by swelling. Exemplary hydrogels are highly conformable
    and permeable and can absorb varying amounts of drainage, depending on their composition.
    In certain embodiment, the hydrogel is non-adhesive against the treatment site or treated for
0   easy removal.
             15) Impregnated Dressings:       suitable impregnated dressings may include, for
    example, gauzes and non-woven sponges, ropes and strips saturated with a solution, an
    emulsion, oil, gel or some other pharmaceutically active compound or carrier agent, including

    for example, saline, oil, zinc salts, petrolatum, xeroform and scarlet red as well as the
    compounds described herein.
             16) Silicone Gel Sheets:       suitable silicone gel sheet dressings may include, for
    example, soft covers composed of cross-linked polymers reinforced with or bonded to mesh
    or fabric.
             17) Solutions:    suitable liquid dressings may include, for example, mixtures of
    multiprotein material and other elements found in the extracellular matrix. In certain
    embodiment, exemplary solutions may be applied to the treatment site after debridement and
    cleansing and then covered with an absorbent dressing or a nonadherent pad.
            18) Transparent Films:       suitable transparent film dressings may include polymer
    membranes of varying thickness coated on one side with an adhesive.                 In certain
    embodiments, transparent films are impermeable to liquid, water and bacteria but permeable
   to moisture vapor and atmospheric gases. In certain embodiments, the transparency allows
   visualization of the treatment site.
            19) Fillers: suitable filler dressings may include, for example, beads, creams, foams,
   gels, ointments, pads, pastes, pillows, powders, strands or other formulations. In certain
   embodiment, fillers are non-adherent and may include a time-released antimicrobial.
   Exemplary fillers may be useful to maintain a moist environment, manage exudate, and for
   treatment of for example, partial- and full- thickness wounds, infected wounds, draining
   wounds and deep wounds that require packing.
   Combination Wound Treatment
            General Aspects
            The present invention is directed to pharmaceutical compositions and their methods of
  use wherein the composition comprises therapeutically effective amounts of one or more anti
5  connexin agents and one or more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing and/or
  gap junction modifying agents. The compositions are useful in enhancing or promoting
  healing of wounds, such wounds include wounds which may be slow to heal or refractory to
  conventional wound treatment or wound healing promoting therapies.
           Equally, in instances of other tissue damage (particularly wounds) the methods and
  compositions of the invention are effective in promoting the wound healing process, reducing
  swelling and inflammation, and in minimizing scar formation. The formulations have clear
  benefit in the treatment of wounds, whether the result of external trauma (including burns),
  internal trauma, or surgical intervention, as well as chronic wounds.

            Compositions
            Accordingly, in one. aspect, the invention provides compositions for use in therapeutic
   treatment, which comprises: at least one anti-connexin agent and at least one therapeutic
   agent, and/or wound healing agent and/or gap junction modifying agent. In a preferred
  embodiment, the composition further comprises a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or
  vehicle.
           In one preferred form, the          composition    contains one or more antisense
  polynucleotides to the mRNA of one connexin protein only. In another preferred form, the
  composition comprises one or more anti-connexin peptides or pepidomimetics.                 Most
  preferably, this connexin protein is connexin 43.
           The compositions may comprise polynucleotides or anti-connexin peptides to more
  than one connexin protein. Preferably, one of the connexin proteins to which polynucleotides
  or anti-connexin peptides are directed is connexin 43.          Other connexins to which the
  polynucleotides or anti-connexin peptides are directed may include, for example, connexins
  26, 30, 30.3, 31.1, 32, 36, 37, 40, 40.1, 44.6, 45 and 46. Suitable exemplary polynucleotides
  (and ODNs) directed to various connexins are set forth in Table 1. Suitable anti-connexin
  peptides are also provided herein.
           Exemplary Combinations
           Exemplary combinations of an anti-connexin agent and a wound healing agent
  according to the compositions and methods of the present invention include the following:
           (a) one of the following anti-connexin agents:
           a connexin 43 antisense polynucleotide;
           a connexin 43 antisense ODN;
5          a polynucleotide comprising SEQ. ID. NO: 2;
           an ODN comprising SEQ. ID. NO: 2;
           a polynucleotide comprising SEQ. ID. NO: 1;
           an ODN comprising SEQ. ID. NO: 1:
           a connexin 43 RNAi polynucleotide; or
3          a connexin 43 siRNA polynucleotide; and
        (b) one of the following agents useful for wound healing:
           Activin;
5          FGF-2 or fibroblast growth factor 2;
           FGF-1 or fibroblast growth factor-1;
           VEGF or vascular endothelial growth factor;
           GM-SF or granulocyte monocyte stimulating factor;
           Platelet factor 4;
           EGF or epidermal growth factor;

           TGF or transforming growth factor beta (e.g. TGF- 1,2,3);
           TNF alpha or tumor necrosis factor alpha;
           IL-I interleukin-1;
           IL-4 interleukin-4;
 5         IL-7 interleukin-7;
           IL-8 interleukin-8;
           IL- 10 interleukin- 10;
           GMCSF or granulocyte-macrophage / colony-stimulating factor;
           CTGF or Connective tissue growth factor;
 )         Thymosin beta 4;
           IGF- I or insulin-like growth factor- 1;
           PDGF or platelet-derived growth factor;
           PDGF-BB or platelet-derived growth factor BB;
           Mannose-6-phosphate;
 5         (aFGF) Acidic fibroblast growth factor
           (bFGF) Basic fibroblast growth factor
           (HB-EGF) Heparin binding epidermal growth factor
           (hGH) Human growth hormone
           (KGF) Keratinocyte growth factor
 )         (KGF-2) Keratinocyte growth factor-2
           (MMP) Matrix metalloproteinase
           (PDECGF) Platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor
           (PDEGF) Platelet-derived epidermal growth factor
           (rbbFGF) Recombinant bovine basic fibroblast growth factor
 5         (rhbFGF) Recombinant human basic fibroblast growth factor
           (rhPDGF-BB) Recombinant human platelet-derived growth factor (BB-dimer)
           (TGF-alpha) Transforming growth factor-alpha
           (TGF-beta) Transforming growth factor-beta
           (TIMP) Tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase
 )         (VEGF) Vascular endothelial growth factor
           (IGFBP) Insulin-Like Growth Factor Binding Protein (e.g., IGFBP-2, IGFBP-3,
           IGFBP-4); and,
           (FGF) or fibroblast growth factors (e.g. FGF-l, FGF-2).
5          This listing of combinations is exemplary in nature. Other combinations of anti
   connexin agents and therapeutic agents described herein are also included.          Other
   combinations of anti-connexin agents and agents useful for wound healing described herein
   are also included. Other combinations of anti-connexin agents and gap junction modifying
   agents described herein are also included.
0          Kits, Medicaments and Articles of Manufacturer
           Optionally, one or more anti-connexin agents and one or more agents useful for
   wound healing, therapeutic agents, and/or gap junction modifying agents (e.g., peptides,
   proteolytic inhibitors, extracellular matrix components, fragments and peptides, steroids,
   cytokines, oxygen donators or vitamins) may also be used in the manufacture of the
5  medicament.

            In one aspect, the invention provides a kit comprising one or more compositions or
    formulations described.     For example, the kit may include a composition comprising an
    effective amount of one or more anti-connexin agents and one or more therapeutic agents,
    agents useful for wound healing and/or gap junction modifying agents.
            Articles of manufacturer are also provided, comprising a vessel containing a
   composition or formulation of the invention as described herein and instructions for use for
   the treatment of a subject. For example, In another aspect, the invention includes an article of
   manufacture comprising a vessel containing a therapeutically effective amount of one or
   more pharmaceutically acceptable anti-connexin agents and one or more pharmaceutically
   acceptable therapeutic agents for promotion or improvement of wound healing and
   instructions for use, including use for the treatment of a subject.
            Treatment
            The compositions and formulations of the invention may be used in conjunction or
   combination with a composition for promoting the healing of wounds or to reduce swelling,
   inflammation and/or scarring. The compositions and formulations of the invention may also
   be used in conjunction or combination with a composition for promoting and/or improving
   the healing of acute or chronic wounds. In one aspect, the wound will be the result of surgery
   or trauma.
            Suitable therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing, and/or gap junction
  modifying agents used in combination with one or more anti-connexin agents for the
   treatment of wounds are described herein. In one aspect, the anti-connexin agent may be
   administered in combination with an agent useful for wound healing such as a chemokine, a
  cytokine, growth factor, or combination thereof. In one embodiment, the chemokine is a
  chemokine ligand 2 (Ccl2) antagonist.         In another embodiment, the cytokine is a tumor
5 necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a) antagonist. In another embodiment, the cytokine is IL- 10. In
  one embodiment, the growth factor is TGF-beta-3. According to another embodiment the
  wound healing agent is thymosin B4. In yet another embodiment, the anti-connexin agent
  may be administered in combination with one or more of IGFBP-2, IGF-7, IGF-1 or
  modulators thereof, to increase hydroxyproline and collagen type lal synthesis for the
  promotion of wound healing.
            Suitable anti-connexin agents for use in combination with an agent useful for wound
  healing, a therapeutic agent or a gap-junction modifying agent are described herein and may
  include, for example, a polynucleotide such as an ODN, a blocker or other connexin binding

  agent such as, for example, receptor mimetic peptide; an absorber to remove activity, such as,
  for example, synthetically expressed receptor molecules or mimetics; or antibodies; as wells
  as, for examples, other agents useful to adjust gap junction closing/opening, such as
  compounds that phosphorylate or dephosphorylate gap junctions.
            In one aspect the invention is directed to a method of promoting or improving wound
  healing in a subject, comprising administration a therapeutically effective amount of one or
  more anti-connexin agents and one or more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound
  healing and/or a gap junction modifying agents or compounds useful for promoting or
   improving healing. In certain embodiments, the administration of one or more anti-connexin
   agents and one or more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing and/or a gap
  junction modifying agents, is effective to reduce inflammation, reduce neutrophil and/or
   macrophage infiltration into the wound, reduce granulation tissue deposition, promote cell
   migration to accelerate wound closure and healing, to facilitate epitheliam growth, tissue
   engineering, and surface recovery for bums, or any combination thereof. In certain
   embodiments, the administration of one or more anti-connexin agents and one or more
   therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing and/or a gap junction modifying agents,
    is effective to reduce or prevent scar formation. In methods to promote or improve scar
    formation, the anti-connexin agent is preferably administered in combination with, or after or
    prior to, administration of TGF-beta-3 or IL-10 or mannose-6-phosphate.
             In one aspect the invention is directed to a method of promoting or improving wound
    healing in a subject, comprising administration of one or more anti-connexin agents and one
    or more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing and/or a gap junction modifying
    agents, in an amount effective to regulate epithelial basal cell division and growth. In one
    embodiment, the anti-connexin agent is a connexin antisense polynucleotide effective to
5   regulate epithelial basal cell division and growth. In one embodiment, the connexin antisense
    polynucleotide is a connexin 26 antisense polynucleotide, a connexin 43 antisense
    polynucleotide, or a mixture thereof.
              In one aspect the invention is directed to a method of promoting or improving wound
     healing, comprising administration of one or more anti-connexin agents and one or more
0    therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing and/or a gap junction modifying agents,
     in an amount effective to regulate outer layer keratin secretion. In one embodiment, the anti
     connexin agent is a connexin antisense polynucleotide effective to regulate outer layer keratin

  secretion.      In one embodiment, the connexin antisense polynucleotide is a connexin 43
  antisense polynucleotide, a 31.1 antisense polynucleotide, or a mixture thereof.
           In yet a further aspect, the invention provides a method of decreasing scar formation
  and/or improving scar appearance in a patient who has suffered a wound, e.g., a surgical
  wound (such as in, for example, cosmetic and other surgeries), which comprises the step of
  administering one or more anti-connexin agents and one or more therapeutic agents, agents
  useful for wound healing and/or a gap junction modifying agents to said wound to
  downregulate expression of one or more connexin protein(s) at and immediately adjacent the
  site of said wound. Again, the wound may be the result of trauma or surgery, with the
  formulation being applied to the wound immediately prior to surgical repair and/or closure
  thereof. As noted herein, in methods to reduce or improve scar formation or appearance, the
  anti-connexin agent is preferably administered in combination with, or after or prior to,
   administration of a suitable amount of TGF-beta-3 or IL- 10 or mannose-6-phosphate.
            In one aspect the invention is. directed to a method of reducing, preventing or
   ameliorating tissue damage in a subject, comprising administration of one or more anti
   connexin agents and one or more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing and/or a
   gap junction modifying agents.
            In a further aspect, the invention is directed to a method of reducing swelling and/or
   inflammation as part of treating a wound and/or tissue subjected to physical trauma which
   comprises the step of administering an anti-connexin composition or formulation as defined
   above and one or more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing, and/or gap
   junction modifying agents to or proximate to said wound or tissue. In one embodiment the
   wound is the result of physical trauma to tissue, including neuronal tissue such as the brain,
    spinal cord or optic nerve, or skin or eye.
5            In. one aspect the invention is directed to sustained administration of one or more anti
    connexin agents and one or more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing, and/or
    gap junction modifying agents. In one embodiment, an anti-connexin agent is administered
    for at least about 1- 24 hours, at least about 2, hours, at least about 3 hours, at least about 4
    hours, at least about 5 hours, at least about 6 hours, at least about 7 hours, at least about 8
0   hours, at least about 9 hours, at least about 10 hours, at least about II hours, at least about 12
    hours or at least about 24 hours. In one embodiment, connexin expression is downregulated
    over a sustained period of time. Preferably connexin 43 expression is downregulated for a
    sustained period of time. Conveniently, connexin 43 expression is downregulated for at least

   about 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, or 24 hours. According to one embodiment, the wound is a chronic
   wound. Suitable subjects include a diabetic subject.
             In one aspect, the present invention provides a method of treating a subject having a
   wound which comprises sustained administration of an effective amount of an anti-connexin
   agent and one or more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing, and/or gap
   junction modifying agents to the wound. In a further aspect, the present invention provides a
   method of promoting or improving wound healing in a subject which comprises sustained
    administration of one or more anti-connexin agents and one or more therapeutic agents,
                                                                                                  a
    agents useful for wound healing, and/or gap junction modifying agents to a wound. In
    further aspect, the present invention provides a method of reducing, preventing or
    ameliorating swelling and/or inflammation in a subject which comprises sustained
    administration of one or more anti-connexin agents and one or more therapeutic agents,
                                                                                               In a
    agents useful for wound healing, and/or gap junction modifying agents to a wound.
    further aspect, the present invention provides a method. of reducing, preventing or
    ameliorating scar formation in a subject which comprises sustained administration of one or
    more anti-connexin agents and one or more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound
    healing, and/or gap junction modifying agents to a wound.
              According to another further aspect, the present invention provides a method of
     promoting or improving wound healing in a subject having a wound which comprises
 )   sustained administration of an anti-connexin composition or formulation of the present
     invention and one or more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing, and/or gap
                                                                                                 re
     junction modifying agents to a wound area in an amount effective to increase
     epithlialization rates in the wound area. In one embodiment the method comprises sustained
     administration of a connexin 43 antisense polynucleotide and/or a connexin 31.1 antisense
                                                                                            junction
:5   polynucleotide and one or more therapeutic agents, wound healing agents and/or gap
     modifying agents. In one embodiment, the composition or compositions are administered in
      a sustained release formulation. In another embodiment, the composition or compositions are
      administered for a sustained period of time. Conveniently, the composition is effective to
      decrease connexin 43 and/or 31.1 levels or activity (e.g., hemichannel or gap junction
30    activity) for at least about 24 hours. According to one embodiment, the wound is a chronic
      wound. Subjects which may be treated include diabetic subjects.
               In yet another aspect, the present invention provides invention provides, a method of
      promoting or improving wound healing in a subject having a wound which comprises

   sustained administration of an anti-connexin composition or formulation of the present
  invention and one or more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing, and/or gap
  junction modifying agents to a wound area in an amount effective to effective to regulate
   epithelial basal cell division and growth and/or effective to regulate outer layer keratin
   secretion.     In one embodiment, the composition comprises a connexin antisense
  polynucleotide effective to regulate epithelial basal cell division or growth, preferably a
   connexin 26 antisense polynucleotide, a connexin 43 antisense polynucleotide, or a mixture
   thereof. In one embodiment, the composition comprises a connexin antisense polynucleotide
   effective to regulate outer layer keratinization, preferably, a connexin 31.1 antisense
   polynucleotide. In one embodiment, the composition or compositions are administered in a
   sustained release formulation. In another embodiment, the composition or compositions are
   administered for a sustained period of time. Conveniently, the composition is effective to
   decrease connexin 43, 26, and/or 31.1 levels for at least about 24 hours. According to one
   embodiment, the wound is a chronic wound. Subjects which may be treated include diabetic
    subjects.
            In another aspect, methods for treating a subject having a chronic wound are
   provided. Such methods include administering to the subject an anti-connexin agent capable
    of inhibiting the expression, formation, or activity of a connexin, or a connexin hemichannel,
    in combination with one or more therapeutic agents, wound healing agents and/or gap
   junction modifying agents.
            In one aspect the invention is directed to a method for treatment or prophylaxis of a
    chronic wound comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of
    an anti-connexin agent administered to said chronic wound or a tissue associated with said
    chronic wound in combination with one or more therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound
5   healing and/or gap junction modifying agents. In another embodiment, the chronic wound is
    a chronic skin wound and a composition of the present invention is administered to the skin
    or a tissue associated with the skin of said subject for an effective period of time. A chronic
    skin wound suitable for treatment may, for example, be selected from the group consisting of
    pressure ulcers, diabetic ulcers, venous ulcers, arterial ulcers, vasculitic ulcers, and mixed
0   ulcers.   The chronic wound may be an arterial ulcer which comprises ulcerations resulting
     from complete or partial arterial blockage. The chronic wound may be a venous stasis ulcer
     which comprises ulcerations resulting from a malfunction of the venous valve and the
     associated vascular disease. The chronic wound may be a trauma-induced ulcer.

           In one embodiment, the anti-connexin agent is administered in combination with a
  growth factor. Preferably the growth factor is PDGF, EGF, or FGF (e.g., FGF-2).
           When not administered as a fixed combination, preferred methods include the
  sequential administration of one or more anti-connexin agents and one or more growth
  factors. Preferably, the agents are administered sequentially within at least about one-half
  hour of each other. The agents may also be administered with about one hour of each other,
  with about one day to about one week of each other, or as otherwise deemed appropriate.
  Preferably, the anti-connexin agent is administered first. Preferably, where one or more anti
  connexin agents are used, an anti-connexin peptide or anti-connexin peptidomimetic, e.g., an
  anti-connexin agent that can block or reduce hemichannel opening, is administered prior to
  the administration of an anti-connexin agent that blocks or reduce connexin expression or the
   formation of hemichannels or gap junctions, e.g., by downregulation of connexin protein
   expression. Preferably, the anti-connexin agent or agents is/are anti-connexin 43 agent(s).
            In another embodiment for treatment of wounds, including chronic wounds, either or
   both of the one or more anti-connexin agents and one or more growth factors are provided in
   amounts or doses that are less that those used when the agent or agents are administered
   alone, i.e., when they are not administered in combination, either physically or in the course
   of treatment of a wound. Such lesser amounts of agents administered are typically from
   about one-twentieth to about one-tenth the amount or amounts of the agent when
   administered alone, and may be about one-eighth the amount, about one-sixth the amount,
   about one-fifth the amount, about one-fourth the amount, about one-third the amount, and
    about one-half the amount when administered alone.
             In one embodiment the method for treatment or prophylaxis of a chronic wound
    comprises sustained administration of one or more anti-connexin agents and one or more
5   therapeutic agents, agents useful for wound healing and/or gap junction modifying agents. In
    one embodiment, the composition or compositions are administered in a sustained release
    formulation. In another embodiment, the composition or compositions are administered for a
    sustained period of time. Conveniently, the composition is effective to decrease connexin 43
    levels, or block or reduce connexin 43 hemichannel opening, for at least about 1-2 hours,
0   about 2-4 hours, about 4-6 hours, about 4-8 hours, about 12 hours, about 18 hours, or about
    24 hours. Subjects which may be treated include diabetic subjects, and patients with other
    ulcers, including venous ulcers and others described herein and known in the art.

             The following examples which will be understood to be provided by way of
   illustration only and not to constitute a limitation on the scope of the invention.
                                              EXAMPLES
                                              EXAMPLE 1
             Wound healing was assessed using a model with 1. 6mm diameter full thickness
   excisional wounds on 8 week old mice. Followed by immunohistochemistry and histology,
   with RT-PCR analysis of gene expression.
             Skin wounds repair by a combination of re-epithelializing action and, connective
    tissue contraction followed by an angiogenic response which leads to a dense network of
    blood vessels in the wound granulation tissue (Grose, R. and Werner, S. (2004). Wound
    healing studies in transgenic and knockout mice. Mol Biotechnol 28, 147-66.). A robust
    inflammatory response commences soon after any tissue damage. This both protects the
    wound from microbial infection and produces many kinds of bioactive substances that act on
    the host cells at the wound site. A variety of inflammatory cells migrate into the wound
    fulfilling several different functions. Neutrophils are the earliest leukocytes to be recruited to
    the wound and their main role is to defend the host from invasion by microbes, which they do
                                                                                            cytokines.
     by releasing toxic free oxygen radicals and secreting proinflammatory
     Subsequently, macrophages clear away spent neutrophils and other cell and extracellular
     matrix debris at the wound site. Macrophages are also the major producers of cytokines,
 )   chemokines and growth factors that will direct subsequent cell and tissue migration of the
     repair response. Whilst many of the signals regulating the inflammation and. tissue repair
     process are clearly diffusible. and operate over long distances, local cell-cell communication
     via cell adhesion molecules and cell-cell junctions appears also to play a significant role.
                                                                                                  is the
              One junctional link between cells which may play a significant regulatory role
!5    gap junction which is a hexameric channel formed of proteins from the connexin family. Gap
                                                                                        J., Xu, X. and
     junctions are reported to be expressed by almost all cells in the body (Wei, C.
                                                                                               mediate
      Lo, C. W. (2004). Annu Rev Cell Dev Biol 20, 811-38.) and have been reported to
      changes in cell migration.
              The level of connexin 43 (Cx43) protein at the epidermal wound edge has been
30    reported to naturally decreases over 24 - 48 hours. Downregulating Cx43 protein levels by
                                                                                            injury sites
      application of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (asODN) to skin wound and burn
      has been reported to lead to significantly accelerated healing compared with control sense
      oligodeoxynucleotides (sODN) treated wounds (Qiu, C., Coutinho, P., Frank, S., Franke, S.,

  Law, L.Y., Martin, P., Green, C.R. and Becker, D. L. (2003).          Targeting connexin 43
  expression accelerates the rate of wound repair. Curr Biol 13, 1697-703; Coutinho, P., Qiu,
  C., Frank, S., Wang, C.M., Brown, T., Green, C.R. and Becker, D.L. (2005). Limiting bum
  extension by transient inhibition of connexin 43 expression at the site of injury. Br J Plast
  Surg 58, 658-67).
            The experiments showed that acute downregulation of Cx43 protein at a wound site
  led to an increase in keratinocyte proliferation and migration, and in the rate at which
  fibroblasts migrate into the wound and lay down collagen matrix. We noted a decrease in
  neutrophil infiltration and a concomitant reduction in chemokine ligand 2 (Ccl2) and cytokine
  tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a) mRNA. Subsequently, we also noted a reduced
  recruitment of macrophages which may be a consequence of damping down of the initial
   inflammatory response, which is known to have downstream effects on the ensuing wound
  healing process. Together these modified responses resulted in significantly improved wound
   healing.
   Wound model and ODN treatment
            Male, 8 week old, ICR mice were used in the following experiments. All the mice
   were kept under specific pathogen-free conditions in an environmentally controlled clean
   room at University College London and all the experiments were carried out under UK Home
   Office regulations. Mice were anaesthetized by halothane inhalation. Four full-thickness
   excisional wounds of 6 mm diameter were made on the shaved back on either side of the
   dorsal midline with a 6 mm biopsy punch (Kai Industries). To each pair of wounds a single
    topical application of 50 p1 of 1 yM Cx43 as ODN (SEQ. ID No. 2) (Sigma-Genosys) in 30%
    Pluronic F-127 gel (Sigma-Aldrich), chilled on ice, was made to one wound, and an identical
    application of 1 pM sense control sODNs was made to the other. Cx43 asODNs application
5   results in a significant knockdown of Cx43 protein at the site of delivery within two hours
    (Becker, D.L., McGonnell, I., Makarenkova, H.P., Patel, K., Tickle, C., Lorimer, J. and
    Green, C. R. (1999).      Roles for alpha 1 connexin in morphogenesis of chick embryos
    revealed using a novel antisense approach. Dev Genet 24, 33-42; McGonnell, I.M., Green,
    C.R., Tickle, C. and Becker, D.L. (2001). Connexin 43 gap junction protein plays an
0    essential role in morphogenesis of the embryonic chick face. Dev Dyn 222, 420-38; Qiu, C.,
     Coutinho, P., Frank, S., Franke, S., Law, L.Y., Martin, P., Green, C.R. and Becker, D. L.
     (2003). Targeting connexin 43 expression accelerates the rate of wound repair. CurrBiol 13,
     1697-703). Each wound region was digitally photographed at the indicated time intervals,

  and the areas of the wounds were calculated. All wound areas were expressed as percentages
  of the initial wound areas. In some series of experiments, wounds and their surrounding area,
  including the scab and epithelial margins, were harvested with an 8 mm biopsy punch (Kai
  Industries) at the indicated time intervals after mice were killed with an overdose of
  chloroform. A minimum of eight mice were used for each time point examined.
  Histology and immunostaining
           Wound tissues were fixed in 4% formaldehyde buffered with PBS, and embedded in
  paraffin.    Sections (6 ytm thick) were subjected to hematoxylin and eosin staining or
   immunostaining.     Measurement of granulation tissue area in H&E was performed using
   Improvision OpenlabTM        4.0.2 software (Improvision).      For immunohistochemistry,
   deparaffinized sections were treated with endogenous peroxidase blocking reagent (Dako
   Cytomation A/S) and proteinase K (Dako Cytomation A/S) for 20 minutes and 6 minutes at
   room temperature, respectively. They were then incubated with rabbit antimyeloperoxidase
   (MPO) polyclonal antibody (NeoMarkers) diluted 1:200, rat anti-mouse F4/80 monoclonal
   antibody (mAb) (Abcom Limited) diluted 1:400 or rat antimouse CD31 (platelet endothelial
   cell adhesion molecule 1, PECAM-1) mAb (PharMingen) or rabbit anti-mouse TGF-31
   polyclonal antibody (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Inc) both diluted 1:200 overnight at 4'C
   after blocking with 15% skimmed milk for 1 hour at room temperature. In addition, some
   sections were reacted with phalloidin-tetramethylrhodamine        B isothiocyanate (Sigma
   Aldrich) diluted 1:500 for 1 hour at room temperature. The antibodies were appropriately
   diluted in Antibody Diluent with Background Reducing Components (Dako Cytomation
   A/S). The sections reacted with anti-MPO antibody and anti TGF-1 antibody were stained
    with EnVision+TM (Dako Cytomation A/S) to enhance the signal, according to the
    manufacturer's instructions. The sections that had been reacted with anti-F4/80 and anti
5   CD31 antibodies were incubated with biotinylated rabbit anti-rat immunoglobulin (Dako
    Cytomation A/S) diluted 1:200 for 1 hour at 37*C. The signal was then enhanced using the
    Catalyzed Signal Amplification System@ (Dako Cytomation A/S) according to the
    manufacturer's instructions. Thereafter, counterstaining was performed with methyl green
    (Dako Cytomation A/S) followed by MPO, TGF-01, F4/80, and CD31 staining or 4',6
0   diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) followed by phalloidin staining.
            Immunostaining for connexin 43, blood vessels or a smooth muscle actin was carried
    out on cryostat sections of wounds. Sections were fixed in acetone at 4'C for 5 minutes prior
    to blocking for 45 minutes. Incubation in primary antibody was for one hour at the following

   dilutions:   rabbit anti-Cx43 (Sigma) 1:3,000; isoLectin BFITC 1:2000; von Willebrand
   Factor (rabbit Dako) 1:400; anti-a smooth muscle actin (Sigma) 1:400 at room temperature.
   Sections were washed for 3 x 5 minutes in PBS before a one hour incubation in anti-rabbit
   FITC secondary antibody (Dako) 1:200 at room temperature. Washing 3 x 5 minutes in PBS,
   in some cases with lyM bis-benzimide (Sigma) in the first wash as a nuclear counter stain,
   and mounted in Citifluor (Citifluor, London, UK).        Sections were imaged by confocal
   microscopy with all parameters kept constant to allow direct comparison of digital images.
   TUNEL staining
            Wound tissues were fixed in 4% formaldehyde buffered with PBS, and embedded in
   paraffin and sectioned. Deparaffinized sections were treated with proteinase K (Dako
   Cytomation A/S) for 5 minutes at room temperature. They were then stained using the In
    Situ Cell Death Detection Kit (Roche) according to the manufacture's instructions.
    Thereafter, counterstaining was performed with 4', 6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI).
    TUNEL stained section were imaged and positive cells were counted in the granulation tissue
    in three random fields, in the two sides and center of each wound (each field was 0.332
    mm2).
    Detection of Proliferating Cells by Labeling with 5'-bromo-2'-deoxy-uridine (BrdU)
            In another experiment, wounded mice were injected intraperitoneally with Iml of
    BrdU (Sigma) in PBS solution (lmg/ml) 2 hours before harvesting on days 1, 2, and 7.
 1  Wound tissues were fixed in 4% formaldehyde buffered with PBS, and embedded in paraffin.
    Deparaffinized sections (6 pm thick) were treated with a HistoMouseTM-Plus Kit (ZYMED
     Laboratories, Inc) to reduce background signals according to manufacturer's instructions.
     Sections were stained with BrdU Detection Kit (BD Bioscience Pharmingen) according to
     manufacture's instruction. Thereafter, counterstaining was performed with methyl green
5    (Dako Cytomation A/S).
     Measurement of Neutrophils, Macrophages, Fibroblasts, BrdU-Positive Cells, and
     Angiogenesis
             A treatment-blinded observer counted MPO-positive neutrophils and F4/80-positive
     macrophages in the wound bed (defined as the area surrounded by unwounded skin, fascia,
0    regenerated epidermis, and eschar) in 3 random high-power fields of 0.332 mm2. BrdU
     positive cells in the wound margin and the nascent epidermis regions of each
     immunohistochemically stained section were counted as described previously and expressed
     per 100 pm of epidermis (Mori, R., Kondo, T., Nishie, T., Ohshima, T. and Asano, M.

   (2004). Impairment of skin wound healing in beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase-deficient mice
   with reduced leukocyte recruitment. Am J Pathol 164, 1303-14). Number of fibroblast like
   cells (phalloidin-positive cells with spindle-shape body) at the wound margin were counted in
   high-power fields also (each field was 0.332 mm2). The neovascularization was followed
   using von Wildebrand factor fluorescent staining of endothelial cells at days 5, 7, 10 and 14
   after wounding. Myofibroblasts were identified by anti-a smooth muscle actin staining. For
   quantification of both fluorescent stains a confocal microscope was used to take single
   section images from comparable zones from a minimum six animals per time point. All
   parameters of image acquisition were kept constant to allow comparison. Images were made
   binary at a standard threshold and positive pixels were counted using Image J (NIH Image).
    Hydroxyproline analysis
            The collagen content of the wound area was assessed by determining the amount of
    hydroxyproline (HP), a major component of collagen. Samples were homogenized in Iml of
    T-PER@ Tissue Protein Extraction Reagent (PIERCE Biotechnology Inc.) including HaltTM
    Protease Inhibitor Cocktail, EDTA-Free (PIERCE Biotechnology Inc.), and were centrifuged
    at 15,000 rpm for 20 minutes at 4*C to remove the debris. Concentrations of protein were
    measured using a BCATM Protein Assay Kit (PIERCE Biotechnology Inc.), and the amounts
    of HP were determined with SircolTM Soluble Collagen Assay Kit (Biocolor Ltd.). The data
    were expressed as amounts of HP/total protein (ng/pg) for each sample.
 I  Cell Culture
             Swiss 3T3 fibroblasts were grown in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM;
    Gibco) supplemented with 10% fetal calf serum (Labtech) and 1% penicillinstreptomycin
                                                            0
    solution (Sigma, Poole) in a 5% C02 incubator at 37 C. Unless otherwise stated, the cells
    were maintained in this medium for most experiments.             The cells were passaged by
5    trypsinization and used at passages 6-10 at a confluency of ~90%. Cells were plated on 13
     mm glass coverslips in 24-well dishes (Nunc) with 4 -5 x 105 cells per well containing 1 ml
     of medium. Cells reached confluency after 72 hours and were then used for experimentation.
     Cell Migration Assay by Wounding
             The fibroblast cell assay involved creating a "wound" in a confluent monolayer of
0    fibroblast cells. This widely used in vitro technique mimics the behaviour of migrating cells
     in vivo (Lampugnani, M.G. (1999) Cell Migration into a wounded area in vitro. Methods
     Mol Biol 96: 177-182). Wounding was performed by drawing a microelectrode across the
      coverslip, producing a lesion of standard width. Phase contrast images were acquired using a

  x5 objective on a Zeiss inverted microscope with an incubation chamber at 370 and 5% C02.
  An image of a defined area at the edge of a cover slip was taken immediately after wounding
  and a further image was taken of the same area 4 hours later, a time at which migration could
  be clearly seen to have taken place (Figure 7E, 7F). A minimum of eight coverslips, were
  imaged in each of the control and treated groups.           Migration was quantified by image
  analysis, measuring the change in wound area (pixels) using Image J software (NIH).
            In order to knock down Cx43 expression in the fibroblasts the media was replaced
  with serum-free DMEM containing either 20 pM asODNs or 20 ptM control sODNs. This
  was incubated for two hours before being replaced with serum containing DMEM. The
  wounding assay was then carried out as above. Previous experience has shown that two
  hours is sufficient to achieve significant knockdown of Cx43 protein (Qiu, C., Coutinho, P.,
   Frank, S., Franke, S., Law, L.Y., Martin, P., Green, C.R. and Becker, D. L. (2003). Targeting
   connexin 43 expression accelerates the rate of wound repair. - Curr Biol 13, 1697-703) and
   the knockdown process continues during the wound migration assay.
   Isolation of RNA and Quantitative Gene Expression Level with Real-Time PCR
            Total RNA was extracted from skin wound samples using TRIzol Reagent
   (Invitrogen), according to the manufacturer's instructions. Ten micrograms of total RNA was
   reverse-transcribed into cDNA using the SuperScript First-Strand Synthesis System for RT
   PCR (Invitrogen).
             Gene specific primers and probe were obtained as TaqMan@ Gene Expression Assays
    (Applied Biosystems) for Cx43, Cc2, Colal, TNFa and TGFO1. The enzyme and buffer
    system was purchased as TaqMan@ Universal PCR Master Mix (Applied Biosystemes).
    Each sample was analyzed in duplicate. Amplification and real-time detection was
    performed in the DNA Engine Opticon@2 (MJ Research Inc.). Expression of target genes
5   was compared with GAPDH expression.
    Statistical analysis
             Statistical differences were determined using the unpaired Student's t test or the Mann
    Whitney U test as appropriate. All data are presented as the mean + s.e.m. Criterion levels
    for the individual tests are given in Results.
0    Downregulation of Cx43 at wound sites with Cx43 asODN
             Cx43 was found to be predominantly expressed in the lower and middle spinous cell
     layers of the epidermis and in fibroblasts, blood vessels and dermal appendages of intact skin.
     Six hours after the injury Cx43 was expressed in hyperproliferative epidermis but began to be

  downregulated in the leading edge keratinocytes. Delivery of Cx43 asODN from the time of
  injury markedly reduced protein levels of Cx43 in the epidermis and dermis within two hours
  of treatment. Such a rapid knockdown is possible because Cx43 protein is turned over
  rapidly, sometimes within 1.5-2 hours. In order to quantify the extent of Cx43 protein and
  mRNA knockdown and recovery after asODN treatment more precisely, we compared
  expression levels of Cx43 mRNA at treated versus untreated wound sites with real-time PCR
  (RT-PCR; Figure 1). One day after injury, expression of Cx43 mRNA at Cx43 asODN
  treated wounds was significantly reduced by comparison with control sODN-treated wounds
   (2.95 versus 4.7 units, respectively, a 37% reduction; P<0.05). By 7 days after the injury,
   however, expression levels were similar in the two wound regimes (4.6 versus 5.2 units for
   asODN and control sODN-treated, respectively). Immunostaining of wounds for Cx43 at 1
   day, 2 days and 7 days after wounding revealed very low levels of Cx43 protein in the
   epidermis and dermis of the Cx43 asODN-treated wound edge at day 1 compared to controls
   (Figure 1). By day 2, some Cx43 staining had returned to the dermis of the Cx43 asODN
   treated wound but the level was still very low in the epidermis. By day 7, in agreement with
   the RT-PCR findings, there was no obvious difference in Cx43 staining between treated and
   untreated. These results confirm that this Cx43 asODN, when delivered by Pluronic gel, does
   indeed inhibit expression of Cx43 mRNA at early time points after wounding.
   Accelerated Closure and Increased Proliferation in Cx43 asODN Treated Wounds
            Wounds were identically photographed macroscopically and their areas measured
    digitally. As we have reported previously (Qiu, C., Coutinho, P., Frank, S., Franke, S., Law,
    L.Y., Martin, P., Green, C.R. and Becker, D. L. (2003). Targeting connexin 43 expression
    accelerates the rate of wound repair. Curr Biol 13, 1697-703), Cx43 asODN-treated wounds
    were significantly smaller, drier, less inflamed and closed faster than control wounds at days
5   1 and 2. By day 7, scabs covered the wounds and made it impossible to give accurate
    measurements of wound closure. Reepithelialization from the wound edge commenced soon
    after injury in order to cover the denuded site. Cx43 asODN treatment of both excisional and
    incisional wounds results in wounds that re-epithelialise more rapidly than control ODN
    treated wounds. We therefore examined whether this might be partially due to enhanced
0   proliferation of keratinocytes and fibroblasts in the healing skin of Cx43 asODN treated
    wounds (Figures 2A to 2H). Whilst there was little difference in keratinocyte proliferation
    between control and treated groups in the epidermal wound margin (Figure 2E), we showed
    that, indeed, there are significantly increased numbers of BrdU-positive cells in the nascent

  epidermis of Cx43 asODN-treated wounds after both 2 days and 7 days (Figure 2F).
  Similarly, counts of BrdU-positive cells in the dermal wound margin revealed slightly more
  cells following asODN-treatment and significantly more in the granulation tissue at days 1
  and 2 (Figure 2G and 2H).          These results are consistent with our gross microscopic
  observations, and suggest that acute downregulation of Cx43 at wound sites leads to a surge
  of proliferation of wound-edge keratinocytes that continues as they re-epithelialize the
  wound. This enhanced proliferation may contribute to the accelerated re-epithelialization and
  enhanced granulation tissue maturation in asODN treated wounds.
  Reduced Influx of Inflammatory Cells in Cx43 asODN-Treated Wounds - Neutrophils and
  Macrophages
           Several leukocyte lineages infiltrate the wound site with varying time courses during
  the inflammatory response to tissue damage. The two primary cell lineages are neutrophils
   and macrophages both of these can exert profound effects on various aspects of the repair
   process. We have previously evaluated neutrophil influx in Cx43 asODN-treated wounds
   and here we confirm with an anti-MPO antibody that their numbers are significantly reduced
   on day 1 and 2, at a stage when neutrophil numbers are peaking in control treated wounds
   (Figure 3). There is now clear evidence that the macrophage influx at a wound site may be
   linked to the rate of re-epithelialization and to the eventual extent of scarring at the wound
   site, so we have investigated macrophage numbers using F4/80 immunohistochemistry
   (Figures 4A to 4C). We found that the number of macrophages at Cx43 asODN treated
   wound sites was significantly reduced at 2 and 7 days after the injury compared with control
   sODN-treated wounds, this being a reduction of 33% on day 2 and 32% on day 7 (Figure
   4C). These data clearly indicate that acute knockdown of Cx43 at the time of wounding leads
   to a dramatic subsequent reduction in both the early neutrophil and later, macrophage, and
5  inflammatory phases.
   Reduced Expression of Ccl2 and TNF-a in Cx43 asODN-Treated Wounds
            Neutrophils and macrophages at the wound site release a large variety of
   proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines that act directly on cells in that site
    (keratinocytes, fibroblasts and endothelial cells) and amplify the wound inflammatory
0   response. To examine how the reduced influx of inflammatory cells, after Cx43 knockdown,
    influences the level of these signals, we analysed Ccl2 and TNF-a as a representative
    chemokine and cytokine, respectively. To quantify expression levels of Ccl2 and TNF-a we
    performed RT-PCR analysis on wound tissue on days 1, 2, and 7 (Figures 5A and 5B). Both

  mRNAs were robustly upregulated in control sODN-treated wound sites on day 1, and both
  peaked in expression levels at day 2, after which their levels decreased. By comparison,
  expression levels of Cc2 and TNF-a in Cx43 asODN treated wounds were significantly
  reduced (P<0.05) on day 2 (Ccl2) and 7 (TNF-a).         These results indicate that reduced
  recruitment of neutrophils and macrophages in Cx43 asODN treated wounds was indeed
  accompanied by diminished expression of these signaling molecules without compensation
  by other cell types.
           To quantify expression levels of Ccl2 and TNF-a RT-PCR analysis was performed on
  wound tissue on days 1, 2, and 7. Both mRNAs were robustly upregulated in control sODN
  treated wound sites on day 1, and both peaked in expression levels at day 2, after which their
  levels decreased.    By comparison, expression levels of Ccl2 and TNF-C in Cx43 asODN
  treated wounds were significantly reduced (P<0.05) on day 2 (Ccl2) and 7 (TNF-a). These
  results indicate that reduced recruitment of neutrophils and macrophages in Cx43 asODN
  treated wounds was indeed accompanied by diminished expression of these signaling
  molecules without compensation by other cell types.
   Increased TGF-01 Expression at Cx43 asODN-Treated Wound Sites
            The wound-associated growth factor, TGF-31 has been reported to play a wide
   variety of roles at many stages of the wound-healing process. Therefore, we analyzed the
   expression levels of TGF-01 at control sODN and Cx43 asODN treated wound sites with RT
   PCR at 1 day, 2 days and 7 days after wounding (Figure 6). TGF-01 was at low levels on
   days 1 and 7 with no difference between control and treated wounds. However, on day 2
   after the injury, the expression of TGF-01 in asODN-treated wounds was significantly
   increased (P<0.05) compared with control sODN-treated wounds. Immunostaining for TGF
   #1 at  2 days revealed TGF-01 positive cells in the dermis both at the wound site and in the
5  adjacent tissues.   Most of the cells were round and had the appearance of leucocytes.
   However, in the Cx43 asODN-treated tissue an additional TGF-31 positive cell type could be
    seen in large numbers at the dermal margins of the wound. These cells appeared to be
    elongated and more fibroblast like in their morphology. Interestingly, in the epidermis of
    Cx43 asODN treated wounds TGF-31 appeared to.stain much more strongly than in control
0   wound epidermis (Figure 6.) These results raise the possibility that increased expression of
    TGF-31 might contribute to some of the changes we see in wound healing following Cx43
    asODN treatment.

  Granulation Tissue Formation and Maturation
           Connective-tissue wound contraction has been said to be a key component of the skin
  repair process. This step is closely associated with migration of fibroblasts into the wound
  bed and their differentiation into contractile myofibroblasts followed by their loss (Martin, P.
  (1997).     Science 276, 75-81).    Using rhodamine phalloidin combined with DAPI nuclear
  counter stain we found a significant increase (means of 39.4 in control and 99.2 in asODN;
  P<0.01) in the number of elongated fibroblast like cells at the margin of 2 day Cx43 asODN
  treated, by comparison to control wounds (Figure 7A and B). These data suggest that the
  influx of fibroblasts to form wound granulation tissue is enhanced in wounds when Cx43
  protein has been reduced. This may be due to both enhanced migration and the significantly
   greater cell proliferation that we see in the granulation tissue of asODN-treated wounds.
            To investigate whether the enhanced rate of fibroblast migration was due to a
   reduction in Cx43 protein expression we used a fibroblast wound-healing assay. Here we
   knocked down Cx43 protein by applying Cx43 asODNs to confluent cultures of fibroblasts
   two hours prior to a scrape wound assay. Because Cx43 protein is rapidly turned over (with a
   half life as short as 1.5-2 hours) this is sufficient to produce a 95% knockdown of the protein
   within two hours, which can last between eight and 48 hours depending on the cell type.
   Fibroblast cultures that were treated with the Cx43 asODNs exhibited a significantly
   (P=0.02) enhanced rate of wound closure, compared to controls (Figure 7D) which is entirely
   consistent with our in vivo findings. This strongly suggests that knockdown of Cx43 protein
   enhances the rate of migration of fibroblasts both in vitro and in vivo, and thereby promotes
   the rate of granulation tissue formation.
            When measuring granulation tissue areas, we found that treated tissue was slightly
   smaller than untreated tissue at day 5, but this difference was not significant. However, we
5  found that on days 7, 10 and 14 after wounding Cx43 asODN treated wounds exhibit
   significantly (*P < 0.05; **P < 0.01) smaller areas of granulation tissue than control sODN
   treated wounds.
            When measuring granulation tissue areas, we found that treated tissue was slightly
    smaller than untreated tissue at day 5, but this difference was not significant. However, we
0   found that on days 7, 10 and 14 after wounding Cx43 asODN treated wounds exhibit
    significantly (*P < 0.05; **P < 0.01) smaller areas of granulation tissue than control sODN
    treated wounds (Figure 9). To investigate how the more rapid contraction of the granulation
    tissue was brought about we stained sections with a TUNEL labeling kit, to look for apoptotic

     cell death, or with anti-smooth muscle actin (SMA) as a marker of myofibroblasts. Although
     there were always slightly fewer apoptotic cells in treated granulation tissue, we found no
     significant differences in the numbers of TUNEL positive cells between control and treated
    animals at 5, 7 and 10 days after wounding (Figure 10). However, we observed a highly
 5  significant difference in the expression of SMA staining between the two groups at all of
    these time points (Figure 11). At day 5, staining for SMA could be detected at the edges of
    the granulation tissue of Cx43 asODN-treated wounds but no staining could be seen as yet in
    control wounds. By day 7 staining for SMA could be detected at the edges of the granulation
    tissue of control wounds and throughout the granulation tissue of Cx43 asODN-treated
    wounds (Figure 11 A and 11 B). Quantification of the staining at the edges of the granulation
    tissue revealed that it was significantly higher (P= 0.004) in Cx43 asODN-treated wounds
    (Figure 11 E). At 10 days after wounding most of the staining for SMA had gone from the
    edges of the granulation tissue of Cx43 asODN treated wounds, just a little remained in the
    center of the wound. This was significantly different (P=0.000002) from control wounds,
    which showed strong SMA expression throughout the granulation tissue (Figure 11 C and
    11D).    These findings imply that differentiation of fibroblasts into myofibroblasts occurs
    earlier in Cx43 asODN treated wounds and that these cells go on to contract the wound and
    are lost much faster than in control wounds.      It would appear that Cx43 asODN-treated
   wounds are 2-3 days more advanced than controls in the maturation of their granulation
   tissue.
   Angiogenesis
             Besides the influx of fibroblasts, the other major cellular components of wound
   granulation tissue are the endothelial cells of new blood vessels. We therefore performed
   immunohistochemical staining using anti-CD31 and von Willebrand factor antibodies or
5  isolectinB-FITC in order to evaluate angiogenesis at treated wound sites at 5, 7, 10 and 14
   days after wounding (Figures 12A to 12H). At 5 days, no blood vessel staining could be seen
   in the granulation tissue of control wounds whereas staining was seen in the edges of the
   granulation tissue of all Cx43 asODN treated wounds. At day 7, fine blood vessels were
   found throughout the entire granulation tissue in five out of six Cx43 asODN-treated wounds
)  but they had only just started to enter the edges of the granulation tissue of controls.
   However, whilst the blood vessels of asODN-treated wounds were more pervasive they
   appeared to be significantly smaller or thinner than those of controls at this time point (Figure
   12A). This meant that, when blood vessel staining was quantified at 7 and 10 days there was

  significantly more staining in controls (7 days P= 0.0019; 10 days P=0.015) where the vessels
  were bigger. At 14 days, the size of blood vessels and extent of staining were very similar in
  both treated and control groups (Figure 12E, 12F). These findings suggest that angiogenesis
  takes place much earlier after Cx43 asODN treatment. Taken with our other findings relating
  to granulation tissue maturation it would seem that the treatment enhances the rate of wound
  maturation by 2-3 days.
           As shown in the results, exemplary pathological and biological consequences of acute
  downregulation of Cx43 at sites of skin wound healing using Cx43 asODN delivered from a
  Pluronic F-127 slow-release gel are presented herein. The treatment rapidly down-regulates
  Cx43 protein in the woundsite epidermis and dermis for at least 24 hours with some return of
  dermal expression by 48 hours and no obvious differences between groups after 7 days. We
   show that Cx43 asODN treatment leads to markedly accelerated skin wound healing,
   coincident with reduced leukocyte infiltration, reduced cytokines, increased re
   epithelialization and enhanced wound contraction.
   Inflammation
           The initial response to wounding is typically the formation of a blood clot, which,
   together with local damaged tissue, releases proinflammatory signals, which trigger
   inflammatory cell infiltration in the form of neutrophils and then macrophages into the
   wound site. These signals and those from the invading inflammatory cells influence both re
   epithelialisation and connective tissue contraction of the wound (Martin, P. (1997). Science
   276, 75-81).      The migration and infiltration of inflammatory cells into the wound is
   associated with cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions and with vasodilation of blood vessels in
   the proximity of the wound. It has recently been reported that Cx43 is expressed in activated
   leukocytes, and at leukocyte-leukocyte and leukocyte-endothelial cell contact sites during
5  their extravasation under inflammatory conditions, and that functional Cx43 channels are
    involved in release of cytokines and immunoglobulins (reviewed by: Oviedo-Orta, E. and
    Evans, W.H. (2004). Biochim Biophys Acta 1662, 102-12). The results reported here show
    that numbers of both neutrophils and macrophages were significantly reduced in Cx43
    asODN-treated wounds which is in keeping with the requirement for Cx43 expression for
0   neutrophil extravasation and release of proinflammatory cytokines. In addition, the results
    show that the chemokine Cl2 and cytokine TNF-,                   which are reported to be
    chemoattractants for neutrophils and monocytes/macrophages (Rossi, D. and Zlotnik, A.
    (2000). Annu Rev Immunol 18, 217-42), are also both reduced after Cx43 asODN treatment

    on day 2 and 7, respectively. Clearly, the reduced levels of these and other growth factors,
    chemokines, and cytokines at the wound site are indicative of that these agents useful for
    wound healing are important mediators (both upstream and downstream) of the reduced
    influx of neutrophils and other inflammatory cells.
 5           Several recent reports have postulated that a normal inflammatory response is not
    essential for skin wound healing (Martin, P. and Leibovich, S.J. (2005). Trends Cell Biol.).
    PU.1 null mice, which are genetically missing neutrophils and macrophages, have been said
    to repair skin lesions without scarring and at a similar rate to, or faster than, their wild type
    siblings (Martin, P., D'Souza, D., Martin, J., Grose, R., Cooper, L., Maki, R. and McKercher,
 )  S.R. (2003). Curr Biol 13, 1122-8). Similarly, decreasing the numbers of neutrophils at
    wound sites by applying antineutrophil sera has been reported to lead to faster re
    epithelialization (Dovi, J.V., He, L.K. and DiPietro, L.A. (2003). JLeukoc Biol 73, 448-55).
    Correlation between the increase in the epidermal migration and proliferative capacity and
   the reduced inflammatory response and the possible role of Cx43 knockdown in the leading
 i edge keratinocytes and fibroblasts.      Furthermore, Cx43 knockdown may lead to reduced
   leukocyte influx. The target tissue for Cx43 asODN action may include endothelial cells or
   leukocytes, both of which have been reported to require Cx43 expression for effective
   extravasation and a robust inflammatory response (Oviedo-Orta, E., Hoy, T. and Evans, W.H.
   (2000). Immunology 99, 578-90; Oviedo-Orta, E., Gasque, P. and Evans, W.H. (2001).
 1 FASEB J 15, 768-74).         Based on these results, alteration of Cx43 protein expression in
   endothelial cells or leukocytes may also regulate the inflammatory response.
   TGF-31
            In Cx43 asODN treated wounds we found that mRNA for TGF-01 is significantly
   increased on day 2 compared with controls but is found at relatively low levels in both treated
5  and control wounds on day I and day 7. Expression of TGF-B1 has been reported as being
   associated with many key events in the wound healing process. Its reported activities include
   being an immunosuppresive, promoting fibroblast migration and proliferation, enhancing
   wound contraction, enhancing granulation tissue formation, enhancing collagen synthesis and
   deposition, stimulating angiogenesis and promoting re-epithelialization. The effect of TGF
D  #1   on the wound has been reported to be somewhat dependent on dosage and wounding
   model. Various results have also been reported based on perturbation of different parts of the
   TGF-01 signaling pathway and experiments using genetically modified. For example, in
   TGF-fll knockout mice that are deficient in T cells and B cells (Scid mice) wound healing is

   delayed (Crowe, M.J., Doetschman, T. and Greenhalgh, D.G. (2000) J. Invest. Dermatol
    115:3-11). However, when the TGF-#1 signaling pathway is disrupted, as it is in Smad3
   knockout mice, wound healing is accelerated (Ashcroft, G.S., Yang, X, Glick, A.B.,
   Weinstein, M., Letterio, J.L., Mizel, D.E., Anzano, M., Greenwell-Wild, T., Wahl, S.M.,
   Deng, C. and Roberts, A.B. (1999) Nat Cell Biol. 1:260-6). Similarly, the expression of a
   dominant-negative type II TGF-O receptor in keratinocytes leads to re-epithelialization being
   again accelerated. Transgenic mice with over expression of TGF-01 show a better quality of
   wound healing with reduced scar formation (Shah, M., Revis, D., Herrick, S., Baillie, R.,
   Thorgeirson, S., Ferguson, M. and Roberts, A. (1999) Am. J. Pathol. 154:1115-24).
   Similarly, transgenic mice lacking beta 3-integrin show elevated levels of TGF-#13       that are
   associated with enhanced healing and faster fibroblast migration into the wounds (Reynolds,
   L.E., Conti, F.J., Lucas, M., Grose, R., Robinson, S., Stone, M., Saunders, G., Dickson, C.,
   Hynes, R.O., Lacy-Hulbert, A. and Hodivala-Dilke, K. (2005) Nat. Med. 11:167-74). CD18
   knockout mice exhibit reduced TGF-fl1 expression and have delayed wound healing which
   can be rescued by injecting TGF-01 into the wound margins (Peters, T., Sindrilaru, A., Hinz,
   B., Hinrichs, R., Menke, A., Al-Azzeh, E.A., Holzwarth, K., Oreshkova, T., Wang, H., Kess,
   D., Walzog, B., Sulyok, S., Sunderkotter, C., Friedrich, W., Wlaschek, M., Krieg, T. and
   Scharffetter-Kochanek, K. (2005) EMBO J. 24:3400-10).
           The elevated levels of TGF-#1 staining that we see on day 2 appear to be largely in
   elongated fibroblast-like cells at the edge of the wound and in the keratinocytes at the edge of
  the wound. This is consistent with previously-described effects of TGF-#1 on enhanced
  proliferation and migration (Postlethwaite, A.E., Keski-Oja, J., Moses, H.L. and Kang, A.H.
  (1987) J Exp Med 165:251-6), both of which we see in the early stages of tissue repair.
  Indeed, the TGF-#1 elevation may be one of the factors that in these conditions contribute to
5 the promotion of healing, in terms of the increased rate of proliferation and migration of
  fibroblasts and the enhanced rate of collagen synthesis that we see at these early time points.
          Both the active downregulation of Cx43 protein and the action of the wound
  associated growth factor TGF-f1 have been reported to activate Collal expression
  (Cutroneo, K. R. (2003). How is Type I procollagen synthesis regulated at the gene level
  during tissue fibrosis. J Cell Biochem 90, 1-5; Waggett, A.D., Benjamin, M. and Ralphs, J.R.
  (2006)    Eur J Cell Biol. 2006 Jul 19; [Epub ahead of print]).          The enhanced Colla1
  expression and collagen deposition that we see following treatment may be related to the
  increased expression of TGF-#1 at 2 days, or to the Cx43 protein downregulation or both.

          The wound-associated growth factor, TGF-#1, plays a wide variety of roles at many
  stages of the wound-healing process. TGF-#1 was at low levels on days 1 and 7 with no
  difference between control and treated wounds.       However, on day 2 after the injury, the
  expression of TGF-#1 in asODN-treated wounds was significantly increased (P<0.05)
5 compared with control sODN-treated wounds. Immunostaining for TGF-#1 at 2 days
  revealed TGF-01 positive cells in the dermis both at the wound site and in the adjacent
  tissues. Most of the cells were round and had the appearance of leucocytes. However, in the
  Cx43 asODN-treated tissue an additional TGF-f1 positive cell type could be seen in large
  numbers at the dermal margins of the wound. These cells appeared to be elongated and more
3 fibroblast like in their morphology. Interestingly, in the epidermis of Cx43 asODN treated
  wounds TGF-#13      appeared to stain much more strongly than in control wound epidermis
  (Figure 6.) These results raise the possibility that increased expression of TGF-#1 might
  contribute to some of the changes we see in wound healing following Cx43 asODN
  treatment.
5         Whilst TGF-#1 has been suggested to suppress inflammation, it is unlikely to be the
  main factor leading to the reduced inflammation that we observe, as that is already evident on
  day 1 before the TGF-#1 becomes elevated. Similarly, whilst TGF-31 has been shown to
  promote angiogenesis and granulation-tissue maturation at later stages of the wound-healing
  process we see no elevation of TGF-#1 at these later time points; rather it is then at a similar
) low level to controls. So other factors must promote the enhanced maturation of granulation
  tissue that we see following treatment.
          These experiments support the implication of TGF-81 has been implicated in the in
  the suppression of inflammation, promotion of angiogenesis             and granulation-tissue
  maturation of the wound-healing process and indicates that modulation of TGF-B1 in
5 combination with other wound treatment modalities may be useful in promoting the the
  wound healing process.
  Migration and proliferation
          Migration and proliferation of fibroblasts and keratinocytes are indispensable for skin
  wound healing contributing to both wound contraction and wound closure. In this study we
0 show enhanced migration of fibroblasts into the wound site and faster reepithelialisation
  following Cx43 asODN treatment. These results indicate that Cx43 may play an important
  role in modulating cell movement. Contradictory results have been reported on the role of
  Cx43 in cell movement by others who reported that in embryonic development, Cx43-

  deficient proepicardial cells migrated faster than those expressing Cx43 (Li, W.E., Waldo, K.,
  Linask, K.L., Chen, T., Wessels, A., Parmacek, M.S., Kirby, M.L. and Lo, C.W. (2002).
  Development 129, 2031-42). However, the same group also previously reported that Cx43
  deficient neural crest cells showed decreased rates of migration (Huang, G.Y., Cooper, E.S.,
  Waldo, K., Kirby, M.L., Gilula, N.B. and Lo, C.W. (1998). J Cell Biol 143, 1725-34). This
  latter finding is consistent with slowed rates of migration of retinal neuroepithelial cells that
  have had communication perturbed or Cx43 expression diminished (Pearson R., Luneborg,
  N., Becker, D.L. and Mobbs P. (2005) J. Neurosci 25 (46), 10803-10814). These differences
  in the effects of communication on migration may perhaps reflect the different cell types
  involved and whether the cells migrate independently or in a communicating group.
           Faster re-epithelialization and an enhanced rate of granulation tissue formation could
  also be attributed to the enhanced proliferation in the asODN-treated group, which we find in
  nascent epidermis and granulation tissue at both 2 days and 7 days after wounding.. As with
  migration rates there are mixed reports relating Cx43 expression and proliferation. Cx43
   deficient proepicardial cell proliferation is increased, but this is not seen Cx43-deficient
   cardiac neural crest cells or in the developing neural retina treated with Cx43 asODNs where
   proliferation is reduced (Huang, G.Y., Cooper, E.S., Waldo, K., Kirby, M.L., Gilula, N.B.
   and Lo, C.W. (1998). J Cell Biol 143, 1725-34; Becker, D.L. and Mobbs, P. (1999) Exp.
   Neurology, 156, 326-332; Li, W.E., Waldo, K., Linask, K.L., Chen, T., Wessels, A.,
   Parmacek, M.S., Kirby, M.L. and Lo, C.W. (2002). Development 129, 2031-42). It is
   interesting that the effects of Cx43 reduction on proepicardial cells promotes both
   proliferation and migration, whereas the effect on neural crest and retinal neuroepithelial cells
   is to perturb proliferation and migration. Our experiment here show that reducing Cx43
   expression with asODNs in a fibroblast wound healing assay significantly accelerates their
5  rate of migration.     The Cx43 protein down regulation may therefore aid the faster re
   epithelialization and fibroblast migration into granulation tissue that we see here.
    Alternatively the influence may come from the elevated levels of TGF-#1, that we see on day
    2 in Cx43 asODN-treated wounds, which has been suggested to enhance cell proliferation
    and increase rates of fibroblast migration (Mustoe, T.A., Pierce, G.F., Thomason, A.,
0   Gramates, P., Sporn, M.B. and Deuel, T.F. (1987). Science 237, 1333-6: Postlethwaite, A.E.,
    Keski-Oja, J., Moses, H.L. and Kang, A.H. (1987) J Exp Med 165:251-6) or perhaps a
    combination of both.

    Angiogenesis
            Angiogenesis   is another central     feature of granulation tissue formation and
    maturation, involving invasion, expansion and then remodeling. In this study, blood vessels
    growing into Cx43 asODN-treated wound granulation tissue were much more advanced than
   the controls. On day 5 fine blood vessels could be seen entering the granulation tissue of all
   treated wounds but no vessels were seen in any control granulation tissue. By day 7 fine
   blood vessels could be seen throughout the granulation tissue in the majority of treated
   wounds but were only seen at the edges of control wounds. Interestingly, the blood vessels in
   control wounds appeared to be thicker at these early stages and so gave a significantly greater
   area of staining at both 7 and 10 days. By 14 days the blood vessels in treated wounds had
   developed to a greater size and appeared to be very similar to controls. Cx43 is known to be
   involved in coronary vasculogenesis and angiogenesis (Walker, D. L., Vacha, S. J., Kirby, M.
   L. and Lo, C. W. (2005).      Dev Biol 284, 479-98).      However, the observation that Cx43
   protein levels were similar in control and treated wounds by day 7 after injury suggests that
   angiogenesi.s in Cx43 asODN-treated wounds at this stage was most likely to have been
   indirectly influenced by the antisense-mediated changes that we saw at early stages.        It is
   possible that angiogenesis is promoted by the early elevation in TGF-#1, as this growth factor
   has been reported to promote angiogenesis (Roberts, A.B., Sporn, M.B., Assoian, R.K.,
   Smith, J.M., Roche, N.S., Wakefield, L.M., Heine, U.I., Liotta, L.A., Falanga, V., Kehrl, J.H.
   et al. (1986).  Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 83, 4167-71), but the time frames for this do not
  match.
   Granulation Tissue Maturation, Contraction and Cell Death
           The area of granulation tissue following Cx43 asODN treatment is consistently
  smaller than that of control wounds. This is likely to be due to several factors. The reduced
5 inflammatory response has several knock-on effects on subsequent stages of the healing
  process. Reduced neutrophil invasion will result in reduced damage in surrounding tissue,
  and most excisional wounds expand in size over the first few days of healing as the
  inflammatory process kicks in whereas treated wounds contract dramatically in the same
  period.    Therefore, reduced inflammation would be expected to result in a significantly
  smaller area for the fibroblasts to fill. Because one of the other key effects that we have seen
  is and enhancement of fibroblast proliferation and migration the smaller wound can be filled
  much faster and the granulation tissue can begin to mature significantly faster.

            In summary, these studies report our first data led analysis of the mechanism
   underlying the cell biology downstream of Cx43 protein reduction at wound sites. The local
   downregulation strongly influences very early events in wound healing.          In particular, it
   limits the extent of the inflammatory response and advances the onset and rate of re
   epithelialization and the level and rate of granulation tissue formation. The granulation tissue
   then has a smaller area to fill and does this faster, leading to earlier wound contraction and
   maturation. This approach clearly offers the potential for new therapies for improving wound
   healing in a variety of clinical situations.
            Based on these results, experimental downregulation of connexin 43 expression at
   skin wound sites markedly improve the rate and quality of healing. The physiological and
   cell biological aspects of the repair process are compared in treatment with and without an
   exemplary anti-connexin agent - connexin 43 antisense oligodeoxynucleotide.             Treated
   wounds exhibited accelerated skin healing with significantly increased keratinocyte and
   fibroblast proliferation and migration. In vitro knockdown of connexin 43 in a fibroblast
   wound-healing model also resulted in significantly faster healing, associated with increased
   mRNA for transforming growth factor beta 1, and collagen alphal and general collagen
   content at the wound site. Treated wounds showed enhanced granulation tissue formation
   and maturation with more rapid angiogenesis, myofibroblast differentiation and wound
   contraction was apparently advanced by 2-3 days.          Recruitment of both neutrophils and
  macrophages was markedly reduced within treated wounds, concomitant with reduced
  leukocyte infiltration. In turn mRNA levels of chemokine ligand 2 and tumor necrosis factor
  alpha were reduced in the treated wound. These data indicate that under these conditions,
  reducing connexin 43 protein with connexin 43-specific antisense at wound sites early in the
  skin healing process enhances repair, at least in part, by accelerating cell migration and
5 proliferation and by attenuating inflammation and the additional damage it can cause.
           Acute downregulation of Cx43 protein at the wound site led to an increase in
  keratinocyte proliferation and migration, and in the rate at which fibroblasts migrate into the
  wound and lay down collagen matrix. This correlated with a decrease in neutrophil
  infiltration and a concomitant reduction in chemokine ligand 2 (Ccl2) and cytokine tumor
  necrosis factor alpha (TNF-o) mRNA. Subsequently, a reduced recruitment of macrophages
  was seen, perhaps as a consequence of damping down of the initial inflammatory response.
  In contrast, increased expression of TGF-#l with increased hydroxyproline and collagen type

  1a1 was observed in Cx43AsODN treated wounds. Together these modified responses
  resulted in significantly improved wound healing.
                                            EXAMPLE 2
           Cell denuded pig stroma chimeras were cultured for two weeks and then assessed
  using a growth factor/cytokine antibody array (measures protein levels of 120 different
  growth factors/cytokines.
           Human limbal rims returned from surgery after excision of the central corneas for
  keratoplasty (transplant) were placed into air liquid interface organotypic culture and a
  denuded pig stromal extracellular matrix inserted into the central region (figure 14). The pig
   stromal matrix was denuded (cells removed) by freeze-thawing in liquid nitrogen.
           The chimeras were grown for up to 2 weeks at which time the human limbal epithelial
   cells have re-epithelialised the pig stroma with a normal 5 - 7 cell layer fully differentiated
   epithelium. In addition, human limbal stromal keratocytes have proliferated and migrated
   across the limbal rim - stromal insert to repopulate the pig stromal matrix with human
   keratocytes.
           In a further experiment the chimeras were treated with connexin 43 specific antisense
   ODNs at day one. This resulted in a significant increase in the rate of re-epithelialisation with
   full epithial covering of the pig stroma within 3 days compared with 7 to 14 days for the
   controls.
            After two weeks in culture the chimeras were cut in half: one half for histological
   analysis, and the other for growth factor and cytokine array analysis. For growth factor and
   cytokine analysis the central stromal region (with fully recovered human cell epithelium) and
   partially repopulated stroma (human keratocytes) was removed and homogenised separately
   from the human limbal rim which contains stem cell populations. The homogenates were run
5  on a growth factor/cytokine array (figure 15) and analysis of growth factor levels performed
   using densitometry analysis of the array membranes. Analysis of key growth factors revealed
    a number of interest (figure 16 and figure 17).
            Analysis of growth factor levels in chimeric stroma compared with limbal rims
    regions of the chimera after two weeks in culture (control corneas - not antisense treated)
0   revealed two growth factors of particular interest (figure 16). These were very high levels of
    IGFBP-2 in the chimeric stroma and higher levels of IGF-1 in the limbal rim. The former is
    said to promote cellular migration (needed for the stromal keratocytes to repopulate the stoma

  from the limbal rim) and the latter is said to promote cell proliferation (necessary in the
  limbal rim to provide the source of cells repopulating the stroma).
            Analysis of growth factor levels in chimeric stroma compared with limbal rims
  regions of the Cx43As ODN treated chimeras after two weeks in culture revealed two growth
  factors of particular interest (figure 17). These were very high levels of IGF-7 in the antisense
  treated chimeric stroma compared with the untreated controls, and higher levels of IGFBP-2
  in both the limbal rim and stroma compared with untreated controls, especially control limbal
  rims. The former is said to promote epithelial growth (consistent with the increased re
   epithelialisation seen in antisense treated chimeras ) and the latter is said to promote cell
  migration (consistent with the increased epithelial repopulation from the limbal rim with
   antisense treatment).
                                              EXAMPLE 3
            Second degree bums are treated with a spray formulation including anti-connexin
   agent, 10 ug/ml of KGF, 30 ng/ml of a PDGF isoform, 10 ng/ml IGF-1, and 30 ng/ml of
   IGFBP-1. The spray is allowed to dry in the air. Re-application is suggested every couple of
   hours.
                                              EXAMPLE 4
            A suture wound is closed and a topical salve made up of anti-connexin agent, 10%
   KGF and/or 5% PDGF is applied on the suture before bandaging. Re-application of the salve
   may be as needed in order to facilitate or improve wound healing, for example, up to 2-3
   times daily for about 4-7 days, or as appropriate.
                                              EXAMPLE 5
            A 20% zinc oxide formulation containing an anti-connexin agent and one or more of
    5% KGF, 2.5% PDGF, 10% IGFBP is applied to minor abrasions, sunburns and chafing for
5   faster healing of these wounds.
                                              EXAMPLE 6
            A formulation containing an anti-connexin agent and one or more active antibiotic
    ingredients, for example, one or more of bacitracin, neomycin, and polymyxin is prepared. In
    one such formulation, each gram contains Polymyxin B Sulfate (5,000 units), Bacitracin Zinc
0   (400 units), and/or Neomycin (3.5 mg). Inactive ingredients of the formulatoin may include
    cocoa butter, cottonseed oil, olive oil, sodium pyruvate, tocopheryl acetate, and white
    petrolatum, in desired amounts. Preferably, the anti-connexin agent is an anti-connexin 43

  agent. Such formulations are applied, for example, to minor cuts, abrasions, sunburns and
  chafing for faster/improved healing of these wounds.
                                             EXAMPLE 7
           A formulation containing an anti-connexin agent as provided in Example 6 is
  prepared to also contain a topical analgesic (e.g., pramoxine).
                                             EXAMPLE 8
           A formulation containing an anti-connexin agent as provided in Example 6 or
  Example 7 is prepared to contain gramicidin.
                                             EXAMPLE 9
           A formulation containing an anti-connexin agent and one or more active antifungal
  ingredients, for example, miconazole nitrate one is prepared. One such formulation contains
  2% miconazole nitrate. Inactive ingredients may include propylene glycol 300, polysorbate
  20 (and), SD alcohol 40B. The product may formulated as a cream, gel, spray or liquid.
   Suitable propellants for spray formulations include dimethyl ether. Preferably, the anti
   connexin agent is an anti-connexin 43 agent. Such formulations are applied, for example, to
  treat athlete's foot, jock itch, and ringworm.
                                            EXAMPLE 10
            This example demonstrates a method for identifying potential cytokines useful in the
   treatment of wounds using a corneal model. The cornea contains dendritic cells known as
   Langerhans cells, which are activated in response to injury. Additional inflammatory cells
   are then recruited from the blood vessels at the limbus. Our model corneas are cultured in
   isolation from a blood supply, therefore, recruitment of macrophages, T-cells and
   polymorphonuclear cells is impossible.
            The model coreneas were used to determine if the presence of Langerhans cells would
5  be sufficient to illicit an inflammatory response and whether that response could be
   distinguished from the healing response. Two matched human corneas were wounded using
    different techniques. One cornea was ablated to a depth of 80pim over a 7mm diameter using
    an excimer laser phototherapeutic keratectomy ablation, a technique which stimulates very
    low levels of inflammation. The other cornea was wounded using a 7mm circle of filter paper
0   soaked in sodium NaOH for 1 minute, a technique known to induce inflammation. After
    culturing for 24 hours, the corneas were divided in half (one for immunohistochemistry and
    one for cytokine analysis. The cornea was further divided into portions within the healing
    zone and outside the healing zone before processing for cytokine array analysis.

           An inflammatory response was identified in both corneas but it was enhanced within
  the alkali burn. Cytokine profiles between the two groups due to the greater inflammation
  within the alkali burn sample and because healing commenced faster in the lasered cornea as
  less removal of necrotic tissue is required. Figure 18 shows a group of cytokines increased in
  both wounds but far more so in the inflammatory wound model. This group included
  interleukins. Figure 19 shows a set of cytokines which were increased in both models but
  more so in the low inflammation model and thus represent cytokines to target for improved
  healing.
           Efficacy of various cytokines in the wound healing model is determined by assessing
  the effect of the cytokines augmentation in a wound healing model. In addition, the abilities
  of various cytokines of interest to increase the rate of wound healing and to improve quality
   of healing are assessed.
                                            EXAMPLE 11
           This example demonstrates a method for dertermining cytokines for therapeutic use.
   Cytokines may be selected for use herein based on their altered levels as induced by
   Cx43AsODN treatment. These cytokines can have an effect on corneal wound healing, for
   example, when they are administered exogenously in a keratoplasty model of wound healing.
           Model: Paired human limbal rims with inserted pig stromal implants are tested in
   cultured keratoplasty model for alterations in the cytokine levels. The tissue level of the
   added cytokine is gauged by array data. For temporal study, cytokines are added at the onset
   of the healing process. Optimal treatment periods are determined with additional data points
   if needed. In the case wherein the healing follows the same time course as the Cx43AsODNs
   model, then the culture times are assessed for 3 and 7 days.           Healing time course is
   determined using dark field microscopy and adjusted as necessary.
5          Technique: 5 pairs of limbal rims per cytokine are used in escalating doses to
   establish a dose response curve.
            The same methods for investigation of corneal wound healing are employed as stated
   above in Example 9, except that the epithelial plug that forms in unsutured corneal wound
   healing are used to isolate epithelial wound healing from stromal wound healing. Factors that
0  influence epithelial recovery are assessed independently of the influence of stromal cells. In
   some instances it might be preferable to increase corneal epithelial wound healing to preserve
   the barrier protection, but not to increase stromal wound healing which might induce haze.

             Cytokines of interest in corneal wound healing are identified. Candidates include, for
   example, IGF and IGFBP2 from normal tissue studies and FGF-7 from antisense studies.
             All patents, publications, scientific articles, web sites, and other documents and
   materials referenced or mentioned herein are indicative of the levels of skill of those skilled
   in the art to which the invention pertains, and each such referenced document and material is
   hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if it had been incorporated by
   reference in its entirety individually or set forth herein in its entirety. Applicants reserve the
   right to physically incorporate into this specification any and all materials and information
    from any such patents, publications, scientific articles, web sites, electronically available
    information, and other referenced materials or documents.
             The specific methods and compositions described herein are representative of
    preferred embodiments and are exemplary and not intended as limitations on the scope of the
    invention. Other objects, aspects, and embodiments will occur to those skilled in the art upon
    consideration of this specification, and are encompassed within the spirit of the invention as
    defined by the scope of the claims. It will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art that
    varying substitutions and modifications may be made to the invention disclosed herein
    without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The invention illustratively
 )   described herein suitably may be practiced in the absence of any element or elements, or
     limitation or limitations, which is not specifically disclosed herein as essential. Thus, for
     example, in each instance herein, in embodiments or examples of the present invention, any
     of the terms "comprising", "consisting essentially of', and "consisting of' may be replaced
     with either of the other two terms in the specification. Also, the terms "comprising",
5    "including", containing", etc. are to be read expansively and without limitation. The methods
                                                                                                     of
      and processes illustratively described herein suitably may be practiced in differing orders
                                                                                                  or in
      steps, and that they are not necessarily restricted to the orders of steps indicated herein
      the claims. It is also that as used herein and in the appended claims, the singular forms "a,"
                                                                                                 Under
      "an," and "the" include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
30    no circumstances may the patent be interpreted to be limited to the specific examples or
      embodiments or methods specifically disclosed herein. Under no circumstances may the
                                                                                                  other
      patent be interpreted to be limited by any statement made by any Examiner or any
      official or employee of the Patent and Trademark Office unless such statement is specifically

  and without qualification or reservation expressly adopted in a responsive writing by
  Applicants.
          The terms and expressions that have been employed are used as terms of description
  and not of limitation, and there is no intent in the use of such terms and expressions to
  exclude any equivalent of the features shown and described or portions thereof, but it is
  recognized that various modifications are possible within the scope of the invention as
  claimed. Thus, it will be understood that although the present invention has been specifically
  disclosed by preferred embodiments and optional features, modification and variation of the
  concepts herein disclosed may be resorted to by those skilled in the art, and that such
  modifications and variations are considered to be within the scope of this invention as defined
  by the appended claims.
          The invention has been described broadly and generically herein.           Each of the
  narrower species and subgeneric groupings falling within the generic disclosure also form
  part of the invention. This includes the generic description of the invention with a proviso or
   negative limitation removing any subject matter from the genus, regardless of whether or not
   the excised material is specifically recited herein.
           Other embodiments are within the following claims. In addition, where features or
   aspects of the invention are described in terms of Markush groups, those skilled in the art will
   recognize that the invention is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or
0  subgroup of members of the Markush group.

   CLAIMS
            1. A method of treatment comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a
    composition comprising therapeutically effective amounts of an anti-connexin 43 agent and a
    protein or peptide effective in promoting or improving wound healing.
 5          2. A method according to claim I wherein the protein or peptide is selected from the
    group consisting of growth factors effective in promoting or improving wound healing and
    cytokines effective in promoting or improving wound healing.
            3. A method according to claim 2 wherein the growth factor is selected from the
    group consisting of platelet derived growth factor, epidermal growth factor, fibroblast growth
10  factor, connective tissue growth factor, vascular endothelial growth factor, insulin-like
    growth factor, or transforming growth factor #3.
            4. A method according to claim 2, wherein the cytokine is IL-7 or IL-10.
            5. A method according to claim 1, wherein the protein or peptide is insulin-like
    growth factor binding protein or secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor.
15          6. A method according to claim 1, wherein the protein or peptide is thymosin #4.
            7. A method according to claim 1, wherein the protein or peptide is delivered in a
    vector.
            8. A method according to claim 7, wherein the vector comprises a sequence coding
    for platelet derived growth factor-B.
20          9. A method according to claim 8, wherein the vector is an adenovirus vector.
             10. A method of treatment comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a
    composition     comprising therapeutically effective amounts of a first wound-healing
    compound and a second wound healing compound, wherein said first compound is an anti
     connexin 43 agent and said second compound is selected from the group consisting of beta
25   adrenergic antagonists, interleukin-I receptor antagonists, and free radical scavengers.
             11. The method of claim 10, wherein the beta adrenergic antagonist is timoptic.
             12. The method of claim 10, wherein the interleukin-1 receptor antagonist is anakinra.
             13. The method of claim 10, wherein the free radical scavenger is N-acetylcysteine.
             14. A method of treatment comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a
30   composition comprising therapeutically        effective amounts of a first wound-healing
     compound and a second wound healing compound, wherein said first compound is an anti
     connexin 43 agent and said second compound is selected from the group consisting of anti
     inflammatory agents and antimicrobial agents.

           15. A method according to claim 14, wherein the antimicrobial agent is bacitracin,
   neomycin, polymyxin, gramicidin or trimethoprim.
           16. A method according to any of claims 14 or 15, wherein the composition further
   comprises an anesthetic.
           17. A method according to claim 16, wherein the anesthetic is pramoxine.
           18. A method of treatment comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a
   composition comprising therapeutically effective amounts of a first wound-healing
   compound and a second wound healing compound, wherein said first compound is an anti
   connexin 43 agent and said second compound is an opioid.
           19. A method according to claim 18, wherein the opiod is morphine, hydromorphone
   or fentanyl.
           20. A method according to claim 18, wherein the opiod is hydromorphone.
           21. A method of treatment comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a
    composition comprising therapeutically effective amounts of a first wound-healing
    compound and a second wound healing compound, wherein said first compound is an anti
    connexin 43 agent and said second compound is a connexin phosphorylation agent.
           22. A method according to claim 21, wherein the connexin phosphorylation agent is a
    compound capable of phosphorylating at least one tyrosine residue of connexin 43.
           23. A method according to claim 21, wherein the connexin phosphorylation agent is a
 I  compound capable of phosphorylating at least one threonine residue of connexin 43.
           24. A method according to any of claims 1, 10, 14, 18 or 21, wherein the anti
    connexin 43 agent is a polynucleotide.
            25. A method according to claim 24, wherein said polynucleotide is an antisense
    polynucleotide.
5           26. A method according to claim 25, wherein said antisense polynucleotide comprises
    a sequence selected from SEQ.ID.NOS:1 to 12.
            27. A method according to claim 25, wherein said antisense polynucleotide is selected
    from:
    GTA ATT GCG GCA AGA AGA ATT GTT TCT GTC (SEQ ID NO:1);
0   GTA ATT GCG GCA GGA GGA ATT GTT TCT GTC (SEQ ID NO:2); and,
    GGC AAG AGA CAC CAA AGA CAC TAC CAG CAT (SEQ ID NO:3).

          28. A method according to claim 25, wherein said antisense polynucleotide has from
  about 15 to about 35 nucleotides and is sufficiently complementary to connexin 43 mRNA to
  form a duplex having a melting point greater than 20*C under physiological conditions.
          29. A method according to claim 25, wherein the antisense polynucleotide has from
  about 15 to about 35 nucleotides and has at least about 70 percent homology to an antisense
  sequence of connexin 43 mRNA.
           30. A method according to any of claims 1, 10, 14, 18 or 21, wherein the composition
  comprises about 0.1 to about 1000 micrograms of said anti-connexin 43 agent and the anti
  connexin 43 agent is an antisense polynucleotide.
           31. A method according to any of claims 1, 10, 14, 18 or 21, wherein the anti
  connexin 43 agent is a peptide or a peptidomimetic.
           32. A method according to claim 31, wherein the composition comprises about 0.01 to
  about 100 milligrams of said anti-connexin 43 peptide or anti-connexin 43 peptidomimetic.
           33. A method according to any of claims 1, 10, 14, 18 or 21, wherein said anti
  connexin 43 agent is an RNAi or siRNA polynucleotide.
           34. A method according to any of claims 1, 10, 14, 18 or 21, wherein the subject is a
  mammal.
           35. A method according to claim 34, wherein the mammal is a human.
           36. A method according to claim 35, wherein the mammal is selected from the group
   consisting of domestic animals, farm animals, zoo animals, sports animals, and pets.
           37. A method according to claim 36, wherein the animal is a horse.
           38. A method according to claim 36, wherein the animal is a dog or a cat.
           39. A method according to any of claims 1, 10, 14, 18 or 21, wherein the subject has a
   wound.
           40. A method of treatment comprising sequentially administering to a subject in need
   thereof a first wound healing composition and a second wound healing composition, said first
   wound healing composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a anti-connexin
   43 agent and said second wound healing composition comprising a therapeutically effective
   amount of a protein or peptide effective in promoting or improving wound healing.
)          41. A method according to claim 40, wherein the first and second wound healing
   compositions are administered within at least about one-half hour of each other.

          42. A method according to claim 40, wherein first and second wound healing
  compositions are administered within about one hour of each other, within about one day or
  each other, or within about one week of each other.
           43. A method according to claim 40, wherein the first wound healing composition is
  administered first.
           44. A method according to claim 40, further comprising administration of a third
  wound healing composition, wherein the third wound healing composition comprises an anti
  connexin 43 peptide or peptidomimetic.
           45. A method according to claim 44, wherein the third wound healing composition is
  administered first.
           46. A method according to claim 40, wherein the protein or peptide effective in
  promoting or improving wound healing is selected from the group consisting of epidermal
  growth factor, fibroblast growth factor, connective tissue growth factor, IL-7, secretory
  leukocyte protease inhibitor, insulin-like growth factor, and insulin-like growth factor binding
  protein.
           47. A method according to claim 40, wherein the protein or peptide effective in
  promoting or improving wound healing is platelet derived growth factor.
           48. A method according to claim 40, wherein the protein or peptide effective in
  promoting or improving wound healing is vascular endothelial growth factor.
           49. A method according to claim 40, wherein the protein or peptide effective in
  promoting or improving wound healing is transforming growth factor       #3.
           50. A method according to claim 40, wherein the protein or peptide effective in
  promoting or improving wound healing is IL-10.
            51. A method according to claim 40, wherein the protein or peptide effective in
5 promoting or improving wound healing is thymosin      #4.
            52. A method according to claim 40, wherein the protein or peptide effective in
   promoting or improving wound healing is delivered in a vector.
            53. A method according to claim 52, wherein the vector comprises a sequence coding
   for platelet derived growth factor-B.
0           54. A method according to claim 53, wherein the vector is an adenovirus vector.
            55. A pharmaceutical composition comprising the components of the composition
   according to any of claims 1-15, 18-22 or 23.

            56. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 55, wherein the anti-connexin
   43 agent is a peptide or a peptidomimetic.
            57. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 56, wherein the composition
   comprises about 0.01 to about 100 milligrams of said anti-connexin peptide or anti-connexin
   peptidomimetic.
            58. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 55, wherein the anti-connexin
   43 agent is a polynucleotide.
            59. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 58, wherein said polynucleotide
   is an antisense polynucleotide.
            60. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 59, wherein said antisense
   polynucleotide comprises a sequence selected from SEQ.ID.NOS:1 to 12.
            61. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 59, wherein said antisense
   polynucleotide is selected from:
   GTA ATT GCG GCA AGA AGA ATT GTT TCT GTC (SEQ ID NO:1);
   GTA ATT GCG GCA GGA GGA ATT GTT TCT GTC (SEQ ID NO:2); and,
    GGC AAG AGA CAC CAA AGA CAC TAC CAG CAT (SEQ ID NO:3).
             62. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 59, wherein said antisense
    polynucleotide has from about 15 to about 35 nucleotides and is sufficiently complementary
    to connexin 43 mRNA to form a duplex having a melting point greater than 20*C under
 I  physiological conditions.
             63. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 59, wherein the connexin 43
    polynucleotide has from about 15 to about 35 nucleotides and has at least about 70 percent
    homology to an antisense sequence of connexin 43 mRNA.
             64. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 55 wherein the composition
5   comprises about 0.1 to about 1000 micrograms of an anti-connexin agent and the anti
    connexin agent is an antisense polynucleotide.
             65. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 55, wherein said anti-connexin
     agent is an RNAi or siRNA polynucleotide.
      .      66. A pharmaceutical composition for use in promoting or improving wound healing,
0    which comprises therapeutically effective amounts of an anti-connexin 43 agent and a protein
     or peptide effective in promoting or improving wound healing.
             67. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 66, wherein the protein or
     peptide effective in promoting or improving wound healing is PDGF.

          68. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 67, wherein the PDGF protein
  or peptide is provided in the form of a vector.
          69. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 68, wherein the vector is an
  adenovirus vector.
          70. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 66, wherein the protein or
  peptide effective in promoting or improving wound healing is vascular endothelial growth
  factor.
           71. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 66, wherein the protein or
  peptide effective in promoting or improving wound healing is thymosin B4.
           72. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 66, wherein the protein or
  peptide effective in promoting or improving wound healing is TGF- B3.
           73. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 66, wherein the protein or
  peptide effective in promoting or improving wound healing is IL- 10.
           74. A pharmaceutical composition according to any of claims 66-72 or 73 which is
  formulated for topical administration.
           75. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 74 which is formulated as a gel.
           76. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 75, wherein said gel is a
  polyoxyethylene-polyoxypropylene copolymer-based gel or a carboxymethylcellulose-based
  gel.
           77. A pharmaceutical composition according to claim 76, wherein said gel is a
  pluronic gel.
           78. A method for treating chronic wounds, comprising administering to a subject in
   need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition according to
   any of claims 67-70 or 71.
5          79. A method according to claim 78, wherein the chronic wound is a diabetic ulcer.
           80. A method according to claim 78, wherein the chronic wound is a venous ulcer.
           81. A method according to claim 78, wherein the chronic wound is a pressure ulcer, a
   vasculitic ulcer, or an arterial ulcer.
           82. A method for reducing scar formation in a subject in need thereof, comprising
)  administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of a pharmaceutical
   composition according to any of claims 72 or 73.
           83. A method according to claim 78, wherein the pharmaceutical composition is
   administered topically.

            84. A method according to claim 82, wherein the pharmaceutical composition is
   administered topically.
             85. A method of preparing a medicament for treating a wound, comprising bringing
   together and an amount of a first wound healing composition and a second wound healing
 5 composition, wherein said first wound healing composition comprises an effective amount of
   an anti-connexin agent and said second wound healing composition comprises an effective
   amount of a protein or peptide effective to promote wound healing in a subject.
             86. A method according to claim 85 wherein said anti-connexin agent comprises an
    antisense polynucleotide.
10           87. A method of claim 85 wherein said medicament is formulated for topical
    administration.
             88. A method of claim 51 wherein said medicament is formulated for sustained
    release.
             89. An   article  of manufacture      comprising   package   material containing    a
                                                                                              with
15  pharmaceutical composition according to any of claims 55, 66-72 and 73 together
    instructions for use in or on a subject in order to promote or improve wound healing or tissue
    repair.
             90. A wound dressing comprising an anti-connexin agent and a protein or peptide
    effective in promoting or improving wound healing.
20
                                         CoDa Therapeutics, Inc.
                       Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                        SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
                                              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271D><U+2720><U+2721><U+271D> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2706><U+270C><U+261E><U+2720><U+270D>
              <U+270E><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2721><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270C><U+2715><U+271D><U+2716><U+2714><U+2717><U+271D><U+271F><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2706><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2719>
              <U+270E><U+2701> <U+270F><U+2711> <U+261E><U+271A><U+2717><U+2716><U+2712><U+271B><U+271D><U+2713> <U+271A><U+271D><U+270C><U+2715><U+2712><U+2713><U+2706> <U+2714><U+2720><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2712><U+271A><U+2717><U+2712><U+2706><U+261E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2712><U+2720><U+2706> <U+271C><U+2712><U+2716> <U+2722><U+2712><U+271F><U+2720><U+2713> <U+2715><U+271D><U+2714><U+261B><U+261E><U+2720><U+270D>
              <U+270E><U+2701><U+2723><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271D><U+2723><U+2702><U+2704><U+2724><U+2725><U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+2704><U+2726>
              <U+270E><U+2701><U+2727><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2721><U+270C><U+2605><U+271F><U+2706> <U+270F><U+270F><U+2724><U+2605> <U+2727><U+270F><U+2729><U+2726>
              <U+270E><U+2701><U+2727><U+2701><U+2711> <U+270F><U+270F><U+2724><U+2725><U+2701><U+2701><U+2725><U+2701><U+2726>
              <U+270E><U+2701><U+2726><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2702><U+270F><U+2605><U+2729><U+2726><U+2704><U+2718><U+2727><U+2723><U+2724>
              <U+270E><U+2701><U+2726><U+2701><U+2711> <U+270F><U+270F><U+2702><U+2725><U+2701><U+2701><U+2725><U+2701><U+2726>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270E><U+2701><U+2702><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2701><U+2723><U+2726>
              <U+270E><U+2701><U+2724><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2717><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272B><U+261E><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2723>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+270F><U+2711>   <U+2701>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2711>   <U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701> <U+2711>   <U+2713><U+2720><U+2714>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+2723><U+2711>   <U+2714><U+272F><U+272B><U+2731><U+2733><U+2731><U+2734><U+2731><U+272A><U+2735> <U+2706><U+272C><U+2736><U+2737><U+272C><U+272D><U+2734><U+272C>
              <U+270E>   <U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+270E>   <U+2723><U+2711> <U+2713><U+272C><U+2730><U+2734><U+272F><U+2731><U+2738><U+272B><U+2731><U+2732><U+272D> <U+2732><U+2733> <U+2714><U+272F><U+272B><U+2731><U+2733><U+2731><U+2734><U+2731><U+272A><U+2735> <U+2706><U+272C><U+2736><U+2737><U+272C><U+272D><U+2734><U+272C><U+2739> <U+2706><U+273A><U+272D><U+272B><U+273B><U+272C><U+272B><U+2731><U+2734>
                     <U+2732><U+2735><U+2731><U+273C><U+2732><U+272D><U+2737><U+2734><U+2735><U+272C><U+2732><U+272B><U+2731><U+273D><U+272C>
              <U+270E><U+2727><U+270F><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2701>
              <U+273C><U+272B><U+272A><U+272A><U+272B><U+272B><U+273C><U+2734><U+273C><U+273C> <U+2734><U+272A><U+272A><U+273C><U+272A><U+272A><U+273C><U+272A><U+272A><U+272B> <U+272B><U+273C><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+2734><U+272B><U+273C><U+272B><U+2734>                            <U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2711> <U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701> <U+2711> <U+2713><U+2720><U+2714>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+2723><U+2711> <U+2714><U+272F><U+272B><U+2731><U+2733><U+2731><U+2734><U+2731><U+272A><U+2735> <U+2706><U+272C><U+2736><U+2737><U+272C><U+272D><U+2734><U+272C>
              <U+270E>   <U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+270E>   <U+2723><U+2711> <U+2713><U+272C><U+2730><U+2734><U+272F><U+2731><U+2738><U+272B><U+2731><U+2732><U+272D> <U+2732><U+2733> <U+2714><U+272F><U+272B><U+2731><U+2733><U+2731><U+2734><U+2731><U+272A><U+2735> <U+2706><U+272C><U+2736><U+2737><U+272C><U+272D><U+2734><U+272C><U+2739> <U+2706><U+273A><U+272D><U+272B><U+273B><U+272C><U+272B><U+2731><U+2734>
                     <U+2732><U+2735><U+2731><U+273C><U+2732><U+272D><U+2737><U+2734><U+2735><U+272C><U+2732><U+272B><U+2731><U+273D><U+272C>
              <U+270E><U+2727><U+270F><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+273C><U+272B><U+272A><U+272A><U+272B><U+272B><U+273C><U+2734><U+273C><U+273C> <U+2734><U+272A><U+273C><U+273C><U+272A><U+273C><U+273C><U+272A><U+272A><U+272B> <U+272B><U+273C><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+2734><U+272B><U+273C><U+272B><U+2734>                            <U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+270F><U+2711>   <U+2723>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2711>   <U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701> <U+2711>   <U+2713><U+2720><U+2714>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+2723><U+2711>   <U+2714><U+272F><U+272B><U+2731><U+2733><U+2731><U+2734><U+2731><U+272A><U+2735> <U+2706><U+272C><U+2736><U+2737><U+272C><U+272D><U+2734><U+272C>
              <U+270E>   <U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+270E>   <U+2723><U+2711> <U+2713><U+272C><U+2730><U+2734><U+272F><U+2731><U+2738><U+272B><U+2731><U+2732><U+272D> <U+2732><U+2733> <U+2714><U+272F><U+272B><U+2731><U+2733><U+2731><U+2734><U+2731><U+272A><U+2735> <U+2706><U+272C><U+2736><U+2737><U+272C><U+272D><U+2734><U+272C><U+2739> <U+2706><U+273A><U+272D><U+272B><U+273B><U+272C><U+272B><U+2731><U+2734>
                     <U+2732><U+2735><U+2731><U+273C><U+2732><U+272D><U+2737><U+2734><U+2735><U+272C><U+2732><U+272B><U+2731><U+273D><U+272C>
              <U+270E><U+2727><U+270F><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2723>
              <U+273C><U+273C><U+2734><U+272A><U+272A><U+273C><U+272A><U+273C><U+272A><U+2734> <U+272A><U+2734><U+2734><U+272A><U+272A><U+272A><U+273C><U+272A><U+2734><U+272A> <U+2734><U+272B><U+272A><U+2734><U+2734><U+272A><U+273C><U+2734><U+272A><U+272B>                            <U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2727>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2711> <U+2724>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701> <U+2711> <U+2713><U+2720><U+2714>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+2723><U+2711> <U+2714><U+272F><U+272B><U+2731><U+2733><U+2731><U+2734><U+2731><U+272A><U+2735> <U+2706><U+272C><U+2736><U+2737><U+272C><U+272D><U+2734><U+272C>
              <U+270E>   <U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+270E>   <U+2723><U+2711> <U+2713><U+272C><U+2730><U+2734><U+272F><U+2731><U+2738><U+272B><U+2731><U+2732><U+272D> <U+2732><U+2733> <U+2714><U+272F><U+272B><U+2731><U+2733><U+2731><U+2734><U+2731><U+272A><U+2735> <U+2706><U+272C><U+2736><U+2737><U+272C><U+272D><U+2734><U+272C><U+2739> <U+2706><U+273A><U+272D><U+272B><U+273B><U+272C><U+272B><U+2731><U+2734>
                                                      <U+2717><U+272A><U+273C><U+272C> <U+2701>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
                        <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271D><U+261E><U+2706><U+270C><U+271E><U+270D><U+261E>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2711><U+2712> <U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+261B><U+261B><U+270C><U+271F><U+2713><U+271F><U+261B><U+2713><U+2713> <U+270C><U+2713><U+261B><U+261B><U+270C><U+2713><U+2713><U+261B><U+271F><U+2713> <U+2713><U+261B><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+270C><U+2713>                          <U+2714>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2715>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2712> <U+2711>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701> <U+2712> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2718><U+271A><U+270C><U+271E><U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2713><U+271D> <U+271C><U+261E><U+2722><U+2721><U+261E><U+2720><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+270E>   <U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+270E>   <U+2719><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261E><U+2723><U+261B><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+270C><U+271E><U+2706><U+2720> <U+2706><U+271B> <U+2718><U+271A><U+270C><U+271E><U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2713><U+271D> <U+271C><U+261E><U+2722><U+2721><U+261E><U+2720><U+261B><U+261E><U+2725> <U+271C><U+2726><U+2720><U+270C><U+2727><U+261E><U+270C><U+271E><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
                     <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271D><U+261E><U+2706><U+270C><U+271E><U+270D><U+261E>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2715>
              <U+261B><U+2713><U+270C><U+261B><U+270C><U+261B><U+261B><U+270C><U+270C><U+271F> <U+271F><U+270C><U+271F><U+261B><U+270C><U+261B><U+2713><U+2713><U+261B><U+261B>                                  <U+2711>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2702>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2712> <U+2711>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701> <U+2712> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2718><U+271A><U+270C><U+271E><U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2713><U+271D> <U+271C><U+261E><U+2722><U+2721><U+261E><U+2720><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+270E>   <U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+270E>   <U+2719><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261E><U+2723><U+261B><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+270C><U+271E><U+2706><U+2720> <U+2706><U+271B> <U+2718><U+271A><U+270C><U+271E><U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2713><U+271D> <U+271C><U+261E><U+2722><U+2721><U+261E><U+2720><U+261B><U+261E><U+2725> <U+271C><U+2726><U+2720><U+270C><U+2727><U+261E><U+270C><U+271E><U+261B>
                     <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271D><U+261E><U+2706><U+270C><U+271E><U+270D><U+261E>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2702>
              <U+261B><U+270C><U+271F><U+2713><U+2713><U+271F><U+270C><U+261B><U+271F><U+2713> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270C><U+271F><U+271F><U+261B><U+270C><U+270C><U+271F><U+271F>                                  <U+2711>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2714>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2712> <U+2701>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701> <U+2712> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2718><U+271A><U+270C><U+271E><U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2713><U+271D> <U+271C><U+261E><U+2722><U+2721><U+261E><U+2720><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+270E>   <U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+270E>   <U+2719><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261E><U+2723><U+261B><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+270C><U+271E><U+2706><U+2720> <U+2706><U+271B> <U+2718><U+271A><U+270C><U+271E><U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2713><U+271D> <U+271C><U+261E><U+2722><U+2721><U+261E><U+2720><U+261B><U+261E><U+2725> <U+271C><U+2726><U+2720><U+270C><U+2727><U+261E><U+270C><U+271E><U+261B>
                     <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271D><U+261E><U+2706><U+270C><U+271E><U+270D><U+261E>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2714>
              <U+261B><U+270C><U+261B><U+2713><U+271F><U+2713><U+270C><U+2713><U+271F><U+270C> <U+271F><U+271F><U+261B><U+261B><U+2713><U+271F><U+2713><U+2713><U+270C><U+271F> <U+261B>                                <U+2701>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2605>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2712> <U+2711>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701> <U+2712> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2718><U+271A><U+270C><U+271E><U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2713><U+271D> <U+271C><U+261E><U+2722><U+2721><U+261E><U+2720><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+270E>   <U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+270E>   <U+2719><U+2712> <U+2716><U+261E><U+2723><U+261B><U+271A><U+271E><U+2724><U+270C><U+271E><U+2706><U+2720> <U+2706><U+271B> <U+2718><U+271A><U+270C><U+271E><U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2713><U+271D> <U+271C><U+261E><U+2722><U+2721><U+261E><U+2720><U+261B><U+261E><U+2725> <U+271C><U+2726><U+2720><U+270C><U+2727><U+261E><U+270C><U+271E><U+261B>
                     <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271D><U+261E><U+2706><U+270C><U+271E><U+270D><U+261E>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2605>
              <U+270C><U+270C><U+271F><U+270C><U+261B><U+261B><U+2713><U+271F><U+271F><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2713><U+261B><U+270C><U+261B><U+261B><U+2713><U+2713><U+271F><U+271F>                                  <U+2711>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2704>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2712> <U+2715>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701> <U+2712> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+270E>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2718><U+271A><U+270C><U+271E><U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+271E><U+2713><U+271D> <U+271C><U+261E><U+2722><U+2721><U+261E><U+2720><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+270E>    <U+2711><U+2712>
                                                     <U+2729><U+2713><U+271F><U+261E>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270C><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2712> <U+2713><U+261E><U+270E><U+270C><U+2712><U+270C><U+261B><U+270C><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2720><U+2717><U+2718><U+2720><U+2711><U+261B><U+2720><U+2719> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2711><U+270E><U+271B><U+2720><U+270E><U+270C><U+261B>
                     <U+270F><U+2715><U+270C><U+271C><U+270F><U+2711><U+2718><U+261B><U+2715><U+2720><U+270F><U+270E><U+270C><U+2722><U+2720>
              <U+2706><U+2723><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2704>
              <U+261B><U+271C><U+270E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271C><U+2714><U+271C><U+261B><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2714><U+271C><U+2714><U+2714><U+2714><U+271C><U+2714><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2714><U+271C><U+271C><U+270E><U+261B>                                       <U+2725>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+271F><U+2726><U+2713>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2713><U+261E><U+270E><U+270C><U+2712><U+270C><U+261B><U+270C><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2720><U+2717><U+2718><U+2720><U+2711><U+261B><U+2720>
              <U+2706>   <U+2724><U+271E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270C><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2712> <U+2713><U+261E><U+270E><U+270C><U+2712><U+270C><U+261B><U+270C><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2720><U+2717><U+2718><U+2720><U+2711><U+261B><U+2720><U+2719> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2711><U+270E><U+271B><U+2720><U+270E><U+270C><U+261B>
                     <U+270F><U+2715><U+270C><U+271C><U+270F><U+2711><U+2718><U+261B><U+2715><U+2720><U+270F><U+270E><U+270C><U+2722><U+2720>
              <U+2706><U+2723><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2714><U+271C><U+2714><U+271C><U+271C><U+261B><U+271C><U+261B><U+2714><U+261B> <U+271C><U+270E><U+271C><U+2714><U+271C><U+2714><U+261B><U+2714><U+261B>                                              <U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+271F><U+2726><U+2713>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2713><U+261E><U+270E><U+270C><U+2712><U+270C><U+261B><U+270C><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2720><U+2717><U+2718><U+2720><U+2711><U+261B><U+2720>
              <U+2706>   <U+2724><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270C><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2712> <U+2713><U+261E><U+270E><U+270C><U+2712><U+270C><U+261B><U+270C><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2720><U+2717><U+2718><U+2720><U+2711><U+261B><U+2720><U+2719> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2711><U+270E><U+271B><U+2720><U+270E><U+270C><U+261B>
                     <U+270F><U+2715><U+270C><U+271C><U+270F><U+2711><U+2718><U+261B><U+2715><U+2720><U+270F><U+270E><U+270C><U+2722><U+2720>
              <U+2706><U+2723><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+270E><U+271C><U+2714><U+2714><U+271C><U+2714><U+261B><U+2714><U+2714><U+270E> <U+271C><U+2714><U+2714><U+271C><U+2714><U+270E><U+271C><U+270E><U+270E>                                              <U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2701>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E> <U+2725>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E> <U+271F><U+2726><U+2713>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2713><U+261E><U+270E><U+270C><U+2712><U+270C><U+261B><U+270C><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2720><U+2717><U+2718><U+2720><U+2711><U+261B><U+2720>
              <U+2706>   <U+2724><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270C><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2712> <U+2713><U+261E><U+270E><U+270C><U+2712><U+270C><U+261B><U+270C><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2720><U+2717><U+2718><U+2720><U+2711><U+261B><U+2720><U+2719> <U+2716><U+271A><U+2711><U+270E><U+271B><U+2720><U+270E><U+270C><U+261B>
                     <U+270F><U+2715><U+270C><U+271C><U+270F><U+2711><U+2718><U+261B><U+2715><U+2720><U+270F><U+270E><U+270C><U+2722><U+2720>
              <U+2706><U+2723><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2701>
              <U+270E><U+270E><U+270E><U+261B><U+270E><U+270E><U+270E><U+270E><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271C><U+270E><U+271C><U+261B><U+270E><U+271C><U+270E><U+270E> <U+271C><U+271C><U+270E><U+271C><U+2714>                                       <U+2725>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+271D><U+2704><U+2702>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+272A><U+270F><U+272B><U+270F> <U+2721><U+2714><U+270D><U+270C><U+2720><U+2711><U+2721>
              <U+2706><U+2723><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2701><U+271D>
              <U+272C><U+2720><U+270E> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2729><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+272A><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+272A><U+270C><U+2721>
              <U+2701>               <U+2725>                   <U+2701><U+2724>                  <U+2701><U+2725>
              <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+2729><U+261E><U+270D> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C>
                           <U+2724>                   <U+2725>                  <U+271D><U+2724>
              <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711>
                      <U+271D><U+2725>                  <U+2723><U+2724>                  <U+2723><U+2725>
                                                     <U+2727><U+2714><U+271C><U+2720> <U+271D>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+271A><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2721> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715>    <U+271A><U+2721>
                  <U+2725><U+2724>                   <U+2725><U+2725>                  <U+2702><U+2724>
              <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272A><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2729><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711>
              <U+2702><U+2725>                  <U+2701><U+2724>                  <U+2701><U+2725>                  <U+2702><U+2724>
              <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+272C><U+2720><U+270E> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720>
                              <U+2702><U+2725>                  <U+2704><U+2724>                  <U+2704><U+2725>
              <U+272A><U+270C><U+2721> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272C><U+2720><U+270E> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272A><U+270C><U+2721> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
                          <U+2701><U+2724><U+2724>                 <U+2701><U+2724><U+2725>                 <U+2701><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+272C><U+2720><U+270E> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2729><U+261E><U+270D> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+272A><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718>
                      <U+2701><U+2701><U+2725>                 <U+2701> <U+2724>                 <U+2701> <U+2725>
              <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+272C><U+2720><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2720><U+270E> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2720><U+270E>
                  <U+2701><U+271D><U+2724>                 <U+2701><U+271D><U+2725>                 <U+2701><U+2723><U+2724>
              <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F>
              <U+2701><U+2723><U+2725>                 <U+2701><U+2725><U+2724>                 <U+2701><U+2725><U+2725>                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2724>
              <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272A><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2720><U+270E> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720>
                              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2725>                 <U+2701><U+2701><U+2724>                 <U+2701><U+2701><U+2725>
              <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718>
                          <U+2701><U+2702><U+2724>                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2725>                 <U+2701><U+2704><U+2724>
              <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+272A><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715>
                      <U+2701><U+2704><U+2725>                  <U+2724><U+2724>                  <U+2724><U+2725>
               <U+271A><U+2721> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F>   <U+271A><U+2721> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+272A><U+270C><U+2721> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D>    <U+271A><U+2721> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C>
                   <U+2701><U+2724>                   <U+2701><U+2725>                     <U+2724>
              <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2720><U+270E> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A>
                <U+2725>                  <U+271D><U+2724>                  <U+271D><U+2725>                  <U+2723><U+2724>
              <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718>   <U+271A><U+2721> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+2729><U+261E><U+270D> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2720><U+270E> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272A><U+270C><U+2721> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A>
                                <U+2723><U+2725>                  <U+2725><U+2724>                  <U+2725><U+2725>
              <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F>
                           <U+2702><U+2724>                  <U+2702><U+2725>                  <U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+2729><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F>
                       <U+2701><U+2725>                  <U+2702><U+2724>                  <U+2702><U+2725>
              <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718>
                   <U+2704><U+2724>                  <U+2704><U+2725>                 <U+271D><U+2724><U+2724>
                                                     <U+2727><U+2714><U+271C><U+2720> <U+2723>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711>
              <U+271D><U+2724><U+2725>                 <U+271D><U+2701><U+2724>                 <U+271D><U+2701><U+2725>                 <U+271D> <U+2724>
              <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272A><U+270C><U+2721> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718>
                              <U+271D> <U+2725>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+2724>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+2725>
              <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+272C><U+2720><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714>
                          <U+271D><U+2723><U+2724>                 <U+271D><U+2723><U+2725>                 <U+271D><U+2725><U+2724>
              <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272A><U+270C><U+2721> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+272A><U+270C><U+2721> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721>
<removed-apn>
                      <U+271D><U+2725><U+2725>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2724>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2725>
              <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E>
                  <U+271D><U+2701><U+2724>                 <U+271D><U+2701><U+2725>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2724>
              <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729><U+261E><U+270D> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720>
              <U+271D><U+2702><U+2725>                 <U+271D><U+2704><U+2724>                 <U+271D><U+2704><U+2725>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+271D><U+2702>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+272A><U+270F><U+272B><U+270F> <U+2721><U+2714><U+270D><U+270C><U+2720><U+2711><U+2721>
              <U+2706><U+2723><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2723>
              <U+272C><U+2720><U+270E> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2729><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714>
              <U+2701>               <U+2725>                   <U+2701><U+2724>                  <U+2701><U+2725>
              <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729><U+261E><U+270D> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720>
                           <U+2724>                   <U+2725>                  <U+271D><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2729><U+261E><U+270D> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718>
                      <U+271D><U+2725>                  <U+2723><U+2724>                  <U+2723><U+2725>
              <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C>      <U+271A><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A>   <U+271A><U+2721> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715>
                  <U+2725><U+2724>                      <U+2725><U+2725>                  <U+2702><U+2724>
               <U+271A><U+2721> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272A><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2729><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718>
              <U+2702><U+2725>                  <U+2701><U+2724>                  <U+2701><U+2725>                  <U+2702><U+2724>
              <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+272A><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715>
                              <U+2702><U+2725>                  <U+2704><U+2724>                  <U+2704><U+2725>
              <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+272C><U+2720><U+270E> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718>
                          <U+2701><U+2724><U+2724>                 <U+2701><U+2724><U+2725>                 <U+2701><U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+272C><U+2720><U+270E> <U+272A><U+270C><U+2721> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721>
                      <U+2701><U+2701><U+2725>                 <U+2701> <U+2724>                 <U+2701> <U+2725>
              <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272A><U+270C><U+2721> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721>
                  <U+2701><U+271D><U+2724>                 <U+2701><U+271D><U+2725>                 <U+2701><U+2723><U+2724>
                                                     <U+2727><U+2714><U+271C><U+2720> <U+2725>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272C><U+2720><U+270E> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718>
              <U+2701><U+2723><U+2725>                 <U+2701><U+2725><U+2724>                 <U+2701><U+2725><U+2725>                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2724>
              <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2729><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720>
                              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2725>                 <U+2701><U+2701><U+2724>                 <U+2701><U+2701><U+2725>
              <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E>   <U+271A><U+2721> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F>   <U+271A><U+2721>
                          <U+2701><U+2702><U+2724>                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2725>                  <U+2701><U+2704><U+2724>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+272A><U+270C><U+2721> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D>   <U+271A><U+2721> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720>
                      <U+2701><U+2704><U+2725>                   <U+2724><U+2724>                  <U+2724><U+2725>
              <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2720><U+270E> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711>
                   <U+2701><U+2724>                  <U+2701><U+2725>                   <U+2724>
              <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715>
                <U+2725>                  <U+271D><U+2724>                  <U+271D><U+2725>                  <U+2723><U+2724>
              <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+272A><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F>
                               <U+2723><U+2725>                  <U+2725><U+2724>                  <U+2725><U+2725>
              <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D>   <U+271A><U+2721> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A>   <U+271A><U+2721> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E>
                            <U+2702><U+2724>                  <U+2702><U+2725>                  <U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+272C><U+2720><U+270E> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718>
                       <U+2701><U+2725>                  <U+2702><U+2724>                  <U+2702><U+2725>
              <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E>   <U+271A><U+2721> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711>
                   <U+2704><U+2724>                  <U+2704><U+2725>                  <U+271D><U+2724><U+2724>
              <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2729><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+272C><U+2720><U+270E>
              <U+271D><U+2724><U+2725>                 <U+271D><U+2701><U+2724>                 <U+271D><U+2701><U+2725>                 <U+271D> <U+2724>
              <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272A><U+270C><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D>
                              <U+271D> <U+2725>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+2724>                 <U+271D><U+271D><U+2725>
              <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+272A><U+270C><U+2721> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718>
                          <U+271D><U+2723><U+2724>                 <U+271D><U+2723><U+2725>                 <U+271D><U+2725><U+2724>
              <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E>
                      <U+271D><U+2725><U+2725>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2724>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2725>
              <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720>
                  <U+271D><U+2701><U+2724>                 <U+271D><U+2701><U+2725>                 <U+271D><U+2702><U+2724>
              <U+2706> <U+2701><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2725>
              <U+2706> <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2701>
                                                     <U+2727><U+2714><U+271C><U+2720> <U+2702>

                                                       <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2706> <U+2701> <U+271E> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729>
              <U+2706> <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2711><U+2701><U+2711><U+270F><U+2702><U+2711> <U+2704><U+261E><U+271C><U+2714><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+272B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2724><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270C><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2701><U+2711><U+270F><U+2702><U+2711> <U+2704><U+261E><U+271C><U+2714><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+272B><U+2719>    <U+2711><U+2701><U+2711><U+270F><U+2702><U+2711>
                     <U+2720><U+260E><U+2720><U+272B><U+270D><U+2715><U+2714><U+261E><U+271A> <U+261B><U+270F><U+2711><U+2711><U+2720><U+260E><U+270C><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2720><U+270D><U+270E><U+270C><U+2722><U+2720>
              <U+2706><U+2723><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2725>
              <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2729><U+261E><U+270D> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720>
              <U+2701>               <U+2725>                   <U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2711><U+2701><U+2711><U+270F><U+2702><U+2711> <U+2704><U+261E><U+271C><U+2714><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+272B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2724><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270C><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2701><U+2711><U+270F><U+2702><U+2711> <U+2704><U+261E><U+271C><U+2714><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+272B><U+2719>    <U+2711><U+2701><U+2711><U+270F><U+2702><U+2711>
                     <U+2720><U+260E><U+2720><U+272B><U+270D><U+2715><U+2714><U+261E><U+271A> <U+261B><U+270F><U+2711><U+2711><U+2720><U+260E><U+270C><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2720><U+270D><U+270E><U+270C><U+2722><U+2720>
              <U+2706><U+2723><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2702>
              <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2729><U+261E><U+270D> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2720> <U+272E><U+2715><U+271A> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718>
              <U+2701>               <U+2725>                   <U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2702>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2711><U+2701><U+2711><U+270F><U+2702><U+2711> <U+2704><U+261E><U+271C><U+2714><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+272B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2724><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270C><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2701><U+2711><U+270F><U+2702><U+2711> <U+2704><U+261E><U+271C><U+2714><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+272B><U+2719>    <U+2711><U+2701><U+2711><U+270F><U+2702><U+2711>
                     <U+2720><U+260E><U+2720><U+272B><U+270D><U+2715><U+2714><U+261E><U+271A> <U+261B><U+270F><U+2711><U+2711><U+2720><U+260E><U+270C><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2720><U+270D><U+270E><U+270C><U+2722><U+2720>
              <U+2706><U+2723><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2729><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E>   <U+271A><U+2721> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F>    <U+271A><U+2721> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+272A><U+270C><U+2721> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2711>
              <U+2701>               <U+2725>                    <U+2701><U+2724>                    <U+2701><U+2725>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2702>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E> <U+2701>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2711><U+2701><U+2711><U+270F><U+2702><U+2711> <U+2704><U+261E><U+271C><U+2714><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+272B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2724><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270C><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2701><U+2711><U+270F><U+2702><U+2711> <U+2704><U+261E><U+271C><U+2714><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+272B><U+2719>    <U+2711><U+2701><U+2711><U+270F><U+2702><U+2711>
                     <U+2720><U+260E><U+2720><U+272B><U+270D><U+2715><U+2714><U+261E><U+271A> <U+261B><U+270F><U+2711><U+2711><U+2720><U+260E><U+270C><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2720><U+270D><U+270E><U+270C><U+2722><U+2720>
              <U+2706><U+2723><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2702>
              <U+2730><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+271A><U+2721> <U+2727><U+271B><U+2720> <U+272D><U+2720><U+2718> <U+2716><U+2720><U+261E> <U+2713><U+261E><U+271C> <U+2727><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E> <U+272E><U+2715><U+2718> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2721> <U+2729><U+271B><U+261E>
              <U+2701>              <U+2725>                   <U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2711><U+2701><U+2711><U+270F><U+2702><U+2711> <U+2704><U+261E><U+271C><U+2714><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+272B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2724><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270C><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2701><U+2711><U+270F><U+2702><U+2711> <U+2704><U+261E><U+271C><U+2714><U+2711><U+270C><U+2721><U+272B><U+2719>    <U+2711><U+2701><U+2711><U+270F><U+2702><U+2711>
                     <U+2720><U+260E><U+2720><U+272B><U+270D><U+2715><U+2714><U+261E><U+271A> <U+261B><U+270F><U+2711><U+2711><U+2720><U+260E><U+270C><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2720><U+270D><U+270E><U+270C><U+2722><U+2720>
              <U+2706><U+2723><U+2724><U+2724><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2704>
                                                       <U+2727><U+2714><U+271C><U+2720> <U+2701>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271D> <U+2721><U+270C><U+271D> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271D> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271D>
              <U+2701>               <U+2715>                   <U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2716>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2718> <U+2701><U+2719>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701> <U+2718> <U+2721><U+271A><U+261E>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2718> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727>
              <U+2717>   <U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2717>   <U+2719><U+2718> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2713><U+2729><U+271E><U+2726><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+261B><U+271C> <U+261B><U+272C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727><U+272D> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+270E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2712> <U+2729><U+261B><U+271C><U+271C><U+271D><U+272E><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+272F><U+271D>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2717><U+2730><U+2716><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2716>
              <U+2711><U+271D><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2712> <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E> <U+271F><U+270E><U+2725> <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+270E><U+2725> <U+261E><U+271E><U+272A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2713><U+272A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C>
              <U+2701>               <U+2715>                   <U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2701>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2718> <U+2701>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701> <U+2718> <U+2721><U+271A><U+261E>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2718> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727>
              <U+2717>   <U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2717>   <U+2719><U+2718> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2713><U+2729><U+271E><U+2726><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+261B><U+271C> <U+261B><U+272C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727><U+272D> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+270E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2712> <U+2729><U+261B><U+271C><U+271C><U+271D><U+272E><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+272F><U+271D>
              <U+2717><U+2730><U+2716><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+270E><U+2725> <U+2721><U+270C><U+271D> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+271F><U+2713><U+271C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2712>
              <U+2701>               <U+2715>                   <U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2718> <U+2701>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701> <U+2718> <U+2721><U+271A><U+261E>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2718> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727>
              <U+2717>   <U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2717>   <U+2719><U+2718> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2713><U+2729><U+271E><U+2726><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+261B><U+271C> <U+261B><U+272C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727><U+272D> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+270E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2712> <U+2729><U+261B><U+271C><U+271C><U+271D><U+272E><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+272F><U+271D>
              <U+2717><U+2730><U+2716><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2713><U+271C> <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2712><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2713><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+2701>               <U+2715>                   <U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2719>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2718> <U+2701><U+2719>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701> <U+2718> <U+2721><U+271A><U+261E>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2718> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727>
              <U+2717>   <U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2717>   <U+2719><U+2718> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2713><U+2729><U+271E><U+2726><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+261B><U+271C> <U+261B><U+272C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727><U+272D> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+270E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2712> <U+2729><U+261B><U+271C><U+271C><U+271D><U+272E><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+272F><U+271D>
              <U+2717><U+2730><U+2716><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2719>
              <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2712><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2713><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2721><U+270C><U+271D> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271D> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2733><U+2726><U+2713> <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720>
              <U+2701>               <U+2715>                   <U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2730>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2734>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701> <U+2718> <U+2721><U+271A><U+261E>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2718> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727>
                                                     <U+2721><U+2725><U+2720><U+271D> <U+2734>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2717>   <U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2717>   <U+2719><U+2718> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2713><U+2729><U+271E><U+2726><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+261B><U+271C> <U+261B><U+272C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727><U+272D> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+270E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2712> <U+2729><U+261B><U+271C><U+271C><U+271D><U+272E><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+272F><U+271D>
              <U+2717><U+2730><U+2716><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2730>
              <U+271F><U+270E><U+2725> <U+271F><U+270E><U+2725> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E> <U+261E><U+271E><U+272A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2713><U+272A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271D> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2721><U+270C><U+271D> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271D> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+2701>               <U+2715>                   <U+2701><U+2716>                  <U+2701><U+2715>
              <U+271F><U+2713><U+271C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2711><U+271D><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+271F><U+2713><U+271C> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2712><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2713><U+272A> <U+2733><U+2726><U+2713> <U+2721><U+270C><U+271D> <U+2721><U+270C><U+271D>
                           <U+2716>                   <U+2715>                  <U+2719><U+2716>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271D> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2733><U+2726><U+2713> <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720>
                      <U+2719><U+2715>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2715>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2718> <U+2701>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701> <U+2718> <U+2721><U+271A><U+261E>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2718> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727>
              <U+2717>   <U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2717>   <U+2719><U+2718> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2713><U+2729><U+271E><U+2726><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+261B><U+271C> <U+261B><U+272C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727><U+272D> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+270E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2712> <U+2729><U+261B><U+271C><U+271C><U+271D><U+272E><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+272F><U+271D>
              <U+2717><U+2730><U+2716><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2715>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E> <U+261E><U+271E><U+272A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2713><U+272A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2721><U+270C><U+271D> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271D>
              <U+2701>               <U+2715>                   <U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2702>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2718> <U+2701>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701> <U+2718> <U+2721><U+271A><U+261E>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2718> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727>
              <U+2717>   <U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2717>   <U+2719><U+2718> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2713><U+2729><U+271E><U+2726><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+261B><U+271C> <U+261B><U+272C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727><U+272D> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+270E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2712> <U+2729><U+261B><U+271C><U+271C><U+271D><U+272E><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+272F><U+271D>
              <U+2717><U+2730><U+2716><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2702>
              <U+2714><U+270E><U+271D> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+271F><U+2713><U+271C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2711><U+271D><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+271F><U+2713><U+271C> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E>
              <U+2701>               <U+2715>                   <U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2718> <U+2701>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701> <U+2718> <U+2721><U+271A><U+261E>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2718> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727>
              <U+2717>   <U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2717>   <U+2719><U+2718> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2713><U+2729><U+271E><U+2726><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+261B><U+271C> <U+261B><U+272C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727><U+272D> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+270E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2712> <U+2729><U+261B><U+271C><U+271C><U+271D><U+272E><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+272F><U+271D>
              <U+2717><U+2730><U+2716><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2712><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2713><U+272A> <U+2733><U+2726><U+2713> <U+2721><U+270C><U+271D> <U+2721><U+270C><U+271D> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271D> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2733><U+2726><U+2713>
              <U+2701>               <U+2715>                   <U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2734>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2718> <U+2715>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701> <U+2718> <U+2721><U+271A><U+261E>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2718> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727>
                                                     <U+2721><U+2725><U+2720><U+271D> <U+2704>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2717>   <U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2717>   <U+2719><U+2718> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2713><U+2729><U+271E><U+2726><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+261B><U+271C> <U+261B><U+272C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727><U+272D> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+270E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2712> <U+2729><U+261B><U+271C><U+271C><U+271D><U+272E><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+272F><U+271D>
              <U+2717><U+2730><U+2716><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2734>
              <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2711><U+271D><U+270F> <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271F><U+270E><U+2725> <U+2721><U+270C><U+271D> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2713><U+271C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2713><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+2701>               <U+2715>                   <U+2701><U+2716>                  <U+2701><U+2715>
              <U+2721><U+270C><U+271D> <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E>
                           <U+2716>                   <U+2715>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2704>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2718> <U+2701>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701> <U+2718> <U+2721><U+271A><U+261E>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2718> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727>
              <U+2717>   <U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2717>   <U+2719><U+2718> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2713><U+2729><U+271E><U+2726><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+261B><U+271C> <U+261B><U+272C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727><U+272D> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+270E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2712> <U+2729><U+261B><U+271C><U+271C><U+271D><U+272E><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+272F><U+271D>
              <U+2717><U+2730><U+2716><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2704>
              <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271F><U+270E><U+2725> <U+2721><U+270C><U+271D> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+271F><U+2713><U+271C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E>
              <U+2701>               <U+2715>                   <U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+2718>   <U+2719><U+2716>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2718>   <U+2701>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701> <U+2718>   <U+2721><U+271A><U+261E>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2718>   <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727>
              <U+2717>   <U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2717>   <U+2719><U+2718> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2713><U+2729><U+271E><U+2726><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+261B><U+271C> <U+261B><U+272C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727><U+272D> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+270E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2712> <U+2729><U+261B><U+271C><U+271C><U+271D><U+272E><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+272F><U+271D>
              <U+2717><U+2730><U+2716><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2716>
              <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2713><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2721><U+270C><U+271D> <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E>
              <U+2701>               <U+2715>                   <U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+2718>   <U+2719><U+2701>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2718>   <U+2701><U+2719>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701> <U+2718>   <U+2721><U+271A><U+261E>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2718>   <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727>
              <U+2717>   <U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2717>   <U+2719><U+2718> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2713><U+2729><U+271E><U+2726><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+261B><U+271C> <U+261B><U+272C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727><U+272D> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+270E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2712> <U+2729><U+261B><U+271C><U+271C><U+271D><U+272E><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+272F><U+271D>
              <U+2717><U+2730><U+2716><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2701>
              <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2712><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2713><U+272A> <U+2733><U+2726><U+2713> <U+2721><U+270C><U+271D> <U+2721><U+270C><U+271D> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271D> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2733><U+2726><U+2713> <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720>
              <U+2701>               <U+2715>                   <U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+2718>   <U+2719>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2718>   <U+2701><U+2734>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701> <U+2718>   <U+2721><U+271A><U+261E>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2718>   <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727>
              <U+2717>   <U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2717>   <U+2719><U+2718> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2713><U+2729><U+271E><U+2726><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+261B><U+271C> <U+261B><U+272C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727><U+272D> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+270E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2712> <U+2729><U+261B><U+271C><U+271C><U+271D><U+272E><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+272F><U+271D>
                                                     <U+2721><U+2725><U+2720><U+271D> <U+2701><U+2716>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2717><U+2730><U+2716><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2719>
              <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E> <U+261E><U+271E><U+272A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2713><U+272A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2721><U+270C><U+271D> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271D> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+271F><U+2713><U+271C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2711><U+271D><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B>
              <U+2701>               <U+2715>                   <U+2701><U+2716>                  <U+2701><U+2715>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712><U+271E>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+2718>   <U+2719><U+2719>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2718>   <U+2701><U+2715>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701> <U+2718>   <U+2721><U+271A><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2718>   <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727>
              <U+2717>   <U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2717>   <U+2719><U+2718> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2713><U+2729><U+271E><U+2726><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+261B><U+271C> <U+261B><U+272C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727><U+272D> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+270E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2712> <U+2729><U+261B><U+271C><U+271C><U+271D><U+272E><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+272F><U+271D>
              <U+2717><U+2730><U+2716><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2719>
              <U+271F><U+2713><U+272A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2721><U+270C><U+271D> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271D> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+271F><U+2713><U+271C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2711><U+271D><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712><U+271E>
              <U+2701>               <U+2715>                   <U+2701><U+2716>                  <U+2701><U+2715>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+2718>   <U+2719><U+2730>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2718>   <U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701> <U+2718>   <U+2721><U+271A><U+261E>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2718>   <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727>
              <U+2717>   <U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2717>   <U+2719><U+2718> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2713><U+2729><U+271E><U+2726><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+261B><U+271C> <U+261B><U+272C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727><U+272D> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+270E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2712> <U+2729><U+261B><U+271C><U+271C><U+271D><U+272E><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+272F><U+271D>
              <U+2717><U+2730><U+2716><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2730>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E> <U+2721><U+270C><U+271D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E>
              <U+2701>               <U+2715>                   <U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2715>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2718>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701> <U+2718> <U+2721><U+271A><U+261E>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2718> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727>
              <U+2717>   <U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2717>   <U+2719><U+2718> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2713><U+2729><U+271E><U+2726><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+261B><U+271C> <U+261B><U+272C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727><U+272D> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+270E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2712> <U+2729><U+261B><U+271C><U+271C><U+271D><U+272E><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+272F><U+271D>
              <U+2717><U+2730><U+2716><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2715>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E>
              <U+2701>               <U+2715>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+2718>   <U+2719><U+2702>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2718>   <U+2701>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701> <U+2718>   <U+2721><U+271A><U+261E>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2718>   <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727>
              <U+2717>   <U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2717>   <U+2719><U+2718> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2713><U+2729><U+271E><U+2726><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+261B><U+271C> <U+261B><U+272C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727><U+272D> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+270E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2712> <U+2729><U+261B><U+271C><U+271C><U+271D><U+272E><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+272F><U+271D>
              <U+2717><U+2730><U+2716><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2702>
              <U+2714><U+270E><U+271D> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+271F><U+2713><U+271C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2711><U+271D><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+271F><U+2713><U+271C> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E>
              <U+2701>               <U+2715>                   <U+2701><U+2716>
                                                     <U+2721><U+2725><U+2720><U+271D> <U+2701><U+2701>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+2718>   <U+2719>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2718>   <U+2701><U+2702>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701> <U+2718>   <U+2721><U+271A><U+261E>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2718>   <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727>
              <U+2717>   <U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2717>   <U+2719><U+2718> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2713><U+2729><U+271E><U+2726><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+261B><U+271C> <U+261B><U+272C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727><U+272D> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+270E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2712> <U+2729><U+261B><U+271C><U+271C><U+271D><U+272E><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+272F><U+271D>
              <U+2717><U+2730><U+2716><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2719>
              <U+2721><U+270C><U+271D> <U+2711><U+271D><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2713><U+272A> <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2711><U+271D><U+270F> <U+2733><U+2726><U+2713> <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+2733><U+2726><U+2713> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701>               <U+2715>                   <U+2701><U+2716>                  <U+2701><U+2715>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+2718>   <U+2719><U+2734>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2718>   <U+2701><U+2734>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701> <U+2718>   <U+2721><U+271A><U+261E>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2718>   <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727>
              <U+2717>   <U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2717>   <U+2719><U+2718> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2713><U+2729><U+271E><U+2726><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+261B><U+271C> <U+261B><U+272C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727><U+272D> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+270E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2712> <U+2729><U+261B><U+271C><U+271C><U+271D><U+272E><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+272F><U+271D>
              <U+2717><U+2730><U+2716><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2734>
              <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+271F><U+2713><U+272A> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2733><U+2726><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2713><U+272A> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2721><U+270C><U+271D> <U+2711><U+271D><U+270F> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E>
              <U+2701>               <U+2715>                   <U+2701><U+2716>                  <U+2701><U+2715>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+2718>   <U+2719><U+2704>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2718>   <U+2719><U+2715>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701> <U+2718>   <U+2721><U+271A><U+261E>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2718>   <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727>
              <U+2717>   <U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2717>   <U+2719><U+2718> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2713><U+2729><U+271E><U+2726><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+261B><U+271C> <U+261B><U+272C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727><U+272D> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+270E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2712> <U+2729><U+261B><U+271C><U+271C><U+271D><U+272E><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+272F><U+271D>
              <U+2717><U+2730><U+2716><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2719><U+2704>
              <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E> <U+261E><U+271E><U+272A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2713><U+272A> <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C> <U+271F><U+270E><U+2725> <U+271F><U+2713><U+272A> <U+2721><U+270C><U+271D> <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+271F><U+2713><U+271C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+271E> <U+2711><U+271D><U+270F>
              <U+2701>               <U+2715>                   <U+2701><U+2716>                  <U+2701><U+2715>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+271C> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+270D><U+270E><U+2712> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+271F><U+2713><U+271C> <U+2731><U+2725><U+270E> <U+2732><U+2712><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2712><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2713><U+272A> <U+2733><U+2726><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2712><U+271E> <U+2721><U+270C><U+271D> <U+2721><U+271E><U+261B> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271D> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
                           <U+2716>                   <U+2715>                  <U+2719><U+2716>
              <U+2733><U+2726><U+2713> <U+2714><U+270E><U+271D> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720>
                      <U+2719><U+2715>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+2718>   <U+2730><U+2716>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2718>   <U+2719><U+2715>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701> <U+2718>   <U+2721><U+271A><U+261E>
              <U+2717>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+2718>   <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727>
              <U+2717>   <U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2717>   <U+2719><U+2718> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2713><U+2729><U+271E><U+2726><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+261B><U+271C> <U+261B><U+272C> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271E><U+2720><U+2725><U+271C><U+2726><U+2713><U+2727><U+272D> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B><U+2723><U+271C>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+270E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2712> <U+2729><U+261B><U+271C><U+271C><U+271D><U+272E><U+2726><U+271C> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2726><U+272F><U+271D>
                                                     <U+2721><U+2725><U+2720><U+271D> <U+2701>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271F> <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2719><U+2717><U+261E>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271E>                  <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+271C><U+2722><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F>
                           <U+271E>                   <U+271A>                  <U+2724><U+271E>
              <U+271C><U+2722><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2721><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726>
                      <U+2724><U+271A>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271E><U+271F>   <U+271D><U+2701>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271F>   <U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271F>   <U+2715><U+2727><U+270E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+271F>   <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C>
              <U+2706>   <U+271E><U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2724><U+271F> <U+272D><U+2717><U+2714><U+272E><U+270F><U+2722><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2730> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C><U+2731> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B>
                     <U+2717><U+2732><U+2717><U+272C><U+2711><U+2721><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712> <U+272E><U+271B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2717><U+2732><U+2722><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2717><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+2733><U+2717>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271F> <U+271D><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2714>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271E>                  <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F>
                           <U+271E>                   <U+271A>                  <U+2724><U+271E>
              <U+271C><U+2722><U+2714> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726>
                      <U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271E><U+271F>   <U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271F>   <U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271F>   <U+2715><U+2727><U+270E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+271F>   <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C>
              <U+2706>   <U+271E><U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2724><U+271F> <U+272D><U+2717><U+2714><U+272E><U+270F><U+2722><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2730> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C><U+2731> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B>
                     <U+2717><U+2732><U+2717><U+272C><U+2711><U+2721><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712> <U+272E><U+271B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2717><U+2732><U+2722><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2717><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+2733><U+2717>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271F> <U+271D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2714>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271E>                  <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270E><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2721><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F>
                           <U+271E>                   <U+271A>                  <U+2724><U+271E>
              <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+2725><U+2721><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726>
                      <U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271E><U+271F>   <U+271D><U+2724>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271F>   <U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271F>   <U+2715><U+2727><U+270E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+271F>   <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C>
              <U+2706>    <U+271E><U+271F>
                                                     <U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2701><U+2724>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2706>   <U+2724><U+271F> <U+272D><U+2717><U+2714><U+272E><U+270F><U+2722><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2730> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C><U+2731> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B>
                     <U+2717><U+2732><U+2717><U+272C><U+2711><U+2721><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712> <U+272E><U+271B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2717><U+2732><U+2722><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2717><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+2733><U+2717>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271F> <U+271D><U+2724>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+271C><U+2722><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271E>                  <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F>
                           <U+271E>                   <U+271A>                  <U+2724><U+271E>
              <U+271C><U+2722><U+2714> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726>
<removed-apn>
                      <U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271E><U+271F>   <U+271D><U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271F>   <U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271F>   <U+2715><U+2727><U+270E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+271F>   <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C>
              <U+2706>   <U+271E><U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2724><U+271F> <U+272D><U+2717><U+2714><U+272E><U+270F><U+2722><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2730> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C><U+2731> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B>
                     <U+2717><U+2732><U+2717><U+272C><U+2711><U+2721><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712> <U+272E><U+271B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2717><U+2732><U+2722><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2717><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+2733><U+2717>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271F> <U+271D><U+271D>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2721><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2719><U+2717><U+261E>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271E>                  <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2721><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F>
                           <U+271E>                   <U+271A>                  <U+2724><U+271E>
              <U+271C><U+2722><U+2714> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726>
                      <U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271E><U+271F>   <U+271D><U+271A>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271F>   <U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271F>   <U+2715><U+2727><U+270E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+271F>   <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C>
              <U+2706>   <U+271E><U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2724><U+271F> <U+272D><U+2717><U+2714><U+272E><U+270F><U+2722><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2730> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C><U+2731> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B>
                     <U+2717><U+2732><U+2717><U+272C><U+2711><U+2721><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712> <U+272E><U+271B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2717><U+2732><U+2722><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2717><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+2733><U+2717>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271F> <U+271D><U+271A>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271E>                  <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2721><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F>
                           <U+271E>                   <U+271A>                  <U+2724><U+271E>
              <U+271C><U+2722><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2721><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726>
                      <U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271E><U+271F>   <U+271D><U+2702>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271F>   <U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271F>   <U+2715><U+2727><U+270E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+271F>   <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C>
                                                     <U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2701><U+271D>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2706>   <U+271E><U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2724><U+271F> <U+272D><U+2717><U+2714><U+272E><U+270F><U+2722><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2730> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C><U+2731> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B>
                     <U+2717><U+2732><U+2717><U+272C><U+2711><U+2721><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712> <U+272E><U+271B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2717><U+2732><U+2722><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2717><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+2733><U+2717>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271F> <U+271D><U+2702>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271E>                  <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2721><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F>
                           <U+271E>                   <U+271A>                  <U+2724><U+271E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271C><U+2722><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2721><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726>
                      <U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271E><U+271F>   <U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271F>   <U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271F>   <U+2715><U+2727><U+270E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+271F>   <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C>
              <U+2706>   <U+271E><U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2724><U+271F> <U+272D><U+2717><U+2714><U+272E><U+270F><U+2722><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2730> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C><U+2731> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B>
                     <U+2717><U+2732><U+2717><U+272C><U+2711><U+2721><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712> <U+272E><U+271B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2717><U+2732><U+2722><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2717><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+2733><U+2717>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271F> <U+271D>
              <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+270E><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2719><U+2717><U+261E>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271E>                  <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F>
                           <U+271E>                   <U+271A>                  <U+2724><U+271E>
              <U+271C><U+2722><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2717><U+261E> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726>
                      <U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271E><U+271F>   <U+271D><U+2701>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271F>   <U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271F>   <U+2715><U+2727><U+270E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+271F>   <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C>
              <U+2706>   <U+271E><U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2724><U+271F> <U+272D><U+2717><U+2714><U+272E><U+270F><U+2722><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2730> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C><U+2731> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B>
                     <U+2717><U+2732><U+2717><U+272C><U+2711><U+2721><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712> <U+272E><U+271B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2717><U+2732><U+2722><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2717><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+2733><U+2717>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271F> <U+271D><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271E>                  <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2721><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F>
                           <U+271E>                   <U+271A>                  <U+2724><U+271E>
              <U+271C><U+2722><U+2714> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726>
                      <U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2706> <U+2701><U+271E><U+271F> <U+271D><U+2704>
              <U+2706> <U+2701><U+2701><U+271F> <U+2724><U+271A>
                                                     <U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2701><U+271A>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2706> <U+2701> <U+271F> <U+2715><U+2727><U+270E>
              <U+2706> <U+2701><U+2724><U+271F> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C>
              <U+2706>   <U+271E><U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2724><U+271F> <U+272D><U+2717><U+2714><U+272E><U+270F><U+2722><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2730> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C><U+2731> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B>
                     <U+2717><U+2732><U+2717><U+272C><U+2711><U+2721><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712> <U+272E><U+271B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2717><U+2732><U+2722><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2717><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+2733><U+2717>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271F> <U+271D><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271E>                  <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2732> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2732> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2721><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F>
<removed-apn>
                           <U+271E>                   <U+271A>                  <U+2724><U+271E>
              <U+271C><U+2722><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2721><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726>
                      <U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271E><U+271F>   <U+271A><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271F>   <U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271F>   <U+2715><U+2727><U+270E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+271F>   <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C>
              <U+2706>   <U+271E><U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2724><U+271F> <U+272D><U+2717><U+2714><U+272E><U+270F><U+2722><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2730> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C><U+2731> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B>
                     <U+2717><U+2732><U+2717><U+272C><U+2711><U+2721><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712> <U+272E><U+271B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2717><U+2732><U+2722><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2717><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+2733><U+2717>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271F> <U+271A><U+271E>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2725><U+2721><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271E>                  <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2719><U+2717><U+261E> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F>
                           <U+271E>                   <U+271A>                  <U+2724><U+271E>
              <U+271C><U+2722><U+2714> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726>
                      <U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271E><U+271F>   <U+271A><U+2701>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271F>   <U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271F>   <U+2715><U+2727><U+270E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+271F>   <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C>
              <U+2706>   <U+271E><U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2724><U+271F> <U+272D><U+2717><U+2714><U+272E><U+270F><U+2722><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2730> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C><U+2731> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B>
                     <U+2717><U+2732><U+2717><U+272C><U+2711><U+2721><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712> <U+272E><U+271B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2717><U+2732><U+2722><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2717><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+2733><U+2717>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271F> <U+271A><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2721><U+2717>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271E>                  <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2721><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F>
                           <U+271E>                   <U+271A>                  <U+2724><U+271E>
              <U+271C><U+2722><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2721><U+2717> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726>
                      <U+2724><U+271A>
                                                     <U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2701><U+2702>

                                                        <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271E><U+271F>   <U+271A>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271F>   <U+2724><U+2702>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271F>   <U+2715><U+2727><U+270E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+271F>   <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C>
              <U+2706>   <U+271E><U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2724><U+271F> <U+272D><U+2717><U+2714><U+272E><U+270F><U+2722><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2730> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C><U+2731> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B>
                     <U+2717><U+2732><U+2717><U+272C><U+2711><U+2721><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712> <U+272E><U+271B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2717><U+2732><U+2722><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2717><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+2733><U+2717>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271F> <U+271A>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2721><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2712><U+270F> <U+270E><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+270F>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271E>                  <U+2701><U+271A>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2719><U+2717><U+261E>
                           <U+271E>                   <U+271A>                  <U+2724><U+271E>
              <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2722><U+2714> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726>
                      <U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271E><U+271F>   <U+271A><U+2724>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271F>   <U+2724><U+2704>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271F>   <U+2715><U+2727><U+270E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+271F>   <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C>
              <U+2706>   <U+271E><U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2724><U+271F> <U+272D><U+2717><U+2714><U+272E><U+270F><U+2722><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2730> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C><U+2731> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B>
                     <U+2717><U+2732><U+2717><U+272C><U+2711><U+2721><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712> <U+272E><U+271B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2717><U+2732><U+2722><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2717><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+2733><U+2717>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271F> <U+271A><U+2724>
                <U+2717><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2712><U+270F> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2712><U+270F> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721>     <U+2717><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F>   <U+2717><U+272F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2719><U+2717><U+261E>
              <U+2701>                <U+271A>                      <U+2701><U+271E>                   <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2721><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+270F> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721>
                           <U+271E>                   <U+271A>                  <U+2724><U+271E>
              <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2716><U+270F>
                      <U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271E><U+271F>   <U+271A><U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271F>   <U+2724><U+2704>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271F>   <U+2715><U+2727><U+270E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+271F>   <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C>
              <U+2706>   <U+271E><U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2724><U+271F> <U+272D><U+2717><U+2714><U+272E><U+270F><U+2722><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271B><U+2730> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2726><U+270D><U+261B><U+2722><U+2714><U+272C><U+2731> <U+2605><U+261B><U+2729><U+261B><U+271B><U+272A><U+261B>
                     <U+2717><U+2732><U+2717><U+272C><U+2711><U+2721><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712> <U+272E><U+271B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2717><U+2732><U+2722><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2717><U+2711><U+272F><U+2722><U+2733><U+2717>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271E><U+271F> <U+271A><U+271D>
                <U+2717><U+272F> <U+270E><U+2712><U+270F> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2719><U+2717><U+261E> <U+270E><U+2712><U+270F> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2712><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2722><U+2714> <U+2719><U+2717><U+261E> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721>
              <U+2701>                <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271E>                  <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2719><U+2717><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2712> <U+2725><U+2721><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261B> <U+2719><U+2717><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2718><U+2712><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2721><U+2717>
                           <U+271E>                   <U+271A>                  <U+2724><U+271E>
              <U+2723><U+2717><U+270F> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2715><U+270F><U+271B> <U+270E><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2712><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2716><U+270F>
                      <U+2724><U+271A>
                                                        <U+2715><U+270D><U+2726><U+2717> <U+2701>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+271F><U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2704>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2720><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2720><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271F>
              <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2726><U+271A> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2716><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2717><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272F><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2730><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701>               <U+271F>                   <U+2701><U+271D>                  <U+2701><U+271F>
              <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2715> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2734><U+2726><U+272B> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+272E><U+2716><U+2717> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2726><U+271A>
                           <U+271D>                   <U+271F>                  <U+2720><U+271D>
              <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713> <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2734><U+2726><U+272B> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717>
                      <U+2720><U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2729><U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2720><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2720><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+272E><U+2716><U+2717> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+261E><U+2713><U+271C> <U+272E><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2734><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+272F><U+2717><U+270D> <U+2730><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B>
              <U+2701>               <U+271F>                   <U+2701><U+271D>                  <U+2701><U+271F>
              <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2734><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2715> <U+272F><U+2717><U+270D> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2715> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+272F><U+2717><U+270D> <U+272C><U+2726><U+271A> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713>
                           <U+271D>                   <U+271F>                  <U+2720><U+271D>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+271A> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2715> <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2734><U+2726><U+272B> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717>
                      <U+2720><U+271F>                  <U+2729><U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+271F><U+2735>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2704>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2720><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2720><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2735>
              <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2726><U+271A> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726>
              <U+2701>               <U+271F>                   <U+2701><U+271D>                  <U+2701><U+271F>
              <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272E><U+2716><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2715> <U+272F><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+272F><U+2717><U+270D> <U+272C><U+2726><U+271A> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2726><U+271A>
                           <U+271D>                   <U+271F>                  <U+2720><U+271D>
                                                     <U+2721><U+2715><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2701><U+2736>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713> <U+2734><U+2726><U+272B> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2717><U+270D>
                      <U+2720><U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+271F><U+2736>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2704>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2720><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2720><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2736>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2734><U+2726><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2715> <U+2730><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B>
              <U+2701>               <U+271F>                   <U+2701><U+271D>                  <U+2701><U+271F>
              <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+272F><U+2717><U+270D> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726>
                           <U+271D>                   <U+271F>                  <U+2720><U+271D>
              <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713> <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2734><U+2726><U+272B> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713>
                      <U+2720><U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+271F><U+2704>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2720>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2720><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2720><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2704>
              <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2734><U+2726><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2713><U+271C> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2730><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2734><U+2726><U+272B> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2734><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2715> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F>
              <U+2701>               <U+271F>                   <U+2701><U+271D>                  <U+2701><U+271F>
              <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713> <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2734><U+2726><U+272B> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713>
                           <U+271D>                   <U+271F>                  <U+2720><U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2702><U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2720>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2720><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2720><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2702><U+271D>
              <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2734><U+2726><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2713><U+271C> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2730><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2734><U+2726><U+272B> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2734><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2715> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F>
              <U+2701>               <U+271F>                   <U+2701><U+271D>                  <U+2701><U+271F>
              <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713> <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2734><U+2726><U+272B> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713>
                           <U+271D>                   <U+271F>                  <U+2720><U+271D>
              <U+2706> <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2706> <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2736>
                                                     <U+2721><U+2715><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2701><U+2704>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2706> <U+2701> <U+271E> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2706> <U+2701><U+2720><U+271E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2720><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2734><U+2726><U+2727> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2715> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+272E><U+2716><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+2734><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2715> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A>
              <U+2701>               <U+271F>                   <U+2701><U+271D>                  <U+2701><U+271F>
              <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2734><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713>
<removed-apn>
                           <U+271D>                   <U+271F>                  <U+2720><U+271D>
              <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713>
                      <U+2720><U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2702>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2736>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2720><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2720><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2702>
              <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+272C><U+2726><U+271A> <U+2734><U+2726><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2713><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2726><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2734><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2715> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713>
              <U+2701>               <U+271F>                   <U+2701><U+271D>                  <U+2701><U+271F>
              <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+272F><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+272E><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2734><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713>
                           <U+271D>                   <U+271F>                  <U+2720><U+271D>
              <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2734><U+2726><U+272B> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713>
                      <U+2720><U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2702><U+2720>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2736>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2720><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2720><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2720>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+271A> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2715> <U+2734><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2734><U+2726><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2734><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+2734><U+2726><U+272B> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713>
              <U+2701>               <U+271F>                   <U+2701><U+271D>                  <U+2701><U+271F>
              <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2717><U+271C> <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2713><U+271C> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+272F><U+2717><U+270D> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2726><U+271A> <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713>
                           <U+271D>                   <U+271F>                  <U+2720><U+271D>
              <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2734><U+2726><U+272B> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713>
                      <U+2720><U+271F>
                                                     <U+2721><U+2715><U+2714><U+271A>   <U+271D>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2702><U+2729>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2736>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2720><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2720><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2729>
              <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2734><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2734><U+2726><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2734><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+2734><U+2726><U+272B> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A>
              <U+2701>               <U+271F>                   <U+2701><U+271D>                  <U+2701><U+271F>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713> <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2734><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+272E><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713>
                           <U+271D>                   <U+271F>                  <U+2720><U+271D>
              <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2734><U+2726><U+272B> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713>
                      <U+2720><U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2702><U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2736>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2720><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2720><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2702><U+271F>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+271A> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2734><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2734><U+2726><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2726><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2734><U+2726><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2726><U+271A> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+272E><U+2716><U+2717>
              <U+2701>               <U+271F>                   <U+2701><U+271D>                  <U+2701><U+271F>
              <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+272E><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2717><U+270D> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713>
                           <U+271D>                   <U+271F>                  <U+2720><U+271D>
              <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2734><U+2726><U+272B> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2717><U+270D>
                      <U+2720><U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2736>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2720><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2720><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+272C><U+2726><U+271A> <U+2734><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2734><U+2726><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2734><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+2734><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272E><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713>
              <U+2701>               <U+271F>                   <U+2701><U+271D>                  <U+2701><U+271F>
              <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713> <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272E><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2726><U+271A> <U+272F><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2726><U+271A> <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713>
                           <U+271D>                   <U+271F>                  <U+2720><U+271D>
              <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2734><U+2726><U+272B> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713>
                      <U+2720><U+271F>
                                                     <U+2721><U+2715><U+2714><U+271A>   <U+2701>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2702><U+2735>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2729>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2720><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2720><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2735>
              <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+272C><U+2726><U+271A> <U+2734><U+2726><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2713><U+271C> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2726><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2734><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2715> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701>               <U+271F>                   <U+2701><U+271D>                  <U+2701><U+271F>
              <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+272F><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+272E><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2734><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713>
                           <U+271D>                   <U+271F>                  <U+2720><U+271D>
              <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2734><U+2726><U+272B> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2726><U+271A> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2726><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2726><U+271A>
                      <U+2720><U+271F>                  <U+2729><U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2702><U+2736>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2729><U+2720>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2720><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2720><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2736>
              <U+2730><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2730><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272F><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2734><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713> <U+2730><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2734><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B>
              <U+2701>               <U+271F>                   <U+2701><U+271D>                  <U+2701><U+271F>
              <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2717><U+270D> <U+272F><U+2726><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2713><U+271C> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+272F><U+2717><U+270D> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726>
                           <U+271D>                   <U+271F>                  <U+2720><U+271D>
              <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713> <U+272F><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2734><U+2726><U+272B> <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+261E><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726>
                      <U+2720><U+271F>                  <U+2729><U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2729>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2720><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2720><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272F><U+2717><U+270D> <U+2734><U+2726><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2716><U+2717> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2713><U+271C> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B>
              <U+2701>               <U+271F>                   <U+2701><U+271D>                  <U+2701><U+271F>
              <U+272A><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2734><U+2726><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2726><U+271A> <U+272F><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2713><U+270F> <U+272F><U+2717><U+270D> <U+272A><U+271A><U+272B> <U+2731><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2732><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2721><U+272D><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2726><U+271A> <U+2733><U+271A><U+2713>
                           <U+271D>                   <U+271F>                  <U+2720><U+271D>
                                                     <U+2721><U+2715><U+2714><U+271A>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714>
                      <U+2716><U+2717>                  <U+2718><U+2719>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+271C><U+2719>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271B>   <U+2718><U+2716>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701> <U+271B>   <U+271F><U+2722><U+2721>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729>
              <U+271A>    <U+2719><U+271B>
              <U+271A>    <U+2716><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2714><U+2711><U+272B><U+271D><U+2605><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2720><U+2724> <U+2720><U+272E> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+272F> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724>
                      <U+2714><U+2730><U+2714><U+2729><U+272C><U+270C><U+2713><U+271D><U+270F> <U+272B><U+2720><U+2724><U+2724><U+2714><U+2730><U+2605><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2714><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2731><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271A><U+2718><U+2719><U+2719><U+271B> <U+271C><U+2719>
              <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2706><U+2711><U+272C> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+2706><U+2711><U+272C> <U+2733><U+2714><U+272D> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C>
              <U+2701>               <U+2717>                   <U+2701><U+2719>                  <U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2706><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2735><U+2714><U+271D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2732><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2706><U+2711><U+272C> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714>
                           <U+2719>                   <U+2717>                  <U+2716><U+2719>
              <U+2735><U+2714><U+271D> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D>
                      <U+2716><U+2717>                  <U+2718><U+2719>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+271C><U+2701>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271B>   <U+2718>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701> <U+271B>   <U+271F><U+2722><U+2721>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729>
              <U+271A>    <U+2719><U+271B>
              <U+271A>    <U+2716><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2714><U+2711><U+272B><U+271D><U+2605><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2720><U+2724> <U+2720><U+272E> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+272F> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724>
                      <U+2714><U+2730><U+2714><U+2729><U+272C><U+270C><U+2713><U+271D><U+270F> <U+272B><U+2720><U+2724><U+2724><U+2714><U+2730><U+2605><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2714><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+271A><U+2718><U+2719><U+2719><U+271B> <U+271C><U+2701>
              <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+2732><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+2721><U+271D><U+272C> <U+2732><U+2605><U+2711> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270F> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2706><U+2711><U+2724> <U+2733><U+2714><U+272D> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D>
              <U+2701>               <U+2717>                   <U+2701><U+2719>                  <U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2706><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2706><U+2711><U+2724> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2706><U+270C><U+2713> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2706><U+2711><U+2724> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2706><U+2711><U+272C> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D>
                           <U+2719>                   <U+2717>                  <U+2716><U+2719>
              <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2706><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D>
                      <U+2716><U+2717>                  <U+2718><U+2719>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+271C>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271B>   <U+2718><U+2716>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701> <U+271B>   <U+271F><U+2722><U+2721>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729>
              <U+271A>    <U+2719><U+271B>
              <U+271A>    <U+2716><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2714><U+2711><U+272B><U+271D><U+2605><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2720><U+2724> <U+2720><U+272E> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+272F> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724>
                      <U+2714><U+2730><U+2714><U+2729><U+272C><U+270C><U+2713><U+271D><U+270F> <U+272B><U+2720><U+2724><U+2724><U+2714><U+2730><U+2605><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2714><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+271A><U+2718><U+2719><U+2719><U+271B> <U+271C>
              <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2732><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2735><U+2714><U+271D> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C>
              <U+2701>               <U+2717>                   <U+2701><U+2719>                  <U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2732><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2706><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2706><U+2711><U+272C> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2706><U+2711><U+2724> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2706><U+2711><U+272C> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714>
                           <U+2719>                   <U+2717>                  <U+2716><U+2719>
                                                    <U+271F><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2716>

                                                      <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2735><U+2714><U+271D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2735><U+2714><U+271D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2706><U+2711><U+2724> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D>
                      <U+2716><U+2717>                  <U+2718><U+2719>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+271C><U+2716>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271B>   <U+2718><U+2716>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701> <U+271B>   <U+271F><U+2722><U+2721>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729>
              <U+271A>    <U+2719><U+271B>
              <U+271A>    <U+2716><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2714><U+2711><U+272B><U+271D><U+2605><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2720><U+2724> <U+2720><U+272E> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+272F> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724>
<removed-apn>
                      <U+2714><U+2730><U+2714><U+2729><U+272C><U+270C><U+2713><U+271D><U+270F> <U+272B><U+2720><U+2724><U+2724><U+2714><U+2730><U+2605><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2714><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+271A><U+2718><U+2719><U+2719><U+271B> <U+271C><U+2716>
              <U+2733><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270F> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+2706><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2733><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D>
              <U+2701>               <U+2717>                   <U+2701><U+2719>                  <U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2706><U+2711><U+272C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2706><U+2711><U+2724> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2706><U+2711><U+272C> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C>
                           <U+2719>                   <U+2717>                  <U+2716><U+2719>
              <U+2735><U+2714><U+271D> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C>
                      <U+2716><U+2717>                  <U+2718><U+2719>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+271C><U+2718>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271B>   <U+2716><U+2702>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701> <U+271B>   <U+271F><U+2722><U+2721>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729>
              <U+271A>    <U+2719><U+271B>
              <U+271A>    <U+2716><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2714><U+2711><U+272B><U+271D><U+2605><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2720><U+2724> <U+2720><U+272E> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+272F> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724>
                      <U+2714><U+2730><U+2714><U+2729><U+272C><U+270C><U+2713><U+271D><U+270F> <U+272B><U+2720><U+2724><U+2724><U+2714><U+2730><U+2605><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2714><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+271A><U+2718><U+2719><U+2719><U+271B> <U+271C><U+2718>
              <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270F> <U+2721><U+271D><U+272C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+2733><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2706><U+270C><U+2713> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720>
              <U+2701>               <U+2717>                   <U+2701><U+2719>                  <U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2706><U+2711><U+272C> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2735><U+2714><U+271D> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D>
                           <U+2719>                   <U+2717>                  <U+2716><U+2719>
              <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714>
                      <U+2716><U+2717>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+271C><U+2717>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271B>   <U+2716><U+2702>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701> <U+271B>   <U+271F><U+2722><U+2721>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729>
              <U+271A>    <U+2719><U+271B>
              <U+271A>    <U+2716><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2714><U+2711><U+272B><U+271D><U+2605><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2720><U+2724> <U+2720><U+272E> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+272F> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724>
                      <U+2714><U+2730><U+2714><U+2729><U+272C><U+270C><U+2713><U+271D><U+270F> <U+272B><U+2720><U+2724><U+2724><U+2714><U+2730><U+2605><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2714><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+271A><U+2718><U+2719><U+2719><U+271B> <U+271C><U+2717>
              <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270F> <U+2721><U+271D><U+272C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+2733><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2706><U+270C><U+2713> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720>
              <U+2701>               <U+2717>                   <U+2701><U+2719>                  <U+2701><U+2717>
                                                      <U+271F><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>   <U+2718>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2706><U+2711><U+272C> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2735><U+2714><U+271D> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D>
                           <U+2719>                   <U+2717>                  <U+2716><U+2719>
              <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714>
                      <U+2716><U+2717>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+271C><U+2702>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271B>   <U+2718>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701> <U+271B>   <U+271F><U+2722><U+2721>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271A>    <U+2719><U+271B>
              <U+271A>    <U+2716><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2714><U+2711><U+272B><U+271D><U+2605><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2720><U+2724> <U+2720><U+272E> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+272F> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724>
                      <U+2714><U+2730><U+2714><U+2729><U+272C><U+270C><U+2713><U+271D><U+270F> <U+272B><U+2720><U+2724><U+2724><U+2714><U+2730><U+2605><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2714><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+271A><U+2718><U+2719><U+2719><U+271B> <U+271C><U+2702>
              <U+261E><U+270C><U+270F> <U+2706><U+270C><U+2713> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+2732><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270F> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+2706><U+270C><U+2713> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714>
              <U+2701>               <U+2717>                   <U+2701><U+2719>                  <U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2706><U+2711><U+272C> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2735><U+2714><U+271D>
                           <U+2719>                   <U+2717>                  <U+2716><U+2719>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2735><U+2714><U+271D> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+2733><U+2714><U+272D> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D>
                      <U+2716><U+2717>                  <U+2718><U+2719>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+271C><U+271C>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271B>   <U+2718>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701> <U+271B>   <U+271F><U+2722><U+2721>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729>
              <U+271A>    <U+2719><U+271B>
              <U+271A>    <U+2716><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2714><U+2711><U+272B><U+271D><U+2605><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2720><U+2724> <U+2720><U+272E> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+272F> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724>
                      <U+2714><U+2730><U+2714><U+2729><U+272C><U+270C><U+2713><U+271D><U+270F> <U+272B><U+2720><U+2724><U+2724><U+2714><U+2730><U+2605><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2714><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+271A><U+2718><U+2719><U+2719><U+271B> <U+271C><U+271C>
              <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2706><U+270C><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270F> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270F> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D>
              <U+2701>               <U+2717>                   <U+2701><U+2719>                  <U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2706><U+2711><U+272C> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2721><U+271D><U+272C> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2706><U+2711><U+2724> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2706><U+2711><U+272C> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2735><U+2714><U+271D>
                           <U+2719>                   <U+2717>                  <U+2716><U+2719>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714>
                      <U+2716><U+2717>                  <U+2718><U+2719>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+271C>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271B>   <U+2718>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701> <U+271B>   <U+271F><U+2722><U+2721>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729>
              <U+271A>    <U+2719><U+271B>
              <U+271A>    <U+2716><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2714><U+2711><U+272B><U+271D><U+2605><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2720><U+2724> <U+2720><U+272E> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+272F> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724>
                      <U+2714><U+2730><U+2714><U+2729><U+272C><U+270C><U+2713><U+271D><U+270F> <U+272B><U+2720><U+2724><U+2724><U+2714><U+2730><U+2605><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2714><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+271A><U+2718><U+2719><U+2719><U+271B> <U+271C>
              <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270F> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270F> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714>
              <U+2701>               <U+2717>                   <U+2701><U+2719>                  <U+2701><U+2717>
                                                     <U+271F><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2717>

                                                      <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2735><U+2714><U+271D> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2724> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2732><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2706><U+2711><U+272C> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2735><U+2714><U+271D>
                           <U+2719>                   <U+2717>                  <U+2716><U+2719>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D>
                      <U+2716><U+2717>                  <U+2718><U+2719>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+271C><U+2704>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271B>   <U+2718><U+2701>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701> <U+271B>   <U+271F><U+2722><U+2721>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729>
              <U+271A>    <U+2719><U+271B>
              <U+271A>    <U+2716><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2714><U+2711><U+272B><U+271D><U+2605><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2720><U+2724> <U+2720><U+272E> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+272F> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724>
                      <U+2714><U+2730><U+2714><U+2729><U+272C><U+270C><U+2713><U+271D><U+270F> <U+272B><U+2720><U+2724><U+2724><U+2714><U+2730><U+2605><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2714><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+271A><U+2718><U+2719><U+2719><U+271B> <U+271C><U+2704>
              <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270F> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270F> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+2732><U+2605><U+2711>
              <U+2701>               <U+2717>                   <U+2701><U+2719>                  <U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2735><U+2714><U+271D> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2732><U+2605><U+2711> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2706><U+2711><U+2724> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+2735><U+2714><U+271D> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
                           <U+2719>                   <U+2717>                  <U+2716><U+2719>
              <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2706><U+2711><U+2724> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C>
                      <U+2716><U+2717>                  <U+2718><U+2719>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2719>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271B> <U+2718>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701> <U+271B> <U+271F><U+2722><U+2721>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729>
              <U+271A>    <U+2719><U+271B>
              <U+271A>    <U+2716><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2714><U+2711><U+272B><U+271D><U+2605><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2720><U+2724> <U+2720><U+272E> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+272F> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724>
                      <U+2714><U+2730><U+2714><U+2729><U+272C><U+270C><U+2713><U+271D><U+270F> <U+272B><U+2720><U+2724><U+2724><U+2714><U+2730><U+2605><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2714><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+271A><U+2718><U+2719><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2719>
              <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270F> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270F> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2732><U+2605><U+2711> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2721><U+270F><U+271D>
              <U+2701>               <U+2717>                   <U+2701><U+2719>                  <U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2735><U+2714><U+271D> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2732><U+2605><U+2711> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2706><U+2711><U+272C> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2735><U+2714><U+271D>
                           <U+2719>                   <U+2717>                  <U+2716><U+2719>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D>
                      <U+2716><U+2717>                  <U+2718><U+2719>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2701>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2717>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701> <U+271B> <U+271F><U+2722><U+2721>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729>
              <U+271A>    <U+2719><U+271B>
              <U+271A>    <U+2716><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2714><U+2711><U+272B><U+271D><U+2605><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2720><U+2724> <U+2720><U+272E> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+272F> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724>
                      <U+2714><U+2730><U+2714><U+2729><U+272C><U+270C><U+2713><U+271D><U+270F> <U+272B><U+2720><U+2724><U+2724><U+2714><U+2730><U+2605><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2714><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+271A><U+2718><U+2719><U+2719><U+271B>      <U+2701>
                                                      <U+271F><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>   <U+2702>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+2706><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2706><U+270C><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2735><U+2714><U+271D> <U+2735><U+2714><U+271D> <U+2721><U+271D><U+272C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270F> <U+2706><U+2711><U+272C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2706><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2706><U+2711><U+272C> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714>
              <U+2701>               <U+2717>                   <U+2701><U+2719>                  <U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2706><U+2711><U+272C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2724> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270F> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2706><U+2711><U+2724> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+2706><U+2711><U+272C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2724>
                           <U+2719>                   <U+2717>                  <U+2716><U+2719>
              <U+2706><U+270C><U+2713> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2735><U+2714><U+271D> <U+2732><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2721><U+271D><U+272C> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2724>
                      <U+2716><U+2717>                  <U+2718><U+2719>                  <U+2718><U+2717>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+271B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2718>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701> <U+271B> <U+271F><U+2722><U+2721>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729>
              <U+271A>    <U+2719><U+271B>
              <U+271A>    <U+2716><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2714><U+2711><U+272B><U+271D><U+2605><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2720><U+2724> <U+2720><U+272E> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+272F> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724>
                      <U+2714><U+2730><U+2714><U+2729><U+272C><U+270C><U+2713><U+271D><U+270F> <U+272B><U+2720><U+2724><U+2724><U+2714><U+2730><U+2605><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2714><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+271A><U+2718><U+2719><U+2719><U+271B>
              <U+270E><U+2714><U+270D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270F> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+2706><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2706><U+270C><U+2713> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2735><U+2714><U+271D> <U+2735><U+2714><U+271D> <U+2721><U+271D><U+272C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270F> <U+2706><U+2711><U+272C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2706><U+270C><U+2713>
              <U+2701>               <U+2717>                   <U+2701><U+2719>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2716>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701> <U+271B> <U+271F><U+2722><U+2721>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729>
              <U+271A>    <U+2719><U+271B>
              <U+271A>    <U+2716><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2714><U+2711><U+272B><U+271D><U+2605><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2720><U+2724> <U+2720><U+272E> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+272F> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724>
                      <U+2714><U+2730><U+2714><U+2729><U+272C><U+270C><U+2713><U+271D><U+270F> <U+272B><U+2720><U+2724><U+2724><U+2714><U+2730><U+2605><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2714><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+271A><U+2718><U+2719><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2716>
              <U+2706><U+2711><U+272C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2706><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2706><U+2711><U+272C> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2706><U+2711><U+272C> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2724> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720>
              <U+2701>               <U+2717>                   <U+2701><U+2719>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2718>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701> <U+271B> <U+271F><U+2722><U+2721>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729>
              <U+271A>    <U+2719><U+271B>
              <U+271A>    <U+2716><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2714><U+2711><U+272B><U+271D><U+2605><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2720><U+2724> <U+2720><U+272E> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+272F> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724>
                      <U+2714><U+2730><U+2714><U+2729><U+272C><U+270C><U+2713><U+271D><U+270F> <U+272B><U+2720><U+2724><U+2724><U+2714><U+2730><U+2605><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2714><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+271A><U+2718><U+2719><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2718>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2714> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2724> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2720> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270F> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2724> <U+2706><U+2711><U+2724> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2734><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D> <U+2706><U+2711><U+272C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2724>
              <U+2701>               <U+2717>                   <U+2701><U+2719>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2717>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701> <U+271B> <U+271F><U+2722><U+2721>
              <U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2716><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729>
              <U+271A>    <U+2719><U+271B>
              <U+271A>    <U+2716><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2714><U+2711><U+272B><U+271D><U+2605><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2720><U+2724> <U+2720><U+272E> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271D><U+271E><U+2713><U+2724><U+2605><U+2711><U+2729><U+272F> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+2720><U+2726><U+2724>
                      <U+2714><U+2730><U+2714><U+2729><U+272C><U+270C><U+2713><U+271D><U+270F> <U+272B><U+2720><U+2724><U+2724><U+2714><U+2730><U+2605><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2714><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605><U+2731><U+2714>
              <U+271A><U+2718><U+2719><U+2719><U+271B>    <U+2717>
                                                      <U+271F><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>   <U+271C>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2721><U+270E> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2711> <U+270D><U+271E><U+271D> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2721> <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2722>   <U+2723><U+2702>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2722>   <U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701> <U+2722>   <U+2712><U+2725><U+261B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+2722>   <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+271C>   <U+271B><U+2722>
              <U+271C>   <U+2724><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2721><U+272C><U+270C><U+2718><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2714><U+272E> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A><U+272F> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711>
                     <U+2713><U+2730><U+2713><U+272A><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2714><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2730><U+2718><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2713><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2731><U+2713>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271C><U+2732><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2702>
              <U+270D><U+271E><U+271D> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2721> <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2733><U+2713><U+2734> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2711>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2722>   <U+2723><U+2735>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2722>   <U+2732><U+2735>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701> <U+2722>   <U+2712><U+2725><U+261B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+2722>   <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+271C>   <U+271B><U+2722>
              <U+271C>   <U+2724><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2721><U+272C><U+270C><U+2718><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2714><U+272E> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A><U+272F> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711>
                     <U+2713><U+2730><U+2713><U+272A><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2714><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2730><U+2718><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2713><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2731><U+2713>
              <U+271C><U+2732><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2735>
              <U+2736><U+2713><U+272D> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2734> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2711> <U+261B><U+2720><U+270C> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2720><U+270C> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271B>                  <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2733><U+2713><U+2734> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2733><U+2713><U+2734> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2721> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719> <U+2716><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
                           <U+271B>                   <U+271A>                  <U+2724><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+2721><U+2711> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2720><U+270C> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2716><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2734> <U+2733><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
                      <U+2724><U+271A>                  <U+2732><U+271B>                  <U+2732><U+271A>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2722>   <U+2723><U+2723>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2722>   <U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701> <U+2722>   <U+2712><U+2725><U+261B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+2722>   <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+271C>   <U+271B><U+2722>
              <U+271C>   <U+2724><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2721><U+272C><U+270C><U+2718><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2714><U+272E> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A><U+272F> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711>
                     <U+2713><U+2730><U+2713><U+272A><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2714><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2730><U+2718><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2713><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2731><U+2713>
              <U+271C><U+2732><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2723>
              <U+2736><U+2713><U+272D> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2734> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2711> <U+261B><U+2720><U+270C> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2722>   <U+2723><U+2704>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2722>   <U+2701>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701> <U+2722>   <U+2712><U+2725><U+261B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+2722>   <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+271C>   <U+271B><U+2722>
              <U+271C>   <U+2724><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2721><U+272C><U+270C><U+2718><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2714><U+272E> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A><U+272F> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711>
                     <U+2713><U+2730><U+2713><U+272A><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2714><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2730><U+2718><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2713><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2731><U+2713>
              <U+271C><U+2732><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2704>
                                                     <U+2712><U+271D><U+2719><U+2713>   <U+2723>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2711> <U+261B><U+2720><U+270C> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2720><U+270C> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2733><U+2713><U+2734>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2722>   <U+2704><U+271B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2722>   <U+2701><U+2732>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701> <U+2722>   <U+2712><U+2725><U+261B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+2722>   <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+271C>   <U+271B><U+2722>
              <U+271C>   <U+2724><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2721><U+272C><U+270C><U+2718><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2714><U+272E> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A><U+272F> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711>
                     <U+2713><U+2730><U+2713><U+272A><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2714><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2730><U+2718><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2713><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2731><U+2713>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271C><U+2732><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2704><U+271B>
              <U+270F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2733><U+2713><U+2734> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2733><U+2713><U+2734> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2721> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719> <U+2716><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2722>   <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2722>   <U+2701>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701> <U+2722>   <U+2712><U+2725><U+261B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+2722>   <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+271C>   <U+271B><U+2722>
              <U+271C>   <U+2724><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2721><U+272C><U+270C><U+2718><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2714><U+272E> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A><U+272F> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711>
                     <U+2713><U+2730><U+2713><U+272A><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2714><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2730><U+2718><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2713><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2731><U+2713>
              <U+271C><U+2732><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719> <U+2716><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270D><U+2721><U+2711> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2720><U+270C>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2722>   <U+2704>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2722>   <U+2701>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701> <U+2722>   <U+2712><U+2725><U+261B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+2722>   <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+271C>   <U+271B><U+2722>
              <U+271C>   <U+2724><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2721><U+272C><U+270C><U+2718><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2714><U+272E> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A><U+272F> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711>
                     <U+2713><U+2730><U+2713><U+272A><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2714><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2730><U+2718><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2713><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2731><U+2713>
              <U+271C><U+2732><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2704>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270D><U+2721><U+2711> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2720><U+270C> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2716><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2734> <U+2733><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2721><U+2711>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2722>   <U+2704><U+2724>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2722>   <U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701> <U+2722>   <U+2712><U+2725><U+261B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+2722>   <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+271C>   <U+271B><U+2722>
              <U+271C>   <U+2724><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2721><U+272C><U+270C><U+2718><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2714><U+272E> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A><U+272F> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711>
                     <U+2713><U+2730><U+2713><U+272A><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2714><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2730><U+2718><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2713><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2731><U+2713>
              <U+271C><U+2732><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2704><U+2724>
              <U+2716><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2734> <U+2733><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2722>   <U+2704><U+2732>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2722>   <U+2732><U+2702>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701> <U+2722>   <U+2712><U+2725><U+261B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+2722>   <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A>
                                                     <U+2712><U+271D><U+2719><U+2713>   <U+2704>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+271C>   <U+271B><U+2722>
              <U+271C>   <U+2724><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2721><U+272C><U+270C><U+2718><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2714><U+272E> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A><U+272F> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711>
                     <U+2713><U+2730><U+2713><U+272A><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2714><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2730><U+2718><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2713><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2731><U+2713>
              <U+271C><U+2732><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2704><U+2732>
              <U+2733><U+2713><U+2734> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+271E><U+271D> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2734> <U+2716><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2720><U+270C> <U+261B><U+2720><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2721><U+270E> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2734> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2733><U+2720><U+2721>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271B>                  <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2721><U+2711> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2734> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2734> <U+270D><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2720><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2721><U+270E>
                           <U+271B>                   <U+271A>                  <U+2724><U+271B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270D><U+271E><U+271D> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+271E><U+271D> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2733><U+2713><U+2734> <U+2716><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2721> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2711>
                      <U+2724><U+271A>                  <U+2732><U+271B>                  <U+2732><U+271A>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2722>   <U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2722>   <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701> <U+2722>   <U+2712><U+2725><U+261B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+2722>   <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+271C>   <U+271B><U+2722>
              <U+271C>   <U+2724><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2721><U+272C><U+270C><U+2718><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2714><U+272E> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A><U+272F> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711>
                     <U+2713><U+2730><U+2713><U+272A><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2714><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2730><U+2718><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2713><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2731><U+2713>
              <U+271C><U+2732><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2704><U+271A>
              <U+2733><U+2713><U+2734> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+271E><U+271D> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2734> <U+2716><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2720><U+270C> <U+261B><U+2720><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2721><U+270E> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2734> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+2713><U+270C>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271B>                  <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2722>   <U+2704><U+2702>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2722>   <U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701> <U+2722>   <U+2712><U+2725><U+261B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+2722>   <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+271C>   <U+271B><U+2722>
              <U+271C>   <U+2724><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2721><U+272C><U+270C><U+2718><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2714><U+272E> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A><U+272F> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711>
                     <U+2713><U+2730><U+2713><U+272A><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2714><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2730><U+2718><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2713><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2731><U+2713>
              <U+271C><U+2732><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2704><U+2702>
              <U+270D><U+2721><U+270E> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2734> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2711> <U+2716><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2733><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2721><U+2711> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2734> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2722>   <U+2704><U+2735>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2722>   <U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701> <U+2722>   <U+2712><U+2725><U+261B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+2722>   <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+271C>   <U+271B><U+2722>
              <U+271C>   <U+2724><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2721><U+272C><U+270C><U+2718><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2714><U+272E> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A><U+272F> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711>
                     <U+2713><U+2730><U+2713><U+272A><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2714><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2730><U+2718><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2713><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2731><U+2713>
              <U+271C><U+2732><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2704><U+2735>
              <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2734> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2734> <U+270D><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2720><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2721><U+270E> <U+270D><U+271E><U+271D>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2722>   <U+2704><U+2723>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2722>   <U+2701><U+2724>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701> <U+2722>   <U+2712><U+2725><U+261B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+2722>   <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A>
                                                     <U+2712><U+271D><U+2719><U+2713> <U+2724><U+271B>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+271C>   <U+271B><U+2722>
              <U+271C>   <U+2724><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2721><U+272C><U+270C><U+2718><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2714><U+272E> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A><U+272F> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711>
                     <U+2713><U+2730><U+2713><U+272A><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2714><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2730><U+2718><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2713><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2731><U+2713>
              <U+271C><U+2732><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2704><U+2723>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2720><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2721><U+270E> <U+270D><U+271E><U+271D> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+271E><U+271D> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2733><U+2713><U+2734> <U+2716><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2721> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2722>   <U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2722>   <U+2701>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701> <U+2722>   <U+2712><U+2725><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+2722>   <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+271C>   <U+271B><U+2722>
              <U+271C>   <U+2724><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2721><U+272C><U+270C><U+2718><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2714><U+272E> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A><U+272F> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711>
                     <U+2713><U+2730><U+2713><U+272A><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2714><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2730><U+2718><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2713><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2731><U+2713>
              <U+271C><U+2732><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+270D><U+271E><U+271D> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2733><U+2713><U+2734> <U+2716><U+2713><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2721> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2711>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2722>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+271B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2722>   <U+2732><U+2735>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701> <U+2722>   <U+2712><U+2725><U+261B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+2722>   <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+271C>   <U+271B><U+2722>
              <U+271C>   <U+2724><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2721><U+272C><U+270C><U+2718><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2714><U+272E> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A><U+272F> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711>
                     <U+2713><U+2730><U+2713><U+272A><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2714><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2730><U+2718><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2713><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2731><U+2713>
              <U+271C><U+2732><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2701><U+271B><U+271B>
              <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2734> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2733><U+2713><U+2734> <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2711> <U+261B><U+2720><U+270C> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2733><U+2713><U+2734> <U+261B><U+2720><U+270C> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2711>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271B>                  <U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2720><U+270C> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2716><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719> <U+2733><U+2713><U+2734> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2733><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713>
                           <U+271B>                   <U+271A>                  <U+2724><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+2721><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2734> <U+2733><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2733><U+2713><U+2734> <U+2733><U+2713><U+2734>
                      <U+2724><U+271A>                  <U+2732><U+271B>                  <U+2732><U+271A>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2722>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2701>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2722>   <U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701> <U+2722>   <U+2712><U+2725><U+261B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+2722>   <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+271C>   <U+271B><U+2722>
              <U+271C>   <U+2724><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2721><U+272C><U+270C><U+2718><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2714><U+272E> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A><U+272F> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711>
                     <U+2713><U+2730><U+2713><U+272A><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2714><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2730><U+2718><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2713><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2731><U+2713>
              <U+271C><U+2732><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2701><U+271B><U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2734> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2733><U+2713><U+2734> <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2711> <U+261B><U+2720><U+270C> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2722>   <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2722>   <U+2701>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701> <U+2722>   <U+2712><U+2725><U+261B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+2722>   <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A>
                                                     <U+2712><U+271D><U+2719><U+2713> <U+2724><U+2701>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+271C>   <U+271B><U+2722>
              <U+271C>   <U+2724><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2721><U+272C><U+270C><U+2718><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2714><U+272E> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A><U+272F> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711>
                     <U+2713><U+2730><U+2713><U+272A><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2714><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2730><U+2718><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2713><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2731><U+2713>
              <U+271C><U+2732><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+2733><U+2713><U+2734> <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2711> <U+261B><U+2720><U+270C> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2733><U+2713><U+2734> <U+261B><U+2720><U+270C> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2711> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2722>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2724>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2722>   <U+2701><U+2732>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701> <U+2722>   <U+2712><U+2725><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+2722>   <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+271C>   <U+271B><U+2722>
              <U+271C>   <U+2724><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2721><U+272C><U+270C><U+2718><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2714><U+272E> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A><U+272F> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711>
                     <U+2713><U+2730><U+2713><U+272A><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2714><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2730><U+2718><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2713><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2731><U+2713>
              <U+271C><U+2732><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2701><U+271B><U+2724>
              <U+270F><U+271E><U+2720> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2711> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2720><U+270C> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2716><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719> <U+2733><U+2713><U+2734> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2722>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2732>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2722>   <U+2701>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701> <U+2722>   <U+2712><U+2725><U+261B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+2722>   <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+271C>   <U+271B><U+2722>
              <U+271C>   <U+2724><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2721><U+272C><U+270C><U+2718><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2714><U+272E> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A><U+272F> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711>
                     <U+2713><U+2730><U+2713><U+272A><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2714><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2730><U+2718><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2713><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2731><U+2713>
              <U+271C><U+2732><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2701><U+271B><U+2732>
              <U+2716><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719> <U+2733><U+2713><U+2734> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+2733><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2721><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2722>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+271A>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2722>   <U+2701>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701> <U+2722>   <U+2712><U+2725><U+261B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+2722>   <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+271C>   <U+271B><U+2722>
              <U+271C>   <U+2724><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2721><U+272C><U+270C><U+2718><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2714><U+272E> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A><U+272F> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711>
                     <U+2713><U+2730><U+2713><U+272A><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2714><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2730><U+2718><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2713><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2731><U+2713>
              <U+271C><U+2732><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2701><U+271B><U+271A>
              <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270D><U+2721><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2734> <U+2733><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2722>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2702>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2722>   <U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701> <U+2722>   <U+2712><U+2725><U+261B>
              <U+271C>   <U+2701><U+2724><U+2722>   <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A>
              <U+271C>   <U+271B><U+2722>
              <U+271C>   <U+2724><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2721><U+272C><U+270C><U+2718><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2714><U+2711> <U+2714><U+272E> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711> <U+2729><U+270C><U+2719><U+271D><U+2711><U+2718><U+2721><U+272A><U+272F> <U+2726><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2714><U+2605><U+2711>
                     <U+2713><U+2730><U+2713><U+272A><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+270C><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2714><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2730><U+2718><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2713><U+270E><U+272D><U+2718><U+2731><U+2713>
              <U+271C><U+2732><U+271B><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2701><U+271B><U+2702>
              <U+2716><U+2713><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2714> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2734> <U+2733><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2715><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2733><U+2713><U+2734> <U+2733><U+2713><U+2734>
              <U+2701>               <U+271A>                   <U+2701><U+271B>
                                                     <U+2712><U+271D><U+2719><U+2713> <U+2724>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+261E><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2701><U+271D><U+271F>
              <U+272A><U+271A><U+2713> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2714> <U+272C><U+2726><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2726><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272B><U+2717><U+270D> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2720><U+2730><U+271A> <U+2731><U+2726><U+271A> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2726>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701>               <U+2732>                   <U+2701><U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+2733>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+261E><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2701><U+271D><U+2733>
              <U+261B><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2734><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272A><U+271A><U+2713> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2714> <U+272E><U+271A><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2734><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2735><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2713><U+270F>
              <U+2701>               <U+2732>                   <U+2701><U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+2704>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+261E><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2701><U+271D><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2735><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2720><U+2730><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2734><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272A><U+271A><U+2713> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2714> <U+272E><U+271A><U+272D>
              <U+2701>               <U+2732>                   <U+2701><U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+261E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+261E><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2701><U+271D>
              <U+2720><U+2730><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2720><U+2730><U+271A> <U+272E><U+271A><U+272D> <U+2731><U+2726><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2726><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2726><U+270D> <U+261B><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2730><U+271A> <U+272E><U+271A><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2727><U+2713>
              <U+2701>               <U+2732>                   <U+2701><U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2701>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+261E><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
                                                     <U+2720><U+2715><U+2714><U+271A> <U+261E><U+261E>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2706>   <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2726><U+270D> <U+261B><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2730><U+271A> <U+272E><U+271A><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2720><U+2730><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2735><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2713><U+270F>
              <U+2701>               <U+2732>                   <U+2701><U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2701>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+261E><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2720><U+2730><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2735><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2720><U+2730><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2734><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272A><U+271A><U+2713> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2714>
              <U+2701>               <U+2732>                   <U+2701><U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+261E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2701>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+261E><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2701><U+261E>
              <U+272B><U+2726><U+2715> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2726><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2726><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+272A><U+271A><U+2713> <U+2731><U+2726><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2727><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272B><U+2717><U+271C> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+272C><U+2726><U+270D>
              <U+2701>               <U+2732>                   <U+2701><U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2701>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+261E><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+261B><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272B><U+2717><U+271C> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+272C><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272A><U+271A><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2730><U+271A> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2734><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272B><U+2717><U+270D> <U+261B><U+2730><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D>
              <U+2701>               <U+2732>                   <U+2701><U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2732>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2701>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+261E><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2701><U+2732>
              <U+272B><U+2717><U+270D> <U+261B><U+2730><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+272C><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2713><U+270F> <U+272C><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2734><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+272B><U+2717><U+270D> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2734><U+2727><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2727><U+2713>
              <U+2701>               <U+2732>                   <U+2701><U+271D>
                                                     <U+2720><U+2715><U+2714><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2729>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2701>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+261E><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702>
              <U+2734><U+2727><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272B><U+2717><U+271C> <U+272B><U+2726><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2730><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2726><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2713><U+270F> <U+272E><U+271A><U+272D> <U+272A><U+271A><U+2713> <U+2735><U+2716><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2714>
              <U+2701>               <U+2732>                   <U+2701><U+271D>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2701>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+261E><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2701><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+2730><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2726><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2713><U+270F> <U+272E><U+271A><U+272D> <U+272A><U+271A><U+2713> <U+2735><U+2716><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2730><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2713><U+271C> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2720><U+2730><U+271A>
              <U+2701>               <U+2732>                   <U+2701><U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2733>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2732>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+261E><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2701><U+2733>
              <U+272E><U+271A><U+272D> <U+2731><U+2726><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2726><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2726><U+270D> <U+261B><U+2727><U+2713>
              <U+2701>               <U+2732>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2732>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+261E><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2701><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2735><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2720><U+2730><U+271A>
              <U+2701>               <U+2732>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2701> <U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2732>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+261E><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
                                                     <U+2720><U+2715><U+2714><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2732>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2701> <U+271D>
              <U+261B><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2734><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272A><U+271A><U+2713> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2714>
              <U+2701>               <U+2732>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2701> <U+2701>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2732>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+261E><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
<removed-apn>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2701> <U+2701>
              <U+272A><U+271A><U+2713> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2714> <U+272E><U+271A><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2734><U+2727><U+2717>
              <U+2701>               <U+2732>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2701>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2732>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+261E><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2701>
              <U+272E><U+271A><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2734><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2735><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2713><U+270F>
              <U+2701>               <U+2732>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2701> <U+261E>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2732>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+261E><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2701> <U+261E>
              <U+272C><U+2726><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+272A><U+271A><U+2713> <U+2731><U+2726><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2727><U+2713>
              <U+2701>               <U+2732>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2701> <U+2729>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2702>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+261E><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2701> <U+2729>
              <U+261B><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272B><U+2717><U+271C> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+272C><U+2726><U+270D> <U+272A><U+271A><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2717>
              <U+2701>               <U+2732>
              <U+2706> <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2701> <U+2732>
              <U+2706> <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E> <U+2702>
                                                     <U+2720><U+2715><U+2714><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2702>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2706> <U+2701> <U+271E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2706> <U+2701><U+261E><U+271E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2701> <U+2732>
              <U+272A><U+271A><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2727><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2730><U+271A> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2734><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272B><U+2717><U+270D>
              <U+2701>               <U+2732>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2733>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+261E><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2701> <U+2702>
              <U+261B><U+2730><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+272C><U+2726><U+270D> <U+2720><U+2713><U+270F> <U+272C><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2734><U+2727><U+2717> <U+272C><U+2726><U+272D> <U+272B><U+2717><U+270D>
              <U+2701>               <U+2732>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2701> <U+271F>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2733>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+261E><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2701> <U+271F>
              <U+272F><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2734><U+2727><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2727><U+2713> <U+272B><U+2717><U+271C> <U+272B><U+2726><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2730><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2726><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2713><U+270F>
              <U+2701>               <U+2732>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2701> <U+2733>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+261E><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2701> <U+2733>
              <U+272E><U+271A><U+272D> <U+272A><U+271A><U+2713> <U+2735><U+2716><U+2717> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2726> <U+272B><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2730><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2713><U+271C> <U+272F><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2720><U+2730><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2726><U+270D>
              <U+2701>               <U+2732>                   <U+2701><U+271D>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2701> <U+2704>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701> <U+271E>   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+261E><U+271E>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2706>   <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2706>   <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2723> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270D>
                     <U+271A><U+2725><U+271A><U+2718><U+271C><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2727> <U+271B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270D><U+271A><U+2725><U+2716><U+270D> <U+271C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2605><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+2729><U+271D><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2701> <U+2704>
                                                     <U+2720><U+2715><U+2714><U+271A> <U+261E><U+271F>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+271D> <U+2721><U+2720><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+271D> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2721><U+2720><U+270C> <U+270E><U+270F><U+271D> <U+2721><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2716> <U+270E><U+270F><U+271D>
              <U+2701>               <U+2717>                   <U+2701><U+2718>
              <U+2719>   <U+2701><U+2718><U+271A>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2718>
              <U+2719>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271A>   <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+2719>   <U+2701> <U+271A>   <U+270E><U+271C><U+261E>
              <U+2719>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+271A>   <U+2722><U+261B><U+2723><U+261B><U+2716><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2712><U+261B><U+2714><U+2715><U+2727>
              <U+2719>   <U+2718><U+271A>
              <U+2719>   <U+271B><U+271A> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2715><U+2729><U+270D><U+2714><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714><U+2716><U+261B> <U+2716><U+272C> <U+2722><U+261B><U+2723><U+261B><U+2716><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2712><U+261B><U+2714><U+2715><U+2727><U+272D> <U+2722><U+261B><U+2723><U+261B><U+2716><U+2724><U+261B>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+2720><U+2712><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2729><U+2716><U+261B><U+261B><U+271D><U+272E><U+2714><U+261B> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714><U+272F><U+271D>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2719><U+2730><U+2718><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2701><U+271B><U+2718>
              <U+2711><U+2712><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2716> <U+270E><U+270F><U+271D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2731><U+270C><U+2715> <U+2732><U+271D><U+270D> <U+2733><U+270D><U+2726> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2716> <U+2731><U+270C><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2716>
              <U+2701>               <U+2717>                   <U+2701><U+2718>
              <U+2719>   <U+2701><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2701><U+271B><U+2701>
              <U+2719>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2719>   <U+2701> <U+271A> <U+270E><U+271C><U+261E>
              <U+2719>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+271A> <U+2722><U+261B><U+2723><U+261B><U+2716><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2712><U+261B><U+2714><U+2715><U+2727>
              <U+2719>   <U+2718><U+271A>
              <U+2719>   <U+271B><U+271A> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2715><U+2729><U+270D><U+2714><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714><U+2716><U+261B> <U+2716><U+272C> <U+2722><U+261B><U+2723><U+261B><U+2716><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2712><U+261B><U+2714><U+2715><U+2727><U+272D> <U+2722><U+261B><U+2723><U+261B><U+2716><U+2724><U+261B>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+2720><U+2712><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2729><U+2716><U+261B><U+261B><U+271D><U+272E><U+2714><U+261B> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714><U+272F><U+271D>
              <U+2719><U+2730><U+2718><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2701><U+271B><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+2712><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2720><U+270C> <U+2721><U+2720><U+270C> <U+2721><U+2720><U+271E> <U+2732><U+271D><U+270D> <U+271F><U+2720><U+271D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2733><U+2715><U+272A> <U+2721><U+2720><U+271E> <U+2721><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2732><U+271D><U+270D> <U+2706><U+270C><U+2715> <U+270E><U+270F><U+271D> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2720> <U+2731><U+270C><U+2715>
              <U+2701>               <U+2717>                   <U+2701><U+2718>                  <U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+2733><U+2715><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+2721><U+2720><U+271E> <U+2721><U+2720><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2716> <U+2721><U+2720><U+270C>
                           <U+2718>
              <U+2719>   <U+2701><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+2719>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271A>
              <U+2719>   <U+2701> <U+271A> <U+270E><U+271C><U+261E>
              <U+2719>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+271A> <U+2722><U+261B><U+2723><U+261B><U+2716><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2712><U+261B><U+2714><U+2715><U+2727>
              <U+2719>   <U+2718><U+271A>
              <U+2719>   <U+271B><U+271A> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2715><U+2729><U+270D><U+2714><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714><U+2716><U+261B> <U+2716><U+272C> <U+2722><U+261B><U+2723><U+261B><U+2716><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2712><U+261B><U+2714><U+2715><U+2727><U+272D> <U+2722><U+261B><U+2723><U+261B><U+2716><U+2724><U+261B>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+2720><U+2712><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2729><U+2716><U+261B><U+261B><U+271D><U+272E><U+2714><U+261B> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714><U+272F><U+271D>
              <U+2719><U+2730><U+2718><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2701><U+271B>
              <U+261E><U+270F><U+270D> <U+2721><U+2720><U+271E> <U+2721><U+2720><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2716> <U+2721><U+2720><U+270C> <U+2731><U+270C><U+2715> <U+2721><U+2720><U+271E> <U+2733><U+2715><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2720> <U+2731><U+270C><U+2715> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2733><U+2715><U+272A> <U+2733><U+2720><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270F><U+271D> <U+2733><U+2720><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2716>
              <U+2701>               <U+2717>                   <U+2701><U+2718>                  <U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2732><U+271D><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2720> <U+2733><U+270D><U+2726> <U+270E><U+270F><U+271D>
                           <U+2718>
              <U+2719>   <U+2701><U+2718><U+271A>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+271B>
              <U+2719>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2730>
              <U+2719>   <U+2701> <U+271A>   <U+270E><U+271C><U+261E>
              <U+2719>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+271A>   <U+2722><U+261B><U+2723><U+261B><U+2716><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2712><U+261B><U+2714><U+2715><U+2727>
              <U+2719>   <U+2718><U+271A>
              <U+2719>   <U+271B><U+271A> <U+2605><U+271D><U+2715><U+2729><U+270D><U+2714><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714><U+2716><U+261B> <U+2716><U+272C> <U+2722><U+261B><U+2723><U+261B><U+2716><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2725><U+270D><U+2726><U+2712><U+261B><U+2714><U+2715><U+2727><U+272D> <U+2722><U+261B><U+2723><U+261B><U+2716><U+2724><U+261B>
                     <U+271D><U+272E><U+271D><U+2727><U+272A><U+2720><U+2712><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2729><U+2716><U+261B><U+261B><U+271D><U+272E><U+2714><U+261B> <U+272A><U+271D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2714><U+272F><U+271D>
              <U+2719><U+2730><U+2718><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2701><U+271B><U+271B>
                                                     <U+270E><U+2712><U+2726><U+271D> <U+271B><U+2734>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2733><U+2720><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270F><U+271D> <U+2733><U+2720><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2716> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2732><U+271D><U+270D> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2720> <U+2733><U+270D><U+2726> <U+270E><U+270F><U+271D> <U+261E><U+270D><U+272A> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2720> <U+270E><U+270F><U+271D> <U+2721><U+2720><U+261B>
              <U+2701>               <U+2717>                   <U+2701><U+2718>
              <U+2719>   <U+2701><U+2718><U+271A>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2730>
              <U+2719>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271A>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2701><U+2730>
              <U+2719>   <U+2701> <U+271A>   <U+2605> <U+2733>
              <U+2719>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+271A>   <U+2713><U+2716><U+2727><U+2716> <U+2715><U+2712><U+272A><U+2714><U+271D><U+261B><U+2715>
              <U+2719><U+2730><U+2718><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2701><U+271B><U+2730>
              <U+2726><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726> <U+272B><U+2712><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+272B><U+272B> <U+272B><U+272B><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2712><U+272B><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2726>    <U+2702><U+2718>
              <U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729> <U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729> <U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B> <U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+272B><U+272B> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726>    <U+2701> <U+2718>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2726><U+2729><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729> <U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726> <U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726> <U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726> <U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729>    <U+2701><U+2734><U+2718>
              <U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2712><U+2726><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2726> <U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726>     <U+2730><U+2718>
              <U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+272B><U+2712><U+2729> <U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726> <U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712> <U+2726><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726>    <U+271B><U+2718><U+2718>
              <U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2712><U+2726><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B> <U+272B><U+2729><U+2726><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729> <U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729> <U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729>    <U+271B><U+2702><U+2718>
              <U+272B><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+272B> <U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+272B> <U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726> <U+2729><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726> <U+272B><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B> <U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2712><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726>    <U+2730> <U+2718>
              <U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2712><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2712> <U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B> <U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726> <U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712>    <U+2730><U+2734><U+2718>
              <U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+272B> <U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712> <U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726>    <U+2717><U+2730><U+2718>
              <U+2729><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B> <U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729> <U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+272B><U+2712><U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+2712> <U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712> <U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726>   <U+2702><U+2718><U+2718>
              <U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726> <U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B> <U+2726><U+2729><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2712><U+2729> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+272B><U+2712> <U+272B><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2726><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B>   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2718>
              <U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B> <U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+2712><U+2729> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B> <U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726> <U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+2712><U+2729>    <U+2701> <U+2718>
              <U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726> <U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+272B> <U+272B><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+2726> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726>    <U+2701><U+2734><U+2718>
              <U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B> <U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B> <U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726> <U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726> <U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+272B><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729>    <U+2734><U+2730><U+2718>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B> <U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B> <U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2726><U+272B><U+272B><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729> <U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+272B><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726> <U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2726><U+2712><U+2729>   <U+2704><U+2718><U+2718>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2712><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726> <U+2729><U+2726><U+2712><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726> <U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726> <U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+2729> <U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+272B><U+2712><U+272B>   <U+2704><U+2702><U+2718>
              <U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2712><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729> <U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B> <U+2729><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2729> <U+272B><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726>   <U+2701><U+2718> <U+2718>
              <U+272B><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726> <U+272B><U+272B><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2729><U+2726><U+2712> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+272B> <U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+272B><U+272B><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712>   <U+2701><U+2718><U+2734><U+2718>
              <U+2712><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+2712><U+2712> <U+272B><U+272B><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712> <U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729> <U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712> <U+2726><U+2726><U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2730><U+2718>
              <U+2712><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B> <U+2726><U+2712><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2726> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712> <U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712>   <U+2701> <U+2718><U+2718>
              <U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726> <U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272B><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712> <U+2729><U+272B><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726> <U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2726> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729>   <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2718>
              <U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712> <U+2726><U+272B><U+2729><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B> <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B> <U+2729><U+272B><U+2712><U+2726>         <U+2701><U+271B><U+2701><U+2730>
              <U+2719>   <U+2701><U+2718><U+271A>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+2717>
              <U+2719>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+271A>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2730><U+2704>
              <U+2719>   <U+2701> <U+271A>   <U+2605> <U+2733>
              <U+2719>   <U+2701><U+271B><U+271A>   <U+2713><U+2716><U+2727><U+2716> <U+2715><U+2712><U+272A><U+2714><U+271D><U+261B><U+2715>
              <U+2719><U+2730><U+2718><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2701><U+271B><U+2717>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B> <U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B> <U+2712><U+2726><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729> <U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2726> <U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2712> <U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B>    <U+2702><U+2718>
              <U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2726> <U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2729> <U+2712><U+2726><U+272B><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729> <U+2712><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+2729><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712> <U+272B><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B> <U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2726>    <U+2701> <U+2718>
                                                    <U+270E><U+2712><U+2726><U+271D> <U+271B><U+2704>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2726><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726> <U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712> <U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B> <U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+2726><U+272B><U+272B> <U+2726><U+272B><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712> <U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B>    <U+2701><U+2734><U+2718>
              <U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726> <U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B> <U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726>     <U+2730><U+2718>
              <U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2712><U+272B> <U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729> <U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2712><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726> <U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+272B> <U+2729><U+272B><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726>    <U+271B><U+2718><U+2718>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726> <U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726> <U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B>    <U+271B><U+2702><U+2718>
              <U+2726><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B> <U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B><U+272B> <U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2726><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+272B><U+2712> <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+2712><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712>    <U+2730> <U+2718>
              <U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+272B> <U+2726><U+2729><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726> <U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+272B><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729>    <U+2730><U+2734><U+2718>
<removed-apn>
              <U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2712> <U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B> <U+2726><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726> <U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+272B> <U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2712> <U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729>    <U+2717><U+2730><U+2718>
              <U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726> <U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+2729> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712> <U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729>   <U+2702><U+2718><U+2718>
              <U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712> <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729> <U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2729> <U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2729><U+2729>   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2718>
              <U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712> <U+2712><U+272B><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2712><U+272B> <U+2726><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+2729><U+2726><U+272B><U+272B><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+272B>    <U+2701> <U+2718>
              <U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712> <U+2726><U+2729><U+2726><U+2712><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2712> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+2726><U+2712><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2712><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+2726><U+2729> <U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B>    <U+2701><U+2734><U+2718>
              <U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2712><U+272B><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2712> <U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2729> <U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+2712><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+2729><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B>    <U+2734><U+2730><U+2718>
              <U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729> <U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+272B><U+272B><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B> <U+2726><U+2726><U+2729><U+2726><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+2729> <U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+272B>   <U+2704><U+2718><U+2718>
              <U+272B><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712> <U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726> <U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+2712><U+2712><U+272B><U+272B><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712> <U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712> <U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726>   <U+2704><U+2702><U+2718>
              <U+2726><U+2726><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2726><U+2729><U+2726><U+2726> <U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+272B> <U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2729><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B><U+272B><U+272B> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B>   <U+2701><U+2718> <U+2718>
              <U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+272B><U+272B> <U+2729><U+272B><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B> <U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712> <U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2712><U+272B><U+272B><U+2712><U+2729> <U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+2729><U+272B><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2712><U+272B><U+272B><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2726><U+2712><U+2729>   <U+2701><U+2718><U+2734><U+2718>
              <U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2726><U+2712><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+272B> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+272B><U+2729><U+2726><U+272B> <U+2726><U+2729><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712><U+2726><U+2729><U+2712> <U+2726><U+2712><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2729><U+2729> <U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B><U+2726><U+2712><U+2729><U+2729><U+272B><U+2726>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2730><U+2718>
              <U+2726><U+2712><U+2726><U+2712><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+2712><U+2726>                                                           <U+2701><U+2701><U+2730><U+2704>
                                                    <U+270E><U+2712><U+2726><U+271D> <U+2730><U+2718>

