Abstract
Disclosed herein are compounds that form covalent bonds with Bruton's tyrosine kinase
(Btk). Also described are irreversible inhibitors of Btk. In addition, reversible inhibitors of
Btk are also described. Also disclosed are pharmaceutical compositions that include the
compounds. Methods of using the Btk inhibitors are disclosed, alone or in combination with
other therapeutic agents, for the treatment of autoimmune diseases or conditions,
heteroimmune diseases or conditions, cancer, including lymphoma, and inflammatory
diseases or conditions.

                                                  1
                  PURINONE COMPOUNDS AS KINASE INHIBITORS
                                       CROSS-REFERENCE
[0001] This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. application Ser. No. 13/460,524,
filed April 30, 2012, and claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application Ser. No.
61/637,765, filed April 24, 2012, and U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 61/593,146, filed
January 31, 2012; all of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety. The present
application is a divisional of AU 0<removed-apn>, which is a divisional of AU2013215166,
which is the national phase entry of PCT/US2013/023918, the entire specifications of which
are incorporated herein by cross-reference.
                                   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002] Described herein are compounds, methods of making such compounds,
pharmaceutical compositions and medicaments containing such compounds, and methods of
using such compounds and compositions to inhibit the activity of tyrosine kinases.
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003] Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk), a member of the Tec family of non-receptor tyrosine
kinases, is a key signaling enzyme expressed in all hematopoietic cells types except T
lymphocytes and natural killer cells. Btk plays an essential role in the B-cell signaling
pathway linking cell surface B-cell receptor (BCR) stimulation to downstream intracellular
responses.
[0004] Btk is a key regulator of B-cell development, activation, signaling, and survival
(Kurosaki, Curr Op Imm, 2000, 276-28 1; Schaeffer and Schwartzberg, Curr Op Imm 2000,
282-288). In addition, Btk plays a role in a number of other hematopoetic cell signaling
pathways, e.g., Toll like receptor (TLR) and cytokine receptor-mediated TNF-ax production
in macrophages, IgE receptor (FcepsilonRI) signaling in Mast cells, inhibition of Fas/APO-1
apoptotic signaling in B-lineage lymphoid cells, and collagen-stimulated platelet aggregation.
See, e.g., C. A. Jeffries, et al., (2003), JournalofBiological Chemistry 278:26258-26264; N.
J. Horwood, et al., (2003), The JournalofExperimentalMedicine 197:1603-1611; Iwaki et
al. (2005), JournalofBiological Chemistry 280(48):40261-40270; Vassilev et al. (1999),
JournalofBiological Chemistry 274(3):1646-1656, and Quek et al. (1998), CurrentBiology
8(20):1137-1140.
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0005] Described herein are inhibitors of Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk). Also described
herein are irreversible inhibitors of Btk. Also described herein are reversible inhibitors of
Btk. Further described are irreversible inhibitors of Btk that form a covalent bond with a
cysteine residue on Btk. Further described herein are irreversible inhibitors of other tyrosine
kinases, wherein the other tyrosine kinases share homology with Btk by having a cysteine
residue (including a Cys 481 residue) that can form a covalent bond with the irreversible
inhibitor.

[0006] Also described herein are methods for synthesizing such reversible or irreversible
inhibitors, methods for using such reversible or irreversible inhibitors in the treatment of
diseases (including diseases wherein irreversible inhibition of Btk provides therapeutic benefit to
a patient having the disease). Further described are pharmaceutical formulations that include a
reversible or irreversible inhibitor of Btk.
[0007] In one aspect, provided herein is a compound of Formula (I) having the structure:
                                            (R 24 )n       \
                                           NH2
                                           N          N
                                                        p R3
                                              Formula (I);
wherein:
    La is a bond, -CH 2 -, -CH(OH)-, -C(O)-, -CH 2 0-, -OCH 2 -, -SCH 2 , -CH 2 S-, -N(R 2 1)-,
    N(R 21)C(O)-, -C(O)N(R 2 1)-, -N(R2 1 )C(O)N(R 2 1)-, -0-, -S-, -S(O)-, -S(O) 2 -, -N(R 21 )S(O) 2 -,
    or -S(O)2N(R21)-;
    Ar is a substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl,
    substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl;
    R3 is optionally substituted C3-C6 alkyl, substituted cycloalkyl, optionally substituted aryl,
    optionally substituted heteroaryl, -(C=O)C 1 -C6 alkyl, -(C=O)OR 4 , -(C=O)NR 4 R4 ,
                            - -Y-Z         R6
    (C=0)SR 4 , -G-X, or          Rs       R7;
    G is optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl, optionally substituted aryl, or optionally
    substituted heteroaryl;
    X is optionally substituted cycloalkyl; optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl; optionally
    substituted aryl, optionally substituted heteroaryl, -OR 4, -SR4 , or -NR4R4 ;
    each R4 is each independently H, Ci-C 6 alkyl, Ci-C 6 heteroalkyl, C3-C6 cycloalkyl, orC2-C6
    heterocycloalkyl;
    Y is an optionally substituted group selected from among alkyl, heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl,
    and heteroaryl;
    Z is C(=O), OC(=O), N(R 21)C(=O), C(=S), S(=O)x, OS(=O)x, or N(R 2 1)S(=O), where x is 1
    or 2;
                                                     -2-

    each R 2 4 is each independently halogen, -CN, -NO 2 , -OH, -OCF 3, -OCH 2F, -OCF 2H, -CF 3 ,
    SR 2 1, -N(R 21)S(=O) 2R 23, -S(=O) 2N(R 2 1)(R 2 2), -S(=O)R         2 3, -S(=0) 2R 23, -C(=O)R 23 ,
    OC(=O)R     23 , -C0 2 R 2 1 , -N(R 2 1 )(R 2 2 ), -C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22), -N(R 21)C(=O)R    23 ,
    -N(R 2 1)C(=O)OR 22 , -N(R 21 )C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22 ), substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted
    or unsubstituted alkoxy, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
    heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl;
    R 2 1 and R 2 2 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted
    or unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
    R 2 3 is each independently substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted or
    unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
    n is 0-4;
    p is 0-2;
    R 6 is H or L-J-W;
    R 7 and Rs are independently H or L-J-W; or R7 and Rs taken together form a bond;
    L and J are each independently a bond, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkylene,
    substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6
    heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or
    unsubstituted C6 -C12 arylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 1 2 heteroarylene, -CO-, -0-,
    or -S-;
    W is H, halogen, -CN, or NR 25 R 2 6 ;
    R 2 5 and R 26 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C6 heteroalkyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C12 aryl, or substituted
    or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroaryl; or R 25 and R 26 together with the nitrogen to which they
    are attached form a heterocycloalkyl ring;
    or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[0008] In one embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein La is -0- or -OCH 2-. In a
further embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein La is -0-. In yet a further
embodiment La is -OCH 2 -. In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein Ar is
phenyl.
[0009] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R 3 is optionally
substituted C3 -C6 alkyl. In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R 3 is
substituted cycloalkyl. In a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R 3 is
optionally substituted aryl. In a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R 3 is
optionally substituted heteroaryl. In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein
                                                            -3-

R 3 is G-X. In a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein G is selected from
pyrrolidinyl, tetrahydrofuranyl, piperidinyl, piperizinyl, and morpholinyl. In a further
embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein X is optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl.
In yet a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein X is pyrrolidinyl,
tetrahydrofuranyl, piperidinyl, piperizinyl, and morpholinyl. In another embodiment is a
compound of Formula (I) wherein X is -OR 4 , -SR 4 , or -NR4R 4 .
                                                                                    - -Y-Z         R6
[0010] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R 3 is                 Rs        R7.
In some embodiments, Z is C(=O), NHC(=O), N(CH 3 )C(=0), or S(=0) 2 .
[0011] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R 6 , R7 , and Rs are H. In
another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R6 is H; Rs is -CN; and R7 is L-J-W.
In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R 6 is H; Rs is -CN; and R7 is C3
C6 cycloalkyl, C6 -C 12 aryl, or C3 -C 12 heteroaryl. In another embodiment is a compound of
Formula (I) wherein R 6 is H; Rs is -CN; and R7 is cyclopropyl or phenyl. In another
embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R7 and Rs are H; and R6 is L-J-W. In a
further embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R6 is H, substituted or unsubstituted
C 1 -C6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 heteroalkyl, (C1 -C6 dialkylamino)C1 -C6 alkyl, ((C1
C 6 alkyl)(C 3 -C 6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkylC 3
C 6 cycloalkyl, or C1-C 4 alkyl(C 2 -C7heterocycloalkyl). In yet a further embodiment is a compound
of Formula (I) wherein R 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
C1 -C6heteroalkyl, (C1-C 6dialkylamino)C 1 -C6 alkyl, or ((C1-C 6 alkyl)(C 3-C6 cycloalkyl)amino)C 1
Calkyl. In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R6 and Rs are H; and R7
is L-J-W. In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R7 is H, substituted or
unsubstituted C1 -Calkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6heteroalkyl, (CI-C 6 dialkylamino)C1
Calkyl, ((C 1 -C6 alkyl)(C 3 -C 6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1
C 6 alkylC 3-C 6 cycloalkyl, or C1-C 4 alkyl(C 2 -C7heterocycloalkyl). In yet a further embodiment is a
compound of Formula (I) wherein R7 is substituted or unsubstituted CI-Calkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted C1-C 6 heteroalkyl, (C1-C 6 dialkylamino)C1 -C6 alkyl, or ((C1-C 6 alkyl)(C 3
C 6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl.
[0012] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R 6 and Rs are H; R7 is L
J-W; L is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene, or substituted or unsubstituted C3
C6 cycloalkylene; and J is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene, substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 heteroalkylene, substituted
or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, or
                                                     -4-

substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroarylene. In a further embodiment is a compound of
Formula (I) wherein L is -CH 2-. In a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein
J is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted
C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, or substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroarylene. In yet a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (I)
wherein J is substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene, cyclopropyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperidinyl,
piperizinyl, morpholinyl, imidazolyl, pyridinyl, or phenyl. In a further embodiment is a
compound of Formula (I) wherein L is a bond. In a further embodiment is a compound of
Formula (I) wherein J is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or
unsubstituted C1 -C6 heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene,
substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 1 2 heteroarylene.
In yet a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein J is -CH 2-; and W is
NR 25 R 2 6 . In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein L is a bond; J is -CH 2 -;
and W is NR 25 R 2 6. In a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R 25 is H,
substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl; and
R 2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7
heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C12
heteroaryl. In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R25 and R26 are -CH 3 .
In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R 25 and R26 are cyclopropyl. In
some embodiments is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R 2 5 is -CH 3 and R 26 is cyclopropyl.
[0013] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R7 and Rs taken together
form a bond; and R6 is L-J-W. In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R6
is is H, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6heteroalkyl,
(C1-C 6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl, ((C1 -C6 alkyl)(C 3-C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted
or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkylC 3-C6 cycloalkyl, or C1-C 4 alkyl(C 2-C7heterocycloalkyl). In yet a
further embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1
Calkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6heteroalkyl, (C1 -C6 dialkylamino)C1 -C6 alkyl, or ((C1
C6 alkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In yet another embodiment is a compound of
Formula (I) wherein R 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl, or C1-Csalkylaminoalkyl. In a
further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (I) wherein
Y is phenyl. In a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of
Formula (I) wherein Y is cycloalkyl. In a further embodiment of the aforementioned
embodiments is a compound of Formula (I) wherein Z is C(=O).
                                                   -5-

[0014] In one aspect, provided herein is a compound of Formula (II) having the structure:
                                                        (R 24 )n
                                                        NH2
                                                                 N
                                                             -1
                                                        N        N
                                                                    p R3
                                                         Formula (II);
wherein:
    La is a bond, -CH 2 -, -CH(OH)-, -C(O)-, -CH 2 0-, -OCH 2 -, -SCH 2 , -CH 2S-, -N(R2 1)-,
    N(R 21)C(O)-, -C(O)N(R 2 1)-, -N(R2 1)C(O)N(R 2 1)-, -0-, -S-, -S(O)-, -S(O) 2-, -N(R 21)S(O) 2-,
    or -S(O)2N(R21)-;
    Ar is a substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl,
    substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl;
            - -Y--Z            R6
    R 3 is          R8         R7;
    Y is an optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl;
    Z is C(=O), OC(=O), N(R 2 1)C(=O), C(=S), S(=O)x, OS(=O)x, or N(R 2 1)S(=O)x, where x is 1
    or 2;
    each R 2 4 is each independently halogen, -CN, -NO 2 , -OH, -OCF 3, -OCH 2F, -OCF 2H, -CF 3 ,
    SR 2 1, -N(R 21 )S(=0) 2 R 23 , -S(=0) 2N(R 2 1 )(R 2 2 ), -S(=O)R    2 3, -S(=0) 2 R 23 , -C(=O)R 23 ,
    OC(=O)R     23 , -C0 2 R 2 1 , -N(R 2 1 )(R 2 2 ), -C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22), -N(R 21)C(=O)R      23 ,
    -N(R 2 1)C(=O)OR 2 2 , -N(R 2 1 )C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 2 2 ), substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted
    or unsubstituted alkoxy, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
    heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl;
    R 2 1 and R 2 2 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted
    or unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
    R 2 3 is each independently substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted or
    unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
    n is 0-4;
    p is 0-2;
    R6   and Rs are independently H or L-J, and R7 is T-W; or
    R6   and R7 are independently H or L-J, and Rs is T-W; or
                                                                -6-

    R7   and Rs are independently H or L-J, and R6 is T-W; or
    R7   and Rs taken together form a bond, and R6 is T-W;
    L is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 alkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
    cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted
    C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, substituted or
    unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroarylene, -CO-, -0-, or -S-;
    J is substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl,
    substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7
    heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, NR 27R 28 , or substituted or
    unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroaryl;
    T is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
    cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted
    C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, substituted or
    unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroarylene, or -S-;
    W is NR 25 R 2 6 , -CN, substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkyl, or substituted or
    unsubstituted C-linked C2 -C7heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, or
    substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroaryl;
    R 2 5 is H, substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
    cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7
    heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3
    C12   heteroaryl;
    R 2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6
    heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
    C 6 -C 12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroaryl;
    R 2 7 and R 2 8 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl, substituted
    or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 heteroalkyl, substituted
    or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, or
    substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroaryl; or R 2 7 and R 2 8 together with the nitrogen to
    which they are attached form a heterocycloalkyl ring;
    or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[0015] In one embodiment is a compound of Formula (II) wherein La is -0-. In another
embodiment is a compound of Formula (II) wherein Ar is phenyl.
[0016] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (II) wherein Z is C(=0), NHC(=0),
N(CH 3)C(=0), or S(=0) 2 .
[0017] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (II) wherein R6 is H; Rs is -CN; and
                                                   -7-

R7  is L-J. In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (II) wherein R 6 is H; Rs is -CN;
and R7 is C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, C6 -C 1 2 aryl, or C3 -C 12 heteroaryl. In another embodiment is a
compound of Formula (II) wherein R6 is H; Rs is -CN; and R7 is cyclopropyl or phenyl.
[0018] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (II) wherein R7 and Rs are H; and R6
is T-W. In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (II) wherein R6 and Rs are H; and R7
is T-W. In yet another embodiment is a compound of Formula (II) wherein R7 and Rs taken
together form a bond; and R6 is T-W. In a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (II)
wherein T is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkylene, or substituted or unsubstituted
C3 -C6 cycloalkylene. In yet a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (II) wherein T is
CH 2 -. In a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (II) wherein W is substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C-linked C2 -C7heterocycloalkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted C 6 -C 12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 12 heteroaryl. In a
further embodiment is a compound of Formula (II) wherein W is cyclopropyl, imidazolyl,
pyridinyl, or phenyl. In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (II) wherein W is
NR 25 R 2 6 . In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (II) wherein T is -CH 2 -; and W is
NR 25 R 2 6 . In a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (II) wherein R25 is H, substituted
or unsubstituted Ci-C6 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl; and R26 is
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 heteroalkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, or
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroaryl. In another embodiment is a compound of
Formula (II) wherein R 25 and R26 are substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkyl. In some
embodiments is a compound of Formula (II) wherein R2 5 and R26 are cyclopropyl. In another
embodiment is a compound of Formula (II) wherein R 25 is substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6
alkyl; and R26 is substituted or unsubstituted C 3 -C 6 cycloalkyl. In another embodiment is a
compound of Formula (II) wherein R2 5 is -CH 3 ; and R 26 is substituted or unsubstituted C3
C 6 cycloalkyl. In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (II) wherein R 25 is -CH 3 ; and
R2 6 is cyclopropyl. In a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound
of Formula (II) wherein Y is pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl. In a further embodiment of the
aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (II) wherein Z is C(=O).
[0019] In another aspect, provided herein is a compound of Formula (III) having the structure:
                                                    -8 -

                                                        (R24)n             R20
                                                          NH2
                                                                   N
                                                                    P R3
                                                         Formula (III);
wherein:
   A is aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl, or heterocycloalkyl;
   R 2 0 is H, halogen, -CN, -CF 3 , -NO 2 , -OH, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl,
   N(R 2 1)C(=O)R 2 3, -C(=O)N(R 21)(R22), -O-(Ci-C 6 alkyl), -O-alkylene-OR 2 1, -CO 2 H, -0
   alkylene-CO 2 H, -O-alkylene-C(=O)N(R                    21 )(R 22 ), or -N(R2 1)C(=0)N(R 2 1)(R 2 2);
   each R 2 1 is independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted or
   unsubstituted C 3 -Cscycloalkyl;
   each R 2 2 is independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted or
   unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
   each R 2 3 is independently substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted or
   unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
   each R 2 4 is each independently halogen, -CN, -NO 2 , -OH, -OCF 3, -OCH 2 F, -OCF 2H, -CF 3 ,
   SR 2 1 , -N(R 21 )S(=0) 2 R 23 , -S(=0) 2N(R 2 1 )(R 2 2 ), -S(=O)R         2 3, -S(=0) 2 R 23 , -C(=O)R 23 ,
   OC(=O)R      23 , -C0 2 R 2 1 , -N(R 2 1 )(R 2 2 ), -C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22), -N(R 21)C(=O)R            23 ,
   -N(R 2 1)C(=O)OR 22 , -N(R 21)C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22), substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted
   or unsubstituted alkoxy, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl;
   p is 0-2;
   n is 0-4;
   R 3 is optionally substituted alkyl, optionally substituted cycloalkyl, optionally substituted
   heterocycloalkyl, optionally substituted aryl, optionally substituted heteroaryl, -(C=0)Ci-C 6
                                                                                  - -Y-Z              R6
   alkyl, -(C=O)OR 4 , -(C=O)NR 4 R4 , -(C=O)SR 4, -G-X, or                             R8            R7;
   G is optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl, optionally substituted aryl, or optionally
   substituted heteroaryl;
   X is optionally substituted cycloalkyl; optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl; optionally
   substituted aryl, optionally substituted heteroaryl, -OR 4, -SR 4 , or -NR4R 4 ;
                                                                -9-

      each R 4 is each independently H, C1-C6 alkyl, C2 -C6 heteroalkyl, C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, or C2-C6
      heterocycloalkyl;
      Y is an optionally substituted group selected from among alkyl, heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl,
      heterocycloalkyl, aryl, and heteroaryl;
      Z is C(=O), OC(=O), N(R 21)C(=O), C(=S), S(=O)x, OS(=O)x, or N(R 2 1)S(=O)x, where x is 1
      or 2;
      R 6 is H or L-J-W;
      R 7 and Rs are independently H or L-J-W; or R7 and Rs taken together form a bond;
      L and J are each independently a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 alkylene,
      substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6
      heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or
      unsubstituted C6 -C12 arylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 1 2 heteroarylene, -CO-, -0-,
      or -S-;
      W is H, -CN, or NR 25 R 2 6 ;
      R 2 5 and R 26 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 alkyl, substituted or
      unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 heteroalkyl, substituted or
      unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, or substituted
      or unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroaryl; or R 25 and R 26 together with the nitrogen to which they
      are attached form a heterocycloalkyl ring; or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[0020] In one embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein A is aryl. In another
embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein A is phenyl.
[0021] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R 2 0 is H, halogen, -CN,
CF 3 , or substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments is a compound of
Formula (III) wherein R 2 0 is H. In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (III) wherein
R 2 0 is -CN. In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R 2 0 is -CF 3 . In some
embodiments is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R 2 0 is halogen. In some embodiments is a
compound of Formula (III) wherein R 2 0 is F or Cl. In some embodiments is a compound of
Formula (III) wherein R 2 0 is substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkyl.
[0022] In a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R 3 is optionally
substituted alkyl. In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R 3 is
optionally substituted cycloalkyl. In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (III)
wherein R 3 is optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl.
                                                                                     -Y--Z          R6
[0023] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R 3 is                 R8       R7.
                                                   - 10 -

In further embodiments, Z is C(=O), NHC(=O), N(CH 3 )C(=O), or S(=0) 2 .
[0024] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R 6 , R7 , and Rs are H. In
another embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R 6 is H; Rs is -CN; and R7 is L-J
W. In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R6 is H; Rs is -CN; and R7
is C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, C6 -C 12 aryl, or C3 -C 12 heteroaryl. In another embodiment is a compound of
Formula (III) wherein R 6 is H; Rs is -CN; and R7 is cyclopropyl or phenyl. In another
embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R 7 and Rs are H; and R6 is L-J-W. In a
further embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R6 is H, substituted or unsubstituted
C 1 -C6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 heteroalkyl, (C1 -C6 dialkylamino)C1 -C6 alkyl, ((C1
C6 alkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, ((C3 -C6 cycloalkyl)(C 3-C6 cycloalkyl)amino)C1
C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, or C1-C 4 alkyl(C 2
C 7heterocycloalkyl). In yet a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R6 is
substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -Calkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6heteroalkyl, (C 1
C6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl, ((C3-C6cycloalkyl)(C 3-C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, or ((C1
C 6 alkyl)(C 3 -C 6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In another embodiment is a compound of Formula
(III) wherein R6 and Rs are H; and R7 is L-J-W. In another embodiment is a compound of
Formula (III) wherein R 7 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-Calkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted C1 -C6 heteroalkyl, (C1 -C6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl, ((CI-Calkyl)(C 3
C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, ((C3 -C6 cycloalkyl)(C 3-C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, or C 1 -C4 alkyl(C 2 -C7heterocycloalkyl).
In a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R 7 is substituted or
unsubstituted CI-Calkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C 6heteroalkyl, (CI-C 6 dialkylamino)C1
Calkyl, ((C3 -C6cycloalkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, or ((C1-C 6 alkyl)(C 3
C 6 cycloalkyl)amino)C 1 -C6 alkyl. In a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (III)
wherein R7 is -CH 2N(CH 3) 2 . In yet a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (III)
                   -  CH2N
wherein R7 is              \C.
[0025] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R 6 and Rs are H; R7 is L
J-W. In a further embodiment, L is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkylene, or
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene; and J is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted
C 1 -C6 alkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted
C 1 -C6 heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or
unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, or substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 12 heteroarylene. In a further
embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein L is -CH 2-. In a further embodiment is a
                                                    - 11 -

compound of Formula (III) wherein J is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 alkylene, substituted
or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 heteroalkylene,
substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12
arylene, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroarylene. In yet a further embodiment is a
compound of Formula (III) wherein J is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 alkylene,
cyclopropyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperidinyl, piperizinyl, morpholinyl, imidazolyl, pyridinyl, or phenyl.
In a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein L is a bond. In a further
embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein J is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted
C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6-C12 arylene, or substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroarylene. In yet a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (III)
wherein J is -CH 2 -; and W is NR 25 R2 6 . In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (III)
wherein L is a bond; J is -CH 2 -; and W is NR 25 R2 6 . In a further embodiment is a compound of
Formula (III) wherein R 25 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkyl, or substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl; and R 2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 heteroalkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, or substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroaryl. In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (III) wherein
R 25 and R 26 are -CH 3 . In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R 25 and
R2 6 are cyclopropyl. In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R2 5 is -CH 3
and R 26 is cyclopropyl.
[0026] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R7 and Rs taken together
form a bond; and R6 is L-J-W. In a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein
R 6 is is H, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6heteroalkyl,
(C1-C 6 dialkylamino)C1 -C6 alkyl, ((C1 -C6 alkyl)(C 3-C6 cycloalkyl)amino)C 1 -C6 alkyl, ((C3
C6 cycloalkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 alkylC 3
C6 cycloalkyl, or C1-C 4 alkyl(C 2 -C7heterocycloalkyl). In yet a further embodiment is a compound
of Formula (III) wherein R 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted C1-C 6 heteroalkyl, (C1-C 6 dialkylamino)C1 -C6 alkyl, ((C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)(C 3
C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, or ((C1-C 6 alkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl.
[0027] In a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula
(III) wherein Y is aryl or heterocycloalkyl. In a further embodiment is a compound of Formula
(III) wherein Y is phenyl, pyrrolidinyl, or piperidinyl. In yet a further embodiment is a
compound of Formula (III) wherein Y is phenyl, pyrrolidinyl, or piperidinyl. In a further
embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (III) wherein Y is
                                                  - 12 -

                             m                       mm
                                                                   N
selected from          S      ,     O      ,       ,   , and           ; wherein m is 0 to 3. In a further
embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (III) wherein Z is
C(=O).
[0028] In a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments wherein A is phenyl is a
compound of Formula (III) wherein R 20 is attached to the phenyl ring at the para position
relative to the purinone ring. In another embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments
wherein A is phenyl is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R 20 is attached to the phenyl ring at
the meta position relative to the purinone ring. In yet another embodiment of the
aforementioned embodiments wherein A is phenyl is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R 20
is attached to the phenyl ring at the ortho position relative to the purinone ring.
[0029] In a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula
(I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc) wherein p is 0. In a further
embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I),
(Ila), (Ilb), (ITT), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc) wherein n is 0.
[0030] In another aspect is a pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective
amount of a compound of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (ITT), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc) and
a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In a further embodiment is a pharmaceutical
composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula (I). In
another embodiment is a pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective
amount of a compound of Formula (I). In another embodiment is a pharmaceutical composition
comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula (ITT). In one
embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition comprising the compound of Formula (I), (Ta),
(Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ib), (ITT), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc) is formulated for a route of administration
selected from oral administration, parenteral administration, buccal administration, nasal
administration, topical administration, or rectal administration. In another aspect is a method for
treating an autoimmune disease or condition comprising administering to a patient in need a
therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ib), (ITT),
(Ila), (Iub), or (IIc). In one embodiment the autoimmune disease is selected from rheumatoid
arthritis or lupus. In a further aspect is a method for treating a heteroimmune disease or
condition comprising administering to a patient in need a therapeutically effective amount of a
compound of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ib), (ITT), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc). In yet another
embodiment is a method for treating a cancer comprising administering to a patient in need a
therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ib), (ITT),
                                                        - 13 -

(Ila), (IlIb), or (IIc). In one embodiment the cancer is a B-cell proliferative disorder.
[0031] In another embodiment the B-cell proliferative disorder is diffuse large B cell lymphoma,
follicular lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
[0032] In yet a further aspect is a method for treating mastocytosis comprising administering to
a patient in need a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II),
(Ila), (Ilb), (III), (IIla), (IIlb), or (II1c).
[0033] In another aspect is a method for treating osteoporosis or bone resorption disorders
comprising administering to a patient in need a therapeutically effective amount of a compound
of Formula (I), (Ta), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (IIb), or (IIc).
[0034] In a further aspect is a method for treating an inflammatory disease or condition
comprising administering to a patient in need a therapeutically effective amount of a compound
of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (ITT), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc).
[0035] Any combination of the groups described above for the various variables is contemplated
herein. It is understood that substituents and substitution patterns on the compounds provided
herein can be selected by one of ordinary skill in the art to provide compounds that are
chemically stable and that can be synthesized by techniques known in the art, as well as those
set forth herein.
[0036] In a further aspect are provided pharmaceutical compositions, which include a
therapeutically effective amount of at least one of any of the compounds herein, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt, pharmaceutically active metabolite, pharmaceutically
acceptable prodrug, or pharmaceutically acceptable solvate. In certain embodiments,
compositions provided herein further include a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent, excipient
and/or binder.
[0037] Pharmaceutical compositions formulated for administration by an appropriate route and
means containing effective concentrations of one or more of the compounds provided herein, or
pharmaceutically effective derivatives thereof, that deliver amounts effective for the treatment,
prevention, or amelioration of one or more symptoms of dieases, disorders or conditions that are
modulated or otherwise affected by tyrosine kinase activity, or in which tyrosine kinase activity
is implicated, are provided. The effective amounts and concentrations are effective for
ameliorating any of the symptoms of any of the diseases, disorders or conditions disclosed
herein.
[0038] In certain embodiments, provided herein is a pharmaceutical composition containing: i) a
physiologically acceptable carrier, diluent, and/or excipient; and ii) one or more compounds
provided herein.
[0039] In one aspect, provided herein are methods for treating a patient by administering a
                                                     - 14 -

compound provided herein. In some embodiments, provided herein is a method of inhibiting the
activity of tyrsoine kinase(s), such as Btk, or of treating a disease, disorder, or condition, which
would benefit from inhibition of tyrosine kinase(s), such as Btk, in a patient, which includes
administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of at least one of any of the
compounds herein, or pharmaceutically acceptable salt, pharmaceutically active metabolite,
pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug, or pharmaceutically acceptable solvate.
[0040] In another aspect, provided herein is the use of a compound disclosed herein for
inhibiting Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk) activity or for the treatment of a disease, disorder, or
condition, which would benefit from inhibition of Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk) activity.
[0041] In some embodiments, compounds provided herein are administered to a human.
[0042] In some embodiments, compounds provided herein are orally administered.
[0043] In other embodiments, compounds provided herein are used for the formulation of a
medicament for the inhibition of tyrosine kinase activity. In some other embodiments,
compounds provided herein are used for the formulation of a medicament for the inhibition of
Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk) activity.
[0044] Articles of manufacture including packaging material, a compound or composition or
pharmaceutically acceptable derivative thereof provided herein, which is effective for inhibiting
the activity of tyrosine kinase(s), such as Btk, within the packaging material, and a label that
indicates that the compound or composition, or pharmaceutically acceptable salt,
pharmaceutically active metabolite, pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug, or pharmaceutically
acceptable solvate thereof, is used for inhibiting the activity of tyrosine kinase(s), such as Btk,
are provided.
[0045] In another aspect are inhibited tyrosine kinases comprising a Bruton's tyrosine kinase
covalently bound to an inhibitor having the structure:
                         LAr
            NH 2
         N   .~N
                     Y--Z        R,
                          N     NR
[00461                  R,    -"'    , wherein  Aurvv'  indicates the point of attachment between
the inhibitor and the tyrosine kinase. In a further embodiment, the inibitor is covalently bound to
a cysteine residue on the tyrosine kinase.
[0047] In another aspect are inhibited tyrosine kinases comprising a Bruton's tyrosine kinase
                                                 - 15 -

covalently bound to an inhibitor having the structure:
             (R24 )n          R20
             NH 2
               N     N
                       N
                  N
             N
                      p Y-Z            R6
                                          Ry
[00481                      R,               , wherein   ovv'v indicates the point of attachment between
the inhibitor and the tyrosine kinase. In a further embodiment, the inibitor is covalently bound to
a cysteine residue on the tyrosine kinase.
[0049] In a further aspect, provided herein is a method for inhibiting Bruton's tyrosine kinase in
a subject in need thereof by administering to the subject thereof a composition containing a
therapeutically effective amount of at least one compound having the structure of Formula (I),
(Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (IlIb), or (IIc). In some embodiments, the subject in need
is suffering from an autoimmune disease, e.g., inflammatory bowel disease, arthritis, lupus,
rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, osteoarthritis, Still's disease, juvenile arthritis, diabetes,
myasthenia gravis, Hashimoto's thyroiditis, Ord's thyroiditis, Graves' disease Sj6gren's
syndrome, multiple sclerosis, Guillain-Barr6 syndrome, acute disseminated encephalomyelitis,
Addison's disease, opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome, ankylosing spondylitisis, antiphospholipid
antibody syndrome, aplastic anemia, autoimmune hepatitis, coeliac disease, Goodpasture's
syndrome, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, optic neuritis, scleroderma, primary biliary
cirrhosis, Reiter's syndrome, Takayasu's arteritis, temporal arteritis, warm autoimmune
hemolytic anemia, Wegener's granulomatosis, psoriasis, alopecia universalis, Behget's disease,
chronic fatigue, dysautonomia, endometriosis, interstitial cystitis, neuromyotonia, scleroderma,
or vulvodynia.
[0050] In other embodiments, the subject in need is suffering from a heteroimmune condition or
disease, e.g., graft versus host disease, transplantation, transfusion, anaphylaxis, allergy, type I
hypersensitivity, allergic conjunctivitis, allergic rhinitis, or atopic dermatitis.
[0051] In certain embodiments, the subject in need is suffering from an inflammatory disease,
e.g., asthma, appendicitis, blepharitis, bronchiolitis, bronchitis, bursitis, cervicitis, cholangitis,
cholecystitis, colitis, conjunctivitis, cystitis, dacryoadenitis, dermatitis, dermatomyositis,
encephalitis, endocarditis, endometritis, enteritis, enterocolitis, epicondylitis, epididymitis,
fasciitis, fibrositis, gastritis, gastroenteritis, hepatitis, hidradenitis suppurativa, laryngitis,
mastitis, meningitis, myelitis myocarditis, myositis, nephritis, oophoritis, orchitis, osteitis, otitis,
pancreatitis, parotitis, pericarditis, peritonitis, pharyngitis, pleuritis, phlebitis, pneumonitis,
                                                       -  16 -

pneumonia, proctitis, prostatitis, pyelonephritis, rhinitis, salpingitis, sinusitis, stomatitis,
synovitis, tendonitis, tonsillitis, uveitis, vaginitis, vasculitis, or vulvitis.
[0052] In further embodiments, the subject in need is suffering from a cancer. In one
embodiment, the cancer is a B-cell proliferative disorder, e.g., diffuse large B cell lymphoma,
follicular lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, B-cell
prolymphocytic leukemia, lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma/Waldenstr6m macroglobulinemia,
splenic marginal zone lymphoma, plasma cell myeloma, plasmacytoma, extranodal marginal
zone B cell lymphoma, nodal marginal zone B cell lymphoma, mantle cell lymphoma,
mediastinal (thymic) large B cell lymphoma, intravascular large B cell lymphoma, primary
effusion lymphoma, burkitt lymphoma/leukemia, or lymphomatoid granulomatosis. In some
embodiments, where the subject is suffering from a cancer, an anti-cancer agent is administered
to the subject in addition to one of the above-mentioned compounds. In one embodiment, the
anti-cancer agent is an inhibitor of mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling, e.g., U0126,
PD98059, PD184352, PD0325901, ARRY-142886, SB239063, SP600125, BAY 43-9006,
wortmannin, or LY294002.
[0053] In further embodiments, the subject in need is suffering from a thromboembolic disorder,
e.g., myocardial infarct, angina pectoris, reocclusion after angioplasty, restenosis after
angioplasty, reocclusion after aortocoronary bypass, restenosis after aortocoronary bypass,
stroke, transitory ischemia, a peripheral arterial occlusive disorder, pulmonary embolism, or
deep venous thrombosis.
[0054] In a further aspect, provided herein is a method for treating an autoimmune disease by
administering to a subject in need thereof a composition containing a therapeutically effective
amount of at least one compound having the structure of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb),
(III), (Ila), (IlIb), or (IIc). In one embodiment, the autoimmune disease is arthritis. In another
embodiment, the autoimmune disease is lupus. In some embodiments, the autoimmune disease is
inflammatory bowel disease (including Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis), rheumatoid
arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, osteoarthritis, Still's disease, juvenile arthritis, lupus, diabetes,
myasthenia gravis, Hashimoto's thyroiditis, Ord's thyroiditis, Graves' disease Sj6gren's
syndrome, multiple sclerosis, Guillain-Barr6 syndrome, acute disseminated encephalomyelitis,
Addison's disease, opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome, ankylosing spondylitisis, antiphospholipid
antibody syndrome, aplastic anemia, autoimmune hepatitis, coeliac disease, Goodpasture's
syndrome, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, optic neuritis, scleroderma, primary biliary
cirrhosis, Reiter's syndrome, Takayasu's arteritis, temporal arteritis, warm autoimmune
hemolytic anemia, Wegener's granulomatosis, psoriasis, alopecia universalis, Behget's disease,
chronic fatigue, dysautonomia, endometriosis, interstitial cystitis, neuromyotonia, scleroderma,
                                                     - 17 -

or vulvodynia.
[0055] In a further aspect, provided herein is a method for treating a heteroimmune condition or
disease by administering to a subject in need thereof a composition containing a therapeutically
effective amount of at least one compound having the structure of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I),
(Ila), (Ilb), (ITT), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc). In some embodiments, the heteroimmune conditioin or
disease is graft versus host disease, transplantation, transfusion, anaphylaxis, allergy, type I
hypersensitivity, allergic conjunctivitis, allergic rhinitis, or atopic dermatitis.
[0056] In a further aspect, provided herein is a method for treating an inflammatory disease by
administering to a subject in need thereof a composition containing a therapeutically effective
amount of at least one compound having the structure of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb),
(TTT), (IITa), (IITb), or (TT1c). In some embodiments, the inflammatory disease is asthma,
inflammatory bowel disease (including Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis), appendicitis,
blepharitis, bronchiolitis, bronchitis, bursitis, cervicitis, cholangitis, cholecystitis, colitis,
conjunctivitis, cystitis, dacryoadenitis, dermatitis, dermatomyositis, encephalitis, endocarditis,
endometritis, enteritis, enterocolitis, epicondylitis, epididymitis, fasciitis, fibrositis, gastritis,
gastroenteritis, hepatitis, hidradenitis suppurativa, laryngitis, mastitis, meningitis, myelitis
myocarditis, myositis, nephritis, oophoritis, orchitis, osteitis, otitis, pancreatitis, parotitis,
pericarditis, peritonitis, pharyngitis, pleuritis, phlebitis, pneumonitis, pneumonia, proctitis,
prostatitis, pyelonephritis, rhinitis, salpingitis, sinusitis, stomatitis, synovitis, tendonitis,
tonsillitis, uveitis, vaginitis, vasculitis, or vulvitis.
[0057] In yet another aspect, provided herein is a method for treating a cancer by administering
to a subject in need thereof a composition containing a therapeutically effective amount of at
least one compound having the structure of Formula (T), (Ta), (Tb), (TT), (Ia), (Ib), (TTT), (IITa),
(IITb), or (TT1c). In one embodiment, the cancer is a B-cell proliferative disorder, e.g., diffuse
large B cell lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic lymphoma, chronic
lymphocytic leukemia, B-cell prolymphocytic leukemia, lymphoplasmacytic
lymphoma/Waldenstr6m macroglobulinemia, splenic marginal zone lymphoma, plasma cell
myeloma, plasmacytoma, extranodal marginal zone B cell lymphoma, nodal marginal zone B
cell lymphoma, mantle cell lymphoma, mediastinal (thymic) large B cell lymphoma,
intravascular large B cell lymphoma, primary effusion lymphoma, burkitt lymphoma/leukemia,
or lymphomatoid granulomatosis. In some embodiments, where the subject is suffering from a
cancer, an anti-cancer agent is administered to the subject in addition to one of the above
mentioned compounds. In one embodiment, the anti-cancer agent is an inhibitor of mitogen
activated protein kinase signaling, e.g., U0126, PD98059, PD184352, PD0325901, ARRY
142886, SB239063, SP600125, BAY 43-9006, wortmannin, or LY294002.
                                                    - 18  -

[0058] In another aspect, provided herein is a method for treating a thromboembolic disorder by
administering to a subject in need thereof a composition containing a therapeutically effective
amount of at least one compound having the structure of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb),
(III), (Ila), (IlIb), or (IIc). In some embodiments, the thromboembolic disorder is myocardial
infarct, angina pectoris, reocclusion after angioplasty, restenosis after angioplasty, reocclusion
after aortocoronary bypass, restenosis after aortocoronary bypass, stroke, transitory ischemia, a
peripheral arterial occlusive disorder, pulmonary embolism, or deep venous thrombosis.
[0059] In a further aspect, provided herein is a method for treating an autoimmune disease by
administering to a subject in need thereof a composition containing a therapeutically effective
amount of a compound that forms a covalent bond with Bruton's tyrosine kinase. In one
embodiment, the compound forms a covalent bound with the activated form of Bruton's tyrosine
kinase. In further or alternative embodiments, the compound irreversibly inhibits the Bruton's
tyrosine kinase to which it is covalently bound. In a further or alternative embodiment, the
compound forms a covalent bond with a cysteine residue on Bruton's tyrosine kinase.
[0060] In a further aspect, provided herein is a method for treating a heteroimmune condition or
disease by administering to a subject in need thereof a composition containing a therapeutically
effective amount of a compound that forms a covalent bond with Bruton's tyrosine kinase. In
one embodiment, the compound forms a covalent bound with the activated form of Bruton's
tyrosine kinase. In further or alternative embodiments, the compound irreversibly inhibits the
Bruton's tyrosine kinase to which it is covalently bound. In a further or alternative embodiment,
the compound forms a covalent bond with a cysteine residue on Bruton's tyrosine kinase.
[0061] In a further aspect, provided herein is a method for treating an inflammatory disease by
administering to a subject in need thereof a composition containing a therapeutically effective
amount of a compound that forms a covalent bond with Bruton's tyrosine kinase. In one
embodiment, the compound forms a covalent bound with the activated form of Bruton's tyrosine
kinase. In further or alternative embodiments, the compound irreversibly inhibits the Bruton's
tyrosine kinase to which it is covalently bound. In a further or alternative embodiment, the
compound forms a covalent bond with a cysteine residue on Bruton's tyrosine kinase. In yet
another aspect, provided herein is a method for treating a cancer by administering to a subject in
need thereof a composition containing a therapeutically effective amount of a compound that
forms a covalent bond with Bruton's tyrosine kinase. In one embodiment, the compound forms a
covalent bound with the activated form of Bruton's tyrosine kinase. In further or alternative
embodiments, the compound irreversibly inhibits the Bruton's tyrosine kinase to which it is
covalently bound. In a further or alternative embodiment, the compound forms a covalent bond
with a cysteine residue on Bruton's tyrosine kinase.
                                                - 19 -

[0062] In another aspect, provided herein is a method for treating a thromboembolic disorder by
administering to a subject in need thereof a composition containing a therapeutically effective
amount of a compound that forms a covalent bond with Bruton's tyrosine kinase. In one
embodiment, the compound forms a covalent bound with the activated form of Bruton's tyrosine
kinase. In further or alternative embodiments, the compound irreversibly inhibits the Bruton's
tyrosine kinase to which it is covalently bound. In a further or alternative embodiment, the
compound forms a covalent bond with a cysteine residue on Bruton's tyrosine kinase.
[0063] In another aspect are methods for modulating, including irreversibly inhibiting the
activity of Btk or other tyrosine kinases, wherein the other tyrosine kinases share homology with
Btk by having a cysteine residue (including a Cys 481 residue) that can form a covalent bond
with at least one irreversible inhibitor described herein, in a mammal comprising administering
to the mammal at least once an effective amount of at least one compound having the structure
of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc). In another aspect are
methods for modulating, including including reversibly or irreversibly inhibiting, the activity of
Btk in a mammal comprising administering to the mammal at least once an effective amount of
at least one compound having the structure of Formula (I), (Ta), (Ib), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila),
(Iub), or (IIc). In another aspect are methods for treating Btk-dependent or Btk mediated
conditions or diseases, comprising administering to the mammal at least once an effective
amount of at least one compound having the structure of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb),
(III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc).
[0064] In another aspect are methods for treating inflammation comprising administering to the
mammal at least once an effective amount of at least one compound having the structure of
Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ib), (ITT), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc).
[0065] A further aspect are methods for the treatment of cancer comprising administering to the
mammal at least once an effective amount of at least one compound having the structure of
Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ib), (ITT), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc). The type of cancer may
include, but is not limited to, pancreatic cancer and other solid or hematological tumors.
[0066] In another aspect are methods for treating respiratory diseases comprising administering
to the mammal at least once an effective amount of at least one compound having the structure
of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ib), (ITT), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc). In a further embodiment
of this aspect, the respiratory disease is asthma. In a further embodiment of this aspect, the
respiratory disease includes, but is not limited to, adult respiratory distress syndrome and
allergic (extrinsic) asthma, non-allergic (intrinsic) asthma, acute severe asthma, chronic asthma,
clinical asthma, nocturnal asthma, allergen-induced asthma, aspirin-sensitive asthma, exercise
induced asthma, isocapnic hyperventilation, child-onset asthma, adult-onset asthma, cough
                                                     - 20 -

variant asthma, occupational asthma, steroid-resistant asthma, or seasonal asthma.
[0067] In another aspect are methods for preventing rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis
comprising administering to the mammal at least once an effective amount of at least one
compound having the structure of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or
(IIc).
[0068] In another aspect are methods for treating inflammatory responses of the skin comprising
administering to the mammal at least once an effective amount of at least one compound having
the structure of Formula (I), (Ta), (Ib), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc). Such
inflammatory responses of the skin include, by way of example, dermatitis, contact dermatitis,
eczema, urticaria, rosacea, and scarring. In another aspect are methods for reducing psoriatic
lesions in the skin, joints, or other tissues or organs, comprising administering to the mammal an
effective amount of a first compound having the structure of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila),
(Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc).
[0069] In another aspect is the use of a compound of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ib),
(ITT), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc) in the manufacture of a medicament for treating an inflammatory
disease or condition in an animal in which the activity of Btk or other tyrosine kinases, wherein
the other tyrosine kinases share homology with Btk by having a cysteine residue (including a
Cys 481 residue) that can form a covalent bond with at least one irreversible inhibitor described
herein, contributes to the pathology and/or symptoms of the disease or condition. In one
embodiment of this aspect, the tyrosine kinase protein is Btk. In another or further embodiment
of this aspect, the inflammatory disease or conditions are respiratory, cardiovascular, or
proliferative diseases.
[0070] In any of the aforementioned aspects are further embodiments in which administration is
enteral, parenteral, or both, and wherein (a) the effective amount of the compound is
systemically administered to the mammal; (b) the effective amount of the compound is
administered orally to the mammal; (c) the effective amount of the compound is intravenously
administered to the mammal; (d) the effective amount of the compound administered by
inhalation; (e) the effective amount of the compound is administered by nasal administration; or
(f) the effective amount of the compound is administered by injection to the mammal; (g) the
effective amount of the compound is administered topically (dermal) to the mammal; (h) the
effective amount of the compound is administered by ophthalmic administration; or (i) the
effective amount of the compound is administered rectally to the mammal.
[0071] In any of the aforementioned aspects are further embodiments comprising single
administrations of the effective amount of the compound, including further embodiments in
which (i) the compound is administered once; (ii) the compound is administered to the mammal
                                                  - 21  -

multiple times over the span of one day; (iii) continually; or (iv) continuously.
[0072] In any of the aforementioned aspects are further embodiments comprising multiple
administrations of the effective amount of the compound, including further embodiments in
which (i) the compound is administered in a single dose; (ii) the time between multiple
administrations is every 6 hours; (iii) the compound is administered to the mammal every 8
hours. In further or alternative embodiments, the method comprises a drug holiday, wherein the
administration of the compound is temporarily suspended or the dose of the compound being
administered is temporarily reduced; at the end of the drug holiday, dosing of the compound is
resumed. The length of the drug holiday can vary from 2 days to 1 year.
[0073] In any of the aforementioned aspects involving the treatment of proliferative disorders,
including cancer, are further embodiments comprising administering at least one additional
agent selected from the group consisting of alemtuzumab, arsenic trioxide, asparaginase
(pegylated or non-), bevacizumab, cetuximab, platinum-based compounds such as cisplatin,
cladribine, daunorubicin/doxorubicin/idarubicin, irinotecan, fludarabine, 5-fluorouracil,
gemtuzumab, methotrexate, PaclitaxelTM, taxol, temozolomide, thioguanine, or classes of drugs
including hormones (an antiestrogen, an antiandrogen, or gonadotropin releasing hormone
analogues, interferons such as alpha interferon, nitrogen mustards such as busulfan or melphalan
or mechlorethamine, retinoids such as tretinoin, topoisomerase inhibitors such as irinotecan or
topotecan, tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as gefinitinib or imatinib, or agents to treat signs or
symptoms induced by such therapy including allopurinol, filgrastim, pegfilgrastim,
granisetron/ondansetron/palonosetron, dronabinol.
[0074] In any of the aforementioned aspects involving the prevention or treatment of Btk
dependent or tyrosine kinase mediated diseases or conditions are further embodiments
comprising identifying patients by screening for a tyrosine kinase gene haplotype. In further or
alternative embodiments the tyrosine kinase gene haplotype is a tyrosine kinase pathway gene,
while in still further or alternative embodiments, the tyrosine kinase gene haplotype is a Btk
haplotype.
[0075] In a further or alternative embodiments, the compounds of Formula (I) or (III) are
reversible inhibitors of Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk), while in still further or alternative
embodiments, such reversible inhibitors are selective for Btk. In even further or alternative
embodiments, such inhibitors have an IC 50 below 10 microM in enzyme assay. In one
embodiment, a Btk reversible inhibitor has an IC 50 of less than 1 microM, and in another
embodiment, less than 0.25 microM.
[0076] In further or alternative embodiments, the compounds of Formula (I) or (III) are
selective reversible inhibitors for Btk over Itk. In further or alternative embodiments, the
                                                - 22  -

compounds of Formula (I), or (III) are selective reversible inhibitors for Btk over Lck. In further
or alternative embodiments, the compounds of Formula (I) or (III) are selective reversible
inhibitors for Btk over ABL. In further or alternative embodiments, the compounds of Formula
(I) or (III) are selective reversible inhibitors for Btk over CMET. In further or alternative
embodiments, the compounds of Formula (I) or (III) are selective reversible inhibitors for Btk
over EGFR. In further or alternative embodiments, the compounds of Formula (I) or (III) are
selective reversible inhibitors for Btk over Lyn.
[0077] In further or alternative embodiments, the reversible Btk inhibitors are also inhibitors of
EGFR.
[0078] In a further or alternative embodiment, the compound of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila),
(Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc) are irreversible inhibitors of Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk),
while in still further or alternative embodiments, such irreversible inhibitors are selective for
Btk. In even further or alternative embodiments, such inhibitors have an IC 50 below 10 microM
in enzyme assay. In one embodiment, a Btk irreversible inhibitor has an IC 50 of less than 1
microM, and in another embodiment, less than 0.25 microM.
[0079] In further or alternative embodiment, the compound of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila),
(Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc) are selective irreversible inhibitors for Btk over Itk. In further
or alternative embodiment, the compound of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila),
(Iub), or (IIc) are selective irreversible inhibitors for Btk over Lck. In further or alternative
embodiment, the compound of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc)
are selective irreversible inhibitors for Btk over ABL. In further or alternative embodiment, the
compound of (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc) are selective irreversible
inhibitors for Btk over CMET. In further or alternative embodiment, the compound of Formula
(I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ib), (ITT), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc) are selective irreversible inhibitors for
Btk over EGFR. In further or alternative embodiment, the compound of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb),
(I), (Ila), (Ib), (ITT), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc) are selective irreversible inhibitors for Btk over Lyn.
[0080] In further or alternative embodiments, the irreversible Btk inhibitors are also inhibitors of
EGFR.
[0081] Other objects, features and advantages of the methods and compositions described herein
will become apparent from the following detailed description. It should be understood, however,
that the detailed description and the specific examples, while indicating specific embodiments,
are given by way of illustration only, since various changes and modifications within the spirit
and scope of the present disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this
detailed description. The section headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and
are not to be construed as limiting the subject matter described. All documents, or portions of
                                                     - 23 -

documents, cited in the application including, but not limited to, patents, patent applications,
articles, books, manuals, and treatises are hereby expressly incorporated by reference in their
entirety for any purpose.
Certain Terminology
[0082] Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
meaning as is commonly understood by one of skill in the art to which the claimed subject
matter belongs. In the event that there are a plurality of definitions for terms herein, those in this
section prevail. Where reference is made to a URL or other such identifier or address, it is
understood that such identifiers can change and particular information on the internet can come
and go, but equivalent information can be found by searching the internet. Reference thereto
evidences the availability and public dissemination of such information.
[0083] It is to be understood that the foregoing general description and the following detailed
description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of any subject matter
claimed. In this application, the use of the singular includes the plural unless specifically stated
otherwise. It must be noted that, as used in the specification and the appended claims, the
singular forms "a", "an" and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates
otherwise. In this application, the use of "or" means "and/or" unless stated otherwise.
Furthermore, use of the term "including" as well as other forms, such as "include", "includes,"
and "included," is not limiting.
[0084] The section headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not to be
construed as limiting the subject matter described. All documents, or portions of documents,
cited in the application including, but not limited to, patents, patent applications, articles, books,
manuals, and treatises are hereby expressly incorporated by reference in their entirety for any
purpose.
[0085] Definition of standard chemistry terms may be found in reference works, including
Carey and Sundberg "ADVANCED ORGANIC CHEMISTRY 4 TH ED." Vols. A (2000) and B (2001),
Plenum Press, New York. Unless otherwise indicated, conventional methods of mass
spectroscopy, NMR, HPLC, protein chemistry, biochemistry, recombinant DNA techniques and
pharmacology, within the skill of the art are employed. Unless specific definitions are provided,
the nomenclature employed in connection with, and the laboratory procedures and techniques of,
analytical chemistry, synthetic organic chemistry, and medicinal and pharmaceutical chemistry
described herein are those known in the art. Standard techniques can be used for chemical
syntheses, chemical analyses, pharmaceutical preparation, formulation, and delivery, and
treatment of patients. Standard techniques can be used for recombinant DNA, oligonucleotide
synthesis, and tissue culture and transformation (e.g., electroporation, lipofection). Reactions
                                                - 24 -

and purification techniques can be performed e.g., using kits of manufacturer's specifications or
as commonly accomplished in the art or as described herein. The foregoing techniques and
procedures can be generally performed of conventional methods well known in the art and as
described in various general and more specific references that are cited and discussed throughout
the present specification.
[0086] It is to be understood that the methods and compositions described herein are not limited
to the particular methodology, protocols, cell lines, constructs, and reagents described herein and
as such may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose
of describing particular embodiments only, and is not intended to limit the scope of the methods
and compositions described herein, which will be limited only by the appended claims.
[0087] All publications and patents mentioned herein are incorporated herein by reference in
their entirety for the purpose of describing and disclosing, for example, the constructs and
methodologies that are described in the publications, which might be used in connection with the
methods, compositions and compounds described herein. The publications discussed herein are
provided solely for their disclosure prior to the filing date of the present application. Nothing
herein is to be construed as an admission that the inventors described herein are not entitled to
antedate such disclosure by virtue of prior invention or for any other reason.
[0088] "Alkyl" refers to a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain radical consisting solely of
carbon and hydrogen atoms, containing no unsaturation, having from one to fifteen carbon
atoms (e.g., C1 -C15 alkyl). In certain embodiments, an alkyl comprises one to thirteen carbon
atoms (e.g., C1 -C 13 alkyl). In certain embodiments, an alkyl comprises one to eight carbon
atoms (e.g., C1 -Cs alkyl). In other embodiments, an alkyl comprises five to fifteen carbon atoms
(e.g., C5 -C15 alkyl). In other embodiments, an alkyl comprises five to eight carbon atoms (e.g.,
C5 -Cs alkyl). The alkyl is attached to the rest of the molecule by a single bond, for example,
methyl (Me), ethyl (Et), n-propyl, 1-methylethyl (iso-propyl), n-butyl, n-pentyl,
1,1 -dimethylethyl (t-butyl), 3-methylhexyl, 2-methylhexyl, and the like.
[0089] The alkyl group could also be a "lower alkyl" having 1 to 6 carbon atoms.
[0090] As used herein, C1 -Cx includes C1 -C 2 , C1-C3 ... C1-Cx.
[0091] "Alkenyl" refers to a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain radical group consisting
solely of carbon and hydrogen atoms, containing at least one double bond, and having from two
to twelve carbon atoms. In certain embodiments, an alkenyl comprises two to eight carbon
atoms. In other embodiments, an alkenyl comprises two to four carbon atoms. The alkenyl is
attached to the rest of the molecule by a single bond, for example, ethenyl (i.e., vinyl),
prop-1-enyl (i.e., allyl), but-1-enyl, pent-1-enyl, penta-1,4-dienyl, and the like. Unless stated
otherwise specifically in the specification, an alkenyl group is optionally substituted by one or
                                                 - 25 -

more of the following substituents: halo, cyano, nitro, oxo, thioxo, trimethylsilanyl, -ORa, -SRa,
-OC(O)-Ra, -N(Ra) 2 , -C(O)Ra, -C(O)ORa, -C(O)N(Ra) 2 , -N(Ra)C(O)ORa, -N(Ra)C(O)Ra,
-N(Ra)S(O)tRa (where t is 1 or 2), -S(O)tORa (where t is 1 or 2) and -S(O)tN(Ra) 2 (where t is 1 or
2) where each Ra is independently hydrogen, alkyl, fluoroalkyl, carbocyclyl, carbocyclylalkyl,
aryl, aralkyl, heterocyclyl, heterocyclylalkyl, heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl.
[0092] "Alkynyl" refers to a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain radical group consisting
solely of carbon and hydrogen atoms, containing at least one triple bond, having from two to
twelve carbon atoms. In certain embodiments, an alkynyl comprises two to eight carbon atoms.
In other embodiments, an alkynyl has two to four carbon atoms. The alkynyl is attached to the
rest of the molecule by a single bond, for example, ethynyl, propynyl, butynyl, pentynyl,
hexynyl, and the like. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification, an alkynyl group
is optionally substituted by one or more of the following substituents: halo, cyano, nitro, oxo,
thioxo, trimethylsilanyl, -ORa, -SRa, -OC(O)-Ra, -N(Ra) 2 , -C(O)Ra, -C(O)ORa, -C(O)N(Ra) 2,
-N(Ra)C(O)ORa, -N(Ra)C(O)Ra, -N(Ra)S(O)tRa (where t is 1 or 2), -S(O)tORa (where t is 1 or 2)
and -S(O)tN(Ra) 2 (where t is 1 or 2) where each Ra is independently hydrogen, alkyl, fluoroalkyl,
carbocyclyl, carbocyclylalkyl, aryl, aralkyl, heterocyclyl, heterocyclylalkyl, heteroaryl or
heteroarylalkyl.
[0093] "Alkylene" or "alkylene chain" refers to a straight or branched divalent hydrocarbon
chain linking the rest of the molecule to a radical group, consisting solely of carbon and
hydrogen, containing no unsaturation and having from one to twelve carbon atoms, for example,
methylene, ethylene, propylene, n-butylene, and the like. The alkylene chain is attached to the
rest of the molecule through a single bond and to the radical group through a single bond. The
points of attachment of the alkylene chain to the rest of the molecule and to the radical group
can be through one carbon in the alkylene chain or through any two carbons within the chain.
[0094] "Alkenylene" or "alkenylene chain" refers to a straight or branched divalent hydrocarbon
chain linking the rest of the molecule to a radical group, consisting solely of carbon and
hydrogen, containing at least one double bond and having from two to twelve carbon atoms, for
example, ethenylene, propenylene, n-butenylene, and the like. The alkenylene chain is attached
to the rest of the molecule through a double bond or a single bond and to the radical group
through a double bond or a single bond. The points of attachment of the alkenylene chain to the
rest of the molecule and to the radical group can be through one carbon or any two carbons
within the chain. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification, an alkenylene chain is
optionally substituted by one or more of the following substituents: halo, cyano, nitro, aryl,
cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, heteroaryl, oxo, thioxo, trimethylsilanyl, -ORa, -SRa, -OC(O)-Ra,
-N(Ra) 2 , -C(O)Ra, -C(O)ORa, -C(O)N(Ra) 2 , -N(Ra)C(O)ORa, -N(Ra)C(O)Ra, -N(Ra)S(O)tRa
                                                - 26 -

(where t is 1 or 2), -S(O)tORa (where t is 1 or 2) and -S(O)tN(Ra) 2 (where t is 1 or 2) where each
Ra is independently hydrogen, alkyl, fluoroalkyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, aryl (optionally
substituted with one or more halo groups), aralkyl, heterocyclyl, heterocyclylalkyl, heteroaryl or
heteroarylalkyl, and where each of the above substituents is unsubstituted unless otherwise
indicated.
[0095] "Aryl" refers to a radical derived from an aromatic monocyclic or multicyclic
hydrocarbon ring system by removing a hydrogen atom from a ring carbon atom. The aromatic
monocyclic or multicyclic hydrocarbon ring system contains only hydrogen and carbon from six
to eighteen carbon atoms, where at least one of the rings in the ring system is fully unsaturated,
i.e., it contains a cyclic, delocalized (4n+2) it-electron system in accordance with the Hickel
theory. Aryl groups include, but are not limited to, groups such as phenyl, fluorenyl, and
naphthyl. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification, the term "aryl" or the prefix
"ar-" (such as in "aralkyl") is meant to include aryl radicals optionally substituted by one or
more substituents independently selected from alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, halo, fluoroalkyl, cyano,
nitro, optionally substituted aryl, optionally substituted aralkyl, optionally substituted aralkenyl,
optionally substituted aralkynyl, optionally substituted carbocyclyl, optionally substituted
carbocyclylalkyl, optionally substituted heterocyclyl, optionally substituted heterocyclylalkyl,
optionally substituted heteroaryl, optionally substituted heteroarylalkyl, -R -ORa, -R -OC(O)-Ra,
-R -N(Ra)2 , -Rb-C(O)Ra, -R-C(O)ORa, -Rb-C(O)N(Ra) 2 , -R-0-Rc-C(O)N(Ra) 2,
-R -N(Ra)C(O)ORa, -R -N(Ra)C(O)Ra, -Rb-N(Ra)S(O)tRa (where t is 1 or 2), -Rb-S(O)tORa
(where t is 1 or 2) and -Rb-S(O)tN(Ra) 2 (where t is 1 or 2), where each Ra is independently
hydrogen, alkyl, fluoroalkyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, aryl (optionally substituted with one or
more halo groups), aralkyl, heterocyclyl, heterocyclylalkyl, heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl, each
Rb is independently a direct bond or a straight or branched alkylene or alkenylene chain, and Rc
is a straight or branched alkylene or alkenylene chain, and where each of the above substituents
is unsubstituted unless otherwise indicated.
[0096] "Aralkyl" refers to a radical of the formula -Rc-aryl where Rc is an alkylene chain as
defined above, for example, benzyl, diphenylmethyl and the like. The alkylene chain part of the
aralkyl radical is optionally substituted as described above for an alkylene chain. The aryl part
of the aralkyl radical is optionally substituted as described above for an aryl group.
[0097] "Aralkenyl" refers to a radical of the formula -Rd-aryl where Rd is an alkenylene chain as
defined above. The aryl part of the aralkenyl radical is optionally substituted as described above
for an aryl group. The alkenylene chain part of the aralkenyl radical is optionally substituted as
defined above for an alkenylene group.
[0098] "Aralkynyl" refers to a radical of the formula -Re-aryl, where Re is an alkynylene chain
                                                  - 27 -

as defined above. The aryl part of the aralkynyl radical is optionally substituted as described
above for an aryl group. The alkynylene chain part of the aralkynyl radical is optionally
substituted as defined above for an alkynylene chain.
[0099] "Carbocyclyl" refers to a stable non-aromatic monocyclic or polycyclic hydrocarbon
radical consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen atoms, which includes fused or bridged ring
systems, having from three to fifteen carbon atoms. In certain embodiments, a carbocyclyl
comprises three to ten carbon atoms. In other embodiments, a carbocyclyl comprises five to
seven carbon atoms. The carbocyclyl is attached to the rest of the molecule by a single bond.
Carbocyclyl is optionally saturated, (i.e., containing single C-C bonds only) or unsaturated (i.e.,
containing one or more double bonds or triple bonds.) A fully saturated carbocyclyl radical is
also referred to as "cycloalkyl." Examples of monocyclic cycloalkyls include, e.g., cyclopropyl,
cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, and cyclooctyl. An unsaturated carbocyclyl is
also referred to as "cycloalkenyl." Examples of monocyclic cycloalkenyls include, e.g.,
cyclopentenyl, cyclohexenyl, cycloheptenyl, and cyclooctenyl. Polycyclic carbocyclyl radicals
include, for example, adamantyl, norbomyl (i.e., bicyclo[2.2.1]heptanyl), norbornenyl,
decalinyl, 7,7-dimethyl-bicyclo[2.2.1]heptanyl, and the like. Unless otherwise stated
specifically in the specification, the term "carbocyclyl" is meant to include carbocyclyl radicals
that are optionally substituted by one or more substituents independently selected from alkyl,
alkenyl, alkynyl, halo, fluoroalkyl, oxo, thioxo, cyano, nitro, optionally substituted aryl,
optionally substituted aralkyl, optionally substituted aralkenyl, optionally substituted aralkynyl,
optionally substituted carbocyclyl, optionally substituted carbocyclylalkyl, optionally substituted
heterocyclyl, optionally substituted heterocyclylalkyl, optionally substituted heteroaryl,
optionally substituted heteroarylalkyl, -Rb-ORa, -Rb-SRa, -Rb-OC(O)-Ra, -Rb-N(Ra) 2 ,
-R -C(O)Ra, -R-C(O)ORa, -Rb-C(O)N(Ra) 2 , -R -O-Rc-C(O)N(Ra) 2 , -R-N(Ra)C(O)ORa,
-R -N(Ra)C(O)Ra, -R -N(Ra)S(O)tRa (where t is 1 or 2), -Rb-S(O)tORa (where t is 1 or 2) and
-R -S(O)tN(Ra) 2 (where t is 1 or 2), where each Ra is independently hydrogen, alkyl, fluoroalkyl,
cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, aryl, aralkyl, heterocyclyl, heterocyclylalkyl, heteroaryl or
heteroarylalkyl, each Rb is independently a direct bond or a straight or branched alkylene or
alkenylene chain, and Rc is a straight or branched alkylene or alkenylene chain, and where each
of the above substituents is unsubstituted unless otherwise indicated.
[00100] "Halo" or "halogen" refers to bromo, chloro, fluoro or iodo substituents.
[00101] The terms "haloalkyl," "haloalkenyl," "haloalkynyl" and "haloalkoxy" include alkyl,
alkenyl, alkynyl and alkoxy structures in which at least one hydrogen is replaced with a halogen
atom. In certain embodiments in which two or more hydrogen atoms are replaced with halogen
atoms, the halogen atoms are all the same as one another. In other embodiments in which two or
                                                -28-

more hydrogen atoms are replaced with halogen atoms, the halogen atoms are not all the same as
one another.
[00102] "Fluoroalkyl" refers to an alkyl radical, as defined above, that is substituted by one or
more fluoro radicals, as defined above, for example, trifluoromethyl, difluoromethyl,
2,2,2-trifluoroethyl, 1-fluoromethyl-2-fluoroethyl, and the like. The alkyl part of the fluoroalkyl
radical is optionally substituted as defined above for an alkyl group.
[00103] As used herein, the term "non-aromatic heterocycle", "heterocycloalkyl" or
"heteroalicyclic" refers to a non-aromatic ring wherein one or more atoms forming the ring is a
heteroatom. A "non-aromatic heterocycle" or "heterocycloalkyl" group refers to a cycloalkyl
group that includes at least one heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur. The
radicals may be fused with an aryl or heteroaryl. Heterocycloalkyl rings can be formed by three,
four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, or more than nine atoms. Heterocycloalkyl rings can be
optionally substituted. In certain embodiments, non-aromatic heterocycles contain one or more
carbonyl or thiocarbonyl groups such as, for example, oxo- and thio-containing groups.
Examples of heterocycloalkyls include, but are not limited to, lactams, lactones, cyclic imides,
cyclic thioimides, cyclic carbamates, tetrahydrothiopyran, 4H-pyran, tetrahydropyran,
piperidine, 1,3-dioxin, 1,3-dioxane, 1,4-dioxin, 1,4-dioxane, piperazine, 1,3-oxathiane, 1,4
oxathiin, 1,4-oxathiane, tetrahydro-1,4-thiazine, 2H-1,2-oxazine, maleimide, succinimide,
barbituric acid, thiobarbituric acid, dioxopiperazine, hydantoin, dihydrouracil, morpholine,
trioxane, hexahydro-1,3,5-triazine, tetrahydrothiophene, tetrahydrofuran, pyrroline, pyrrolidine,
pyrrolidone, pyrrolidione, pyrazoline, pyrazolidine, imidazoline, imidazolidine, 1,3-dioxole, 1,3
dioxolane, 1,3-dithiole, 1,3-dithiolane, isoxazoline, isoxazolidine, oxazoline, oxazolidine,
oxazolidinone, thiazoline, thiazolidine, and 1,3-oxathiolane. Illustrative examples of
heterocycloalkyl groups, also referred to as non-aromatic heterocycles, include:
              0 0     0       0          0           0        0
                   S      N       N          N          O O'\O
        N           0          0         >
                                                                                       0)
                                                                                       H
                                 N     O
    H          H         H
                                                 - 29 -

       0
       11
        N                               N
                                                            0    and the like. The
                                                                                   term
heteroalicyclic also includes all ring forms of the carbohydrates, including but not limited to the
monosaccharides, the disaccharides and the oligosaccharides. Depending on the structure, a
heterocycloalkyl group can be a monoradical or a diradical (i.e., a heterocycloalkylene group).
[00104] "Heteroaryl" refers to a radical derived from a 3- to 18-membered aromatic ring radical
that comprises two to seventeen carbon atoms and from one to six heteroatoms selected from
nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur. As used herein, the heteroaryl radical is a monocyclic, bicyclic,
tricyclic or tetracyclic ring system, wherein at least one of the rings in the ring system is fully
unsaturated, i.e., it contains a cyclic, delocalized (4n+2) it-electron system in accordance with
the Hickel theory. Heteroaryl includes fused or bridged ring systems. The heteroatom(s) in the
heteroaryl radical is optionally oxidized. One or more nitrogen atoms, if present, are optionally
quaternized. The heteroaryl is attached to the rest of the molecule through any atom of the
ring(s). Examples of heteroaryls include, but are not limited to, azepinyl, acridinyl,
benzimidazolyl, benzindolyl, 1,3-benzodioxolyl, benzofuranyl, benzooxazolyl,
benzo[d]thiazolyl, benzothiadiazolyl, benzo[b][1,4]dioxepinyl, benzo[b][1,4]oxazinyl,
1,4-benzodioxanyl, benzonaphthofuranyl, benzoxazolyl, benzodioxolyl, benzodioxinyl,
benzopyranyl, benzopyranonyl, benzofuranyl, benzofuranonyl, benzothienyl (benzothiophenyl),
benzothieno[3,2-d]pyrimidinyl, benzotriazolyl, benzo[4,6]imidazo[1,2-a]pyridinyl, carbazolyl,
cinnolinyl, cyclopenta[d]pyrimidinyl, 6,7-dihydro-5H-cyclopenta[4,5]thieno[2,3-d]pyrimidinyl,
5,6-dihydrobenzo[h]quinazolinyl, 5,6-dihydrobenzo[h]cinnolinyl, 6,7-dihydro-5H
benzo[6,7]cyclohepta[1,2-c]pyridazinyl, dibenzofuranyl, dibenzothiophenyl, furanyl, furanonyl,
furo[3,2-c]pyridinyl, 5,6,7,8,9,10-hexahydrocycloocta[d]pyrimidinyl,
5,6,7,8,9, 10-hexahydrocycloocta[d]pyridazinyl,
5,6,7,8,9,10-hexahydrocycloocta[d]pyridinyl,isothiazolyl, imidazolyl, indazolyl, indolyl,
indazolyl, isoindolyl, indolinyl, isoindolinyl, isoquinolyl, indolizinyl, isoxazolyl,
5,8-methano-5,6,7,8-tetrahydroquinazolinyl, naphthyridinyl, 1,6-naphthyridinonyl, oxadiazolyl,
2-oxoazepinyl, oxazolyl, oxiranyl, 5,6,6a,7,8,9,10,10a-octahydrobenzo[h]quinazolinyl,
1-phenyl-1H-pyrrolyl, phenazinyl, phenothiazinyl, phenoxazinyl, phthalazinyl, pteridinyl,
purinyl, pyrrolyl, pyrazolyl, pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidinyl, pyridinyl, pyrido[3,2-d]pyrimidinyl,
pyrido[3,4-d]pyrimidinyl, pyrazinyl, pyrimidinyl, pyridazinyl, pyrrolyl, quinazolinyl,
quinoxalinyl, quinolinyl, isoquinolinyl, tetrahydroquinolinyl, 5,6,7,8-tetrahydroquinazolinyl,
5,6,7,8-tetrahydrobenzo[4,5]thieno[2,3-d]pyrimidinyl,
                                                  - 30 -

6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-5H-cyclohepta[4,5 ]thieno [2,3 -d]pyrimidinyl,
5,6,7,8-tetrahydropyrido[4,5-c]pyridazinyl,thiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, triazolyl, tetrazolyl, triazinyl,
thieno[2,3-d]pyrimidinyl, thieno[3,2-d]pyrimidinyl, thieno[2,3-c]pridinyl, and thiophenyl (i.e.
thienyl). Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification, the term "heteroaryl" is meant
to include heteroaryl radicals as defined above which are optionally substituted by one or more
substituents selected from alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, halo, fluoroalkyl, haloalkenyl, haloalkynyl,
oxo, thioxo, cyano, nitro, optionally substituted aryl, optionally substituted aralkyl, optionally
substituted aralkenyl, optionally substituted aralkynyl, optionally substituted carbocyclyl,
optionally substituted carbocyclylalkyl, optionally substituted heterocyclyl, optionally
substituted heterocyclylalkyl, optionally substituted heteroaryl, optionally substituted
heteroarylalkyl, -R -OR a, -R -SRa, -Rb-OC(O)-Ra, -Rb-N(Ra) 2 , -Rb-C(O)Ra, -Rb-C(O)ORa,
-R -C(O)N(Ra) 2 , -R -O-Rc-C(O)N(Ra) 2 , -Rb-N(Ra)C(O)ORa, -Rb-N(Ra)C(O)Ra,
-R -N(Ra)S(O)tRa (where t is 1 or 2), -Rb-S(O)ORa (where t is 1 or 2) and -Rb-S(O)tN(Ra)       2
(where t is 1 or 2), where each Ra is independently hydrogen, alkyl, fluoroalkyl, cycloalkyl,
cycloalkylalkyl, aryl, aralkyl, heterocycloalkyl, heterocycloalkylalkyl, heteroaryl or
heteroarylalkyl, each Rb is independently a direct bond or a straight or branched alkylene or
alkenylene chain, and R' is a straight or branched alkylene or alkenylene chain, and where each
of the above substituents is unsubstituted unless otherwise indicated.
[00105] "N-heteroaryl" refers to a heteroaryl radical as defined above containing at least one
nitrogen and where the point of attachment of the heteroaryl radical to the rest of the molecule is
through a nitrogen atom in the heteroaryl radical. An N-heteroaryl radical is optionally
substituted as described above for heteroaryl radicals.
[00106] "C-heteroaryl" refers to a heteroaryl radical as defined above and where the point of
attachment of the heteroaryl radical to the rest of the molecule is through a carbon atom in the
heteroaryl radical. A C-heteroaryl radical is optionally substituted as described above for
heteroaryl radicals.
[00107] "Heteroarylalkyl" refers to a radical of the formula -Rc-heteroaryl, where R' is an
alkylene chain as defined above. If the heteroaryl is a nitrogen-containing heteroaryl, the
heteroaryl is optionally attached to the alkyl radical at the nitrogen atom. The alkylene chain of
the heteroarylalkyl radical is optionally substituted as defined above for an alkylene chain. The
heteroaryl part of the heteroarylalkyl radical is optionally substituted as defined above for a
heteroaryl group.
[00108] "Sulfanyl" refers to the -S- radical.
[00109] "Sulfinyl" refers to the -S(=0)- radical.
[00110] "Sulfonyl" refers to the -S(=0)2- radical.
                                                -31 -

[00111] "Amino" refers to the -NH 2 radical.
[00112] "Cyano" refers to the -CN radical.
[00113] "Nitro" refers to the -NO 2 radical.
[00114] "Oxa" refers to the -0- radical.
[00115] "Oxo" refers to the =0 radical.
[00116] "Imino" refers to the =NH radical.
[00117] "Thioxo" refers to the =S radical.
[00118] An "alkoxy" group refers to a (alkyl)O- group, where alkyl is as defined herein.
[00119] An "aryloxy" group refers to an (aryl)O- group, where aryl is as defined herein.
[00120] "Cycloalkylalkyl" means an alkyl radical, as defined herein, substituted with a
cycloalkyl group. Non-limiting cycloalkylalkyl groups include cyclopropylmethyl,
cyclobutylmethyl, cyclopentylmethyl, cyclohexylmethyl, and the like.
[00121] As used herein, the terms "heteroalkyl" "heteroalkenyl" and "heteroalkynyl" include
optionally substituted alkyl, alkenyl and alkynyl radicals in which one or more skeletal chain
atoms is a heteroatom, e.g., oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, silicon, phosphorus or combinations
thereof. The heteroatom(s) may be placed at any interior position of the heteroalkyl group or at
the position at which the heteroalkyl group is attached to the remainder of the molecule.
Examples include, but are not limited to, -CH 2 -0-CH3, -CH 2 -CH 2-0-CH3 , -CH 2-NH-CH 3, -CH 2
CH 2-NH-CH 3, -CH 2-N(CH 3)-CH 3, -CH 2 -CH 2-NH-CH 3 , -CH 2-CH 2 -N(CH 3)-CH 3 , -CH 2-S-CH 2
CH 3 , -CH 2-CH 2 ,-S(O)-CH 3 , -CH 2 -CH 2 -S(O) 2 -CH 3 , -CH=CH-0-CH 3, -Si(CH 3) 3, -CH 2 -CH=N
OCH 3, and -CH=CH-N(CH 3)-CH 3 . In addition, up to two heteroatoms may be consecutive,
such as, by way of example, -CH 2-NH-OCH 3 and -CH 2 -0-Si(CH 3) 3 .
[00122] The term "heteroatom" refers to an atom other than carbon or hydrogen. Heteroatoms
are typically independently selected from among oxygen, sulfur, nitrogen, silicon and
phosphorus, but are not limited to these atoms. In embodiments in which two or more
heteroatoms are present, the two or more heteroatoms can all be the same as one another, or
some or all of the two or more heteroatoms can each be different from the others.
[00123] The term "bond" or "single bond" refers to a chemical bond between two atoms, or two
moieties when the atoms joined by the bond are considered to be part of larger substructure.
[00124] An "isocyanato" group refers to a -NCO group.
[00125] An "isothiocyanato" group refers to a -NCS group.
[00126] The term "moiety" refers to a specific segment or functional group of a molecule.
Chemical moieties are often recognized chemical entities embedded in or appended to a
molecule.
[00127] A "thioalkoxy" or "alkylthio" group refers to a -S-alkyl group.
                                                     - 32 -

[00128] A "alkylthioalkyl" group refers to an alkyl group substituted with a -S-alkyl group.
[00129] As used herein, the term "O-carboxy" or "acyloxy" refers to a group of formula
RC(=O)O-.
[00130] "Carboxy" means a -C(O)OH radical.
[00131] As used herein, the term "acetyl" refers to a group of formula -C(=0)CH 3 .
[00132] "Acyl" refers to the group -C(O)R.
[00133] As used herein, the term "trihalomethanesulfonyl" refers to a group of formula
X 3 CS(=0) 2 - where X is a halogen.
[00134] "Cyanoalkyl" means an alkyl radical, as defined herein, substituted with at least one
cyano group.
[00135] As used herein, the term "N-sulfonamido" or "sulfonylamino" refers to a group of
formula RS(=0) 2NH-.
[00136] As used herein, the term "O-carbamyl" refers to a group of formula -OC(=0)NR 2 .
[00137] As used herein, the term "N-carbamyl" refers to a group of formula ROC(=0)NH-.
[00138] As used herein, the term "O-thiocarbamyl" refers to a group of formula -OC(=S)NR2.
[00139] As used herein, "N-thiocarbamyl" refers to a group of formula ROC(=S)NH-.
[00140] As used herein, the term "C-amido" refers to a group of formula -C(=0)NR2.
[00141] "Aminocarbonyl" refers to a -CONH2 radical.
[00142] As used herein, the term "N-amido" refers to a group of formula RC(=0)NH-.
[00143] "Hydroxyalkyl" refers to an alkyl radical, as defined herein, substituted with at least
one hydroxy group. Non-limiting examples of a hydroxyalkyl include, but are not limited to,
hydroxymethyl, 2-hydroxyethyl, 2-hydroxypropyl, 3-hydroxypropyl, 1-(hydroxymethyl)
2-methylpropyl, 2-hydroxybutyl, 3-hydroxybutyl, 4-hydroxybutyl, 2,3-dihydroxypropyl,
1-(hydroxymethyl)-2-hydroxyethyl, 2,3-dihydroxybutyl, 3,4-dihydroxybutyl and
2-(hydroxymethyl)-3-hydroxypropyl.
[00144] "Alkoxyalkyl" refers to an alkyl radical, as defined herein, substituted with an alkoxy
group, as defined herein.
[00145] An "alkenyloxy" group refers to a (alkenyl)O- group, where alkenyl is as defined
herein.
[00146] The term "alkylamine" refers to the -N(alkyl)xHy group, where x and y are selected
from among x=1, y=1 and x=2, y=O. When x=2, the alkyl groups, taken together with the N
atom to which they are attached, can optionally form a cyclic ring system.
[00147] "Alkylaminoalkyl" refers to an alkyl radical, as defined herein, substituted with an
alkylamine, as defined herein.
[00148] An "amide" is a chemical moiety with the formula -C(O)NHR or -NHC(O)R, where R
                                              - 33 -

is selected from among alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl (bonded through a ring carbon) and
heteroalicyclic (bonded through a ring carbon). An amide moiety may form a linkage between
an amino acid or a peptide molecule and a compound described herein, thereby forming a
prodrug. Any amine, or carboxyl side chain on the compounds described herein can be
amidified. The procedures and specific groups to make such amides are known to those of skill
in the art and can readily be found in reference sources such as Greene and Wuts, Protective
Groups in Organic Synthesis, 3rd Ed., John Wiley & Sons, New York, NY, 1999, which is
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
[00149] The term "ester" refers to a chemical moiety with formula -COOR, where R is selected
from among alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl (bonded through a ring carbon) and
heteroalicyclic (bonded through a ring carbon). Any hydroxy, or carboxyl side chain on the
compounds described herein can be esterified. The procedures and specific groups to make such
esters are known to those of skill in the art and can readily be found in reference sources such as
Greene and Wuts, Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis,       3 rd Ed., John Wiley & Sons, New
York, NY, 1999, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
[00150] As used herein, the term "ring" refers to any covalently closed structure. Rings include,
for example, carbocycles (e.g., aryls and cycloalkyls), heterocycles (e.g., heteroaryls and non
aromatic heterocycles), aromatics (e.g. aryls and heteroaryls), and non-aromatics (e.g.,
cycloalkyls and non-aromatic heterocycles). Rings can be optionally substituted. Rings can be
monocyclic or polycyclic.
[00151] As used herein, the term "ring system" refers to one, or more than one ring.
[00152] The term "membered ring" can embrace any cyclic structure. The term "membered" is
meant to denote the number of skeletal atoms that constitute the ring. Thus, for example,
cyclohexyl, pyridine, pyran and thiopyran are 6-membered rings and cyclopentyl, pyrrole, furan,
and thiophene are 5-membered rings.
[00153] The term "fused" refers to structures in which two or more rings share one or more
bonds.
[00154] The term "optionally substituted" or "substituted" means that the referenced group may
be substituted with one or more additional group(s). By way of example only, optional
substituents may be, but are not limited to, alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, heteroalicyclic,
hydroxy, alkoxy, aryloxy, alkylthio, arylthio, alkylsulfoxide, arylsulfoxide, alkylsulfone,
arylsulfone, cyano, halo, acyl, nitro, haloalkyl, fluoroalkyl, amino, including mono- and
di-substituted amino groups, and the protected derivatives thereof. A further example of optional
substituents may be, but are not limited to, LsRs, wherein each L, is independently selected from
a bond, -0-, -C(=O)-, -S-, -S(=O)-, -S(=0)2-, -NH-, -NHC(O)-, -C(O)NH-, S(=0) 2NH-,
                                                - 34 -

NHS(=0) 2 , -OC(O)NH-, -NHC(O)O-, -(substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 alkyl), or
(substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C6 alkenyl); and each Rs is independently selected from H,
(substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 4 alkyl), (substituted or unsubstituted C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl),
heteroaryl, or heteroalkyl. The protecting groups that may form the protective derivatives of the
above substituents are known to those of skill in the art and may be found in references such as
Greene and Wuts, above.
[00155] The term "acceptable" or "pharmaceutically acceptable", with respect to a formulation,
composition or ingredient, as used herein, means having no persistent detrimental effect on the
general health of the subject being treated or does not abrogate the biological activity or
properties of the compound, and is relatively nontoxic.
[00156] As used herein, the term "agonist" refers to a compound, the presence of which results
in a biological activity of a protein that is the same as the biological activity resulting from the
presence of a naturally occurring ligand for the protein, such as, for example, Btk.
[00157] As used herein, the term "partial agonist" refers to a compound the presence of which
results in a biological activity of a protein that is of the same type as that resulting from the
presence of a naturally occurring ligand for the protein, but of a lower magnitude.
[00158] As used herein, the term "antagonist" refers to a compound, the presence of which
results in a decrease in the magnitude of a biological activity of a protein. In certain
embodiments, the presence of an antagonist results in complete inhibition of a biological activity
of a protein, such as, for example, Btk. In certain embodiments, an antagonist is an inhibitor.
[00159] As used herein, "amelioration" of the symptoms of a particular disease, disorder or
condition by administration of a particular compound or pharmaceutical composition refers to
any lessening of severity, delay in onset, slowing of progression, or shortening of duration,
whether permanent or temporary, lasting or transient that can be attributed to or associated with
administration of the compound or composition.
[00160] "Bioavailability" refers to the percentage of the weight of compounds disclosed herein,
such as, compounds of any of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ib), (III), (II1a), (IIb), or (IIc),
dosed that is delivered into the general circulation of the animal or human being studied. The
total exposure (AUC(o_)) of a drug when administered intravenously is usually defined as 100%
bioavailable (F%). "Oral bioavailability" refers to the extent to which compounds disclosed
herein, such as, compounds of any of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ib), (III), (II1a), (IIb),
or (IIc), are absorbed into the general circulation when the pharmaceutical composition is taken
orally as compared to intravenous injection.
[00161] "Blood plasma concentration" refers to the concentration of compounds disclosed
herein, such as, compounds of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Ib), (I), (Ila), (Ib), (III), (II1a), (II1b),
                                                  - 35 -

or (IIc), in the plasma component of blood of a subject. It is understood that the plasma
concentration of compounds of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub),
or (IIc), may vary significantly between subjects, due to variability with respect to metabolism
and/or possible interactions with other therapeutic agents. In accordance with one embodiment
disclosed herein, the blood plasma concentration of the compounds of any of Formula (I), (Ta),
(Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc), may vary from subject to subject. Likewise,
values such as maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) or time to reach maximum plasma
concentration (Tmax), or total area under the plasma concentration time curve (AUC(o-)) may
vary from subject to subject. Due to this variability, the amount necessary to constitute "a
therapeutically effective amount" of a compound of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Ib), (I), (Ila),
(Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc), may vary from subject to subject.
[00162] The term "Bruton's tyrosine kinase," as used herein, refers to Bruton's tyrosine kinase
from Homo sapiens, as disclosed in, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 6,326,469 (GenBank Accession No.
NP_000052).
[00163] The terms "co-administration" or the like, as used herein, are meant to encompass
administration of the selected therapeutic agents to a single patient, and are intended to include
treatment regimens in which the agents are administered by the same or different route of
administration or at the same or different time.
[00164] The terms "effective amount" or "therapeutically effective amount," as used herein,
refer to a sufficient amount of an agent or a compound being administered which will relieve to
some extent one or more of the symptoms of the disease or condition being treated. The result
can be reduction and/or alleviation of the signs, symptoms, or causes of a disease, or any other
desired alteration of a biological system. For example, an "effective amount" for therapeutic
uses is the amount of the composition including a compound as disclosed herein required to
provide a clinically significant decrease in disease symptoms without undue adverse side effects.
An appropriate "effective amount" in any individual case may be determined using techniques,
such as a dose escalation study. The term "therapeutically effective amount" includes, for
example, a prophylactically effective amount. An "effective amount" of a compound disclosed
herein is an amount effective to achieve a desired pharmacologic effect or therapeutic
improvement without undue adverse side effects. It is understood that "an effect amount" or "a
therapeutically effective amount" can vary from subject to subject, due to variation in
metabolism of the compound of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ib), (ITT), (Ila), (Iub),
or (IIc), age, weight, general condition of the subject, the condition being treated, the severity
of the condition being treated, and the judgment of the prescribing physician. By way of
example only, therapeutically effective amounts may be determined by routine experimentation,
                                                    - 36 -

including but not limited to a dose escalation clinical trial.
[00165] The terms "enhance" or "enhancing" means to increase or prolong either in potency or
duration a desired effect. By way of example, "enhancing" the effect of therapeutic agents refers
to the ability to increase or prolong, either in potency or duration, the effect of therapeutic agents
on during treatment of a disease, disorder or condition. An "enhancing-effective amount," as
used herein, refers to an amount adequate to enhance the effect of a therapeutic agent in the
treatment of a disease, disorder or condition. When used in a patient, amounts effective for this
use will depend on the severity and course of the disease, disorder or condition, previous
therapy, the patient's health status and response to the drugs, and the judgment of the treating
physician.
[00166] The term "identical," as used herein, refers to two or more sequences or subsequences
which are the same. In addition, the term "substantially identical," as used herein, refers to two
or more sequences which have a percentage of sequential units which are the same when
compared and aligned for maximum correspondence over a comparison window, or designated
region as measured using comparison algorithms or by manual alignment and visual inspection.
By way of example only, two or more sequences may be "substantially identical" if the
sequential units are about 60% identical, about 65% identical, about 70% identical, about 75%
identical, about 80% identical, about 85% identical, about 90% identical, or about 95% identical
over a specified region. Such percentages to describe the "percent identity" of two or more
sequences. The identity of a sequence can exist over a region that is at least about 75-100
sequential units in length, over a region that is about 50 sequential units in length, or, where not
specified, across the entire sequence. This definition also refers to the complement of a test
sequence. By way of example only, two or more polypeptide sequences are identical when the
amino acid residues are the same, while two or more polypeptide sequences are "substantially
identical" if the amino acid residues are about 60% identical, about 65% identical, about 70%
identical, about 75% identical, about 80% identical, about 85% identical, about 90% identical, or
about 95% identical over a specified region. The identity can exist over a region that is at least
about 75-100 amino acids in length, over a region that is about 50 amino acids in length, or,
where not specified, across the entire sequence of a polypeptide sequence. In addition, by way of
example only, two or more polynucleotide sequences are identical when the nucleic acid
residues are the same, while two or more polynucleotide sequences are "substantially identical"
if the nucleic acid residues are about 60% identical, about 65% identical, about 70% identical,
about 75% identical, about 80% identical, about 85% identical, about 90% identical, or about
95% identical over a specified region. The identity can exist over a region that is at least about
75-100 nucleic acids in length, over a region that is about 50 nucleic acids in length, or, where
                                                  - 37 -

not specified, across the entire sequence of a polynucleotide sequence.
[00167] The terms "inhibits", "inhibiting", or "inhibitor" of a kinase, as used herein, refer to
inhibition of enzymatic phosphotransferase activity.
[00168] The term "irreversible inhibitor," as used herein, refers to a compound that, upon
contact with a target protein (e.g., a kinase) causes the formation of a new covalent bond with or
within the protein, whereby one or more of the target protein's biological activities (e.g.,
phosphotransferase activity) is diminished or abolished notwithstanding the subsequent presence
or absence of the irreversible inhibitor. In contrast, a reversible inhibitor compound upon
contact with a target protein does not cause the formation of a new covalent bond with or within
the protein and therefore can associate and dissociate from the target potein.
[00169] The term "irreversible Btk inhibitor," as used herein, refers to an inhibitor of Btk that
can form a covalent bond with an amino acid residue of Btk. In one embodiment, the irreversible
inhibitor of Btk can form a covalent bond with a Cys residue of Btk; in particular embodiments,
the irreversible inhibitor can form a covalent bond with a Cys 481 residue of Btk or a cysteine
residue in the homologous corresponding position of another tyrosine kinase.
[00170] The term "isolated," as used herein, refers to separating and removing a component of
interest from components not of interest. Isolated substances can be in either a dry or semi-dry
state, or in solution, including but not limited to an aqueous solution. The isolated component
can be in a homogeneous state or the isolated component can be a part of a pharmaceutical
composition that comprises additional pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and/or excipients.
By way of example only, nucleic acids or proteins are "isolated" when such nucleic acids or
proteins are free of at least some of the cellular components with which it is associated in the
natural state, or that the nucleic acid or protein has been concentrated to a level greater than the
concentration of its in vivo or in vitro production. Also, by way of example, a gene is isolated
when separated from open reading frames which flank the gene and encode a protein other than
the gene of interest.
[00171] A "metabolite" of a compound disclosed herein is a derivative of that compound that is
formed when the compound is metabolized. The term "active metabolite" refers to a biologically
active derivative of a compound that is formed when the compound is metabolized. The term
"metabolized," as used herein, refers to the sum of the processes (including, but not limited to,
hydrolysis reactions and reactions catalyzed by enzymes, such as, oxidation reactions) by which
a particular substance is changed by an organism. Thus, enzymes may produce specific
structural alterations to a compound. For example, cytochrome P450 catalyzes a variety of
oxidative and reductive reactions while uridine diphosphate glucuronyl transferases catalyze the
transfer of an activated glucuronic-acid molecule to aromatic alcohols, aliphatic alcohols,
                                                  - 38 -

carboxylic acids, amines and free sulfhydryl groups. Further information on metabolism may be
obtained from The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 9th Edition, McGraw-Hill (1996).
Metabolites of the compounds disclosed herein can be identified either by administration of
compounds to a host and analysis of tissue samples from the host, or by incubation of
compounds with hepatic cells in vitro and analysis of the resulting compounds. Both methods
are well known in the art. In some embodiments, metabolites of a compound are formed by
oxidative processes and correspond to the corresponding hydroxy-containing compound. In
some embodimets, a compound is metabolized to pharmacologically active metabolites.
[00172] The term "modulate," as used herein, means to interact with a target either directly or
indirectly so as to alter the activity of the target, including, by way of example only, to enhance
the activity of the target, to inhibit the activity of the target, to limit the activity of the target, or
to extend the activity of the target.
[00173] As used herein, the term "modulator" refers to a compound that alters an activity of a
molecule. For example, a modulator can cause an increase or decrease in the magnitude of a
certain activity of a molecule compared to the magnitude of the activity in the absence of the
modulator. In certain embodiments, a modulator is an inhibitor, which decreases the magnitude
of one or more activities of a molecule. In certain embodiments, an inhibitor completely
prevents one or more activities of a molecule. In certain embodiments, a modulator is an
activator, which increases the magnitude of at least one activity of a molecule. In certain
embodiments the presence of a modulator results in an activity that does not occur in the
absence of the modulator.
[00174] The term "prophylactically effective amount," as used herein, refers that amount of a
composition applied to a patient which will relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms
of a disease, condition or disorder being treated. In such prophylactic applications, such amounts
may depend on the patient's state of health, weight, and the like. It is considered well within the
skill of the art for one to determine such prophylactically effective amounts by routine
experimentation, including, but not limited to, a dose escalation clinical trial.
[00175] As used herein, the term "selective binding compound" refers to a compound that
selectively binds to any portion of one or more target proteins.
[00176] As used herein, the term "selectively binds" refers to the ability of a selective binding
compound to bind to a target protein, such as, for example, Btk, with greater affinity than it
binds to a non-target protein. In certain embodiments, specific binding refers to binding to a
target with an affinity that is at least 10, 50, 100, 250, 500, 1000 or more times greater than the
affinity for a non-target.
[00177] As used herein, the term "selective modulator" refers to a compound that selectively
                                                   - 39 -

modulates a target activity relative to a non-target activity. In certain embodiments, specific
modulater refers to modulating a target activity at least 10, 50, 100, 250, 500, 1000 times more
than a non-target activity.
[00178] The term "substantially purified," as used herein, refers to a component of interest that
may be substantially or essentially free of other components which normally accompany or
interact with the component of interest prior to purification. By way of example only, a
component of interest may be "substantially purified" when the preparation of the component of
interest contains less than about 30%, less than about 25%, less than about 20%, less than about
15%, less than about 10%, less than about 5%, less than about 4%, less than about 3%, less than
about 2%, or less than about 1% (by dry weight) of contaminating components. Thus, a
"substantially purified" component of interest may have a purity level of about 70%, about 75%,
about 80%, about 85%, about 90%, about 95%, about 96%, about 97%, about 98%, about 99%
or greater.
[00179] The term "subject" as used herein, refers to an animal which is the object of treatment,
observation or experiment. By way of example only, a subject may be, but is not limited to, a
mammal including, but not limited to, a human.
[00180] As used herein, the term "target activity" refers to a biological activity capable of being
modulated by a selective modulator. Certain exemplary target activities include, but are not
limited to, binding affinity, signal transduction, enzymatic activity, tumor growth, inflammation
or inflammation-related processes, and amelioration of one or more symptoms associated with a
disease or condition.
[00181] As used herein, the term "target protein" refers to a molecule or a portion of a protein
capable of being bound by a selective binding compound. In certain embodiments, a target
protein is Btk.
[00182] The terms "treat," "treating" or "treatment", as used herein, include alleviating, abating
or ameliorating a disease or condition symptoms, preventing additional symptoms, ameliorating
or preventing the underlying metabolic causes of symptoms, inhibiting the disease or condition,
e.g., arresting the development of the disease or condition, relieving the disease or condition,
causing regression of the disease or condition, relieving a condition caused by the disease or
condition, or stopping the symptoms of the disease or condition. The terms "treat," "treating" or
"treatment", include, but are not limited to, prophylactic and/or therapeutic treatments.
[00183] As used herein, the IC 50 refers to an amount, concentration or dosage of a particular test
compound that achieves a 50% inhibition of a maximal response, such as inhibition of Btk, in an
assay that measures such response.
[00184] As used herein, EC50 refers to a dosage, concentration or amount of a particular test
                                                - 40 -

compound that elicits a dose-dependent response at 50% of maximal expression of a particular
response that is induced, provoked or potentiated by the particular test compound.
                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[00185] The methods described herein include administering to a subject in need a composition
containing a therapeutically effective amount of one or more reversible or irreversible Btk
inhibitor compounds described herein. Without being bound by theory, the diverse roles played
by Btk signaling in various hematopoietic cell functions, e.g., B-cell receptor activation,
suggests that small molecule Btk inhibitors are useful for reducing the risk of or treating a
variety of diseases affected by or affecting many cell types of the hematopoetic lineage
including, e.g., autoimmune diseases, heteroimmune conditions or diseases, inflammatory
diseases, cancer (e.g., B-cell proliferative disorders), and thromboembolic disorders. Further, the
irreversible Btk inhibitor compounds described herein can be used to inhibit a small subset of
other tyrosine kinases that share homology with Btk by having a cysteine residue (including a
Cys 481 residue) that can form a covalent bond with the irreversible inhibitor. Thus, a subset of
tyrosine kinases other than Btk are also expected to be useful as therapeutic targets in a number
of health conditions.
[00186] In some embodiments, the methods described herein can be used to treat an autoimmune
disease, which includes, but is not limited to, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis,
osteoarthritis, Still's disease, juvenile arthritis, lupus, diabetes, myasthenia gravis, Hashimoto's
thyroiditis, Ord's thyroiditis, Graves' disease Sj6gren's syndrome, multiple sclerosis, Guillain
Barr6 syndrome, acute disseminated encephalomyelitis, Addison's disease, opsoclonus
myoclonus syndrome, ankylosing spondylitisis, antiphospholipid antibody syndrome, aplastic
anemia, autoimmune hepatitis, coeliac disease, Goodpasture's syndrome, idiopathic
thrombocytopenic purpura, optic neuritis, scleroderma, primary biliary cirrhosis, Reiter's
syndrome, Takayasu's arteritis, temporal arteritis, warm autoimmune hemolytic anemia,
Wegener's granulomatosis, psoriasis, alopecia universalis, Behget's disease, chronic fatigue,
dysautonomia, endometriosis, interstitial cystitis, neuromyotonia, scleroderma, and vulvodynia.
[00187] In some embodiments, the methods described herein can be used to treat heteroimmune
conditions or diseases, which include, but are not limited to graft versus host disease,
transplantation, transfusion, anaphylaxis, allergies (e.g., allergies to plant pollens, latex, drugs,
foods, insect poisons, animal hair, animal dander, dust mites, or cockroach calyx), type I
hypersensitivity, allergic conjunctivitis, allergic rhinitis, and atopic dermatitis.
[00188] In further embodiments, the methods described herein can be used to treat an
inflammatory disease, which includes, but is not limited to asthma, inflammatory bowel disease,
                                                   - 41 -

appendicitis, blepharitis, bronchiolitis, bronchitis, bursitis, cervicitis, cholangitis, cholecystitis,
colitis, conjunctivitis, cystitis, dacryoadenitis, dermatitis, dermatomyositis, encephalitis,
endocarditis, endometritis, enteritis, enterocolitis, epicondylitis, epididymitis, fasciitis, fibrositis,
gastritis, gastroenteritis, hepatitis, hidradenitis suppurativa, laryngitis, mastitis, meningitis,
myelitis myocarditis, myositis, nephritis, oophoritis, orchitis, osteitis, otitis, pancreatitis,
parotitis, pericarditis, peritonitis, pharyngitis, pleuritis, phlebitis, pneumonitis, pneumonia,
proctitis, prostatitis, pyelonephritis, rhinitis, salpingitis, sinusitis, stomatitis, synovitis,
tendonitis, tonsillitis, uveitis, vaginitis, vasculitis, and vulvitis.
[00189] In yet other embodiments, the methods described herein can be used to treat a cancer,
e.g., B-cell proliferative disorders, which include, but are not limited to diffuse large B cell
lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic
leukemia, B-cell prolymphocytic leukemia, lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma/Waldenstr6m
macroglobulinemia, splenic marginal zone lymphoma, plasma cell myeloma, plasmacytoma,
extranodal marginal zone B cell lymphoma, nodal marginal zone B cell lymphoma, mantle cell
lymphoma, mediastinal (thymic) large B cell lymphoma, intravascular large B cell lymphoma,
primary effusion lymphoma, burkitt lymphoma/leukemia, and lymphomatoid granulomatosis.
[00190] In further embodiments, the methods described herein can be used to treat
thromboembolic disorders, which include, but are not limited to myocardial infarct, angina
pectoris (including unstable angina), reocclusions or restenoses after angioplasty or
aortocoronary bypass, stroke, transitory ischemia, peripheral arterial occlusive disorders,
pulmonary embolisms, and deep venous thromboses.
[00191] Symptoms, diagnostic tests, and prognostic tests for each of the above-mentioned
conditions are known in the art. See, e.g., Harrison'sPrinciplesofInternalMedicine," 16th
ed., 2004, The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. Dey et al. (2006), Cytojournal 3(24), and the
"Revised European American Lymphoma" (REAL) classification system (see, e.g., the website
maintained by the National Cancer Institute).
[00192] A number of animal models of are useful for establishing a range of therapeutically
effective doses of reversible or irreversible Btk inhibitor compounds for treating any of the
foregoing diseases.
[00193] For example, dosing of reversible or irreversible Btk inhibitor compounds for treating
an autoimmune disease can be assessed in a mouse model of rheumatoid arthitis. In this model,
arthritis is induced in Balb/c mice by administering anti-collagen antibodies and
lipopolysaccharide. See Nandakumar et al. (2003), Am. J. Pathol 163:1827-1837.
[00194] In another example, dosing of reversible or irreversible Btk inhibitors for the treatment
of B-cell proliferative disorders can be examined in, e.g., a human-to-mouse xenograft model in
                                                   - 42  -

which human B-cell lymphoma cells (e.g. Ramos cells) are implanted into immunodefficient
mice (e.g., "nude" mice) as described in, e.g., Pagel et al. (2005), Clin Cancer Res 11(13):4857
4866.
[00195] Animal models for treatment of thromboembolic disorders are also known.
[00196] The therapeutic efficacy of the compound for one of the foregoing diseases can be
optimized during a course of treatment. For example, a subject being treated can undergo a
diagnostic evaluation to correlate the relief of disease symptoms or pathologies to inhibition of
in vivo Btk activity achieved by administering a given dose of an irreversible Btk inhibitor.
Cellular assays known in the art can be used to determine in vivo activity of Btk in the presence
or absence of an irreversible Btk inhibitor. For example, since activated Btk is phosphorylated at
tyrosine 223 (Y223) and tyrosine 551 (Y55 1), phospho-specific immunocytochemical staining
of P-Y223 or P-Y55 1-positive cells can be used to detect or quantify activation of Bkt in a
population of cells (e.g., by FACS analysis of stained vs unstained cells). See, e.g., Nisitani et al.
(1999), Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci, USA 96:2221-2226. Thus, the amount of the Btk inhibitor
compound that is administered to a subject can be increased or decreased as needed so as to
maintain a level of Btk inhibition optimal for treating the subject's disease state.
Compounds
[00197] In the following description of reversible or irreversible Btk compounds suitable for use
in the methods described herein, definitions of referred-to standard chemistry terms may be
found in reference works (if not otherwise defined herein), including Carey and Sundberg
"Advanced Organic Chemistry 4th Ed." Vols. A (2000) and B (2001), Plenum Press, New York.
Unless otherwise indicated, conventional methods of mass spectroscopy, NMR, HPLC, protein
chemistry, biochemistry, recombinant DNA techniques and pharmacology, within the ordinary
skill of the art are employed. In addition, nucleic acid and amino acid sequences for Btk (e.g.,
human Btk) are known in the art as disclosed in, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 6,326,469. Unless specific
definitions are provided, the nomenclature employed in connection with, and the laboratory
procedures and techniques of, analytical chemistry, synthetic organic chemistry, and medicinal
and pharmaceutical chemistry described herein are those known in the art. Standard techniques
can be used for chemical syntheses, chemical analyses, pharmaceutical preparation, formulation,
and delivery, and treatment of patients.
[00198] The Btk inhibitor compounds described herein are selective for Btk and kinases having
a cysteine residue in an amino acid sequence position of the tyrosine kinase that is homologous
to the amino acid sequence position of cysteine 481 in Btk. Inhibitor compounds described
herein include a Michael acceptor moiety.
[00199] Generally, a reversible or irreversible inhibitor compound of Btk used in the methods
                                                - 43 -

described herein is identified or characterized in an in vitro assay, e.g., an acellular biochemical
assay or a cellular functional assay. Such assays are useful to determine an in vitro IC50 for a
reversible or irreversible Btk inhibitor compound.
[00200] For example, an acellular kinase assay can be used to determine Btk activity after
incubation of the kinase in the absence or presence of a range of concentrations of a candidate
irreversible Btk inhibitor compound. If the candidate compound is in fact an irreversible Btk
inhibitor, Btk kinase activity will not be recovered by repeat washing with inhibitor-free
medium. See, e.g., J. B. Smaill, et al. (1999), J. Med. Chem. 42(10):1803-1815. Further,
covalent complex formation between Btk and a candidate irreversible Btk inhibitor is a useful
indicator of irreversible inhibition of Btk that can be readily determined by a number of methods
known in the art (e.g., mass spectrometry). For example, some irreversible Btk-inhibitor
compounds can form a covalent bond with Cys 481 of Btk (e.g., via a Michael reaction).
[00201] Cellular functional assays for Btk inhibition include measuring one or more cellular
endpoints in response to stimulating a Btk-mediated pathway in a cell line (e.g., BCR activation
in Ramos cells) in the absence or presence of a range of concentrations of a candidate
irreversible Btk inhibitor compound. Useful endpoints for determining a response to BCR
activation include, e.g., autophosphorylation of Btk, phosphorylation of a Btk target protein
(e.g., PLC-y), and cytoplasmic calcium flux.
[00202] High throughput assays for many acellular biochemical assays (e.g., kinase assays) and
cellular functional assays (e.g., calcium flux) are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art.
In addition, high throughput screening systems are commercially available (see, e.g., Zymark
Corp., Hopkinton, MA; Air Technical Industries, Mentor, OH; Beckman Instruments, Inc.
Fullerton, CA; Precision Systems, Inc., Natick, MA, etc.). These systems typically automate
entire procedures including all sample and reagent pipetting, liquid dispensing, timed
incubations, and final readings of the microplate in detector(s) appropriate for the assay.
Automated systems thereby allow the identification and characterization of a large number of
reversible or irreversible Btk compounds without undue effort.
[00203] Reversible or irreversible Btk inhibitor compounds can used for the manufacture of a
medicament for treating any of the foregoing conditions (e.g., autoimmune diseases,
inflammatory diseases, allergy disorders, B-cell proliferative disorders, or thromboembolic
disorders).
[00204] In some embodiments, the reversible or irreversible Btk inhibitor compound used for
the methods described herein inhibits Btk activity with an in vitro IC50 of less than about 10 piM.
(e.g., less than about 1 jiM, less than about 0.5 piM, less than about 0.4 piM, less than about 0.3
piM, less than about 0.1, less than about 0.08 piM, less than about 0.06 piM, less than about 0.05
                                                 - 44 -

piM, less than about 0.04 piM, less than about 0.03 piM, less than about 0.02 piM, less than about
0.01, less than about 0.008 piM, less than about 0.006 piM, less than about 0.005 piM, less than
about 0.004 jiM, less than about 0.003 piM, less than about 0.002 piM, less than about 0.001, less
than about 0.00099 piM, less than about 0.00098 piM, less than about 0.00097 piM, less than
about 0.00096 jiM, less than about 0.00095 piM, less than about 0.00094 IM, less than about
0.00093 piM, less than about 0.00092, or less than about 0.00090 piM).
[00205] In one embodiment, the irreversible Btk inhibitor compound selectively and irreversibly
inhibits an activated form of its target tyrosine kinase (e.g., a phosphorylated form of the
tyrosine kinase). For example, activated Btk is transphosphorylated at tyrosine 551. Thus, in
these embodiments the irreversible Btk inhibitor inhibits the target kinase in cells only once the
target kinase is activated by the signaling events.
[00206] Described herein are compounds of any of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb), (III),
(Ila), (IlIb), and (IIc). Also described herein are pharmaceutically acceptable salts,
pharmaceutically acceptable solvates, pharmaceutically active metabolites, and pharmaceutically
acceptable prodrugs of such compounds. Pharmaceutical compositions that include at least one
such compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, pharmaceutically acceptable solvate,
pharmaceutically active metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug of such compound,
are provided. In some embodiments, when compounds disclosed herein contain an oxidizable
nitrogen atom, the nitrogen atom can be converted to an N-oxide by methods well known in the
art. In certain embodiments, isomers and chemically protected forms of compounds having a
structure represented by any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (IIb), and
(IIc), are also provided.
[00207] In a further embodiment are compounds having the structure of Formula (I):
                                                              L~N
                                            (R24)n
                                            NH2
                                            N      :
                                                       p   R3
                                              Formula (I);
wherein:
     La is a bond, -CH 2 -, -CH(OH)-, -C(O)-, -CH 2 0-, -OCH 2 -, -SCH 2 , -CH 2S-, -N(R2 1)-,
     N(R 21)C(O)-, -C(O)N(R 2 1)-, -N(R2 1 )C(O)N(R 2 1)-, -0-, -S-, -S(O)-, -S(0) 2 -, -N(R 21 )S(0) 2 -,
     or -S(O)2N(R21)-;
                                                   - 45  -

Ar is a substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl;
R 3 is optionally substituted C3 -C6 alkyl, substituted cycloalkyl, optionally substituted aryl,
optionally substituted heteroaryl, -(C=O)Ci-C 6 alkyl, -(C=O)OR 4 , -(C=O)NR 4 R4 ,
                            -- Y--Z                R6
(C=0)SR 4 , -G-X, or               Rs              R7;
G is optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl, optionally substituted aryl, or optionally
substituted heteroaryl;
X is optionally substituted cycloalkyl; optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl; optionally
substituted aryl, optionally substituted heteroaryl, -OR 4, -SR 4 , or -NR4R 4 ;
each R 4 is each independently H, Ci-C 6 alkyl, Ci-C 6 heteroalkyl, C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, or C2-C6
heterocycloalkyl;
Y is an optionally substituted group selected from among alkyl, heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl,
and heteroaryl;
Z is C(=O), OC(=O), N(R 2 1)C(=O), C(=S), S(=O)x, OS(=O)x, or N(R 2 1)S(=O)x, where x is 1
or 2;
each R 2 4 is each independently halogen, -CN, -NO 2 , -OH, -OCF 3, -OCH 2F, -OCF 2H, -CF 3 ,
SR 2 1, -N(R 21)S(=0) 2R 23, -S(=0) 2N(R 2 1)(R 2 2), -S(=O)R         2 3, -S(=0) 2R 23, -C(=O)R 23 ,
OC(=O)R     23 , -C0 2 R 2 1 , -N(R 2 1 )(R 2 2 ), -C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22), -N(R 21)C(=O)R    23 ,
-N(R 2 1)C(=O)OR 22 , -N(R 21 )C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22 ), substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted
or unsubstituted alkoxy, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl;
R 2 1 and R 2 2 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted
or unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
R 2 3 is each independently substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
n is 0-4;
p is 0-2;
R 6 is H or L-J-W;
R 7 and Rs are independently H or L-J-W; or R7 and Rs taken together form a bond;
L and J are each independently a bond, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkylene,
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6
heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or
                                                       - 46 -

    unsubstituted C6 -C12 arylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 1 2 heteroarylene, -CO-, -0-,
    or -S-;
    W is H, halogen, -CN, or NR 25 R 2 6 ;
    R25 and R26 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 heteroalkyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C1 aryl, or substituted
    or unsubstituted C3 -C1 heteroaryl; or R25 and R 26 together with the nitrogen to which they
    are attached form a heterocycloalkyl ring;
    or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00208] In one embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein La is bond, -CH 2 -, -CH(OH)-,
-C(O)-, -CH 2 O-, -OCH 2-, -SCH 2, -CH 2 S-, -N(H)-, -N(H)C(O)-, -C(O)N(H)-, -N(H)C(O)N(H)-,
0-, -S-, -S(O)-, -S(0) 2 -, -N(H)S(0) 2 -, or -S(0) 2N(H)-. In further embodiments, La is a bond,
CH 2 -, -CH(OH)-, -C(O)-, -CH 2 0-, -OCH 2 -, -SCH 2, -CH 2 S-, -N(H)-, -N(H)C(O)-, -C(O)N(H)-,
N(H)C(O)N(H)-, -0-, or -S-. In further embodiments, La is -CH 20-, -OCH 2 -, -SCH 2 , -CH 2 S-,
N(H)-, -0-, or -S-. In further embodiments, La is -OCH 2 -, or -0-. In further embodiments, La is
OCH 2 -.  In further embodiments, La is -0-. In further embodiments, La is -CH 2 0-.      In further
embodiments, La is -N(H)-. In further embodiments, La is -S-. In further embodiments, La is
CH 2 -. In further embodiments, La is a bond.
[00209] In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (I) wherein Ar is substituted or
unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl. In a further embodiment, Ar is
substituted or unsubstituted aryl. In yet a further embodiment, Ar is phenyl. In another
embodiment, Ar is substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl. In a further embodiment, Ar is
indolyl, oxazolyl, furanyl, thienyl, pyrrolyl, pyrazolyl, pyridinyl, pyrazinyl, pyrimidinyl,
pyridazinyl, quinazolinyl, quinoxalinyl, quinolinyl, or isoquinolinyl.
[00210] In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R3 is optionally substituted
C3 -C6 alkyl, substituted cycloalkyl, optionally substituted aryl, optionally substituted heteroaryl,
           - -Y -Z          R6
-G-X, or          R8        R7 . In some embodiments, R 3 is optionally substituted C 3-C6 alkyl. In
some embodiments, R3 is substituted cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R3 is optionally
substituted optionally substituted optionally substituted aryl. In some embodiments, R3 is
optionally substituted optionally substituted heteroaryl. In some embodiments, R3 is -G-X. In
some embodiments, G is aryl. In some embodiments, G is heteroaryl. In some embodiments, G
is heterocycloalkyl. In further embodiments, G is selected from pyrrolidinyl, tetrahydrofuranyl,
piperidinyl, piperizinyl, and morpholinyl. In some embodiments, G is pyrrolidinyl. In some
                                                   - 47 -

embodiments, G is tetrahydrofuranyl. In some embodiments, G is piperidinyl. In some
embodiments, G is piperizinyl. In some embodiments, G is morpholinyl. In further
embodiments, X is optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl. In yet further embodiments, X is
selected from pyrrolidinyl, tetrahydrofuranyl, piperidinyl, piperizinyl, and morpholinyl. In some
embodiments, X is pyrrolidinyl. In some embodiments, X is tetrahydrofuranyl. In some
embodiments, X is piperidinyl. In some embodiments, X is piperizinyl. In some embodiments,
X is morpholinyl. In further embodiments, X is -OR 4, -SR 4 , or -NR4R4. In some embodiments,
X is -OR 4. In some embodiments, X is -SR 4 . In some embodiments, X is -NR4 R 4 . In yet a
further embodiment, R4 is each independently H or CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, each R 4
is H. In some embodiments, each R 4 is CH 3.
                                                                                  - -Y-Z           R6
[00211] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R 3 is                Rs        R7.
In further embodiments, Z is C(=O), NHC(=O), N(CH 3 )C(=O), or S(=0)2. In some
embodiments, Z is C(=O). In some embodiments, Z is NHC(=O). In some embodiments, Z is
N(CH 3 )C(=O). In some embodiments, Z is S(=0)2.
[00212] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R6 , R7 and Rs are H. In
another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R7 and Rs are H and R6 is L-J-W. In
a further embodiment, R6 is H, substituted or unsubstituted CI-Calkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted C1 -C6 heteroalkyl, (C1-C 6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl, ((C1 -Calkyl)(C3
C 6 cycloalkyl)amino)C 1 -C6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkylC 3-C 6 cycloalkyl, or C1
C 4 alkyl(C 2 -C7heterocycloalkyl). In yet a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (I)
wherein R6 is substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted CI
C6heteroalkyl, (CI-C 6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl, or ((C1-C 6alkyl)(C 3-C6cycloalkyl)amino)C1
Calkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 alkyl. In some
embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C 6heteroalkyl.
In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted (CI-C 6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In
some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted ((CI-C 6 alkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)C1
Calkyl.
[00213] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R6 and Rs are H and R7 is
L-J-W. In a further embodiment, R 7 is H, substituted or unsubstituted CI-Calkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted C1 -C6 heteroalkyl, (C1-C 6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl, ((CI-Calkyl)(C 3
C 6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkylC 3-C 6 cycloalkyl, or C1
C 4 alkyl(C 2 -C7heterocycloalkyl). In yet a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (I)
wherein R7 is substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1
                                                  -48-

C6heteroalkyl, (C1-C 6 dialkylamino)C1 -C6 alkyl, or ((C1-C 6 alkyl)(C 3-C6cycloalkyl)amino)C 1
C6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl. In some
embodiments, R7 is substituted or unsubstituted substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 6 heteroalkyl.
In some embodiments, R7 is substituted or unsubstituted (C1 -C6 dialkylamino)C1 -C6 alkyl. In
some embodiments, R7 is substituted or unsubstituted ((C 1 -C6 alkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)C 1
Calkyl.
[00214] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R6 and Rs are H; R7 is L
J-W; L is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene, or substituted or unsubstituted C3
C6 cycloalkylene; and J is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene, substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 heteroalkylene, substituted
or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6-C12 arylene, or
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroarylene. In further embodiments, L is a bond. In
further embodiments, L is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene. In further
embodiments, L is substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene. In yet a further embodiment, L
is -CH 2-. In further embodiments, J is substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkylene, substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 heteroalkylene, substituted
or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, or
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroarylene. In some embodiments, J is substituted or
unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene. In further embodiments, J is -CH 2-. In some embodiments, J is
substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 cycloalkylene. In further embodiments, J is cyclopropyl. In
some embodiments, J is substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene. In further
embodiments, J is pyrrolidinyl, piperidinyl, piperizinyl, morpholinyl, imidazolyl, or pyridiny. In
a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (I),
wherein W is H. In another embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of
Formula (I), wherein W is halogen. In another embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments
is a compound of Formula (I), wherein W is -CN. In another embodiment of the aforementioned
embodiments is a compound of Formula (I), wherein W is NR 25 R 2 6 . In a further embodiment,
R 25 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
cycloalkyl; and R 26 is substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7
heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C12
heteroaryl. In another embodiment, R 25 and R 2 6 are substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkyl. In
some embodiments, R 2 5 and R 26 are -CH 3 . In another embodiment, R 25 and R 26 are substituted
or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 25 and R 26 are cyclopropyl. In
another embodiment, R 25 is H; and R 26 is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl. In some
                                                 - 49 -

embodiments, R 25 is H and R 26 is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is H and R 2 6 is
cyclobutyl. In another embodiment, R 25 is substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkyl; and R2 6 is
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 2 5 is -CH 3 and R 2 6 is
cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is -CH 3 and R 26 is cyclobutyl. In another embodiment
embodiment is a compound of Formula (I), wherein R 25 and R26 together with the nitrogen to
which they are attached form a heterocycloalkyl ring.
[00215] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R7 and Rs taken together
form a bond; and R6 is L-J-W. In further embodiments, R6 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C1
Calkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6heteroalkyl, (C1-C 6 dialkylamino)C1 -C6 alkyl, ((C1
C6 alkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkylC 3
C6 cycloalkyl, or CI-C 4 alkyl(C 2 -C7heterocycloalkyl). In further embodiments, R6 is substituted
or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6heteroalkyl, (C1
C6 dialkylamino)C1 -C6 alkyl, or ((C-C 6alkyl)(C 3-C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some
embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is
substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6heteroalkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is (C1
C6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R 6 is ((C1-C 6 alkyl)(C 3
C6 cycloalkyl)amino)C 1-C6alkyl.
[00216] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I) wherein Y is optionally
substituted alkyl. In another embodiment, Y is optionally substituted heteroalkyl. In another
embodiment, Y is optionally substituted cycloalkyl. In another embodiment, Y is optionally
substituted heteroaryl. In another embodiment, Y is optionally substituted aryl. In a futher
embodiment, Y is phenyl.
[00217] In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (I) wherein R24 is each independently
halogen, -NH 2, -N(CH 3)2, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkoxy,
substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, or
substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R24 is substituted or
unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments, R24 is substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl. In
some embodiments, R24 is substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl. In some embodiments,
R24 is halogen. In further embodiments, R24 is F, Cl or Br.
[00218] In a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula
(I), wherein n is 0. In some embodiments, n is 1. In some embodiments, n is 2. In some
embodiments, n is 3. In some embodiments, n is 4. In a further embodiment of the
aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (I), wherein p is 0. In some
embodiments, p is 1. In some embodiments, p is 2.
[00219] In a further embodiment are compounds having the structure of Formula (Ta):
                                                 - 50 -

                                                                  O-Ar
                                                     (R24)n
                                                     NH2
                                               N            N
                                                              >==0
                                                      N~
                                                              N-
                                                     N      N
                                                                  z
                                                                R8
                                                                       R7
                                                        Formula (Ta);
wherein:
   Ar is a substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl;
   Z is C(=O), N(R 2 1 )C(=O), C(=S), S(=O)x, OS(=O)x, or N(R 21)S(=O)x, where x is 1 or 2;
   each R 2 4 is each independently halogen, -CN, -NO 2 , -OH, -OCF 3 , -OCH 2F, -OCF 2H, -CF 3 ,
   SR 2 1 , -N(R 21 )S(=O) 2 R 23 , -S(=O) 2N(R 2 1 )(R 2 2 ), -S(=O)R   2 3, -S(=0) 2 R 23 , -C(=O)R 23 ,
   OC(=O)R     23 , -C0 2 R 2 1 , -N(R 2 1 )(R 2 2 ), -C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22), -N(R 21 )C(=O)R     23 ,
   -N(R 2 1)C(=O)OR 22 , -N(R 21)C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22), substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted
   or unsubstituted alkoxy, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl;
   R 2 1 and R 2 2 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkyl, or substituted
   or unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
   R 2 3 is each independently substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted or
   unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
   n is 0-4;
   R 6 is H or L-J-W;
   R7   and Rs are independently H or L-J-W; or R7 and Rs taken together form a bond;
   L and J are each independently a bond, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkylene,
   substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6
   heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or
   unsubstituted C6 -C12 arylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C1 2 heteroarylene, -CO-, -0-,
   or -S-;
   W is H, halogen, -CN, or NR 25 R 2 6 ;
   R2 5 and R26 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkyl, substituted or
   unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 heteroalkyl, substituted or
                                                            -51 -

     unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C1 2 aryl, or substituted
     or unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroaryl; or R 25 and R 26 together with the nitrogen to which they
     are attached form a heterocycloalkyl ring;
     or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00220] In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (Ta) wherein Ar is substituted or
unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl. In a further embodiment, Ar is
substituted or unsubstituted aryl. In yet a further embodiment, Ar is phenyl. In another
embodiment, Ar is substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl. In a further embodiment, Ar is
indolyl, oxazolyl, furanyl, thienyl, pyrrolyl, pyrazolyl, pyridinyl, pyrazinyl, pyrimidinyl,
pyridazinyl, quinazolinyl, quinoxalinyl, quinolinyl, or isoquinolinyl.
[00221] In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (Ta) wherein Z is C(=0), NHC(=0),
N(CH 3 )C(=O), or S(=0) 2 . In some embodiments, Z is C(=O). In some embodiments, Z is
NHC(=O). In some embodiments, Z is N(CH 3 )C(=O). In some embodiments, Z is S(=0) 2 .
[00222] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (Ta) wherein R6 , R7 and Rs are H. In
another embodiment is a compound of Formula (Ta) wherein R7 and Rs are H and R6 is L-J-W.
In a further embodiment, R6 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-Csalkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted C1-C 6heteroalkyl, (C1-C 6dialkylamino)C1 -C6alkyl, (C-C       6 alkyl)(C 3
C 6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkylC 3-C 6 cycloalkyl, or C1
C 4 alkyl(C 2 -C7heterocycloalkyl). In yet a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (Ta)
wherein R6 is substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C 6alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1
C6heteroalkyl, (C1-C 6 dialkylamino)C1 -C6 alkyl, or ((C1-C 6alkyl)(C 3-C6cycloalkyl)amino)C 1
Calkyl. In some embodiments, R 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl. In some
embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 6 heteroalkyl.
In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted (C1 -C6 dialkylamino)C1 -C6 alkyl. In
some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted ((C 1 -C6 alkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)C 1
Calkyl.
[00223] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (Ta) wherein R 6 and Rs are H and R7
is L-J-W. In a further embodiment, R 7 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -Calkyl, substituted
or unsubstituted C1-C 6heteroalkyl, (C1-C 6 dialkylamino)C1 -C6 alkyl, ((C1-C 6 alkyl)(C 3
C 6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkylC 3-C 6 cycloalkyl, or C1
C 4 alkyl(C 2 -C7heterocycloalkyl). In yet a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (Ta)
wherein R7 is substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1
C6heteroalkyl, (CI-C 6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl, or ((C1-C 6alkyl)(C 3-C6cycloalkyl)amino)C1
Calkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl. In some
embodiments, R7 is substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C 6heteroalkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is
                                                  - 52 -

substituted or unsubstituted (C 1 -C 6dialkylamino)C 1 -C6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is
substituted or unsubstituted ((C1-C 6 alkyl)(C 3 -C 6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl.
[00224] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (Ta) wherein R6 and Rs are H; R7 is
L-J-W; L is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 alkylene, or substituted or unsubstituted
C3 -C6 cycloalkylene; and J is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene, substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 heteroalkylene, substituted
or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6-C12 arylene, or
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroarylene. In further embodiments, L is a bond. In
further embodiments, L is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene. In further
embodiments, L is substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene. In yet a further embodiment, L
is -CH 2-. In further embodiments, J is substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkylene, substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 heteroalkylene, substituted
or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, or
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroarylene. In some embodiments, J is substituted or
unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene. In further embodiments, J is -CH 2-. In some embodiments, J is
substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 cycloalkylene. In further embodiments, J is cyclopropyl. In
some embodiments, J is substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene. In further
embodiments, J is pyrrolidinyl, piperidinyl, piperizinyl, morpholinyl, imidazolyl, or pyridiny. In
a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (Ta),
wherein W is H. In another embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of
Formula (Ta), wherein W is halogen. In another embodiment of the aforementioned
embodiments is a compound of Formula (Ta), wherein W is -CN. In another embodiment of the
aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (Ta), wherein W is NR 25 R 2 6 . In a
further embodiment, R 25 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkyl, or substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl; and R 26 is substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 heteroalkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C12 aryl, or substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroaryl. In another embodiment, R 25 and R 26 are substituted or
unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R 25 and R 26 are -CH 3 . In another
embodiment, R 25 and R 26 are substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl. In some
embodiments, R 25 and R 2 6 are cyclopropyl. In another embodiment, R 2 5 is H; and R 2 6 is
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is H and R 2 6 is
cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is H and R 26 is cyclobutyl. In another embodiment, R 25
is substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 alkyl; and R 2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is -CH 3 and R 2 6 is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments,
                                                  - 53 -

R25 is -CH 3 and R 2 6 is cyclobutyl. In another embodiment embodiment is a compound of
Formula (Ta), wherein R 25 and R 2 6 together with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a
heterocycloalkyl ring.
[00225] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (Ta) wherein R7 and Rs taken together
form a bond; and R 6 is L-J-W. In further embodiments, R6 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C1
C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6heteroalkyl, (C1-C   6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl, (i
C6 alkyl)(C 3 -C 6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkylC 3
C 6 cycloalkyl, or C 1 -C4 alkyl(C 2 -C7heterocycloalkyl). In further embodiments, R6 is substituted
or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6heteroalkyl, (C 1
C6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl, or ((C1-C 6alkyl)(C 3-C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some
embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is
substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6heteroalkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is (C1
C6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R 6 is ((C1-C 6 alkyl)(C 3
C 6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl.
[00226] In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (Ta) wherein R 2 4 is each independently
halogen, -NH 2, -N(CH 3) 2, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkoxy,
substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, or
substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 2 4 is substituted or
unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments, R 2 4 is substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl. In
some embodiments, R 2 4 is substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl. In some embodiments,
R 2 4 is halogen. In further embodiments, R 2 4 is F, Cl or Br.
[00227] In a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula
(Ta), wherein n is 0. In some embodiments, n is 1. In some embodiments, n is 2. In some
embodiments, n is 3. In some embodiments, n is 4.
[00228] In a further embodiment are compounds having the structure of Formula (Ib):
                                                   - 54 -

                                                                      o--Ar
                                                       (R24)n1
                                                       NH 2
                                                 N      N      N
                                                       N       N
                                                                       R6
                                                               z
                                                                    ZR7
                                                                  R8
                                                        Formula (Ib);
wherein:
   Ar is a substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl;
   Z is C(=O), N(R 2 1 )C(=O), C(=S), S(=O)x, OS(=O)x, or N(R 21)S(=O)x, where x is 1 or 2;
   each R 2 4 is each independently halogen, -CN, -NO 2 , -OH, -OCF 3, -OCH 2F, -OCF 2H, -CF 3 ,
   SR 2 1 , -N(R 21 )S(=O) 2 R 23 , -S(=O) 2N(R 2 1 )(R 2 2 ), -S(=O)R    2 3, -S(=0) 2 R 23 , -C(=O)R 23 ,
   OC(=O)R     23 , -C0 2 R 2 1 , -N(R 2 1 )(R 2 2 ), -C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22), -N(R 21)C(=O)R       23 ,
   -N(R 2 1)C(=O)OR 2 2 , -N(R 2 1 )C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 2 2 ), substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted
   or unsubstituted alkoxy, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl;
   R 2 1 and R 2 2 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted
   or unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
   R 2 3 is each independently substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted or
   unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
   n is 0-4;
   R 6 is H or L-J-W;
   R7   and Rs are independently H or L-J-W; or R7 and Rs taken together form a bond;
   L and J are each independently a bond, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkylene,
   substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6
   heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or
   unsubstituted C6 -C12 arylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C1 2 heteroarylene, -CO-, -0-,
   or -S-;
   W is H, halogen, -CN, or NR 25 R 2 6 ;
                                                             - 55 -

     R 25 and R 26 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkyl, substituted or
     unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 heteroalkyl, substituted or
     unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C12 aryl, or substituted
     or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroaryl; or R 25 and R 26 together with the nitrogen to which they
     are attached form a heterocycloalkyl ring;
     or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00229] In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (Ib) wherein Ar is substituted or
unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl. In a further embodiment, Ar is
substituted or unsubstituted aryl. In yet a further embodiment, Ar is phenyl. In another
embodiment, Ar is substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl. In a further embodiment, Ar is
indolyl, oxazolyl, furanyl, thienyl, pyrrolyl, pyrazolyl, pyridinyl, pyrazinyl, pyrimidinyl,
pyridazinyl, quinazolinyl, quinoxalinyl, quinolinyl, or isoquinolinyl.
[00230] In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (Ib) wherein Z is C(=0), NHC(=0),
N(CH 3 )C(=O), or S(=0) 2 . In some embodiments, Z is C(=O). In some embodiments, Z is
NHC(=O). In some embodiments, Z is N(CH 3 )C(=O). In some embodiments, Z is S(=0) 2 .
[00231] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (Ib) wherein R6 , R7 and Rs are H. In
another embodiment is a compound of Formula (Ib) wherein R7 and Rs are H and R6 is L-J-W.
In a further embodiment, R6 is H, substituted or unsubstituted CI-Calkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted C1 -C6heteroalkyl, (C1-C 6dialkylamino)CI-C 6alkyl, (I-Calkyl)(C          3
C 6 cycloalkyl)amino)C 1 -C6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkylC 3-C 6 cycloalkyl, or C1
C 4 alkyl(C 2 -C7heterocycloalkyl). In yet a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (Ib)
wherein R6 is substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted CI
C6heteroalkyl, (CI-C 6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl, or ((C1-C 6alkyl)(C 3-C6cycloalkyl)amino)C1
Calkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl. In some
embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 6 heteroalkyl.
In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted (CI-C 6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In
some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted ((CI-C 6 alkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)C1
Calkyl.
[00232] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (Ib) wherein R6 and Rs are H and R7
is L-J-W. In a further embodiment, R7 is H, substituted or unsubstituted CI-Calkyl, substituted
or unsubstituted C1-C 6heteroalkyl, (C1-C 6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl, ((Ci-C 6 alkyl)(C 3
C 6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkylC 3-C 6 cycloalkyl, or C1
C 4 alkyl(C 2 -C7heterocycloalkyl). In yet a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (Ib)
wherein R7 is substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1
C6heteroalkyl, (CI-C 6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl, or ((CI-C 6alkyl)(C 3-C6cycloalkyl)amino)C1
                                                   - 56 -

C6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 alkyl. In some
embodiments, R7 is substituted or unsubstituted substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 6 heteroalkyl.
In some embodiments, R7 is substituted or unsubstituted (CI-C 6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In
some embodiments, R7 is substituted or unsubstituted ((C 1 -C6 alkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)C 1
Calkyl.
[00233] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (Ib) wherein R6 and Rs are H; R7 is
L-J-W; L is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene, or substituted or unsubstituted
C3 -C6 cycloalkylene; and J is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene, substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 heteroalkylene, substituted
or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, or
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroarylene. In further embodiments, L is a bond. In
further embodiments, L is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene. In further
embodiments, L is substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene. In yet a further embodiment, L
is -CH 2-. In further embodiments, J is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C    6 alkylene, substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 heteroalkylene, substituted
or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, or
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroarylene. In some embodiments, J is substituted or
unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene. In further embodiments, J is -CH 2-. In some embodiments, J is
substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 cycloalkylene. In further embodiments, J is cyclopropyl. In
some embodiments, J is substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene. In further
embodiments, J is pyrrolidinyl, piperidinyl, piperizinyl, morpholinyl, imidazolyl, or pyridiny. In
a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (Ib),
wherein W is H. In another embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of
Formula (Ib), wherein W is halogen. In another embodiment of the aforementioned
embodiments is a compound of Formula (Ib), wherein W is -CN. In another embodiment of the
aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (Ib), wherein W is NR 25 R 2 6. In a
further embodiment, R 25 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C   6 alkyl, or substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl; and R 26 is substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 heteroalkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C12 aryl, or substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroaryl. In another embodiment, R 25 and R 26 are substituted or
unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R 25 and R 26 are -CH 3 . In another
embodiment, R 25 and R 26 are substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl. In some
embodiments, R 25 and R 2 6 are cyclopropyl. In another embodiment, R 2 5 is H; and R 2 6 is
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is H and R 26 is
                                                 - 57 -

cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is H and R 26 is cyclobutyl. In another embodiment, R 25
is substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 alkyl; and R 2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 2 5 is -CH 3 and R 2 6 is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments,
R 25 is -CH 3 and R 2 6 is cyclobutyl. In another embodiment embodiment is a compound of
Formula (Ib), wherein R 25 and R 26 together with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a
heterocycloalkyl ring.
[00234] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (Ib) wherein R7 and Rs taken
together form a bond; and R6 is L-J-W. In further embodiments, R6 is H, substituted or
unsubstituted C1 -Calkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6heteroalkyl, (C 1 -C6 dialkylamino)C1
Calkyl, ((CI-C 6 alkyl)(C 3 -C 6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1
C 6 alkylC 3-C 6 cycloalkyl, or C1-C 4 alkyl(C 2 -C7heterocycloalkyl). In further embodiments, R6 is
substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6heteroalkyl, (C 1
C6 dialkylamino)C 1 -C6 alkyl, or ((C1-C 6 alkyl)(C 3-C6 cycloalkyl)amino)C 1 -C6 alkyl. In some
embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is
substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6heteroalkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is (C1
C6 dialkylamino)C 1 -C6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R 6 is ((C1 -C6 alkyl)(C 3
C 6 cycloalkyl)amino)C 1-C 6alkyl.
[00235] In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (Ib) wherein R 2 4 is each independently
halogen, -NH 2, -N(CH 3) 2, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkoxy,
substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, or
substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 2 4 is substituted or
unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments, R 2 4 is substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl. In
some embodiments, R 2 4 is substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl. In some embodiments,
R 2 4 is halogen. In further embodiments, R 2 4 is F, Cl or Br.
[00236] In a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula
(Ib), wherein n is 0. In some embodiments, n is 1. In some embodiments, n is 2. In some
embodiments, n is 3. In some embodiments, n is 4.
[00237] In a further embodiment are compounds having the structure of Formula (II):
                                                                 |5N
                                               (R24)n
                                              NH2
                                              N      :
                                                          p   R3
                                                      - 58  -

                                                        Formula (II);
wherein:
   La is a bond, -CH 2 -, -CH(OH)-, -C(O)-, -CH 2 0-, -OCH 2 -, -SCH 2 , -CH 2 S-, -N(R2 1)-,
   N(R 21)C(O)-, -C(O)N(R 2 1)-, -N(R 2 1)C(O)N(R 2 1)-, -0-, -S-, -S(O)-, -S(O) 2-, -N(R 21)S(O) 2-,
   or -S(O)2N(R21)-;
   Ar is a substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl,
   substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl;
           - -Y--Z            R6
   R 3 is         R8          R7;
   Y is an optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl;
   Z is C(=O), OC(=O), N(R 2 1)C(=O), C(=S), S(=O)x, OS(=O)x, or N(R 2 1)S(=O)x, where x is 1
   or 2;
   each R 2 4 is each independently halogen, -CN, -NO 2 , -OH, -OCF 3, -OCH 2F, -OCF 2H, -CF 3 ,
   SR 2 1, -N(R 21)S(=O) 2R 23, -S(=O) 2N(R 2 1)(R 2 2), -S(=O)R         2 3, -S(=0) 2R 23, -C(=O)R 23 ,
   OC(=O)R     23 , -C0 2 R 2 1 , -N(R 2 1 )(R 2 2 ), -C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22), -N(R 21)C(=O)R    23 ,
   -N(R 2 1)C(=O)OR 22 , -N(R 21 )C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22 ), substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted
   or unsubstituted alkoxy, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl;
   R2 1 and R 2 2 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted
   or unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
   R2 3 is each independently substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted or
   unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
   n is 0-4;
   p is 0-2;
   R 6 and Rs are independently H or L-J, and R7 is T-W; or
   R 6 and R7 are independently H or L-J, and Rs is T-W; or
   R7 and Rs are independently H or L-J, and R6 is T-W; or
   R7 and Rs taken together form a bond, and R6 is T-W;
   L is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
   cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 6 heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted
   C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6-C12 arylene, substituted or
   unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroarylene, -CO-, -0-, or -S-;
   J is substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl,
   substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7
                                                           - 59 -

    heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, NR 27R 28 , or substituted or
    unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroaryl;
    T is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
    cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 6 heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted
    C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, substituted or
    unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroarylene, or -S-;
    W is NR 25 R 2 6 , -CN, substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkyl, or substituted or
    unsubstituted C-linked C2 -C7heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 6 -C 12 aryl, or
    substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroaryl;
    R 25 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
    cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7
    heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3
    C12   heteroaryl;
    R 2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6
    heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
    C 6 -C 12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroaryl;
    R 2 7 and R 2 8 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkyl, substituted
    or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C6 heteroalkyl, substituted
    or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, or
    substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroaryl; or R 2 7 and R 2 8 together with the nitrogen to
    which they are attached form a heterocycloalkyl ring;
    or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00238] In one embodiment is a compound of Formula (II) wherein La is bond, -CH 2 -,
CH(OH)-, -C(O)-, -CH 2 0-, -OCH 2 -, -SCH 2 , -CH 2 S-, -N(H)-, -N(H)C(O)-, -C(O)N(H)-,
N(H)C(O)N(H)-, -0-, -S-, -S(O)-, -S(0) 2 -, -N(H)S(0) 2 -, or -S(0) 2N(H)-. In further
embodiments, La is a bond, -CH 2 -, -CH(OH)-, -C(O)-, -CH 2 0-, -OCH 2 -, -SCH 2, -CH 2 S-, -N(H)-,
-N(H)C(O)-, -C(O)N(H)-, -N(H)C(O)N(H)-, -0-, or -S-. In further embodiments, La is -CH 20-,
-OCH 2 -, -SCH 2 , -CH 2 S-, -N(H)-, -0-, or -S-. In further embodiments, La is -OCH 2 -, or -0-. In
further embodiments, La is -OCH 2-. In further embodiments, La is -0-. In further embodiments,
La is -CH 20-.      In further embodiments, La is -N(H)-. In further embodiments, La is -S-. In
further embodiments, La is -CH 2-. In further embodiments, La is a bond.
[00239] In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (II) wherein Ar is substituted or
unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl. In a further embodiment, Ar is
substituted or unsubstituted aryl. In yet a further embodiment, Ar is phenyl. In another
embodiment, Ar is substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl. In a further embodiment, Ar is
                                                   - 60 -

indolyl, oxazolyl, furanyl, thienyl, pyrrolyl, pyrazolyl, pyridinyl, pyrazinyl, pyrimidinyl,
pyridazinyl, quinazolinyl, quinoxalinyl, quinolinyl, or isoquinolinyl.
[00240] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (II) wherein Z is C(=0), NHC(=0),
N(CH 3 )C(=O), or S(=0) 2 . In some embodiments, Z is C(=O). In some embodiments, Z is
NHC(=O). In some embodiments, Z is N(CH 3 )C(=O). In some embodiments, Z is S(=0) 2 .
[00241] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (II) wherein R7 and Rs are H and R6
is T-W. In a further embodiment, T is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted CI-Calkylene, or
substituted or unsubstituted C 3 -C6 cycloalkylene. In some embodiments, T is a bond. In some
embodiments, T is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene. In some embodiments, T is
substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkylene. In a further embodiment, T is -CH 2-. In a further
embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (II), wherein W is
substituted or unsubstituted C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C-linked C2
C 7heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3
C 12 heteroarylene. In some embodiments, W is substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkyl. In
further embodiments, W is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, W is substituted or
unsubstituted C6 -C12 aryl. In further embodiments, W is phenyl. In some embodiments, W is
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroaryl. In some embodiments, W is imidazolyl. In some
embodiments, W is pyridinyl. In another embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a
compound of Formula (II), wherein W is -CN. In another embodiment of the aforementioned
embodiments is a compound of Formula (II), wherein W is NR 25 R 2 6 . In a further embodiment,
R25 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
cycloalkyl; and R2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
C 1 -C6 heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted C6 -C12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroaryl. In some
embodiments, R25 and R2 6 are cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R25 is H and R2 6 is
cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R25 is H and R 26 is cyclobutyl. In some embodiments, R25
is -CH 3 and R 2 6 is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is -CH 3 and R2 6 is cyclobutyl.
[00242] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (II) wherein R6 and Rs are H and R7
is T-W. In a further embodiment, T is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-Calkylene, or
substituted or unsubstituted C 3 -C6 cycloalkylene. In some embodiments, T is a bond. In some
embodiments, T is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene. In some embodiments, T is
substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 alkylene. In a further embodiment, T is -CH 2-. In a further
embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (II), wherein W is
substituted or unsubstituted C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C-linked C2
C 7heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3
                                                 - 61 -

C12 heteroaryl. In some embodiments, W is substituted or unsubstituted C3-C6 cycloalkyl. In
further embodiments, W is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, W is substituted or
unsubstituted C6 -C12 aryl. In further embodiments, W is phenyl. In some embodiments, W is
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroaryl. In some embodiments, W is imidazolyl. In some
embodiments, W is pyridinyl. In another embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a
compound of Formula (II), wherein W is NR 25 R 2 6 . In a further embodiment, R 25 is H,
substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl; and
R 2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6
heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6
C 12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 12 heteroaryl. In another embodiment, R 25 and R 26
are substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl.      In some embodiments, R 25 and R 26 are
cyclopropyl. In another embodiment, R 25 is H; and R 26 is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is H and R 26 is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25
is H and R 2 6 is cyclobutyl. In another embodiment, R 25 is substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6
alkyl; and R 2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is
CH 3 and R 2 6 is cyclopropyl.
[00243] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (II) wherein R7 and Rs taken together
form a bond and R 6 is T-W. In a further embodiment, T is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted
Ci-C 6 alkylene, or substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkylene. In some embodiments, T is a
bond. In some embodiments, T is substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkylene. In some
embodiments, T is substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkylene. In a further embodiment, T is
CH 2 -. In a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula
(II), wherein W is substituted or unsubstituted C 3 -C 6cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C
linked C2 -C7heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroarylene. In some embodiments, W is substituted or unsubstituted C3
C 6 cycloalkyl. In further embodiments, W is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, W is
substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl. In further embodiments, W is phenyl. In some
embodiments, W is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroaryl. In some embodiments, W is
imidazolyl. In some embodiments, W is pyridinyl. In another embodiment of the
aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (II), wherein W is NR 25 R 2 6 . In a
further embodiment, R25 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkyl, or substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl; and R26 is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7
heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C12
heteroaryl. In some embodiments, R25 and R26 are cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R25 is H
                                                  - 62 -

and R 26 is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is H and R 26 is cyclobutyl. In some
embodiments, R 25 is -CH 3 and R 2 6 is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is -CH 3 and R 2 6 is
cyclobutyl.
[00244] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (II) wherein Y is optionally
substituted pyrrolidinyl. In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (II) wherein Y is
optionally substituted piperidinyl.
[00245] In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (II) wherein R 2 4 is each independently
halogen, -NH 2, -N(CH 3) 2, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkoxy,
substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, or
substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 2 4 is substituted or
unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments, R 2 4 is substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl. In
some embodiments, R 2 4 is substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl. In some embodiments,
R 2 4 is halogen. In further embodiments, R 2 4 is F, Cl or Br.
[00246] In a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula
(II), wherein n is 0. In some embodiments, n is 1. In some embodiments, n is 2. In some
embodiments, n is 3. In some embodiments, n is 4. In a further embodiment of the
aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (II), wherein p is 0. In some
embodiments, p is 1. In some embodiments, p is 2.
[00247] In a further embodiment are compounds having the structure of Formula (Ila):
                                                             '\Ar
                                            (R24)n
                                           NH  2
                                       N     N~     N
                                        tN          N
                                                     (  N Z
                                                                   R6
                                                                          R7
                                                           z
                                                                  e
                                                                    R8
                                                 Formula (Ila);
wherein:
      Ar is a substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl;
      Z is C(=O);
      each R 2 4 is each independently halogen, -CN, -NO 2 , -OH, -OCF 3, -OCH 2F, -OCF 2H, -CF 3 ,
      SR 2 1, -N(R 21)S(=0) 2R 23, -S(=0) 2N(R 2 1)(R 2 2), -S(=O)R    2 3, -S(=0) 2R 23, -C(=O)R 23 ,
                                                      - 63   -

OC(=O)R      23 , -C0 2 R 2 1 , -N(R 2 1 )(R 2 2 ), -C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22), -N(R 21)C(=O)R 23 ,
-N(R 2 1)C(=O)OR 22 , -N(R 21)C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22), substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted
or unsubstituted alkoxy, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl;
R 2 1 and R 2 2 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C 6alkyl, or substituted
or unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
R 2 3 is each independently substituted or unsubstituted CI-Calkyl, or substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
n is 0-4;
R 6 and Rs are independently H or L-J, and R7 is T-W; or
R 6 and R7 are independently H or L-J, and Rs is T-W; or
R 7 and Rs are independently H or L-J, and R6 is T-W; or
R 7 and Rs taken together form a bond, and R6 is T-W;
L is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 alkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted
C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroarylene, -CO-, -0-, or -S-;
J is substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7
heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C1 2 aryl, NR 27R 2s, or substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroaryl;
T is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 6 alkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted
C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroarylene, or -S-;
W is NR 25 R 2 6 , -CN, substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkyl, or substituted or
unsubstituted C-linked C2 -C7heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C1 2 aryl, or
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C1 2 heteroaryl;
R 25 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7
heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C1 2 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3
C 12 heteroaryl;
R 2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6
heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
C 6 -C1 2 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C1 2 heteroaryl;
                                                        - 64 -

     R 2 7 and R 2 8 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkyl, substituted
     or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 heteroalkyl, substituted
     or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, or
     substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroaryl; or R 2 7 and R 2 8 together with the nitrogen to
     which they are attached form a heterocycloalkyl ring;
     or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00248] In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (Ila) wherein Ar is substituted or
unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl. In a further embodiment, Ar is
substituted or unsubstituted aryl. In yet a further embodiment, Ar is phenyl. In another
embodiment, Ar is substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl. In a further embodiment, Ar is
indolyl, oxazolyl, furanyl, thienyl, pyrrolyl, pyrazolyl, pyridinyl, pyrazinyl, pyrimidinyl,
pyridazinyl, quinazolinyl, quinoxalinyl, quinolinyl, or isoquinolinyl.
[00249] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (Ila) wherein R7 and R8 are H and R6
is T-W. In a further embodiment, T is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkylene, or
substituted or unsubstituted C 3 -C6 cycloalkylene. In some embodiments, T is a bond. In some
embodiments, T is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene. In some embodiments, T is
substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkylene. In a further embodiment, T is -CH 2-. In a further
embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (Ila), wherein W is
substituted or unsubstituted C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C-linked C2
C 7heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3
C 12 heteroaryl. In some embodiments, W is substituted or unsubstituted C3-C 6 cycloalkyl. In
further embodiments, W is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, W is substituted or
unsubstituted C6 -C12 aryl. In further embodiments, W is phenyl. In some embodiments, W is
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroaryl. In some embodiments, W is imidazolyl. In some
embodiments, W is pyridinyl. In another embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a
compound of Formula (Ila), wherein W is -CN. In another embodiment of the aforementioned
embodiments is a compound of Formula (Ila), wherein W is NR 25 R 2 6. In a further embodiment,
R 25 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
cycloalkyl; and R 26 is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
Ci-C 6   heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroaryl. In some
embodiments, R 25 and R 2 6 are cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is H and R 2 6 is
cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is H and R 26 is cyclobutyl. In some embodiments, R 25
is -CH 3 and R 2 6 is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is -CH 3 and R 2 6 is cyclobutyl.
[00250] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (Ila) wherein R6 and R8 are H and R7
                                                  - 65 -

is T-W. In a further embodiment, T is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkylene, or
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene. In some embodiments, T is a bond. In some
embodiments, T is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene. In some embodiments, T is
substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkylene. In a further embodiment, T is -CH 2-. In a further
embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (Ila), wherein W is
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C-linked C2
C7heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3
C12 heteroarylene. In some embodiments, W is substituted or unsubstituted C3-C6cycloalkyl. In
further embodiments, W is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, W is substituted or
unsubstituted C6 -C12 aryl. In further embodiments, W is phenyl. In some embodiments, W is
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroaryl. In some embodiments, W is imidazolyl. In some
embodiments, W is pyridinyl. In another embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a
compound of Formula (Ila), wherein W is NR 25 R 2 6. In a further embodiment, R 25 is H,
substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl; and
R 2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6
heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6
C 12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3-C 12 heteroaryl. In another embodiment, R 25 and R 26
are substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 25 and R 26 are
cyclopropyl. In another embodiment, R 25 is H; and R 2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 2 5 is H and R 26 is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25
is H and R 2 6 is cyclobutyl. In another embodiment, R 25 is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6
alkyl; and R 2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is
CH 3 and R 2 6 is cyclopropyl.
[00251] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (Ila) wherein R7 and Rs taken
together form a bond and R6 is T-W. In a further embodiment, T is a bond, substituted or
unsubstituted Ci-Calkylene, or substituted or unsubstituted C3-C6cycloalkylene. In some
embodiments, T is a bond. In some embodiments, T is substituted or unsubstituted C3
C6 cycloalkylene. In some embodiments, T is substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkylene. In a
further embodiment, T is -CH 2-. In a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is
a compound of Formula (Ila), wherein W is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted C-linked C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C12
arylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroarylene. In some embodiments, W is
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl. In further embodiments, W is cyclopropyl. In
some embodiments, W is substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C12 aryl. In further embodiments, W is
phenyl. In some embodiments, W is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroaryl. In some
                                                  - 66 -

embodiments, W is imidazolyl. In some embodiments, W is pyridinyl. In another embodiment
of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (Ila), wherein W is NR 25 R2 6. In
a further embodiment, R25 is H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkyl, or substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl; and R26 is substituted or unsubstituted C3-C6 cycloalkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7
heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C1 2 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3-C12
heteroaryl. In some embodiments, R 25 and R26 are cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is H
and R 26 is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is H and R 26 is cyclobutyl. In some
embodiments, R 25 is -CH 3 and R 26 is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is -CH 3 and R 26 is
cyclobutyl.
[00252] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (Ila) wherein R6 is H; Rs is -CN; and
R7 is L-J. In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (Ila) wherein R6 is H; Rs is -CN;
and R7 is C3-C6 cycloalkyl, C6 -C12 aryl, or C3-C1 2 heteroaryl. In another embodiment is a
compound of Formula (Ila) wherein R6 is H; Rs is -CN; and R7 is cyclopropyl or phenyl.
[00253] In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (Ila) wherein R 24 is each
independently halogen, -NH 2, -N(CH 3)2, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted alkoxy, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 24 is
substituted or unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments, R24 is substituted or unsubstituted
cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R24 is substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl. In some
embodiments, R24 is halogen. In further embodiments, R24 is F, Cl or Br.
[00254] In a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula
(Ila), wherein n is 0. In some embodiments, n is 1. In some embodiments, n is 2. In some
embodiments, n is 3. In some embodiments, n is 4.
[00255] In another embodiment are compounds having the structure of Formula (I1b):
                                                     0OA
                                      (R24)n,
                                      NH2
                                   N   N      N
                                   tN         N
                                                          R6
                                                 N Z              R7
                                                           R6
                                                - 67 -

                                                       Formula (Ib);
wherein:
   Ar is a substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl;
   Z is C(=O);
   each R 2 4 is each independently halogen, -CN, -NO 2 , -OH, -OCF 3, -OCH 2F, -OCF 2H, -CF 3 ,
   SR 2 1, -N(R 21)S(=O) 2R 23, -S(=O) 2N(R 2 1)(R 2 2), -S(=O)R         2 3, -S(=0) 2R 23, -C(=O)R 23 ,
   OC(=O)R     23 , -C0 2 R 2 1 , -N(R 2 1 )(R 2 2 ), -C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22), -N(R 21)C(=O)R    23 ,
   -N(R 2 1)C(=O)OR 22 , -N(R 21 )C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22 ), substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted
   or unsubstituted alkoxy, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl;
   R 2 1 and R 2 2 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted
   or unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
   R 2 3 is each independently substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted or
   unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
   n is 0-4;
   R 6 and Rs are independently H or L-J, and R7 is T-W; or
   R 6 and R7 are independently H or L-J, and Rs is T-W; or
   R 7 and Rs are independently H or L-J, and R6 is T-W; or
   R 7 and Rs taken together form a bond, and R6 is T-W;
   L is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
   cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 6 heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted
   C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6-C12 arylene, substituted or
   unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroarylene, -CO-, -0-, or -S-;
   J is substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl,
   substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7
   heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C1 2 aryl, NR 27R 2s, or substituted or
   unsubstituted C3 -C1 2 heteroaryl;
   T is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
   cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 6 heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted
   C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6-C12 arylene, substituted or
   unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroarylene, or -S-;
   W is NR 25 R 2 6 , -CN, substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkyl, or substituted or
   unsubstituted C-linked C2 -C7heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C1 2 aryl, or
   substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C1 2 heteroaryl;
                                                           - 68 -

      R 25 is H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
      cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7
      heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3
      C12   heteroaryl;
      R 2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C6
      heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
      C 6 -C 12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroaryl;
      R 2 7 and R 2 8 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkyl, substituted
      or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 heteroalkyl, substituted
      or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, or
      substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroaryl; or R 2 7 and R 2 8 together with the nitrogen to
      which they are attached form a heterocycloalkyl ring;
      or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00256] In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (1Ib) wherein Ar is substituted or
unsubstituted aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl. In a further embodiment, Ar is
substituted or unsubstituted aryl. In yet a further embodiment, Ar is phenyl. In another
embodiment, Ar is substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl. In a further embodiment, Ar is
indolyl, oxazolyl, furanyl, thienyl, pyrrolyl, pyrazolyl, pyridinyl, pyrazinyl, pyrimidinyl,
pyridazinyl, quinazolinyl, quinoxalinyl, quinolinyl, or isoquinolinyl.
[00257] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (1Ib) wherein R7 and R 8 are H and R6
is T-W. In a further embodiment, T is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6alkylene, or
substituted or unsubstituted C 3 -C 6cycloalkylene. In some embodiments, T is a bond. In some
embodiments, T is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 6cycloalkylene. In some embodiments, T is
substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkylene. In a further embodiment, T is -CH 2-. In a further
embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (1Ib), wherein W is
substituted or unsubstituted C 3 -C 6cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C-linked C2
C 7heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3
C 12 heteroarylene. In some embodiments, W is substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkyl. In
further embodiments, W is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, W is substituted or
unsubstituted C6 -C12 aryl. In further embodiments, W is phenyl. In some embodiments, W is
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroaryl. In some embodiments, W is imidazolyl. In some
embodiments, W is pyridinyl. In another embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a
compound of Formula (1Ib), wherein W is -CN. In another embodiment of the aforementioned
embodiments is a compound of Formula (1Ib), wherein W is NR 25 R 2 6 . In a further embodiment,
R 2 5 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
                                                     - 69 -

cycloalkyl; and R 26 is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
C 1 -C6 heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted C6 -C12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroaryl. In some
embodiments, R 25 and R 2 6 are cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is H and R 2 6 is
cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is H and R 26 is cyclobutyl. In some embodiments, R 25
is -CH 3 and R 2 6 is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is -CH 3 and R 2 6 is cyclobutyl.
[00258] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (1Ib) wherein R6 and Rs are H and R7
is T-W. In a further embodiment, T is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkylene, or
substituted or unsubstituted C 3 -C6 cycloalkylene. In some embodiments, T is a bond. In some
embodiments, T is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene. In some embodiments, T is
substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkylene. In a further embodiment, T is -CH 2-. In a further
embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (1Ib), wherein W is
substituted or unsubstituted C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C-linked C2
C 7heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3
C 12 heteroaryl. In some embodiments, W is substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6 cycloalkyl. In
further embodiments, W is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, W is substituted or
unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl. In further embodiments, W is phenyl. In some embodiments, W is
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroaryl. In some embodiments, W is imidazolyl. In some
embodiments, W is pyridinyl. In another embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a
compound of Formula (1Ib), wherein W is NR 25 R 2 6 . In a further embodiment, R 25 is H,
substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl; and
R 2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6
heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6
C 12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 12 heteroaryl. In another embodiment, R 25 and R 26
are substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl.      In some embodiments, R 25 and R 26 are
cyclopropyl. In another embodiment, R 25 is H; and R 2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is H and R 2 6 is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25
is H and R 2 6 is cyclobutyl. In another embodiment, R 25 is substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6
alkyl; and R 26 is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is
CH 3 and R 2 6 is cyclopropyl.
[00259] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (1Ib) wherein R7 and Rs taken
together form a bond and R6 is T-W. In a further embodiment, T is a bond, substituted or
unsubstituted C1-Calkylene, or substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkylene. In some
embodiments, T is a bond. In some embodiments, T is substituted or unsubstituted C3
C 6 cycloalkylene. In some embodiments, T is substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 alkylene. In a
                                                  - 70 -

further embodiment, T is -CH 2-. In a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is
a compound of Formula (Ilb), wherein W is substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted C-linked C 2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12
arylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 1 2 heteroarylene. In some embodiments, W is
substituted or unsubstituted C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl. In further embodiments, W is cyclopropyl. In
some embodiments, W is substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 1 2 aryl. In further embodiments, W is
phenyl. In some embodiments, W is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroaryl. In some
embodiments, W is imidazolyl. In some embodiments, W is pyridinyl. In another embodiment
of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (Ib), wherein W is NR 25 R 2 6 . In
a further embodiment, R 25 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkyl, or substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl; and R 2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7
heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C12
heteroaryl. In some embodiments, R 25 and R 2 6 are cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is H
and R 2 6 is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is H and R 2 6 is cyclobutyl. In some
embodiments, R 25 is -CH 3 and R 26 is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is -CH 3 and R 26 is
cyclobutyl.
[00260] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (1Ib) wherein R6 is H; Rs is -CN; and
R 7 is L-J. In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (Ilb) wherein R 6 is H; Rs is -CN;
and R7 is C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, C6 -C 1 2 aryl, or C3 -C 12 heteroaryl. In another embodiment is a
compound of Formula (1Ib) wherein R6 is H; Rs is -CN; and R7 is cyclopropyl or phenyl.
[00261] In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (1Ib) wherein R 2 4 is each
independently halogen, -NH 2, -N(CH 3) 2, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted alkoxy, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 24 is
substituted or unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments, R 2 4 is substituted or unsubstituted
cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 2 4 is substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl. In some
embodiments, R 2 4 is halogen. In further embodiments, R 2 4 is F, Cl or Br.
[00262] In a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula
(1Ib), wherein n is 0. In some embodiments, n is 1. In some embodiments, n is 2. In some
embodiments, n is 3. In some embodiments, n is 4.
[00263] In a further embodiment are compounds having the structure of Formula (III):
                                                    - 71 -

                                                        (R24)n             R20
                                                          NH2
                                                                  N
                                                          N       N
                                                                    P R3
                                                         Formula (III);
wherein:
   A is aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl, or heterocycloalkyl;
   R 2 0 is H, halogen, -CN, -CF 3 , -NO 2 , -OH, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl,
   N(R 2 1)C(=O)R 2 3, -C(=O)N(R 21)(R22), -O-(Ci-C 6 alkyl), -O-alkylene-OR 2 1, -CO 2 H, -0
   alkylene-CO 2 H, -O-alkylene-C(=O)N(R                    21 )(R 22 ), or -N(R2 1)C(=0)N(R 2 1)(R 2 2);
   each R 2 1 is independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted or
   unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
   each R 2 2 is independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted or
   unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
   each R 2 3 is independently substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted or
   unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
   each R 2 4 is each independently halogen, -CN, -NO 2 , -OH, -OCF 3, -OCH 2 F, -OCF 2H, -CF 3 ,
   SR 2 1 , -N(R 21 )S(=0) 2 R 23 , -S(=0) 2N(R 2 1 )(R 2 2 ), -S(=O)R         2 3, -S(=0) 2 R 23 , -C(=O)R 23 ,
   OC(=O)R      23 , -C0 2 R 2 1 , -N(R 2 1 )(R 2 2 ), -C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22), -N(R 21)C(=O)R            23 ,
   -N(R 2 1)C(=O)OR 22 , -N(R 21)C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22), substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted
   or unsubstituted alkoxy, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl;
   p is 0-2;
   n is 0-4;
   R 3 is optionally substituted alkyl, optionally substituted cycloalkyl, optionally substituted
   heterocycloalkyl, optionally substituted aryl, optionally substituted heteroaryl, -(C=0)Ci-C 6
                                                                                  - -Y-Z              R6
   alkyl, -(C=O)OR 4 , -(C=O)NR 4 R4 , -(C=O)SR 4, -G-X, or                             R8            R7;
   G is optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl, optionally substituted aryl, or optionally
   substituted heteroaryl;
   X is optionally substituted cycloalkyl; optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl; optionally
   substituted aryl, optionally substituted heteroaryl, -OR 4, -SR 4 , or -NR4R 4 ;
                                                               - 72  -

      each R 4 is each independently H, CI-C 6 alkyl, C2 -C6 heteroalkyl, C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, or C2-C6
      heterocycloalkyl;
      Y is an optionally substituted group selected from among alkyl, heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl,
      heterocycloalkyl, aryl, and heteroaryl;
      Z is C(=O), OC(=O), N(R 21)C(=O), C(=S), S(=O)x, OS(=O)x, or N(R 2 1)S(=O)x, where x is 1
      or 2;
      R 6 is H or L-J-W;
      R 7 and Rs are independently H or L-J-W; or R7 and Rs taken together form a bond;
      L and J are each independently a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 alkylene,
      substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6
      heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or
      unsubstituted C6 -C12 arylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 1 2 heteroarylene, -CO-, -O-,
      or -S-;
      W is H, -CN, or NR 25 R 2 6 ;
      R 2 5 and R 26 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 alkyl, substituted or
      unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 heteroalkyl, substituted or
      unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, or substituted
      or unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroaryl; or R 25 and R 26 together with the nitrogen to which they
      are attached form a heterocycloalkyl ring; or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00264] In one embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein A is aryl. In a further
embodiment, A is phenyl. In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein A is
heteroaryl. In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein A is cycloalkyl. In
another embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein A is heterocycloalkyl.
[00265] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R 2 0 is H, halogen, -CN,
-CF 3 , -NO 2 , -OH, or substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R 2 0 is H.
In some embodiments, R 2 0 is -OH. In some embodiments, R 2 0 is -CN. In some embodiments,
R 2 0 is -CF 3 . In some embodiments, R 2 0 is halogen. In further embodiments, R 2 0 is F or Cl. In
some embodiments, R 2 0 is substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R 2 0 is
methyl. In some embodiments, R 2 0 is ethyl. In some embodiments, R 2 0 is isopropyl.
[00266] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R 3 is optionally
substituted alkyl. In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R 3 is
optionally substituted cycloalkyl. In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (III)
wherein R 3 is optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl.
[00267] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R 3 is -G-X. In some
embodiments, G is aryl. In some embodiments, G is heteroaryl. In some embodiments, G is
                                                   - 73 -

heterocycloalkyl. In further embodiments, G is selected from pyrrolidinyl, tetrahydrofuranyl,
piperidinyl, piperizinyl, and morpholinyl. In some embodiments, G is pyrrolidinyl. In some
embodiments, G is tetrahydrofuranyl. In some embodiments, G is piperidinyl. In some
embodiments, G is piperizinyl. In some embodiments, G is morpholinyl. In a further
embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein X is optionally substituted cycloalkyl. In a
further embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein X is optionally substituted
heterocycloalkyl. In a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein X is
optionally substituted aryl. In a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein X
is optionally substituted heteroaryl. In a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (III)
wherein X is -OR 4 . In a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein X is -SR 4 .
In a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein X is -NR 4R 4 .
                                                                                       - -Y--Z         R6
[00268] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R 3 is                   R8       R7.
In a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein Z is C(=O), NHC(=0),
N(CH 3 )C(=O), or S(=0)2. In some embodiments, Z is C(=O). In some embodiments, Z is
NHC(=O). In some embodiments, Z is N(CH 3 )C(=O). In some embodiments, Z is S(=0)2.
                                                                                        - -Y--Z         R6
[00269] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R 3 is                    R8       R7
; and R6 , R7 and Rs are H. In a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R 7
and Rs are H and R6 is L-J-W. In a further embodiment, R 6 is H, substituted or unsubstituted
C 1 -C6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 heteroalkyl, (C1 -C6 dialkylamino)C1 -C6 alkyl, ((I
C6 alkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, ((C3 -C6cycloalkyl)(C 3-C 6cycloalkyl)amino)C1
C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, or C1-C 4 alkyl(C 2
C 7heterocycloalkyl). In yet a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R6 is
substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -Calkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6heteroalkyl, (C 1
C6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl, ((C3-C6cycloalkyl)(C 3-C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, or ((C1
C 6 alkyl)(C 3 -C 6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or
unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted substituted
or unsubstituted C1-C 6heteroalkyl. In some embodiments, R 6 is substituted or unsubstituted (C 1
C 6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R 6 is substituted or unsubstituted ((C 3
C 6 cycloalkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)C1 -C6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or
unsubstituted ((C1-C 6 alkyl)(C 3 -C 6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl.
                                                  - 74  -

                                                                                      - Y--Z           R
[00270] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R 3 is                R8          R7,
R6   and Rs are H and R7 is L-J-W. In a further embodiment, R 7 is H, substituted or unsubstituted
C 1 -C6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 heteroalkyl, (C1 -C6 dialkylamino)C1 -C6 alkyl, ((I
C6 alkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)C 1 -C6 alkyl, ((C3 -C6 cycloalkyl)(C 3-C6 cycloalkyl)amino)C1
C6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, or C1-C 4 alkyl(C 2
C 7heterocycloalkyl). In yet a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R7 is
substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -Calkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6heteroalkyl, (C 1
C6 dialkylamino)C 1 -C6 alkyl, ((C3-C6cycloalkyl)(C 3-C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, or ((C1
C 6 alkyl)(C 3 -C 6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is substituted or
unsubstituted CI-Calkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is substituted or unsubstituted substituted
or unsubstituted C1 -C6heteroalkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is substituted or unsubstituted (C 1
C 6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R 7 is substituted or unsubstituted ((C 3
C 6 cycloalkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is substituted or
unsubstituted ((CI-C 6 alkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is
CH 2N(CH 3) 2 . In some embodiments, R7 is                \    .
[00271] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R6 and Rs are H; R7 is
L-J-W; L is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene, or substituted or unsubstituted
C3 -C6 cycloalkylene; and J is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene, substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 heteroalkylene, substituted
or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, or
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroarylene. In further embodiments, L is a bond. In
further embodiments, L is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene. In further
embodiments, L is substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene. In yet a further embodiment, L
is -CH 2-. In further embodiments, J is substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkylene, substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 heteroalkylene, substituted
or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, or
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroarylene. In some embodiments, J is substituted or
unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene. In further embodiments, J is -CH 2-. In some embodiments, J is
substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 cycloalkylene. In further embodiments, J is cyclopropyl. In
some embodiments, J is substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene. In further
embodiments, J is pyrrolidinyl, piperidinyl, piperizinyl, morpholinyl, imidazolyl, or pyridiny. In
                                                   - 75 -

a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (III),
wherein W is H. In another embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of
Formula (III), wherein W is -CN. In another embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments
is a compound of Formula (III), wherein W is NR 25 R 2 6. In a further embodiment, R2 5 is H,
substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl; and
R2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7
heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C1 2 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3-C1 2
heteroaryl. In another embodiment, R25 and R26 are substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl. In
some embodiments, R 25 and R 26 are -CH 3 . In another embodiment, R 25 and R26 are substituted
or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R25 and R26 are cyclopropyl. In
another embodiment, R 2 5 is H; and R 26 is substituted or unsubstituted C3-C6 cycloalkyl. In some
embodiments, R 25 is H and R 26 is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is H and R 2 6 is
cyclobutyl. In another embodiment, R 25 is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 alkyl; and R2 6 is
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 2 5 is -CH 3 and R 2 6 is
cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is -CH 3 and R 26 is cyclobutyl. In another embodiment
embodiment is a compound of Formula (III), wherein R 25 and R26 together with the nitrogen to
which they are attached form a heterocycloalkyl ring.
[00272] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R7 and Rs taken
together form a bond; and R6 is L-J-W. In further embodiments, R6 is H, substituted or
unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6heteroalkyl, (C1 -C6 dialkylamino)C1
Calkyl, ((CI-C 6alkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6alkyl, ((C3 -C6 cycloalkyl)(C 3
C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, or C1
C4 alkyl(C 2 -C7heterocycloalkyl). In further embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1
Calkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6heteroalkyl, (C1-C 6 dialkylamino)C1 -C6 alkyl, ((C3
C6cycloalkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6alkyl, or     ((C-C  6 alkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)C1
Calkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl. In some
embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6heteroalkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is
(CI-C 6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted ((C3
C6 cycloalkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is ((C1
C6 alkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl.
[00273] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (III) wherein Y is optionally
substituted alkyl. In another embodiment, Y is optionally substituted heteroalkyl. In another
embodiment, Y is optionally substituted cycloalkyl. In another embodiment, Y is optionally
substituted heteroaryl. In another embodiment, Y is optionally substituted aryl. In a futher
                                                 - 76 -

embodiment, Y is phenyl. In another embodiment, Y is optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl.
In a futher embodiment, Y is selected from         S   ,      0          ,     and         N
wherein m is 0 to 3. In another embodiment, Y is pyrrolidinyl. In another embodiment, Y is
piperidinyl.
[00274] In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (III) wherein R 2 4 is each
independently halogen, -NH 2, -N(CH 3) 2, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted alkoxy, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 24 is
substituted or unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments, R 2 4 is substituted or unsubstituted
cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 2 4 is substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl. In some
embodiments, R 2 4 is halogen. In further embodiments, R 2 4 is F, Cl or Br.
[00275] In another embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments of Formula (III) wherein A
is phenyl, is a compound wherein R 2 0 is attached to A at the para position relative to the
purinone ring. In another embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments of Formula (III)
wherein A is phenyl, is a compound wherein R 2 0 is attached to A at the meta position relative to
the purinone ring. In another embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments of Formula (III)
wherein A is phenyl, is a compound wherein R 2 0 is attached to A at the ortho position relative to
the purinone ring.
[00276] In a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula
(III), wherein n is 0. In some embodiments, n is 1. In some embodiments, n is 2. In some
embodiments, n is 3. In some embodiments, n is 4. In a further embodiment of the
aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (III), wherein p is 0. In some
embodiments, p is 1. In some embodiments, p is 2.
[00277] In a further embodiment are compounds having the structure of Formula (II1a):
                                                - 77 -

                                                                       R20
                                                      (R24)n
                                                      NH2
                                                        N      N
                                                      N        N
                                                                       z
                                                                    R8
                                                        Formula (I1a);
wherein:
   R 2 0 is H, halogen, -CN, -CF 3 , -NO 2 , -OH, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl,
   N(R 2 1)C(=O)R 2 3, -C(=O)N(R 21 )(R 22 ), -O-(Ci-C 6 alkyl), -O-alkylene-OR 2 1, -CO 2 H, -0
   alkylene-CO 2 H, -O-alkylene-C(=O)N(R                     21)(R 22), or -N(R2 1)C(=0)N(R 2 1)(R       2 2);
   each R 2 1 is independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted or
   unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
   each R 2 2 is independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted or
   unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
   each R 2 3 is independently substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted or
   unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
   each R 2 4 is each independently halogen, -CN, -NO 2 , -OH, -OCF 3, -OCH 2F, -OCF 2H, -CF 3 ,
   SR 2 1 , -N(R 21 )S(=0) 2 R 23 , -S(=0) 2N(R 2 1 )(R 2 2 ), -S(=O)R        2 3, -S(=0) 2 R 23 , -C(=O)R     23 ,
   OC(=O)R      23 , -C0 2 R 2 1 , -N(R 2 1 )(R 2 2 ), -C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22), -N(R 21 )C(=O)R         23 ,
   -N(R 2 1)C(=O)OR 2 2 , -N(R 2 1 )C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 2 2 ), substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted
   or unsubstituted alkoxy, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl;
   n is 0-4;
   Z is C(=O), N(R 2 1 )C(=O), C(=S), S(=O)x, or N(R 21 )S(=O)x, where x is 1 or 2;
   R 6 is H or L-J-W;
   R7   and Rs are independently H or L-J-W; or R7 and Rs taken together form a bond;
   L and J are each independently a bond, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkylene,
   substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6
   heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or
                                                               - 78  -

      unsubstituted C6 -C12 arylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 1 2 heteroarylene, -CO-, -0-,
      or -S-;
      W is H, -CN, or NR 25 R 2 6 ;
      R25 and R26 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkyl, substituted or
      unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 heteroalkyl, substituted or
      unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C1 aryl, or substituted
      or unsubstituted C3 -C1 heteroaryl; or R25 and R 26 together with the nitrogen to which they
      are attached form a heterocycloalkyl ring; or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00278] In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (I1a) wherein R20 is H, halogen, -CN,
-CF 3 , -NO 2 , -OH, or substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R 2 0 is H.
In some embodiments, R 20 is -OH. In some embodiments, R 20 is -CN. In some embodiments,
R 2 0 is -CF 3 . In some embodiments, R 2 0 is halogen. In further embodiments, R 2 0 is F. In further
embodiments, R 20 is Cl. In some embodiments, R 20 is substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkyl.
In some embodiments, R 20 is methyl. In some embodiments, R 20 is ethyl. In some embodiments,
R 2 0 is isopropyl.
[00279] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I1a) wherein Z is C(=O), NHC(=0),
N(CH 3 )C(=O), or S(=0) 2 . In some embodiments, Z is C(=O). In some embodiments, Z is
NHC(=O). In some embodiments, Z is N(CH 3 )C(=O). In some embodiments, Z is S(=0)2 .
[00280] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I1a) wherein R6 , R7 and Rs are H.
In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I1a) wherein R7 and Rs are H and R6 is L-J
W. In a further embodiment, R6 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted C1 -C6heteroalkyl, (C1-C 6dialkylamino)CI-C 6alkyl, ((-C        6 alkyl)(C 3
C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, ((C3 -C6 cycloalkyl)(C 3-C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, or C1-C 4 alkyl(C 2 -C7heterocycloalkyl).
In yet a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (I1a) wherein R6 is substituted or
unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6heteroalkyl, (CI-C 6 dialkylamino)C1
Calkyl, ((C3 -C6cycloalkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, or ((C -C6 alkyl)(C 3
C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1
C6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted substituted or unsubstituted
C1-C 6 heteroalkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted (C1
C6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted ((C3
C6 cycloalkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or
unsubstituted ((CI-C 6 alkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl.
[00281] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I1a) wherein R6 and Rs are H and
R7 is L-J-W. In a further embodiment, R7 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkyl,
                                                  - 79 -

substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6heteroalkyl, (C1-C 6 dialkylamino)C1 -C6 alkyl, ((C1-C 6 alkyl)(C 3
C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, ((C3 -C6 cycloalkyl)(C 3-C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, or C1 -C4 alkyl(C 2 -C7heterocycloalkyl).
In yet a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (I1a) wherein R7 is substituted or
unsubstituted C1 -Calkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6heteroalkyl, (C1 -C6 dialkylamino)C1
Calkyl, ((C3 -C6cycloalkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, or ((C1-C 6 alkyl)(C 3
C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is substituted or unsubstituted C1
Calkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is substituted or unsubstituted substituted or unsubstituted
C1-C 6 heteroalkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is substituted or unsubstituted (C1
C6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is substituted or unsubstituted ((C3
C6 cycloalkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is substituted or
unsubstituted ((CI-C 6 alkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is
CH 2N(CH 3) 2 . In some embodiments, R7 is               \    . In some embodiments, R7 is
 -   CH2N\
[00282] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I1a) wherein R6 and Rs are H; R7 is
L-J-W; L is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene, or substituted or unsubstituted
C3 -C6 cycloalkylene; and J is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene, substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 heteroalkylene, substituted
or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, or
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroarylene. In further embodiments, L is a bond. In
further embodiments, L is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene. In further
embodiments, L is substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene. In yet a further embodiment, L
is -CH 2-. In further embodiments, J is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 alkylene, substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 heteroalkylene, substituted
or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, or
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroarylene. In some embodiments, J is substituted or
unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene. In further embodiments, J is -CH 2-. In some embodiments, J is
substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 cycloalkylene. In further embodiments, J is cyclopropyl. In
some embodiments, J is substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene. In further
embodiments, J is pyrrolidinyl, piperidinyl, piperizinyl, morpholinyl, imidazolyl, or pyridiny. In
                                                  - 80 -

a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (II1a),
wherein W is H. In another embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of
Formula (I1a), wherein W is -CN. In another embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments
is a compound of Formula (I1a), wherein W is NR 25 R 2 6 . In a further embodiment, R 25 is H,
substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl; and
R2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7
heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C1 2 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3-C1 2
heteroaryl. In another embodiment, R25 and R26 are substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl. In
some embodiments, R 25 and R 26 are -CH 3 . In another embodiment, R 25 and R26 are substituted
or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R25 and R26 are cyclopropyl. In
another embodiment, R 25 is H; and R 26 is substituted or unsubstituted C3-C6 cycloalkyl. In some
embodiments, R 25 is H and R 26 is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is H and R 26 is
cyclobutyl. In another embodiment, R 25 is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 alkyl; and R2 6 is
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is -CH 3 and R 2 6 is
cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is -CH 3 and R 26 is cyclobutyl. In another embodiment
embodiment is a compound of Formula (I1a), wherein R25 and R26 together with the nitrogen to
which they are attached form a heterocycloalkyl ring.
[00283] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (I1a) wherein R7 and Rs taken
together form a bond; and R6 is L-J-W. In further embodiments, R6 is H, substituted or
unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6heteroalkyl, (C1 -C6 dialkylamino)C1
Calkyl, ((CI-C 6alkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6alkyl, ((C3 -C6 cycloalkyl)(C 3
C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, or C1
C4 alkyl(C 2 -C7heterocycloalkyl). In further embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1
Calkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6heteroalkyl, (C1-C 6 dialkylamino)C1 -C6 alkyl, ((C3
C6cycloalkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6alkyl, or     ((C-C  6 alkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)C1
Calkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl. In some
embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6heteroalkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is
(CI-C 6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted ((C3
C6 cycloalkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is ((C1
C6 alkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl.
[00284] In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (I1a) wherein R24 is each
independently halogen, -NH 2, -N(CH 3)2, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted alkoxy, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 24 is
                                                 - 81 -

substituted or unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments, R24 is substituted or unsubstituted
cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R24 is substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl. In some
embodiments, R 24 is substituted or unsubstituted alkoxy. In some embodiments, R 24 is methoxy.
In some embodiments, R24 is halogen. In further embodiments, R 24 is F. In further
embodiments, R 2 4 is Cl. In further embodiments, R 24 is Br.
[00285] In a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula
(I1a), wherein n is 0. In some embodiments, n is 1. In some embodiments, n is 2. In some
embodiments, n is 3. In some embodiments, n is 4.
[00286] In a further embodiment are compounds having the structure of Formula (IIb):
                                                                       R20
                                                        (R24)n
                                                        NH2
                                                   N     N      N
                                                        N       N
                                                                         R6
                                                                  R8     R7
                                                        Formula (IIb);
wherein:
    R 2 0 is H, halogen, -CN, -CF 3 , -NO 2 , -OH, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl,
    N(R 2 1)C(=O)R 2 3, -C(=O)N(R 21)(R22), -O-(Ci-Calkyl), -O-alkylene-OR 2 1, -CO 2 H, -0
    alkylene-CO 2 H, -O-alkylene-C(=O)N(R                  21)(R22), or -N(R2 1)C(=0)N(R 2 1)(R22);
    each R 2 1 is independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted or
    unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
    each R 2 2 is independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted or
    unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
    each R 2 3 is independently substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted or
    unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
    each R 24 is each independently halogen, -CN, -NO 2 , -OH, -OCF 3, -OCH 2F, -OCF 2H, -CF 3 ,
    SR 2 1 , -N(R 21 )S(=0) 2 R 23 , -S(=0) 2N(R 2 1 )(R 2 2 ), -S(=O)R     2 3, -S(=0) 2 R 23 , -C(=O)R 23 ,
    OC(=O)R      23 , -C0 2 R2 1 , -N(R 2 1 )(R 2 2 ), -C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R22), -N(R 21)C(=O)R         23 ,
    -N(R 2 1)C(=O)OR 2 2 , -N(R 2 1 )C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 2 2 ), substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted
                                                             - 82 -

      or unsubstituted alkoxy, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
      heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl;
      n is 0-4;
      Z is C(=O), N(R 2 1 )C(=O), C(=S), S(=O)x, or N(R 21)S(=O)x, where x is 1 or 2;
      R 6 is H or L-J-W;
      R7   and Rs are independently H or L-J-W; or R7 and Rs taken together form a bond;
      L and J are each independently a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 alkylene,
      substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6
      heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or
      unsubstituted C6 -C12 arylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 1 2 heteroarylene, -CO-, -0-,
      or -S-;
      W is H, -CN, or NR 25 R 2 6 ;
      R 2 5 and R 26 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 alkyl, substituted or
      unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 heteroalkyl, substituted or
      unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C12 aryl, or substituted
      or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroaryl; or R 25 and R 26 together with the nitrogen to which they
      are attached form a heterocycloalkyl ring; or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00287] In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (IIb) wherein R20 is H, halogen, -CN,
-CF 3 , -NO 2 , -OH, or substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R 2 0 is H.
In some embodiments, R20 is -OH. In some embodiments, R20 is -CN. In some embodiments,
R 2 0 is -CF 3 . In some embodiments, R 2 0 is halogen. In further embodiments, R 2 0 is F. In further
embodiments, R 2 0 is Cl. In some embodiments, R 2 0 is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl.
In some embodiments, R20 is methyl. In some embodiments, R20 is ethyl. In some embodiments,
R 2 0 is isopropyl.
[00288] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (IIb) wherein Z is C(=O),
NHC(=O), N(CH 3 )C(=O), or S(=0) 2 . In some embodiments, Z is C(=O). In some
embodiments, Z is NHC(=O). In some embodiments, Z is N(CH 3 )C(=O). In some
embodiments, Z is S(=0) 2 .
[00289] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (IIb) wherein R6 , R7 and Rs are H.
In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (IIb) wherein R7 and Rs are H and R6 is L-J
W. In a further embodiment, R6 is H, substituted or unsubstituted CI-Calkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted C1-C 6heteroalkyl, (C1 -C6dialkylamino)C1 -C6alkyl, ((C1 -C6 alkyl)(C 3
C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, ((C3 -C6 cycloalkyl)(C 3-C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, or C1 -C4 alkyl(C 2 -C7heterocycloalkyl).
In yet a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (IIb) wherein R6 is substituted or
                                                    - 83 -

unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6heteroalkyl, (CI-C 6 dialkylamino)C1
C6 alkyl, ((C3 -C6cycloalkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, or ((C1-C 6 alkyl)(C 3
C 6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1
C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted substituted or unsubstituted
C 1 -C6heteroalkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted (C1
C 6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R 6 is substituted or unsubstituted ((C 3
C 6 cycloalkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or
unsubstituted ((C1-C 6 alkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)C 1 -C6 alkyl.
[00290] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (IIb) wherein R6 and Rs are H and
R 7 is L-J-W. In a further embodiment, R7 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted CI-Cheteroalkyl, (C1-C      6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl,  ((CI-C 6 alkyl)(C 3
C6 cycloalkyl)amino)C 1 -C6 alkyl, ((C3 -C6 cycloalkyl)(C 3-C6 cycloalkyl)amino)C1 -C6 alkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, or C1-C 4 alkyl(C 2 -C7heterocycloalkyl).
In yet a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (IIb) wherein R7 is substituted or
unsubstituted CI-Calkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6heteroalkyl, (CI-C 6 dialkylamino)C1
Calkyl, ((C3 -C6cycloalkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, or ((C1-C 6 alkyl)(C 3
C 6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is substituted or unsubstituted C1
Calkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is substituted or unsubstituted substituted or unsubstituted
C1-C 6 heteroalkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is substituted or unsubstituted (C 1
C 6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is substituted or unsubstituted ((C 3
C 6 cycloalkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is substituted or
unsubstituted ((CI-C 6 alkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is
CH 2N(CH 3) 2 . In some embodiments, R7 is                \    . In some embodiments, R7 is
 -   CH2N\
[00291] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (IIb) wherein R6 and Rs are H; R7 is
L-J-W; L is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene, or substituted or unsubstituted
C3 -C6 cycloalkylene; and J is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene, substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 heteroalkylene, substituted
or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, or
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroarylene. In further embodiments, L is a bond. In
                                                  - 84 -

further embodiments, L is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene. In further
embodiments, L is substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene. In yet a further embodiment, L
is -CH 2-. In further embodiments, J is substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkylene, substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 heteroalkylene, substituted
or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, or
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroarylene. In some embodiments, J is substituted or
unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene. In further embodiments, J is -CH 2-. In some embodiments, J is
substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 cycloalkylene. In further embodiments, J is cyclopropyl. In
some embodiments, J is substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene. In further
embodiments, J is pyrrolidinyl, piperidinyl, piperizinyl, morpholinyl, imidazolyl, or pyridiny. In
a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (IIb),
wherein W is H. In another embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of
Formula (IIb), wherein W is -CN. In another embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments
is a compound of Formula (IIb), wherein W is NR 25 R 2 6. In a further embodiment, R 25 is H,
substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl; and
R 2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7
heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12
heteroaryl. In another embodiment, R 25 and R 2 6 are substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkyl. In
some embodiments, R 2 5 and R 26 are -CH 3 . In another embodiment, R 25 and R 26 are substituted
or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 25 and R 26 are cyclopropyl. In
another embodiment, R 2 5 is H; and R 2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl. In some
embodiments, R 25 is H and R 2 6 is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is H and R 2 6 is
cyclobutyl. In another embodiment, R 25 is substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkyl; and R2 6 is
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is -CH 3 and R 2 6 is
cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is -CH 3 and R 26 is cyclobutyl. In another embodiment
embodiment is a compound of Formula (IIb), wherein R 25 and R 26 together with the nitrogen to
which they are attached form a heterocycloalkyl ring.
[00292] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (IIb) wherein R7 and Rs taken
together form a bond; and R6 is L-J-W. In further embodiments, R6 is H, substituted or
unsubstituted CI-Calkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6heteroalkyl, (CI-C 6 dialkylamino)C1
Calkyl, ((C1-C 6alkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)C 1 -C6alkyl, ((C3 -C6 cycloalkyl)(C 3
C 6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, or C1
C 4 alkyl(C 2 -C7heterocycloalkyl). In further embodiments, R 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1
Calkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6heteroalkyl, (C1-C      6 dialkylamino)C1 -C6 alkyl, ((C 3
                                                  - 85 -

C6cycloalkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6alkyl, or ((C1-C 6 alkyl)(C 3-C6 cycloalkyl)amino)C1
C6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl. In some
embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 heteroalkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is
(CI-C 6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R 6 is substituted or unsubstituted ((C 3
C 6 cycloalkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is ((C 1
C6 alkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl.
[00293] In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (IIb) wherein R 2 4 is each
independently halogen, -NH 2, -N(CH 3) 2, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted alkoxy, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 24 is
substituted or unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments, R 2 4 is substituted or unsubstituted
cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 2 4 is substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl. In some
embodiments, R 2 4 is substituted or unsubstituted alkoxy. In some embodiments, R 2 4 is methoxy.
In some embodiments, R 2 4 is halogen. In further embodiments, R 2 4 is F. In further
embodiments, R 2 4 is Cl. In further embodiments, R 24 is Br.
[00294] In a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula
(IIb), wherein n is 0. In some embodiments, n is 1. In some embodiments, n is 2. In some
embodiments, n is 3. In some embodiments, n is 4.
[00295] In a further embodiment are compounds having the structure of Formula (IIc):
                                                        R20
                                           (R24)n
                                             NH 2
                                         N    N-    N
                                             N      N
                                                        P Y        R6
                                                        z
                                                             R8
                                                Formula (IIc);
wherein:
     R 2 0 is H, halogen, -CN, -CF 3 , -NO 2, -OH, substituted or unsubstituted CI-Calkyl,
     N(R 2 1)C(=O)R 2 3, -C(=O)N(R 21)(R22), -O-(C1 -Calkyl), -O-alkylene-OR 2 1, -CO 2 H, -0
     alkylene-CO 2 H, -O-alkylene-C(=O)N(R         21)(R 22),  or -N(R2 1)C(=0)N(R 2 1)(R 2 2);
                                                     - 86  -

     each R 2 1 is independently H, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C 6alkyl, or substituted or
     unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
     each R 2 2 is independently H, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl, or substituted or
     unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
     each R 2 3 is independently substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 alkyl, or substituted or
     unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
     each R 2 4 is each independently halogen, -CN, -NO 2 , -OH, -OCF 3, -OCH 2F, -OCF 2H, -CF 3 ,
     SR 2 1, -N(R 21)S(=O) 2R 23, -S(=O) 2N(R 2 1)(R 2 2), -S(=O)R         2 3, -S(=0) 2R 23, -C(=O)R 23 ,
     OC(=O)R     23 , -C0 2 R 2 1 , -N(R 2 1 )(R 2 2 ), -C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22), -N(R 21 )C(=O)R   23 ,
     -N(R 2 1)C(=O)OR 22 , -N(R 21)C(=O)N(R 21 )(R 22), substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted
     or unsubstituted alkoxy, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
     heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl;
     n is 0-4;
     p is 0-2;
     Y is an optionally substituted group selected from among cycloalkyl, and heterocycloalkyl;
     Z is C(=O), OC(=O), N(R 21)C(=O), C(=S), S(=O)x, OS(=O)x, or N(R 2 1)S(=O)x, where x is 1
     or 2;
     R 6 is H or L-J-W;
     R7 and Rs are independently H or L-J-W; or R7 and Rs taken together form a bond;
     L and J are each independently a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene,
     substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6
     heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or
     unsubstituted C6 -C12 arylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 1 2 heteroarylene, -CO-, -0-,
     or -S-;
     W is H, -CN, or NR 25 R 2 6 ;
     R25 and R26 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 alkyl, substituted or
     unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 6 heteroalkyl, substituted or
     unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, or substituted
     or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroaryl; or R25 and R 26 together with the nitrogen to which they
     are attached form a heterocycloalkyl ring; or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00296] In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (IIc) wherein R2 0 is H, halogen, -CN,
-CF 3 , -NO 2 , -OH, or substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R2 0 is H.
In some embodiments, R2 0 is -OH. In some embodiments, R2 0 is -CN. In some embodiments,
R2 0 is -CF 3 . In some embodiments, R2 0 is halogen. In further embodiments, R2 0 is F. In further
embodiments, R2 0 is Cl. In some embodiments, R2 0 is substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkyl.
                                                            - 87 -

In some embodiments, R20 is methyl. In some embodiments, R20 is ethyl. In some embodiments,
R 2 0 is isopropyl.
[00297] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (IIc) wherein Z is C(=0), NHC(=0),
N(CH 3 )C(=O), or S(=0) 2 . In some embodiments, Z is C(=O). In some embodiments, Z is
NHC(=O). In some embodiments, Z is N(CH 3 )C(=O). In some embodiments, Z is S(=0) 2 .
[00298] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (IIc) wherein R6 , R7 and Rs are H.
In a another embodiment is a compound of Formula (IIc) wherein R7 and Rs are H and R6 is L
J-W. In a further embodiment, R6 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-Csalkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted C1-C 6heteroalkyl, (C1-C 6dialkylamino)C1 -C6alkyl, ((C1 -C6 alkyl)(C 3
C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, ((C3 -C6 cycloalkyl)(C 3-C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, or C1-C 4 alkyl(C 2 -C7heterocycloalkyl).
In yet a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (IIc) wherein R6 is substituted or
unsubstituted C1 -Calkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6heteroalkyl, (C1 -C6 dialkylamino)C1
Calkyl, ((C3 -C6cycloalkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, or ((C1-C 6 alkyl)(C 3
C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1
Calkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted substituted or unsubstituted
C1 -C6heteroalkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted (C1
C6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R 6 is substituted or unsubstituted ((C 3
C6 cycloalkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or
unsubstituted ((C1-C 6 alkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)C 1 -C6 alkyl.
[00299] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (IIc) wherein R6 and Rs are H and
R 7 is L-J-W. In a further embodiment, R7 is H, substituted or unsubstituted CI-Calkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted CI-Cheteroalkyl, (C1-C 6 dialkylamino)CI-C 6 alkyl, ((C1 -C6 alkyl)(C 3
C6 cycloalkyl)amino)C 1 -C6 alkyl, ((C3 -C6 cycloalkyl)(C 3-C6 cycloalkyl)amino)C1 -C6 alkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 alkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, or C1 -C4 alkyl(C 2 -C7heterocycloalkyl).
In yet a further embodiment is a compound of Formula (IIc) wherein R7 is substituted or
unsubstituted CI-Calkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6heteroalkyl, (CI-C 6 dialkylamino)C1
Calkyl, ((C3 -C6cycloalkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, or ((C1 -C6 alkyl)(C 3
C6 cycloalkyl)amino)C 1 -C6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is substituted or unsubstituted C1
Calkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is substituted or unsubstituted substituted or unsubstituted
C1-C 6 heteroalkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is substituted or unsubstituted (C1
C6 dialkylamino)C 1 -C6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is substituted or unsubstituted ((C3
C6 cycloalkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is substituted or
unsubstituted ((CI-C 6 alkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R7 is
                                                  - 88 -

CH 2N(CH 3) 2 . In some embodiments, R7 is                \    .
[00300] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (Ic)           wherein R6 and Rs are H; R7 is
L-J-W; L is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene, or substituted or unsubstituted
C3 -C6 cycloalkylene; and J is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene, substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 heteroalkylene, substituted
or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, or
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroarylene. In further embodiments, L is a bond. In
further embodiments, L is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene. In further
embodiments, L is substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene. In yet a further embodiment, L
is -CH 2-. In further embodiments, J is substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkylene, substituted or
unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 heteroalkylene, substituted
or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 arylene, or
substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12 heteroarylene. In some embodiments, J is substituted or
unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkylene. In further embodiments, J is -CH 2-. In some embodiments, J is
substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 cycloalkylene. In further embodiments, J is cyclopropyl. In
some embodiments, J is substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene. In further
embodiments, J is pyrrolidinyl, piperidinyl, piperizinyl, morpholinyl, imidazolyl, or pyridiny. In
a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (IIc),
wherein W is H. In another embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of
Formula (IIc), wherein W is -CN. In another embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments
is a compound of Formula (IIc), wherein W is NR 25 R 2 6 . In a further embodiment, R 25 is H,
substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C6 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl; and
R 2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7
heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C 12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C 12
heteroaryl. In some embodiments, R 25 and R 26 are -CH 3. In some embodiments, R 25 and R 26 are
cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is H and R 26 is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments, R 25
is H and R 2 6 is cyclobutyl. In some embodiments, R 25 is -CH 3 and R 2 6 is cyclopropyl. In some
embodiments, R 25 is -CH 3 and R 26 is cyclobutyl. In another embodiment embodiment is a
compound of Formula (IIc), wherein R 25 and R 26 together with the nitrogen to which they are
attached form a heterocycloalkyl ring.
[00301] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (IIc) wherein R7 and Rs taken
together form a bond; and R6 is L-J-W. In further embodiments, R6 is H, substituted or
                                                  - 89 -

unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6heteroalkyl, (CI-C 6 dialkylamino)C1
C6alkyl, ((CI-C 6alkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6alkyl, ((C3 -C6 cycloalkyl)(C 3
C 6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, or C1
C 4 alkyl(C 2 -C7heterocycloalkyl). In further embodiments, R 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1
Calkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6heteroalkyl, (C1-C   6 dialkylamino)C1 -C6 alkyl,  ((C 3
C6cycloalkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6alkyl, or ((C1-C 6 alkyl)(C 3-C6 cycloalkyl)amino)C1
Calkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 6 alkyl. In some
embodiments, R6 is substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C 6heteroalkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is
(C 1 -C6 dialkylamino)C1 -C6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R 6 is substituted or unsubstituted ((C 3
C 6 cycloalkyl)(C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R6 is ((C1
C6 alkyl)(C 3 -C6cycloalkyl)amino)CI-C 6 alkyl.
[00302] In another embodiment is a compound of Formula (IIc) wherein Y is optionally
substituted cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, Y is cyclopentyl. In some embodiments, Y is
cyclohexyl. In another embodiment, Y is optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl. In a futher
embodiment, Y is selected from                      O               , and         N0; wherein m is 0
to 3. In another embodiment, Y is pyrrolidinyl. In another embodiment, Y is piperidinyl.
[00303] In some embodiments is a compound of Formula (IIc) wherein R 2 4 is each
independently halogen, -NH 2, -N(CH 3) 2, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted alkoxy, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 24 is
substituted or unsubstituted alkyl. In some embodiments, R 2 4 is substituted or unsubstituted
cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, R 2 4 is substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl. In some
embodiments, R 2 4 is substituted or unsubstituted alkoxy. In some embodiments, R 2 4 is methoxy.
In some embodiments, R 2 4 is halogen. In further embodiments, R 2 4 is F. In further
embodiments, R 2 4 is Cl. In yet further embodiments, R 2 4 is Br.
[00304] In a further embodiment of the aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula
(IIIc), wherein n is 0. In some embodiments, n is 1. In some embodiments, n is 2. In some
embodiments, n is 3. In some embodiments, n is 4. In a further embodiment of the
aforementioned embodiments is a compound of Formula (IIc), wherein p is 0. In some
embodiments, p is 1. In some embodiments, p is 2.
[00305] Any combination of the groups described above for the various variables is
contemplated herein. It is understood that substituents and substitution patterns on the
compounds provided herein can be selected by one of ordinary skill in the art to provide
                                                 - 90 -

compounds that are chemically stable and that can be synthesized by techniques known in the
art, as well as those set forth herein.
[00306] Further embodiments of compounds of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb), (III),
(Ila), (IlIb), and (IIc) include, but are not limited to, compounds selected from the group
consisting of:
              OPh                                  OPh                                 OPh
    NH2                                 NH 2                                NH2
    NH                                        N H2
         N-                             N     N
                            N           N     N                             N       N
                                         N    N                      NN      -
              OPh                                          O Ph
                                                                                             o Ph
    NH 2
                                              NH2
                                                                                   H2
      N- N                                 NS         N                            NH
             =o                                                                 NS      N
         N                  H2N                2
              N                 N                          N
                           N     NN                                     N      NN                 N
              OPh                  OPh                       OPh                       OPh
                       N                     NNNNNe2
    NH 2                 NH2                   NH2       -NH
                                                                                 2
      N  N            N-       N             N-N                          N  ~NN
    N    N               N     N               N       N                    N       N
                                                                                            NNWe    2
                                                                                             0
             CI                                        CI
                                                                                        CI
     N2H                  2                                    NH2
 NS~     N                                NS-     NN                                       O/
           N>==                                     >==                    N         N
              N NN                                N                            N      >=
                                                                               NN    N
                          N    N                                 --                     N
                0              N                          0         1,r                           N
                                                                        A    1             0
                                                    -  91   -

              CI                  CI                    CI                        CI
   NH2                  NH2                   NH2                         NH2
     N   N       N        N             N                              N       N
                                           K-=N     N
                                                     >== o=
                                                                          N    N
   N     NX=            N      N
                                 L\N                bN                              N
                                                                                  N              NMe2,
                                                                                      0
            CI                              CI                                            CI
                                                                     /OMe
   NH2                            NH2    --                NH2                   NH2    ~
   N     N                       N     N                   N    N               N     N
                 _,,.    Ne  2
                                                                     NNN
            N                                  0                     0                       0
                 0
              CI                 OPh                  OPh                   CI
   NH2                 NH2                  NH2                    NH2
         NX=                 N          N        N               N       N
   N     N             N     N              N    N                 N     N
                                                     N                      N             N
                                                                               0          I
                 N                 N     'N                    and
                 H                 H                     H                                     ; or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof
[00307] Further embodiments of compounds of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb), (III),
(Ila), (IlIb), and (IIc) include, but are not limited to, compounds selected from the group
consisting of:
                                                  - 92 -

         OPh                           OPh                             OPh
NH2                           NH2    -                         NH2
            -O                    N                        N
      N=             \X~               =o
                     No                               N                 N           N
          /    N                   N                  N
               H                           H                                H
          OPh                  OPh                              OPh
NH2                   NH2                             NH2
  NN                   N                            N      N
N     N               N   N                           N    N                   N
          0,-0     /      b-                              0          0         N
          -    N           -.     N                         -..     N
               H
                                       OPh                          OPh
          OPh
                              NH2                         NH2
 NH
  N2                       [~>                           !.~
                              N N                         N      N
                              NN
 N    N               N-               N
      /\       0                       N                            N
                                           0                            0
          OPh
                                      OPh                              OPh
NH 2    ~
      N                      NH2   -                         NH2
N     N     O            N       N                        N         N
                             N                    NN             N
               0                        0         I0
          OPh                             OPh                                 OPh
NH2                             NH2                                  NH2
                              N      N                             N      N
1   -N
N N                  H                  >NN             H              N
                 N   N                    N             N-N                      NC   N
               H
                                           - 93 -

                                                                                  F
           OPh                         OPh                                 0
  NH2                        NH2                        /        NH2
           -O        ~                        N                   N
  N        NC           N    N           N             N      N       N                  N
       6.       N                  -.       N                            -N
           OPh                         OPh
                                                                           Oh
  NH 2                      NH 2
                       N      N N                              NH2N
  N    N          0/        N    N           O                      NN
                                 \/      ON \                                N ,,
                                         OMe                    /            O
                                       OPh                               OPh
             Oh
                            NH2       ~                        NH2    ~
  NH2                     N      N                           N       N
                                               0O              N    N        O
       N      o        N-   N    N
  N         N N 0/O
                                                                               N
           OPhOPh                                                          OBn
  NH20                      NH25
       NNHN            N-  N
                                                                 NH20
  NH2                        NH2                                 N2N
    N       N
            \/N\6 0NU~                               >    H.: H               NC)>N
                                                                               0           N
            Q:'-!CN                                /\F
          )=o                           0C                                          O:Nh
N                                                             N-       /
  N     N        C           N          N              N         N     N
                N         No'                                                 N
                                           -  94 -

         OPh                               OPh                                       OH
NH2    -                        NH  2                              NH2 0
                                              o              N-         N
           O              N- N-       N
     N
N    N         O                N     N                            N     N
                                                                               ONH
          \/    NH\/                                  N
                                   -0
              0                         0H
        HN                                                 N        MeO      OPh
NH2                              NH2                                NH20
     N                                 N                                  N
                                                   0                 N-N N               N
                          N                              N                       N
         OPh                     MeG        OBn                              OPh
NH 2                             NH2 0                              NH 2
          N-~                  N-,                                  1
     N                                             0          N-  N          N     o
               N                         -        N\/                                  N
         OPh
                                           O
NH2                      O      NH2 NHNN                  O2                        F
                                                  N                NH 2               O
    NN
N N          o                  N     N          0/                N N
                                                                       N                 NN
                             F                                              O
  -0                                         0j
                          0~i~             OPh
                     F                                                      0-0A
     \   /      NH                                N
NH2 0                           NH 2                                        \1      F
                               NNNNN                     03
                 N   / 5-  -                  0 -95          N-  N       N
N    N                                                                      =o        0
                                N                       N 0/             N ~o
                           N                      NNNN
          /0                                /0                                 H
                                                -  95  -

        NH2                  0        NH2                                NH2
      N       N              O      N      N                  O Me0
          .    >==                          XC               OMe        N      Nc
                       oN  N               NN                            N       N
                             N                    N
                      H                            H                                0
                                            OPh                              OPh
        NH2 0                      NH2   -
                                                                   NH2
      N                          N     N                         N      N
            N N
                                                                                  C     NH 2
                                                                   N    N
                                   N   N
                      NO-~NN                               N             -..    N
                                                    OPh
                 OPh
                                          NH2
       N H2        0H                   N
                                        N      N
        N     N                                  N
                           0   N
                     N                           ,
                                   and                  0      ; or a pharmaceutically acceptable
     salt thereof.
[00308] Further embodiments of compounds of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ib), (III),
(II1a), (IIb), and (IIc) include, but are not limited to, compounds selected from the group
consisting of:
                                                  -  96  -

           CI                                                                      CI
  NH2                             NH  2                                   NH 2
  N    N                          N                     NC                                N        N
                                                                 N-       N           -0            N
                  o-      N-      N                -0
           -    N                          -.         N                         -.     N
                H                                   H
                                                CI                             CI
                                  NH2                                  NH2
                 O              NN                                   NN
                                  N            /NN
             N-N                        /                               IN
                                                                                           N
             SN                               ,NNN
                                                    0                              0
  NH 2   -                       NH 2            Os           NH 2          \               NH 2
N          N                            N                   N                             N
  N     N CI                     N      N                     N     N                       N      N
                                                                                                   CI
                                                         SNN
                                            1N
                                            N                                                 N
                0    --    ,
                           ON                       0,       NN            0 ,0       N
  NH2                                     \0           97                                NH2
                   N            NH2                            NH20                    N0
  N    N                     [j                                    -0                 f 0 N
                                N~            N               N       N                          >=
              N                         =o                            X oN
                                                 NbN
     2                  -        H2                         NH 2    -NH
                                                                                       2
       N                     N      N )=
        >==                                              N       N               N       N
  N     N                       N     N                     N     N =oN>=
                                     Kb N                   N                       NN
              0                                0, 0
                                                    -  97 -

                                                                           NH2
       NH2                         NH2                                   N     N
               O                           ONN                             N   N
       N   N X0      /             N,    >0=                                     0    N
                 N\                              NH
           \/
                     O Me     ,--\                    O Me        , an d     /             or a
    pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00309] Further embodiments of compounds of Formula (I) or (II) include, but are not limited
to, compounds selected from the group consisting of:
                                       NH2         --     (R24) n
                                       NN
                                     N
                                           N
                                       N      N
        N
                                               S-C(=O)
     ^^%               -C(=0)                                        10-OH
                                                                       13-OCH     3
                       -C(=O)
      ON~
         AA-C(=O)                                                    13-OCH       3
      ON
                                               -  98  -

           -C(=O)           0
6                     A
           -C(=O)     ^^'   0
6
           -C(=O)           1 3-OCH 3
           -C(=O)     ^1      3-OCH 3
         -N(H)C(=O)         0
         -N(H)C(=O)         0
   ^     -N(H)C(=O)   ^'1     3-OCH 3
      0               A
   ^     -N(H)C(=O)         1 3-OCH 3
                      0
    ^   -N(CH 3)C(=O) ^%'   0
  IA
      0               A
   ^    -N(CH 3)C(=O)       0
                       -99-

       -N(CH 3)C(=O)  a1        3-OCH 3
      o              A
       -N(CH 3)C(=O)  ^'1       3-OCH 3
     0     -C(=O)
                     0        0
N
^          -C(=O)             0
N                    6
           -C(=O)    A        1 3-OCH 3
N
           -C(=O)             1 3-OCH 3
N
                     010
AS,       ~-C(=O)     O~
    6                    60
A,-C(=O)             AI         3-OCH3
                      - 100 -

          -C(=O)    ^1          3-OCH 3
  N
          -C(=O)            0
  N
          -C(=O)            0
  N0
          -C(=O)            1   3-OCH 3
  N
          -C(=O)            1   3-OCH 3
  N0
^      -N(H)C(=O)           0
       -N(H)C(=O)           0
^      -H      =63
^      -N(H)C(=O)           1   3-OCH 3
       -N(H)C(=O)           1ri 3-OCH3
^rILA -N(CH 3)C(=O)         0
^A.A  -N(CH 3)C(=O)         0
                    - 101 -

        ^          -N(CH 3)C(=O)                             1          3-OCH 3
        ^          -N(CH 3)C(=O)             4^^'1                      3-OCH 3
    6-))                                    6
        ^^           -N(H)C(=O)                             0
       J A
            ^^        ~-N(H)C(=0)            '^
        ^^           -N(H)C(=O)              A               1          3-OCH 3
        %v                                   A
          ^          -N(H)C(=O)                              1          3-OCH 3
          ^        -N(CH 3)C(=O)             a              0
     0                                      A
        ^          -N(CH 3)C(=O)                            0
          ^        -N(CH 3)C(=O)                             1          3-OCH 3
       C                                    A
        ^          -N(CH 3)C(=O)                             1          3-OCH 3
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00310] Throughout the specification, groups and substituents thereof can be chosen by one
                                              - 102 -

skilled in the field to provide stable moieties and compounds.
[00311] In some embodiments, the compounds of Formula (I), and (III) reversibly inhibit Btk
and in other embodiments are used to treat patients suffering from Bruton's tyrosine kinase
dependent or Bruton's tyrosine kinase mediated conditions or diseases, including, but not
limited to, cancer, autoimmune and other inflammatory diseases.
[00312] In some embodiments, the compounds of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III),
(Ila), (Iub), and (IIc) irreversibly inhibit Btk and in other embodiments are used to treat
patients suffering from Bruton's tyrosine kinase-dependent or Bruton's tyrosine kinase mediated
conditions or diseases, including, but not limited to, cancer, autoimmune and other inflammatory
diseases.
Preparation of Compounds
[00313] Compounds of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Ib), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc)
may be synthesized using standard synthetic reactions known to those of skill in the art or using
methods known in the art. The reactions can be employed in a linear sequence to provide the
compounds or they may be used to synthesize fragments which are subsequently joined by the
methods known in the art.
[00314] Described herein are compounds that inhibit the activity of tyrosine kinase(s), such as
Btk, and processes for their preparation. Also described herein are pharmaceutically acceptable
salts, pharmaceutically acceptable solvates, pharmaceutically active metabolites and
pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs of such compounds. Pharmaceutical compositions that
include at least one such compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, pharmaceutically
acceptable solvate, pharmaceutically active metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug
of such compound, are provided.
[00315] The starting material used for the synthesis of the compounds described herein may be
synthesized or can be obtained from commercial sources, such as, but not limited to, Aldrich
Chemical Co. (Milwaukee, Wisconsin), Bachem (Torrance, California), or Sigma Chemical Co.
(St. Louis, Mo.). The compounds described herein, and other related compounds having
different substituents can be synthesized using techniques and materials known to those of skill
in the art, such as described, for example, in March,   ADVANCED ORGANIC CHEMISTRY 4 th        Ed.,
(Wiley 1992); Carey and Sundberg,      ADVANCED ORGANIC CHEMISTRY 4 th        Ed., Vols. A and B
(Plenum 2000, 2001); Green and Wuts,      PROTECTIVE GROUPS INORGANIC SYNTHESIS 3 rd          Ed.,
(Wiley 1999); Fieser and Fieser's Reagents for Organic Synthesis, Volumes 1-17 (John Wiley
and Sons, 1991); Rodd's Chemistry of Carbon Compounds, Volumes 1-5 and Supplementals
(Elsevier Science Publishers, 1989); Organic Reactions, Volumes 1-40 (John Wiley and Sons,
1991); and Larock's Comprehensive Organic Transformations (VCH Publishers Inc., 1989). (all
                                                - 103 -

of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety). Other methods for the synthesis of
compounds described herein may be found in International Patent Publication No. WO
01/01982901, Arnold et al. Bioorganic & Medicinal Chemistry Letters 10 (2000) 2167-2170;
Burchat et al. Bioorganic & Medicinal Chemistry Letters 12 (2002) 1687-1690. General
methods for the preparation of compound as disclosed herein may be derived from known
reactions in the field, and the reactions may be modified by the use of appropriate reagents and
conditions, as would be recognized by the skilled person, for the introduction of the various
moieties found in the formulae as provided herein.
[00316] The products of the reactions may be isolated and purified, if desired, using
conventional techniques, including, but not limited to, filtration, distillation, crystallization,
chromatography and the like. Such materials may be characterized using conventional means,
including physical constants and spectral data.
[00317] Compounds described herein may be prepared as a single isomer or a mixture of
isomers.
Further Forms of Compounds
[00318] Compounds disclosed herein have a structure of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb),
(III), (Ila), (IlIb), or (IIc). It is understood that when reference is made to compounds
described herein, it is meant to include compounds of any of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila),
(Ilb), (III), (Ila), (IlIb), or (IIc), as well as to all of the specific compounds that fall within the
scope of these generic formulae, unless otherwise indicated.
[00319] The compounds described herein may possess one or more stereocenters and each
center may exist in the R or S configuration. The compounds presented herein include all
diastereomeric, enantiomeric, and epimeric forms as well as the appropriate mixtures thereof.
Stereoisomers may be obtained, if desired, by methods known in the art as, for example, the
separation of stereoisomers by chiral chromatographic columns.
[00320] Diasteromeric mixtures can be separated into their individual diastereomers on the basis
of their physical chemical differences by methods known, for example, by chromatography
and/or fractional crystallization. In one embodiment, enantiomers can be separated by chiral
chromatographic columns. In other embodiments, enantiomers can be separated by converting
the enantiomeric mixture into a diastereomeric mixture by reaction with an appropriate optically
active compound (e.g., alcohol), separating the diastereomers and converting (e.g., hydrolyzing)
the individual diastereomers to the corresponding pure enantiomers. All such isomers, including
diastereomers, enantiomers, and mixtures thereof are considered as part of the compositions
described herein.
[00321] The methods and formulations described herein include the use of N-oxides, crystalline
                                                    - 104 -

forms (also known as polymorphs), or pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds
described herein, as well as active metabolites of these compounds having the same type of
activity. In some situations, compounds may exist as tautomers. All tautomers are included
within the scope of the compounds presented herein. In addition, the compounds described
herein can exist in unsolvated as well as solvated forms with pharmaceutically acceptable
solvents such as water, ethanol, and the like. The solvated forms of the compounds presented
herein are also considered to be disclosed herein.
[00322] Compounds of any of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (IlIb), or (IIc)
in unoxidized form can be prepared from N-oxides of compounds of any of Formula (I), (Ta),
(Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (IlIb), or (IIc) by treating with a reducing agent, such as, but
not limited to, sulfur, sulfur dioxide, triphenyl phosphine, lithium borohydride, sodium
borohydride, phosphorus trichloride, tribromide, or the like in a suitable inert organic solvent,
such as, but not limited to, acetonitrile, ethanol, aqueous dioxane, or the like at 0 to 80'C.
[00323] In some embodiments, compounds described herein are prepared as prodrugs. A
"prodrug" refers to an agent that is converted into the parent drug in vivo. Prodrugs are often
useful because, in some situations, they may be easier to administer than the parent drug. They
may, for instance, be bioavailable by oral administration whereas the parent is not. The prodrug
may also have improved solubility in pharmaceutical compositions over the parent drug. An
example, without limitation, of a prodrug would be a compound described herein, which is
administered as an ester (the "prodrug") to facilitate transmittal across a cell membrane where
water solubility is detrimental to mobility but which then is metabolically hydrolyzed to the
carboxylic acid, the active entity, once inside the cell where water-solubility is beneficial. A
further example of a prodrug might be a short peptide (polyaminoacid) bonded to an acid group
where the peptide is metabolized to reveal the active moiety. In certain embodiments, upon in
vivo administration, a prodrug is chemically converted to the biologically, pharmaceutically or
therapeutically active form of the compound. In certain embodiments, a prodrug is
enzymatically metabolized by one or more steps or processes to the biologically,
pharmaceutically or therapeutically active form of the compound. To produce a prodrug, a
pharmaceutically active compound is modified such that the active compound will be
regenerated upon in vivo administration. The prodrug can be designed to alter the metabolic
stability or the transport characteristics of a drug, to mask side effects or toxicity, to improve the
flavor of a drug or to alter other characteristics or properties of a drug. By virtue of knowledge
of pharmacodynamic processes and drug metabolism in vivo, those of skill in this art, once a
pharmaceutically active compound is known, can design prodrugs of the compound. (see, for
example, Nogrady (1985) Medicinal Chemistry A BiochemicalApproach, Oxford University
                                                      - 105 -

Press, New York, pages 388-392; Silverman (1992), The Organic Chemistry of Drug Design
and Drug Action, Academic Press, Inc., San Diego, pages 352-401, Saulnier et al., (1994),
Bioorganicand Medicinal Chemistry Letters, Vol. 4, p. 1985).
[00324] Prodrug forms of the herein described compounds, wherein the prodrug is metabolized
in vivo to produce a derivative as set forth herein are included within the scope of the claims. In
some cases, some of the herein-described compounds may be a prodrug for another derivative or
active compound.
[00325] Prodrugs are often useful because, in some situations, they may be easier to administer
than the parent drug. They may, for instance, be bioavailable by oral administration whereas the
parent is not. The prodrug may also have improved solubility in pharmaceutical compositions
over the parent drug. Prodrugs may be designed as reversible drug derivatives, for use as
modifiers to enhance drug transport to site-specific tissues. In some embodiments, the design of
a prodrug increases the effective water solubility. See, e.g., Fedorak et al., Am. J. Physiol.,
269:G210-218 (1995); McLoed et al., Gastroenterol,106:405-413 (1994); Hochhaus et al.,
Biomed. Chrom., 6:283-286 (1992); J. Larsen and H. Bundgaard, Int. J. Pharmaceutics,37, 87
(1987); J. Larsen et al., Int. J. Pharmaceutics,47, 103 (1988); Sinkula et al., J. Pharm. Sci.,
64:181-210 (1975); T. Higuchi and V. Stella, Pro-drugsas Novel Delivery Systems, Vol. 14 of
the A.C.S. Symposium Series; and Edward B. Roche, Bioreversible Carriersin Drug Design,
American Pharmaceutical Association and Pergamon Press, 1987, all incorporated herein in
their entirety.
[00326] Sites on the aromatic ring portion of compounds of any of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II),
(Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (IlIb), or (IIc) can be susceptible to various metabolic reactions,
therefore incorporation of appropriate substituents on the aromatic ring structures, such as, by
way of example only, halogens can reduce, minimize or eliminate this metabolic pathway.
[00327] Compounds described herein include isotopically-labeled compounds, which are
identical to those recited in the various formulas and structures presented herein, but for the fact
that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different
from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature. Examples of isotopes that can be
incorporated into the present compounds include isotopes of hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen,
oxygen, fluorine and chlorine, such as 2H, 3H, 1C, 14C, 1N, 180,          o, 5S,     36Cl,
                                                                                    5F,    respectively.
Certain isotopically-labeled compounds described herein, for example those into which
radioactive isotopes such as 3H and 14C are incorporated, are useful in drug and/or substrate
tissue distribution assays. Further, substitution with isotopes such as deuterium, i.e.,    2H, can
afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability, for example
increased in vivo half-life or reduced dosage requirements.
                                                   - 106 -

[00328] In additional or further embodiments, the compounds described herein are metabolized
upon administration to an organism in need to produce a metabolite that is then used to produce
a desired effect, including a desired therapeutic effect. In some embodiments, the metabolites of
the compounds described herein are N-oxides. In some embodiments the metabolites of
compounds of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (IlIb), and (IIc) include, but
are not limited to, compounds selected from the group consisting of:
           OPh                              OPh                                OPh
   NH2                              NH2                               NH2
    N N ='N                                XN0                                                 0
   N    N       0       +N-         N    N       0        +N-         N     N       0      +N
               N                                N                                  N
               H                                H                                  H
           OPh                             OPh                                 OPh
   NH2                             NH2                                NH2
                         O0-                O                   -0
   NN N         0        N-        N    N       C)                    N    N       0N
               N.N                                                           .    N
           OPh                       OPh                             OPh
   NH2                       NH2                            NH2
 N      N                         N                      N        N
   N    N                    N    N                         N      N
                       N +-                       N                              N
              O           ,N             ON
              0                          0                              0
           OPh                           OPh
                                                                         OPh
   NH2                           NH2
        N                      N      N                          NH2
   N    N                        N    NX
                                                                 NIN
                                         N                 N           N        N
             0                             0
                                           0"e-        1o
                                                -  107 -

        OPh                            OPh                           OPh
NH2                           NH2                           NH2                    0
       N                                 OQ                      N     O
                                                                           NC)  N
                                           N             0-
            N            0-
                                                               -O~hOPh
                                                                             N
            O       F           NH                  o        NH2
                       NN    N-              0    /
            N                           N
                                                             NH2 0
                                                                       OPh
        OPh                             OPh
NH2                             NH 2                               N
    N     o                -         NN O                       N N
     N N     C         NN                   N            N
                                        OPh
        OPh                                                            OBn
                                NH2                           NH
NH2                                  N                        NH2        -.    N
                ON-
                 o               N   N ~o       o        N-            Oh
                      N            O                                           NN-   N--
  NH                                         F/0-                    N
NH2                             NH2                           NH2          P
    NN                                                  N
           N           N-       N       NCN-N
  N   .       N           N                  0 0 8-0                                 N   +N
                                                                                   0
                                             -  108   -

                                              OPh
         OPh
                                   NH2 0
NH 2 N-                          i        N>=                            NH2
N     N       0            -                                         -         N      0
                       N. 0N                               +                                 N
            0                              OH
        HN                                             N                         OPh
NH 2    -NH                           2                                  NH
SN            0        N-          N          -                          N     N      0      N
                             0            0                                          H
         OPh                                  OBn                                OPh
NH 2                               NH                                    NH 2
             N         N                                     N-----           N              N
                                                                    - ~ 0 +N- N=       0     !
        N     0,           ,o       N                          'N
         OPh                                             F
NH2                                NH2                                                     F
                              -NN                    N                        NO
      N                                  N                             N?--   '>>= NH2
                O                  N           N     0/N
                         /                  /                           N     N    H
NH 2 0F          N )=o          N  NH2 -           -  10     -          N2
                                                                            /            F
          =o                              >O                                N
      N              ~-N                             N     +N                 N    O
             N                                    N             O..
                             0                    0         -                                  0

                                                                               OPh
            0-0                                      IN
                                                                        NH2
    NH2   -                         NH 2                              N     N
            NL                    NNN                                   N   N
          N 0                                               ,-N
         N       0        -N--      N     N       0      +N                                 /0
                N                   N            N       MeO                   N
                H              ,                 H               ,and              0
[00329] Compounds described herein may be formed as, and/or used as, pharmaceutically
acceptable salts. The type of pharmaceutical acceptable salts, include, but are not limited to: (1)
acid addition salts, formed by reacting the free base form of the compound with a
pharmaceutically acceptable: inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid,
sulfuric acid, nitric acid, phosphoric acid, metaphosphoric acid, and the like; or with an organic
acid such as acetic acid, propionic acid, hexanoic acid, cyclopentanepropionic acid, glycolic
acid, pyruvic acid, lactic acid, malonic acid, succinic acid, malic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid,
trifluoroacetic acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, benzoic acid, 3-(4-hydroxybenzoyl)benzoic acid,
cinnamic acid, mandelic acid, methanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid, 1,2-ethanedisulfonic
acid, 2-hydroxyethanesulfonic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, toluenesulfonic acid, 2
naphthalenesulfonic acid, 4-methylbicyclo-[2.2.2]oct-2-ene-1-carboxylic acid, glucoheptonic
acid, 4,4'-methylenebis-(3-hydroxy-2-ene-1-carboxylic acid), 3-phenylpropionic acid,
trimethylacetic acid, tertiary butylacetic acid, lauryl sulfuric acid, gluconic acid, glutamic acid,
hydroxynaphthoic acid, salicylic acid, stearic acid, muconic acid, and the like; (2) salts formed
when an acidic proton present in the parent compound either is replaced by a metal ion, e.g., an
alkali metal ion (e.g. lithium, sodium, potassium), an alkaline earth ion (e.g. magnesium, or
calcium), or an aluminum ion; or coordinates with an organic base. Acceptable organic bases
include ethanolamine, diethanolamine, triethanolamine, tromethamine, N-methylglucamine, and
the like. Acceptable inorganic bases include aluminum hydroxide, calcium hydroxide, potassium
hydroxide, sodium carbonate, sodium hydroxide, and the like.
[00330] The corresponding counterions of the pharmaceutically acceptable salts may be
analyzed and identified using various methods including, but not limited to, ion exchange
chromatography, ion chromatography, capillary electrophoresis, inductively coupled plasma,
atomic absorption spectroscopy, mass spectrometry, or any combination thereof.
[00331] The salts are recovered by using at least one of the following techniques: filtration,
precipitation with a non-solvent followed by filtration, evaporation of the solvent, or, in the case
of aqueous solutions, lyophilization.
[00332] It should be understood that a reference to a pharmaceutically acceptable salt includes
                                                   -110-

the solvent addition forms or crystal forms thereof, particularly solvates or polymorphs. Solvates
contain either stoichiometric or non-stoichiometric amounts of a solvent, and may be formed
during the process of crystallization with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water,
ethanol, and the like. Hydrates are formed when the solvent is water, or alcoholates are formed
when the solvent is alcohol. Solvates of compounds described herein can be conveniently
prepared or formed during the processes described herein. In addition, the compounds provided
herein can exist in unsolvated as well as solvated forms. In general, the solvated forms are
considered equivalent to the unsolvated forms for the purposes of the compounds and methods
provided herein.
[00333] It should be understood that a reference to a salt includes the solvent addition forms or
crystal forms thereof, particularly solvates or polymorphs. Solvates contain either stoichiometric
or non-stoichiometric amounts of a solvent, and are often formed during the process of
crystallization with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water, ethanol, and the like.
Hydrates are formed when the solvent is water, or alcoholates are formed when the solvent is
alcohol. Polymorphs include the different crystal packing arrangements of the same elemental
composition of a compound. Polymorphs usually have different X-ray diffraction patterns,
infrared spectra, melting points, density, hardness, crystal shape, optical and electrical
properties, stability, and solubility. Various factors such as the recrystallization solvent, rate of
crystallization, and storage temperature may cause a single crystal form to dominate.
[00334] Compounds described herein may be in various forms, including but not limited to,
amorphous forms, milled forms and nano-particulate forms. In addition, compounds described
herein include crystalline forms, also known as polymorphs. Polymorphs include the different
crystal packing arrangements of the same elemental composition of a compound. Polymorphs
usually have different X-ray diffraction patterns, infrared spectra, melting points, density,
hardness, crystal shape, optical and electrical properties, stability, and solubility. Various factors
such as the recrystallization solvent, rate of crystallization, and storage temperature may cause a
single crystal form to dominate.
[00335] The screening and characterization of the pharmaceutically acceptable salts, polymorphs
and/or solvates may be accomplished using a variety of techniques including, but not limited to,
thermal analysis, x-ray diffraction, spectroscopy, vapor sorption, and microscopy. Thermal
analysis methods address thermo chemical degradation or thermo physical processes including,
but not limited to, polymorphic transitions, and such methods are used to analyze the
relationships between polymorphic forms, determine weight loss, to find the glass transition
temperature, or for excipient compatibility studies. Such methods include, but are not limited to,
Differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), Modulated Differential Scanning Calorimetry
                                                - 111 -

(MDCS), Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), and Thermogravi-metric and Infrared analysis
(TG/IR). X-ray diffraction methods include, but are not limited to, single crystal and powder
diffractometers and synchrotron sources. The various spectroscopic techniques used include, but
are not limited to, Raman, FTIR, UVIS, and NMR (liquid and solid state). The various
microscopy techniques include, but are not limited to, polarized light microscopy, Scanning
Electron Microscopy (SEM) with Energy Dispersive X-Ray Analysis (EDX), Environmental
Scanning Electron Microscopy with EDX (in gas or water vapor atmosphere), IR microscopy,
and Raman microscopy.
[00336] Throughout the specification, groups and substituents thereof can be chosen by one
skilled in the field to provide stable moieties and compounds.
Pharmaceutical Composition/Formulation
[00337] Pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated in a conventional manner using one or
more physiologically acceptable carriers including excipients and auxiliaries which facilitate
processing of the active compounds into preparations which can be used pharmaceutically.
Proper formulation is dependent upon the route of administration chosen. Any of the well
known techniques, carriers, and excipients may be used as suitable and as understood in the art.
A summary of pharmaceutical compositions described herein may be found, for example, in
Remington: The Science and PracticeofPharmacy, Nineteenth Ed (Easton, Pa.: Mack
Publishing Company, 1995); Hoover, John E., Remington's PharmaceuticalSciences, Mack
Publishing Co., Easton, Pennsylvania 1975; Liberman, H.A. and Lachman, L., Eds.,
PharmaceuticalDosage Forms, Marcel Decker, New York, N.Y., 1980; and Pharmaceutical
DosageForms and Drug Delivery Systems, Seventh Ed. (Lippincott Williams & Wilkins 1999),
herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.
[00338] A pharmaceutical composition, as used herein, refers to a mixture of a compound
described herein, such as, for example, compounds of any of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila),
(Ilb), (III), (Ila), (IIb), or (IIc), with other chemical components, such as carriers, stabilizers,
diluents, dispersing agents, suspending agents, thickening agents, and/or excipients. The
pharmaceutical composition facilitates administration of the compound to an organism. In
practicing the methods of treatment or use provided herein, therapeutically effective amounts of
compounds described herein are administered in a pharmaceutical composition to a mammal
having a disease, disorder, or condition to be treated. Preferably, the mammal is a human. A
therapeutically effective amount can vary widely depending on the severity of the disease, the
age and relative health of the subject, the potency of the compound used and other factors. The
compounds can be used singly or in combination with one or more therapeutic agents as
                                                  -112-

components of mixtures.
[00339] In certain embodiments, compositions may also include one or more pH adjusting
agents or buffering agents, including acids such as acetic, boric, citric, lactic, phosphoric and
hydrochloric acids; bases such as sodium hydroxide, sodium phosphate, sodium borate, sodium
citrate, sodium acetate, sodium lactate and tris-hydroxymethylaminomethane; and buffers such
as citrate/dextrose, sodium bicarbonate and ammonium chloride. Such acids, bases and buffers
are included in an amount required to maintain pH of the composition in an acceptable range.
[00340] In other embodiments, compositions may also include one or more salts in an amount
required to bring osmolality of the composition into an acceptable range. Such salts include
those having sodium, potassium or ammonium cations and chloride, citrate, ascorbate, borate,
phosphate, bicarbonate, sulfate, thiosulfate or bisulfite anions; suitable salts include sodium
chloride, potassium chloride, sodium thiosulfate, sodium bisulfite and ammonium sulfate.
[00341] The term "pharmaceutical combination" as used herein, means a product that results
from the mixing or combining of more than one active ingredient and includes both fixed and
non-fixed combinations of the active ingredients. The term "fixed combination" means that the
active ingredients, e.g. a compound described herein and a co-agent, are both administered to a
patient simultaneously in the form of a single entity or dosage. The term "non-fixed
combination" means that the active ingredients, e.g. a compound described herein and a co
agent, are administered to a patient as separate entities either simultaneously, concurrently or
sequentially with no specific intervening time limits, wherein such administration provides
effective levels of the two compounds in the body of the patient. The latter also applies to
cocktail therapy, e.g. the administration of three or more active ingredients.
[00342] The pharmaceutical formulations described herein can be administered to a subject by
multiple administration routes, including but not limited to, oral, parenteral (e.g., intravenous,
subcutaneous, intramuscular), intranasal, buccal, topical, rectal, or transdermal administration
routes. The pharmaceutical formulations described herein include, but are not limited to,
aqueous liquid dispersions, self-emulsifying dispersions, solid solutions, liposomal dispersions,
aerosols, solid dosage forms, powders, immediate release formulations, controlled release
formulations, fast melt formulations, tablets, capsules, pills, delayed release formulations,
extended release formulations, pulsatile release formulations, multiparticulate formulations, and
mixed immediate and controlled release formulations.
[00343] Pharmaceutical compositions including a compound described herein may be
manufactured in a conventional manner, such as, by way of example only, by means of
conventional mixing, dissolving, granulating, dragee-making, levigating, emulsifying,
encapsulating, entrapping or compression processes.
                                                -113-

[00344] The pharmaceutical compositions will include at least one compound described herein,
such as, for example, a compound of any of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila),
(IlIb), or (IIc), as an active ingredient in free-acid or free-base form, or in a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt form. In addition, the methods and pharmaceutical compositions described herein
include the use of N-oxides, crystalline forms (also known as polymorphs), as well as active
metabolites of these compounds having the same type of activity. In some situations, compounds
may exist as tautomers. All tautomers are included within the scope of the compounds presented
herein. Additionally, the compounds described herein can exist in unsolvated as well as solvated
forms with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water, ethanol, and the like. The
solvated forms of the compounds presented herein are also considered to be disclosed herein.
[00345] "Antifoaming agents" reduce foaming during processing which can result in coagulation
of aqueous dispersions, bubbles in the finished film, or generally impair processing. Exemplary
anti-foaming agents include silicon emulsions or sorbitan sesquoleate.
[00346] "Antioxidants" include, for example, butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), sodium
ascorbate, ascorbic acid, sodium metabisulfite and tocopherol. In certain embodiments,
antioxidants enhance chemical stability where required.
[00347] In certain embodiments, compositions provided herein may also include one or more
preservatives to inhibit microbial activity. Suitable preservatives include mercury-containing
substances such as merfen and thiomersal; stabilized chlorine dioxide; and quaternary
ammonium compounds such as benzalkonium chloride, cetyltrimethylammonium bromide and
cetylpyridinium chloride.
[00348] Formulations described herein may benefit from antioxidants, metal chelating agents,
thiol containing compounds and other general stabilizing agents. Examples of such stabilizing
agents, include, but are not limited to: (a) about 0.50% to about 2% w/v glycerol, (b) about 0.1 %
to about 1% w/v methionine, (c) about 0.1% to about 2% w/v monothioglycerol, (d) about 1 mM
to about 10 mM EDTA, (e) about 0.01% to about 2% w/v ascorbic acid, (f) 0.003% to about
0.02% w/v polysorbate 80, (g) 0.001% to about 0.05% w/v. polysorbate 20, (h) arginine, (i)
heparin, (j) dextran sulfate, (k) cyclodextrins, (1) pentosan polysulfate and other heparinoids, (m)
divalent cations such as magnesium and zinc; or (n) combinations thereof.
[00349] "Binders" impart cohesive qualities and include, e.g., alginic acid and salts thereof;
cellulose derivatives such as carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose (e.g., Methocel*),
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose (e.g., Klucel*),
ethylcellulose (e.g., Ethocel*), and microcrystalline cellulose (e.g., Avicel"); microcrystalline
dextrose; amylose; magnesium aluminum silicate; polysaccharide acids; bentonites; gelatin;
polyvinylpyrrolidone/vinyl acetate copolymer; crosspovidone; povidone; starch; pregelatinized
                                                 -114-

starch; tragacanth, dextrin, a sugar, such as sucrose (e.g., Dipac*), glucose, dextrose, molasses,
mannitol, sorbitol, xylitol (e.g., Xylitab*), and lactose; a natural or synthetic gum such as acacia,
tragacanth, ghatti gum, mucilage of isapol husks, polyvinylpyrrolidone (e.g., Polyvidone* CL,
Kollidon* CL, Polyplasdone* XL-10), larch arabogalactan, Veegum*, polyethylene glycol,
waxes, sodium alginate, and the like.
[00350] A "carrier" or "carrier materials" include any commonly used excipients in
pharmaceutics and should be selected on the basis of compatibility with compounds disclosed
herein, such as, compounds of any of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (IlIb),
or (IIc), and the release profile properties of the desired dosage form. Exemplary carrier
materials include, e.g., binders, suspending agents, disintegration agents, filling agents,
surfactants, solubilizers, stabilizers, lubricants, wetting agents, diluents, and the like.
"Pharmaceutically compatible carrier materials" may include, but are not limited to, acacia,
gelatin, colloidal silicon dioxide, calcium glycerophosphate, calcium lactate, maltodextrin,
glycerine, magnesium silicate, polyvinylpyrrollidone (PVP), cholesterol, cholesterol esters,
sodium caseinate, soy lecithin, taurocholic acid, phosphotidylcholine, sodium chloride,
tricalcium phosphate, dipotassium phosphate, cellulose and cellulose conjugates, sugars sodium
stearoyl lactylate, carrageenan, monoglyceride, diglyceride, pregelatinized starch, and the like.
See, e.g., Remington: The Science and PracticeofPharmacy,Nineteenth Ed (Easton, Pa.: Mack
Publishing Company, 1995); Hoover, John E., Remington's PharmaceuticalSciences, Mack
Publishing Co., Easton, Pennsylvania 1975; Liberman, H.A. and Lachman, L., Eds.,
PharmaceuticalDosage Forms, Marcel Decker, New York, N.Y., 1980; and Pharmaceutical
DosageForms and Drug Delivery Systems, Seventh Ed. (Lippincott Williams & Wilkins 1999).
[00351] "Dispersing agents," and/or "viscosity modulating agents" include materials that control
the diffusion and homogeneity of a drug through liquid media or a granulation method or blend
method. In some embodiments, these agents also facilitate the effectiveness of a coating or
eroding matrix. Exemplary diffusion facilitators/dispersing agents include, e.g., hydrophilic
polymers, electrolytes, Tween * 60 or 80, PEG, polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP; commercially
known as Plasdone*), and the carbohydrate-based dispersing agents such as, for example,
hydroxypropyl celluloses (e.g., HPC, HPC-SL, and HPC-L), hydroxypropyl methylcelluloses
(e.g., HPMC KIO, HPMC K4M, HPMC K15M, and HPMC KIOM), carboxymethylcellulose
sodium, methylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose,
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose phthalate, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate stearate
(HPMCAS), noncrystalline cellulose, magnesium aluminum silicate, triethanolamine, polyvinyl
alcohol (PVA), vinyl pyrrolidone/vinyl acetate copolymer (S630), 4-(1,1,3,3-tetramethylbutyl)
phenol polymer with ethylene oxide and formaldehyde (also known as tyloxapol), poloxamers
                                                 -115-

(e.g., Pluronics F68*', F88*, and F108*, which are block copolymers of ethylene oxide and
propylene oxide); and poloxamines (e.g., Tetronic 908*, also known as Poloxamine 908*, which
is a tetrafunctional block copolymer derived from sequential addition of propylene oxide and
ethylene oxide to ethylenediamine (BASF Corporation, Parsippany, N.J.)), polyvinylpyrrolidone
K12, polyvinylpyrrolidone K17, polyvinylpyrrolidone K25, or polyvinylpyrrolidone K30,
polyvinylpyrrolidone/vinyl acetate copolymer (S-630), polyethylene glycol, e.g., the
polyethylene glycol can have a molecular weight of about 300 to about 6000, or about 3350 to
about 4000, or about 7000 to about 5400, sodium carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose,
polysorbate-80, sodium alginate, gums, such as, e.g., gum tragacanth and gum acacia, guar gum,
xanthans, including xanthan gum, sugars, cellulosics, such as, e.g., sodium
carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose, sodium carboxymethylcellulose, polysorbate-80,
sodium alginate, polyethoxylated sorbitan monolaurate, polyethoxylated sorbitan monolaurate,
povidone, carbomers, polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), alginates, chitosans and combinations thereof.
Plasticizcers such as cellulose or triethyl cellulose can also be used as dispersing agents.
Dispersing agents particularly useful in liposomal dispersions and self-emulsifying dispersions
are dimyristoyl phosphatidyl choline, natural phosphatidyl choline from eggs, natural
phosphatidyl glycerol from eggs, cholesterol and isopropyl myristate.
[00352] Combinations of one or more erosion facilitator with one or more diffusion facilitator
can also be used in the present compositions.
[00353] The term "diluent" refers to chemical compounds that are used to dilute the compound
of interest prior to delivery. Diluents can also be used to stabilize compounds because they can
provide a more stable environment. Salts dissolved in buffered solutions (which also can provide
pH control or maintenance) are utilized as diluents in the art, including, but not limited to a
phosphate buffered saline solution. In certain embodiments, diluents increase bulk of the
composition to facilitate compression or create sufficient bulk for homogenous blend for capsule
filling. Such compounds include e.g., lactose, starch, mannitol, sorbitol, dextrose,
microcrystalline cellulose such as Avicel*; dibasic calcium phosphate, dicalcium phosphate
dihydrate; tricalcium phosphate, calcium phosphate; anhydrous lactose, spray-dried lactose;
pregelatinized starch, compressible sugar, such as Di-Pac* (Amstar); mannitol,
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate stearate, sucrose-based
diluents, confectioner's sugar; monobasic calcium sulfate monohydrate, calcium sulfate
dihydrate; calcium lactate trihydrate, dextrates; hydrolyzed cereal solids, amylose; powdered
cellulose, calcium carbonate; glycine, kaolin; mannitol, sodium chloride; inositol, bentonite, and
the like.
[00354] The term "disintegrate" includes both the dissolution and dispersion of the dosage form
                                                -116-

when contacted with gastrointestinal fluid. "Disintegration agents or disintegrants" facilitate the
breakup or disintegration of a substance. Examples of disintegration agents include a starch, e.g.,
a natural starch such as corn starch or potato starch, a pregelatinized starch such as National
1551 or Amijel*, or sodium starch glycolate such as Promogel* or Explotab*, a cellulose such
as a wood product, methylcrystalline cellulose, e.g., Avicel*, Avicel PHIO, Avicel* PH102,
Avicel PH 105, Elcema P 100, Emcocel*, Vivacel, Ming Tia, and Solka-Floc,
methylcellulose, croscarmellose, or a cross-linked cellulose, such as cross-linked sodium
carboxymethylcellulose (Ac-Di-Sol*), cross-linked carboxymethylcellulose, or cross-linked
croscarmellose, a cross-linked starch such as sodium starch glycolate, a cross-linked polymer
such as crosspovidone, a cross-linked polyvinylpyrrolidone, alginate such as alginic acid or a
salt of alginic acid such as sodium alginate, a clay such as Veegum HV (magnesium aluminum
silicate), a gum such as agar, guar, locust bean, Karaya, pectin, or tragacanth, sodium starch
glycolate, bentonite, a natural sponge, a surfactant, a resin such as a cation-exchange resin, citrus
pulp, sodium lauryl sulfate, sodium lauryl sulfate in combination starch, and the like.
[00355] "Drug absorption" or "absorption" typically refers to the process of movement of drug
from site of administration of a drug across a barrier into a blood vessel or the site of action, e.g.,
a drug moving from the gastrointestinal tract into the portal vein or lymphatic system.
[00356] An "enteric coating" is a substance that remains substantially intact in the stomach but
dissolves and releases the drug in the small intestine or colon. Generally, the enteric coating
comprises a polymeric material that prevents release in the low pH environment of the stomach
but that ionizes at a higher pH, typically a pH of 6 to 7, and thus dissolves sufficiently in the
small intestine or colon to release the active agent therein.
[00357] "Erosion facilitators" include materials that control the erosion of a particular material
in gastrointestinal fluid. Erosion facilitators are generally known to those of ordinary skill in the
art. Exemplary erosion facilitators include, e.g., hydrophilic polymers, electrolytes, proteins,
peptides, and amino acids.
[00358] "Filling agents" include compounds such as lactose, calcium carbonate, calcium
phosphate, dibasic calcium phosphate, calcium sulfate, microcrystalline cellulose, cellulose
powder, dextrose, dextrates, dextran, starches, pregelatinized starch, sucrose, xylitol, lactitol,
mannitol, sorbitol, sodium chloride, polyethylene glycol, and the like.
[00359] "Flavoring agents" and/or "sweeteners" useful in the formulations described herein,
include, e.g., acacia syrup, acesulfame K, alitame, anise, apple, aspartame, banana, Bavarian
cream, berry, black currant, butterscotch, calcium citrate, camphor, caramel, cherry, cherry
cream, chocolate, cinnamon, bubble gum, citrus, citrus punch, citrus cream, cotton candy, cocoa,
cola, cool cherry, cool citrus, cyclamate, cylamate, dextrose, eucalyptus, eugenol, fructose, fruit
                                                 -117-

punch, ginger, glycyrrhetinate, glycyrrhiza (licorice) syrup, grape, grapefruit, honey, isomalt,
lemon, lime, lemon cream, monoammonium glyrrhizinate (MagnaSweet*), maltol, mannitol,
maple, marshmallow, menthol, mint cream, mixed berry, neohesperidine DC, neotame, orange,
pear, peach, peppermint, peppermint cream, Prosweet* Powder, raspberry, root beer, rum,
saccharin, safrole, sorbitol, spearmint, spearmint cream, strawberry, strawberry cream, stevia,
sucralose, sucrose, sodium saccharin, saccharin, aspartame, acesulfame potassium, mannitol,
talin, sylitol, sucralose, sorbitol, Swiss cream, tagatose, tangerine, thaumatin, tutti fruitti, vanilla,
walnut, watermelon, wild cherry, wintergreen, xylitol, or any combination of these flavoring
ingredients, e.g., anise-menthol, cherry-anise, cinnamon-orange, cherry-cinnamon, chocolate
mint, honey-lemon, lemon-lime, lemon-mint, menthol-eucalyptus, orange-cream, vanilla-mint,
and mixtures thereof.
[00360] "Lubricants" and "glidants" are compounds that prevent, reduce or inhibit adhesion or
friction of materials. Exemplary lubricants include, e.g., stearic acid, calcium hydroxide, talc,
sodium stearyl fumerate, a hydrocarbon such as mineral oil, or hydrogenated vegetable oil such
as hydrogenated soybean oil (Sterotex*), higher fatty acids and their alkali-metal and alkaline
earth metal salts, such as aluminum, calcium, magnesium, zinc, stearic acid, sodium stearates,
glycerol, talc, waxes, Stearowet*, boric acid, sodium benzoate, sodium acetate, sodium chloride,
leucine, a polyethylene glycol (e.g., PEG-4000) or a methoxypolyethylene glycol such as
CarbowaxTM, sodium oleate, sodium benzoate, glyceryl behenate, polyethylene glycol,
magnesium or sodium lauryl sulfate, colloidal silica such as SyloidTM, Cab-O-Sil, a starch such
as corn starch, silicone oil, a surfactant, and the like.
[00361] A "measurable serum concentration" or "measurable plasma concentration" describes
the blood serum or blood plasma concentration, typically measured in mg, pg, or ng of
therapeutic agent per ml, dl, or 1 of blood serum, absorbed into the bloodstream after
administration. As used herein, measurable plasma concentrations are typically measured in
ng/ml or tg/ml.
[00362] "Pharmacodynamics" refers to the factors which determine the biologic response
observed relative to the concentration of drug at a site of action.
[00363] "Pharmacokinetics" refers to the factors which determine the attainment and
maintenance of the appropriate concentration of drug at a site of action.
[00364] "Plasticizers" are compounds used to soften the microencapsulation material or film
coatings to make them less brittle. Suitable plasticizers include, e.g., polyethylene glycols such
as PEG 300, PEG 400, PEG 600, PEG 1450, PEG 3350, and PEG 800, stearic acid, propylene
glycol, oleic acid, triethyl cellulose and triacetin. In some embodiments, plasticizers can also
function as dispersing agents or wetting agents.
                                                 -118-

[00365] "Solubilizers" include compounds such as triacetin, triethylcitrate, ethyl oleate, ethyl
caprylate, sodium lauryl sulfate, sodium doccusate, vitamin E TPGS, dimethylacetamide, N
methylpyrrolidone, N-hydroxyethylpyrrolidone, polyvinylpyrrolidone, hydroxypropylmethyl
cellulose, hydroxypropyl cyclodextrins, ethanol, n-butanol, isopropyl alcohol, cholesterol, bile
salts, polyethylene glycol 200-600, glycofurol, transcutol, propylene glycol, and dimethyl
isosorbide and the like.
[00366] "Stabilizers" include compounds such as any antioxidation agents, buffers, acids,
preservatives and the like.
[00367] "Steady state," as used herein, is when the amount of drug administered is equal to the
amount of drug eliminated within one dosing interval resulting in a plateau or constant plasma
drug exposure.
[00368] "Suspending agents" include compounds such as polyvinylpyrrolidone, e.g.,
polyvinylpyrrolidone K12, polyvinylpyrrolidone K17, polyvinylpyrrolidone K25, or
polyvinylpyrrolidone K30, vinyl pyrrolidone/vinyl acetate copolymer (S630), polyethylene
glycol, e.g., the polyethylene glycol can have a molecular weight of about 300 to about 6000, or
about 3350 to about 4000, or about 7000 to about 5400, sodium carboxymethylcellulose,
methylcellulose, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, hydroxymethylcellulose acetate stearate,
polysorbate-80, hydroxyethylcellulose, sodium alginate, gums, such as, e.g., gum tragacanth and
gum acacia, guar gum, xanthans, including xanthan gum, sugars, cellulosics, such as, e.g.,
sodium carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose, sodium carboxymethylcellulose,
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose, polysorbate-80, sodium alginate,
polyethoxylated sorbitan monolaurate, polyethoxylated sorbitan monolaurate, povidone and the
like.
[00369] "Surfactants" include compounds such as sodium lauryl sulfate, sodium docusate,
Tween 60 or 80, triacetin, vitamin E TPGS, sorbitan monooleate, polyoxyethylene sorbitan
monooleate, polysorbates, polaxomers, bile salts, glyceryl monostearate, copolymers of ethylene
oxide and propylene oxide, e.g., Pluronic* (BASF), and the like. Some other surfactants include
polyoxyethylene fatty acid glycerides and vegetable oils, e.g., polyoxyethylene (60)
hydrogenated castor oil; and polyoxyethylene alkylethers and alkylphenyl ethers, e.g., octoxynol
10, octoxynol 40. In some embodiments, surfactants may be included to enhance physical
stability or for other purposes.
[00370] "Viscosity enhancing agents" include, e.g., methyl cellulose, xanthan gum,
carboxymethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose,
hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose acetate stearate, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose phthalate,
carbomer, polyvinyl alcohol, alginates, acacia, chitosans and combinations thereof.
                                              -119-

[00371] "Wetting agents" include compounds such as oleic acid, glyceryl monostearate, sorbitan
monooleate, sorbitan monolaurate, triethanolamine oleate, polyoxyethylene sorbitan
monooleate, polyoxyethylene sorbitan monolaurate, sodium docusate, sodium oleate, sodium
lauryl sulfate, sodium doccusate, triacetin, Tween 80, vitamin E TPGS, ammonium salts and the
like.
Dosage Forms
[00372] The compositions described herein can be formulated for administration to a subject via
any conventional means including, but not limited to, oral, parenteral (e.g., intravenous,
subcutaneous, or intramuscular), buccal, intranasal, rectal or transdermal administration routes.
As used herein, the term "subject" is used to mean an animal, preferably a mammal, including a
human or non-human. The terms patient and subject may be used interchangeably.
[00373] Moreover, the pharmaceutical compositions described herein, which include a
compound of any of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (IlIb), or (IIc) can be
formulated into any suitable dosage form, including but not limited to, aqueous oral dispersions,
liquids, gels, syrups, elixirs, slurries, suspensions and the like, for oral ingestion by a patient to
be treated, solid oral dosage forms, aerosols, controlled release formulations, fast melt
formulations, effervescent formulations, lyophilized formulations, tablets, powders, pills,
dragees, capsules, delayed release formulations, extended release formulations, pulsatile release
formulations, multiparticulate formulations, and mixed immediate release and controlled release
formulations.
[00374] Pharmaceutical preparations for oral use can be obtained by mixing one or more solid
excipient with one or more of the compounds described herein, optionally grinding the resulting
mixture, and processing the mixture of granules, after adding suitable auxiliaries, if desired, to
obtain tablets or dragee cores. Suitable excipients include, for example, fillers such as sugars,
including lactose, sucrose, mannitol, or sorbitol; cellulose preparations such as, for example,
maize starch, wheat starch, rice starch, potato starch, gelatin, gum tragacanth, methylcellulose,
microcrystalline cellulose, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, sodium carboxymethylcellulose; or
others such as: polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP or povidone) or calcium phosphate. If desired,
disintegrating agents may be added, such as the cross-linked croscarmellose sodium,
polyvinylpyrrolidone, agar, or alginic acid or a salt thereof such as sodium alginate.
[00375] Dragee cores are provided with suitable coatings. For this purpose, concentrated sugar
solutions may be used, which may optionally contain gum arabic, talc, polyvinylpyrrolidone,
carbopol gel, polyethylene glycol, and/or titanium dioxide, lacquer solutions, and suitable
organic solvents or solvent mixtures. Dyestuffs or pigments may be added to the tablets or
dragee coatings for identification or to characterize different combinations of active compound
                                                  - 120 -

doses.
[00376] Pharmaceutical preparations which can be used orally include push-fit capsules made of
gelatin, as well as soft, sealed capsules made of gelatin and a plasticizer, such as glycerol or
sorbitol. The push-fit capsules can contain the active ingredients in admixture with filler such as
lactose, binders such as starches, and/or lubricants such as talc or magnesium stearate and,
optionally, stabilizers. In soft capsules, the active compounds may be dissolved or suspended in
suitable liquids, such as fatty oils, liquid paraffin, or liquid polyethylene glycols. In addition,
stabilizers may be added. All formulations for oral administration should be in dosages suitable
for such administration.
[00377] In some embodiments, the solid dosage forms disclosed herein may be in the form of a
tablet, (including a suspension tablet, a fast-melt tablet, a bite-disintegration tablet, a rapid
disintegration tablet, an effervescent tablet, or a caplet), a pill, a powder (including a sterile
packaged powder, a dispensable powder, or an effervescent powder) a capsule (including both
soft or hard capsules, e.g., capsules made from animal-derived gelatin or plant-derived HPMC,
or "sprinkle capsules"), solid dispersion, solid solution, bioerodible dosage form, controlled
release formulations, pulsatile release dosage forms, multiparticulate dosage forms, pellets,
granules, or an aerosol. In other embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulation is in the form of a
powder. In still other embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulation is in the form of a tablet,
including but not limited to, a fast-melt tablet. Additionally, pharmaceutical formulations
described herein may be administered as a single capsule or in multiple capsule dosage form. In
some embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulation is administered in two, or three, or four,
capsules or tablets.
[00378] In some embodiments, solid dosage forms, e.g., tablets, effervescent tablets, and
capsules, are prepared by mixing particles of a compound of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I),
(Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc), with one or more pharmaceutical excipients to form a
bulk blend composition. When referring to these bulk blend compositions as homogeneous, it is
meant that the particles of the compound of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Ib), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III),
(Ila), (Iub), or (IIc), are dispersed evenly throughout the composition so that the composition
may be readily subdivided into equally effective unit dosage forms, such as tablets, pills, and
capsules. The individual unit dosages may also include film coatings, which disintegrate upon
oral ingestion or upon contact with diluent. These formulations can be manufactured by
conventional pharmacological techniques.
[00379] Conventional pharmacological techniques include, e.g., one or a combination of
methods: (1) dry mixing, (2) direct compression, (3) milling, (4) dry or non-aqueous granulation,
(5) wet granulation, or (6) fusion. See, e.g., Lachman et al., The Theory and Practiceof
                                                   - 121 -

IndustrialPharmacy (1986). Other methods include, e.g., spray drying, pan coating, melt
granulation, granulation, fluidized bed spray drying or coating (e.g., wurster coating), tangential
coating, top spraying, tableting, extruding and the like.
[00380] The pharmaceutical solid dosage forms described herein can include a compound
described herein and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable additives such as a compatible
carrier, binder, filling agent, suspending agent, flavoring agent, sweetening agent, disintegrating
agent, dispersing agent, surfactant, lubricant, colorant, diluent, solubilizer, moistening agent,
plasticizer, stabilizer, penetration enhancer, wetting agent, anti-foaming agent, antioxidant,
preservative, or one or more combination thereof. In still other aspects, using standard coating
procedures, such as those described in Remington's PharmaceuticalSciences, 20th Edition
(2000), a film coating is provided around the formulation of the compound of any of Formula
(I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (IlIb), or (IIc). In one embodiment, some or all of the
particles of the compound of any of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (IlIb), or
(IIc), are coated. In another embodiment, some or all of the particles of the compound of any of
Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc), are microencapsulated. In still
another embodiment, the particles of the compound of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila),
(Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc), are not microencapsulated and are uncoated.
[00381] Suitable carriers for use in the solid dosage forms described herein include, but are not
limited to, acacia, gelatin, colloidal silicon dioxide, calcium glycerophosphate, calcium lactate,
maltodextrin, glycerine, magnesium silicate, sodium caseinate, soy lecithin, sodium chloride,
tricalcium phosphate, dipotassium phosphate, sodium stearoyl lactylate, carrageenan,
monoglyceride, diglyceride, pregelatinized starch, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose,
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate stearate, sucrose, microcrystalline cellulose, lactose,
mannitol and the like.
[00382] Suitable filling agents for use in the solid dosage forms described herein include, but are
not limited to, lactose, calcium carbonate, calcium phosphate, dibasic calcium phosphate,
calcium sulfate, microcrystalline cellulose, cellulose powder, dextrose, dextrates, dextran,
starches, pregelatinized starch, hydroxypropylmethycellulose (HPMC),
hydroxypropylmethycellulose phthalate, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate stearate
(HPMCAS), sucrose, xylitol, lactitol, mannitol, sorbitol, sodium chloride, polyethylene glycol,
and the like.
[00383] In order to release the compound of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (ITT),
(Ila), (Iub), or (IIc), from a solid dosage form matrix as efficiently as possible, disintegrants
are often used in the formulation, especially when the dosage forms are compressed with binder.
Disintegrants help rupturing the dosage form matrix by swelling or capillary action when
                                                       - 122  -

moisture is absorbed into the dosage form. Suitable disintegrants for use in the solid dosage
forms described herein include, but are not limited to, natural starch such as corn starch or
potato starch, a pregelatinized starch such as National 1551 or Amijel*, or sodium starch
glycolate such as Promogel* or Explotab*, a cellulose such as a wood product, methylcrystalline
cellulose, e.g., Avicel*, Avicel* PHIO, Avicel* PH102, Avicel PH105, Elcema P100,
Emcocel*, Vivacel, Ming Tia*, and Solka-Floc*, methylcellulose, croscarmellose, or a cross
linked cellulose, such as cross-linked sodium carboxymethylcellulose (Ac-Di-Sol*), cross
linked carboxymethylcellulose, or cross-linked croscarmellose, a cross-linked starch such as
sodium starch glycolate, a cross-linked polymer such as crospovidone, a cross-linked
polyvinylpyrrolidone, alginate such as alginic acid or a salt of alginic acid such as sodium
alginate, a clay such as Veegum* HV (magnesium aluminum silicate), a gum such as agar, guar,
locust bean, Karaya, pectin, or tragacanth, sodium starch glycolate, bentonite, a natural sponge,
a surfactant, a resin such as a cation-exchange resin, citrus pulp, sodium lauryl sulfate, sodium
lauryl sulfate in combination starch, and the like.
[00384] Binders impart cohesiveness to solid oral dosage form formulations: for powder filled
capsule formulation, they aid in plug formation that can be filled into soft or hard shell capsules
and for tablet formulation, they ensure the tablet remaining intact after compression and help
assure blend uniformity prior to a compression or fill step. Materials suitable for use as binders
in the solid dosage forms described herein include, but are not limited to,
carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose (e.g., Methocel), hydroxypropylmethylcellulose (e.g.
Hypromellose USP Pharmacoat-603, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate stearate (Aqoate
HS-LF and HS), hydroxyethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose (e.g., Klucel*), ethylcellulose
(e.g., Ethocel), and microcrystalline cellulose (e.g., Avicel), microcrystalline dextrose,
amylose, magnesium aluminum silicate, polysaccharide acids, bentonites, gelatin,
polyvinylpyrrolidone/vinyl acetate copolymer, crospovidone, povidone, starch, pregelatinized
starch, tragacanth, dextrin, a sugar, such as sucrose (e.g., Dipac*), glucose, dextrose, molasses,
mannitol, sorbitol, xylitol (e.g., Xylitab*), lactose, a natural or synthetic gum such as acacia,
tragacanth, ghatti gum, mucilage of isapol husks, starch, polyvinylpyrrolidone (e.g., Povidone*
CL, Kollidon CL, Polyplasdone* XL-10, and Povidone K-12), larch arabogalactan, Veegum,
polyethylene glycol, waxes, sodium alginate, and the like.
[00385] In general, binder levels of 20-70% are used in powder-filled gelatin capsule
formulations. Binder usage level in tablet formulations varies whether direct compression, wet
granulation, roller compaction, or usage of other excipients such as fillers which itself can act as
moderate binder. Formulators skilled in art can determine the binder level for the formulations,
but binder usage level of up to 70% in tablet formulations is common.
                                                 - 123 -

[00386] Suitable lubricants or glidants for use in the solid dosage forms described herein
include, but are not limited to, stearic acid, calcium hydroxide, talc, corn starch, sodium stearyl
fumerate, alkali-metal and alkaline earth metal salts, such as aluminum, calcium, magnesium,
zinc, stearic acid, sodium stearates, magnesium stearate, zinc stearate, waxes, Stearowet*, boric
acid, sodium benzoate, sodium acetate, sodium chloride, leucine, a polyethylene glycol or a
methoxypolyethylene glycol such as Carbowax TM, PEG 4000, PEG 5000, PEG 6000, propylene
glycol, sodium oleate, glyceryl behenate, glyceryl palmitostearate, glyceryl benzoate,
magnesium or sodium lauryl sulfate, and the like.
[00387] Suitable diluents for use in the solid dosage forms described herein include, but are not
limited to, sugars (including lactose, sucrose, and dextrose), polysaccharides (including
dextrates and maltodextrin), polyols (including mannitol, xylitol, and sorbitol), cyclodextrins
and the like.
[00388] The term "non water-soluble diluent" represents compounds typically used in the
formulation of pharmaceuticals, such as calcium phosphate, calcium sulfate, starches, modified
starches and microcrystalline cellulose, and microcellulose (e.g., having a density of about 0.45
g/cm 3 , e.g. Avicel, powdered cellulose), and talc.
[00389] Suitable wetting agents for use in the solid dosage forms described herein include, for
example, oleic acid, glyceryl monostearate, sorbitan monooleate, sorbitan monolaurate,
triethanolamine oleate, polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate, polyoxyethylene sorbitan
monolaurate, quaternary ammonium compounds (e.g., Polyquat 10*), sodium oleate, sodium
lauryl sulfate, magnesium stearate, sodium docusate, triacetin, vitamin E TPGS and the like.
[00390] Suitable surfactants for use in the solid dosage forms described herein include, for
example, sodium lauryl sulfate, sorbitan monooleate, polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate,
polysorbates, polaxomers, bile salts, glyceryl monostearate, copolymers of ethylene oxide and
propylene oxide, e.g., Pluronic* (BASF), and the like.
[00391] Suitable suspending agents for use in the solid dosage forms described here include, but
are not limited to, polyvinylpyrrolidone, e.g., polyvinylpyrrolidone K12, polyvinylpyrrolidone
K17, polyvinylpyrrolidone K25, or polyvinylpyrrolidone K30, polyethylene glycol, e.g., the
polyethylene glycol can have a molecular weight of about 300 to about 6000, or about 3350 to
about 4000, or about 7000 to about 5400, vinyl pyrrolidone/vinyl acetate copolymer (S630),
sodium carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose, hydroxy-propylmethylcellulose, polysorbate
80, hydroxyethylcellulose, sodium alginate, gums, such as, e.g., gum tragacanth and gum acacia,
guar gum, xanthans, including xanthan gum, sugars, cellulosics, such as, e.g., sodium
carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose, sodium carboxymethylcellulose,
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose, polysorbate-80, sodium alginate,
                                                 - 124 -

polyethoxylated sorbitan monolaurate, polyethoxylated sorbitan monolaurate, povidone and the
like.
[00392] Suitable antioxidants for use in the solid dosage forms described herein include, for
example, e.g., butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), sodium ascorbate, and tocopherol.
[00393] It should be appreciated that there is considerable overlap between additives used in the
solid dosage forms described herein. Thus, the above-listed additives should be taken as merely
exemplary, and not limiting, of the types of additives that can be included in solid dosage forms
described herein. The amounts of such additives can be readily determined by one skilled in the
art, according to the particular properties desired.
[00394] In other embodiments, one or more layers of the pharmaceutical formulation are
plasticized. Illustratively, a plasticizer is generally a high boiling point solid or liquid. Suitable
plasticizers can be added from about 0.01% to about 50% by weight (w/w) of the coating
composition. Plasticizers include, but are not limited to, diethyl phthalate, citrate esters,
polyethylene glycol, glycerol, acetylated glycerides, triacetin, polypropylene glycol,
polyethylene glycol, triethyl citrate, dibutyl sebacate, stearic acid, stearol, stearate, and castor
oil.
[00395] Compressed tablets are solid dosage forms prepared by compacting the bulk blend of
the formulations described above. In various embodiments, compressed tablets which are
designed to dissolve in the mouth will include one or more flavoring agents. In other
embodiments, the compressed tablets will include a film surrounding the final compressed
tablet. In some embodiments, the film coating can provide a delayed release of the compound of
of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (IlIb), or (IIc), from the
formulation. In other embodiments, the film coating aids in patient compliance (e.g., Opadry*
coatings or sugar coating). Film coatings including Opadry* typically range from about 1% to
about 3% of the tablet weight. In other embodiments, the compressed tablets include one or
more excipients.
[00396] A capsule may be prepared, for example, by placing the bulk blend of the formulation
of the compound of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (IlIb), or (IIc),
described above, inside of a capsule. In some embodiments, the formulations (non-aqueous
suspensions and solutions) are placed in a soft gelatin capsule. In other embodiments, the
formulations are placed in standard gelatin capsules or non-gelatin capsules such as capsules
comprising HPMC. In other embodiments, the formulation is placed in a sprinkle capsule,
wherein the capsule may be swallowed whole or the capsule may be opened and the contents
sprinkled on food prior to eating. In some embodiments, the therapeutic dose is split into
multiple (e.g., two, three, or four) capsules. In some embodiments, the entire dose of the
                                                   - 125  -

formulation is delivered in a capsule form.
[00397] In various embodiments, the particles of the compound of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb),
(I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc), and one or more excipients are dry blended and
compressed into a mass, such as a tablet, having a hardness sufficient to provide a
pharmaceutical composition that substantially disintegrates within less than about 30 minutes,
less than about 35 minutes, less than about 40 minutes, less than about 45 minutes, less than
about 50 minutes, less than about 55 minutes, or less than about 60 minutes, after oral
administration, thereby releasing the formulation into the gastrointestinal fluid.
[00398] In another aspect, dosage forms may include microencapsulated formulations. In some
embodiments, one or more other compatible materials are present in the microencapsulation
material. Exemplary materials include, but are not limited to, pH modifiers, erosion facilitators,
anti-foaming agents, antioxidants, flavoring agents, and carrier materials such as binders,
suspending agents, disintegration agents, filling agents, surfactants, solubilizers, stabilizers,
lubricants, wetting agents, and diluents.
[00399] Materials useful for the microencapsulation described herein include materials
compatible with compounds of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Ib), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub),
or (IIc), which sufficiently isolate the compound of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila),
(Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc), from other non-compatible excipients. Materials compatible
with compounds of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc), are
those that delay the release of the compounds of of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb),
(III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc), in vivo.
[00400] Exemplary microencapsulation materials useful for delaying the release of the
formulations including compounds described herein, include, but are not limited to,
hydroxypropyl cellulose ethers (HPC) such as Klucel* or Nisso HPC, low-substituted
hydroxypropyl cellulose ethers (L-HPC), hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose ethers (HPMC) such
as Seppifilm-LC, Pharmacoat*, Metolose SR, Methocel*-E, Opadry YS, PrimaFlo, Benecel
MP824, and Benecel MP843, methylcellulose polymers such as Methocel*-A,
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate stearate Aqoat (HF-LS, HF-LG,HF-MS) and Metolose*,
Ethylcelluloses (EC) and mixtures thereof such as E461, Ethocel*, Aqualon*-EC, Surelease*,
Polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) such as Opadry AMB, hydroxyethylcelluloses such as Natrosol*,
carboxymethylcelluloses and salts of carboxymethylcelluloses (CMC) such as Aqualon*-CMC,
polyvinyl alcohol and polyethylene glycol co-polymers such as Kollicoat IR, monoglycerides
(Myverol), triglycerides (KLX), polyethylene glycols, modified food starch, acrylic polymers
and mixtures of acrylic polymers with cellulose ethers such as Eudragit* EPO, Eudragit* L30D
55, Eudragit* FS 30D Eudragit* L100-55, Eudragit* LIO, Eudragit* S100, Eudragit* RD100,
                                                   - 126 -

Eudragit* E100, Eudragit* L12.5, Eudragit* S 12.5, Eudragit* NE3OD, and Eudragit* NE 40D,
cellulose acetate phthalate, sepifilms such as mixtures of HPMC and stearic acid, cyclodextrins,
and mixtures of these materials.
[00401] In still other embodiments, plasticizers such as polyethylene glycols, e.g., PEG 300,
PEG 400, PEG 600, PEG 1450, PEG 3350, and PEG 800, stearic acid, propylene glycol, oleic
acid, and triacetin are incorporated into the microencapsulation material. In other embodiments,
the microencapsulating material useful for delaying the release of the pharmaceutical
compositions is from the USP or the National Formulary (NF). In yet other embodiments, the
microencapsulation material is Klucel. In still other embodiments, the microencapsulation
material is methocel.
[00402] Microencapsulated compounds of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb), (III),
(Ila), (IlIb), or (IIc), may be formulated by methods known by one of ordinary skill in the art.
Such known methods include, e.g., spray drying processes, spinning disk-solvent processes, hot
melt processes, spray chilling methods, fluidized bed, electrostatic deposition, centrifugal
extrusion, rotational suspension separation, polymerization at liquid-gas or solid-gas interface,
pressure extrusion, or spraying solvent extraction bath. In addition to these, several chemical
techniques, e.g., complex coacervation, solvent evaporation, polymer-polymer incompatibility,
interfacial polymerization in liquid media, in situ polymerization, in-liquid drying, and
desolvation in liquid media could also be used. Furthermore, other methods such as roller
compaction, extrusion/spheronization, coacervation, or nanoparticle coating may also be used.
[00403] In one embodiment, the particles of compounds of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Ib), (I),
(Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc), are microencapsulated prior to being formulated into one
of the above forms. In still another embodiment, some or most of the particles are coated prior to
being further formulated by using standard coating procedures, such as those described in
Remington's PharmaceuticalSciences, 20th Edition (2000).
[00404] In other embodiments, the solid dosage formulations of the compounds of any of
Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc), are plasticized (coated) with
one or more layers. Illustratively, a plasticizer is generally a high boiling point solid or liquid.
Suitable plasticizers can be added from about 0.01% to about 50% by weight (w/w) of the
coating composition. Plasticizers include, but are not limited to, diethyl phthalate, citrate esters,
polyethylene glycol, glycerol, acetylated glycerides, triacetin, polypropylene glycol,
polyethylene glycol, triethyl citrate, dibutyl sebacate, stearic acid, stearol, stearate, and castor
oil.
[00405] In other embodiments, a powder including the formulations with a compound of any of
Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (ITT), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc), described herein, may be
                                                    - 127 -

formulated to include one or more pharmaceutical excipients and flavors. Such a powder may be
prepared, for example, by mixing the formulation and optional pharmaceutical excipients to
form a bulk blend composition. Additional embodiments also include a suspending agent and/or
a wetting agent. This bulk blend is uniformly subdivided into unit dosage packaging or multi
dosage packaging units.
[00406] In still other embodiments, effervescent powders are also prepared in accordance with
the present disclosure. Effervescent salts have been used to disperse medicines in water for oral
administration. Effervescent salts are granules or coarse powders containing a medicinal agent in
a dry mixture, usually composed of sodium bicarbonate, citric acid and/or tartaric acid. When
salts of the compositions described herein are added to water, the acids and the base react to
liberate carbon dioxide gas, thereby causing "effervescence." Examples of effervescent salts
include, e.g., the following ingredients: sodium bicarbonate or a mixture of sodium bicarbonate
and sodium carbonate, citric acid and/or tartaric acid. Any acid-base combination that results in
the liberation of carbon dioxide can be used in place of the combination of sodium bicarbonate
and citric and tartaric acids, as long as the ingredients were suitable for pharmaceutical use and
result in a pH of about 6.0 or higher.
[00407] In other embodiments, the formulations described herein are solid dispersions. Methods
of producing such solid dispersions are known in the art and include, but are not limited to, for
example, U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,343,789, 5,340,591, 5,456,923, 5,700,485, 5,723,269, and U.S. Pub.
Appl 2004/0013734, each of which is specifically incorporated by reference. In still other
embodiments, the formulations described herein are solid solutions. Solid solutions incorporate a
substance together with the active agent and other excipients such that heating the mixture
results in dissolution of the drug and the resulting composition is then cooled to provide a solid
blend which can be further formulated or directly added to a capsule or compressed into a tablet.
Methods of producing such solid solutions are known in the art and include, but are not limited
to, for example, U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,151,273, 5,281,420, and 6,083,518, each of which is
specifically incorporated by reference.
[00408] The pharmaceutical solid oral dosage forms including formulations described herein,
which include a compound of any of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (IlIb), or
(IIc), can be further formulated to provide a controlled release of the compound. Controlled
release refers to the release of the compound of any of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb),
(III), (Ila), (IlIb), or (IIc), from a dosage form in which it is incorporated according to a desired
profile over an extended period of time. Controlled release profiles include, for example,
sustained release, prolonged release, pulsatile release, and delayed release profiles. In contrast to
immediate release compositions, controlled release compositions allow delivery of an agent to a
                                                 - 128 -

subject over an extended period of time according to a predetermined profile. Such release rates
can provide therapeutically effective levels of agent for an extended period of time and thereby
provide a longer period of pharmacologic response while minimizing side effects as compared to
conventional rapid release dosage forms. Such longer periods of response provide for many
inherent benefits that are not achieved with the corresponding short acting, immediate release
preparations.
[00409] In some embodiments, the solid dosage forms described herein can be formulated as
enteric coated delayed release oral dosage forms, i.e., as an oral dosage form of a pharmaceutical
composition as described herein which utilizes an enteric coating to affect release in the small
intestine of the gastrointestinal tract. The enteric coated dosage form may be a compressed or
molded or extruded tablet/mold (coated or uncoated) containing granules, powder, pellets, beads
or particles of the active ingredient and/or other composition components, which are themselves
coated or uncoated. The enteric coated oral dosage form may also be a capsule (coated or
uncoated) containing pellets, beads or granules of the solid carrier or the composition, which are
themselves coated or uncoated.
[00410] The term "delayed release" as used herein refers to the delivery so that the release can
be accomplished at some generally predictable location in the intestinal tract more distal to that
which would have been accomplished if there had been no delayed release alterations. In some
embodiments the method for delay of release is coating. Any coatings should be applied to a
sufficient thickness such that the entire coating does not dissolve in the gastrointestinal fluids at
pH below about 5, but does dissolve at pH about 5 and above. It is expected that any anionic
polymer exhibiting a pH-dependent solubility profile can be used as an enteric coating in the
methods and compositions described herein to achieve delivery to the lower gastrointestinal
tract. In some embodiments the polymers described herein are anionic carboxylic polymers. In
other embodiments, the polymers and compatible mixtures thereof, and some of their properties,
include, but are not limited to:
[00411] Shellac, also called purified lac, a refined product obtained from the resinous secretion
of an insect. This coating dissolves in media of pH >7;
[00412] Acrylic polymers. The performance of acrylic polymers (primarily their solubility in
biological fluids) can vary based on the degree and type of substitution. Examples of suitable
acrylic polymers include methacrylic acid copolymers and ammonium methacrylate copolymers.
The Eudragit series E, L, S, RL, RS and NE (Rohm Pharma) are available as solubilized in
organic solvent, aqueous dispersion, or dry powders. The Eudragit series RL, NE, and RS are
insoluble in the gastrointestinal tract but are permeable and are used primarily for colonic
targeting. The Eudragit series E dissolve in the stomach. The Eudragit series L, L-30D and S are
                                                 - 129 -

insoluble in stomach and dissolve in the intestine;
[00413] Cellulose Derivatives. Examples of suitable cellulose derivatives are: ethyl cellulose;
reaction mixtures of partial acetate esters of cellulose with phthalic anhydride. The performance
can vary based on the degree and type of substitution. Cellulose acetate phthalate (CAP)
dissolves in pH >6. Aquateric (FMC) is an aqueous based system and is a spray dried CAP
psuedolatex with particles <1 pim. Other components in Aquateric can include pluronics,
Tweens, and acetylated monoglycerides. Other suitable cellulose derivatives include: cellulose
acetate trimellitate (Eastman); methylcellulose (Pharmacoat, Methocel); hydroxypropylmethyl
cellulose phthalate (HPMCP); hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose succinate (HPMCS); and
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate succinate (e.g., AQOAT (Shin Etsu)). The performance
can vary based on the degree and type of substitution. For example, HPMCP such as, HP-50,
HP-55, HP-55S, HP-55F grades are suitable. The performance can vary based on the degree and
type of substitution. For example, suitable grades of hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate
succinate include, but are not limited to, AS-LG (LF), which dissolves at pH 5, AS-MG (MF),
which dissolves at pH 5.5, and AS-HG (HF), which dissolves at higher pH. These polymers are
offered as granules, or as fine powders for aqueous dispersions;
[00414] Poly Vinyl Acetate Phthalate (PVAP). PVAP dissolves in pH >5, and it is much less
permeable to water vapor and gastric fluids.
[00415] In some embodiments, the coating can, and usually does, contain a plasticizer and
possibly other coating excipients such as colorants, talc, and/or magnesium stearate, which are
well known in the art. Suitable plasticizers include triethyl citrate (Citroflex 2), triacetin
(glyceryl triacetate), acetyl triethyl citrate (Citroflec A2), Carbowax 400 (polyethylene glycol
400), diethyl phthalate, tributyl citrate, acetylated monoglycerides, glycerol, fatty acid esters,
propylene glycol, and dibutyl phthalate. In particular, anionic carboxylic acrylic polymers
usually will contain 10-25% by weight of a plasticizer, especially dibutyl phthalate,
polyethylene glycol, triethyl citrate and triacetin. Conventional coating techniques such as spray
or pan coating are employed to apply coatings. The coating thickness must be sufficient to
ensure that the oral dosage form remains intact until the desired site of topical delivery in the
intestinal tract is reached.
[00416] Colorants, detackifiers, surfactants, antifoaming agents, lubricants (e.g., carnuba wax or
PEG) may be added to the coatings besides plasticizers to solubilize or disperse the coating
material, and to improve coating performance and the coated product.
[00417] In other embodiments, the formulations described herein are delivered using a pulsatile
dosage form. A pulsatile dosage form is capable of providing one or more immediate release
pulses at predetermined time points after a controlled lag time or at specific sites. Pulsatile
                                                  - 130 -

dosage forms including the formulations described herein, which include a compound of any of
Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc), may be administered using a
variety of pulsatile formulations known in the art. For example, such formulations include, but
are not limited to, those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,011,692, 5,017,381, 5,229,135, and
5,840,329, each of which is specifically incorporated by reference. Other pulsatile release
dosage forms suitable for use with the present formulations include, but are not limited to, for
example, U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,871,549, 5,260,068, 5,260,069, 5,508,040, 5,567,441 and 5,837,284,
all of which are specifically incorporated by reference. In one embodiment, the controlled
release dosage form is pulsatile release solid oral dosage form including at least two groups of
particles, (i.e. multiparticulate) each containing the formulation described herein. The first group
of particles provides a substantially immediate dose of the compound of any of Formula (I), (Ta),
(Ib), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc), upon ingestion by a mammal. The first group of
particles can be either uncoated or include a coating and/or sealant. The second group of
particles includes coated particles, which includes from about 2% to about 75%, from about
2.5% to about 70%, or from about 40% to about 70%, by weight of the total dose of the
compound of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc), in said
formulation, in admixture with one or more binders. The coating includes a pharmaceutically
acceptable ingredient in an amount sufficient to provide a delay of from about 2 hours to about 7
hours following ingestion before release of the second dose. Suitable coatings include one or
more differentially degradable coatings such as, by way of example only, pH sensitive coatings
(enteric coatings) such as acrylic resins (e.g., Eudragit* EPO, Eudragit* L30D-55, Eudragit* FS
30D Eudragit L100-55, Eudragit L100, Eudragit S100, Eudragit* RD100, Eudragit* E100,
Eudragit* L12.5, Eudragit* S12.5, and Eudragit* NE3OD, Eudragit* NE 40D*) either alone or
blended with cellulose derivatives, e.g., ethylcellulose, or non-enteric coatings having variable
thickness to provide differential release of the formulation that includes a compound of any of
Formula (I).
[00418] Many other types of controlled release systems known to those of ordinary skill in the
art and are suitable for use with the formulations described herein. Examples of such delivery
systems include, e.g., polymer-based systems, such as polylactic and polyglycolic acid,
plyanhydrides and polycaprolactone; porous matrices, nonpolymer-based systems that are lipids,
including sterols, such as cholesterol, cholesterol esters and fatty acids, or neutral fats, such as
mono-, di- and triglycerides; hydrogel release systems; silastic systems; peptide-based systems;
wax coatings, bioerodible dosage forms, compressed tablets using conventional binders and the
like. See, e.g., Liberman et al., PharmaceuticalDosage Forms, 2 Ed., Vol. 1, pp. 209-214
(1990); Singh et al., Encyclopedia ofPharmaceuticalTechnology, 2 nd Ed., pp. 751-753 (2002);
                                                    - 131 -

U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,327,725, 4,624,848, 4,968,509, 5,461,140, 5,456,923, 5,516,527, 5,622,721,
5,686,105, 5,700,410, 5,977,175, 6,465,014 and 6,932,983, each of which is specifically
incorporated by reference.
[00419] In some embodiments, pharmaceutical formulations are provided that include particles
of the compounds of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (IlIb), or (IIc),
described herein and at least one dispersing agent or suspending agent for oral administration to
a subject. The formulations may be a powder and/or granules for suspension, and upon
admixture with water, a substantially uniform suspension is obtained.
[00420] Liquid formulation dosage forms for oral administration can be aqueous suspensions
selected from the group including, but not limited to, pharmaceutically acceptable aqueous oral
dispersions, emulsions, solutions, elixirs, gels, and syrups. See, e.g., Singh et al., Encyclopedia
ofPharmaceuticalTechnology, 2nd Ed., pp. 754-757 (2002). In addition to the particles of
compound of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc), described
herein, the liquid dosage forms may include additives, such as: (a) disintegrating agents; (b)
dispersing agents; (c) wetting agents; (d) at least one preservative, (e) viscosity enhancing
agents, (f) at least one sweetening agent, and (g) at least one flavoring agent. In some
embodiments, the aqueous dispersions can further include a crystalline inhibitor.
[00421] The aqueous suspensions and dispersions described herein can remain in a homogenous
state, as defined in The USP Pharmacists' Pharmacopeia (2005 edition, chapter 905), for at least
4 hours. The homogeneity should be determined by a sampling method consistent with regard to
determining homogeneity of the entire composition. In one embodiment, an aqueous suspension
can be re-suspended into a homogenous suspension by physical agitation lasting less than 1
minute. In another embodiment, an aqueous suspension can be re-suspended into a homogenous
suspension by physical agitation lasting less than 45 seconds. In yet another embodiment, an
aqueous suspension can be re-suspended into a homogenous suspension by physical agitation
lasting less than 30 seconds. In still another embodiment, no agitation is necessary to maintain a
homogeneous aqueous dispersion.
[00422] Examples of disintegrating agents for use in the aqueous suspensions and dispersions
include, but are not limited to, a starch, e.g., a natural starch such as corn starch or potato starch,
a pregelatinized starch such as National 1551 or Amijel*, or sodium starch glycolate such as
Promogel* or Explotab*; a cellulose such as a wood product, methylcrystalline cellulose, e.g.,
Avicel*, Avicel PH101, Avicel* PH102, Avicel PH105, Elcema* P100, Emcocel*, Vivacel,
Ming Tia, and Solka-Floc*, methylcellulose, croscarmellose, or a cross-linked cellulose, such
as cross-linked sodium carboxymethylcellulose (Ac-Di-Sol*), cross-linked
carboxymethylcellulose, or cross-linked croscarmellose; a cross-linked starch such as sodium
                                                 -  132 -

starch glycolate; a cross-linked polymer such as crospovidone; a cross-linked
polyvinylpyrrolidone; alginate such as alginic acid or a salt of alginic acid such as sodium
alginate; a clay such as Veegum* HV (magnesium aluminum silicate); a gum such as agar, guar,
locust bean, Karaya, pectin, or tragacanth; sodium starch glycolate; bentonite; a natural sponge;
a surfactant; a resin such as a cation-exchange resin; citrus pulp; sodium lauryl sulfate; sodium
lauryl sulfate in combination starch; and the like.
[00423] In some embodiments, the dispersing agents suitable for the aqueous suspensions and
dispersions described herein are known in the art and include, for example, hydrophilic
polymers, electrolytes, Tween * 60 or 80, PEG, polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP; commercially
known as Plasdone*), and the carbohydrate-based dispersing agents such as, for example,
hydroxypropylcellulose and hydroxypropyl cellulose ethers (e.g., HPC, HPC-SL, and HPC-L),
hydroxypropyl methylcellulose and hydroxypropyl methylcellulose ethers (e.g. HPMC KIO,
HPMC K4M, HPMC K15M, and HPMC KIOM), carboxymethylcellulose sodium,
methylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose, hydroxypropylmethyl-cellulose phthalate,
hydroxypropylmethyl-cellulose acetate stearate, noncrystalline cellulose, magnesium aluminum
silicate, triethanolamine, polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), polyvinylpyrrolidone/vinyl acetate
copolymer (Plasdone*, e.g., S-630), 4-(1,1,3,3-tetramethylbutyl)-phenol polymer with ethylene
oxide and formaldehyde (also known as tyloxapol), poloxamers (e.g., Pluronics F68*, F88*, and
F 108*, which are block copolymers of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide); and poloxamines
(e.g., Tetronic 908*, also known as Poloxamine 908*, which is a tetrafunctional block
copolymer derived from sequential addition of propylene oxide and ethylene oxide to
ethylenediamine (BASF Corporation, Parsippany, N.J.)). In other embodiments, the dispersing
agent is selected from a group not comprising one of the following agents: hydrophilic
polymers; electrolytes; Tween * 60 or 80; PEG; polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP);
hydroxypropylcellulose and hydroxypropyl cellulose ethers (e.g., HPC, HPC-SL, and HPC-L);
hydroxypropyl methylcellulose and hydroxypropyl methylcellulose ethers (e.g. HPMC KIO,
HPMC K4M, HPMC K15M, HPMC KIOM, and Pharmacoat* USP 2910 (Shin-Etsu));
carboxymethylcellulose sodium; methylcellulose; hydroxyethylcellulose; hydroxypropylmethyl
cellulose phthalate; hydroxypropylmethyl-cellulose acetate stearate; non-crystalline cellulose;
magnesium aluminum silicate; triethanolamine; polyvinyl alcohol (PVA); 4-(1,1,3,3
tetramethylbutyl)-phenol polymer with ethylene oxide and formaldehyde; poloxamers (e.g.,
Pluronics F68*, F88*, and F108*, which are block copolymers of ethylene oxide and propylene
oxide); or poloxamines (e.g., Tetronic 908 *, also known as Poloxamine 908 *).
[00424] Wetting agents suitable for the aqueous suspensions and dispersions described herein
are known in the art and include, but are not limited to, cetyl alcohol, glycerol monostearate,
                                               - 133 -

polyoxyethylene sorbitan fatty acid esters (e.g., the commercially available Tweens* such as
e.g., Tween 20* and Tween 80* (ICI Specialty Chemicals)), and polyethylene glycols (e.g.,
Carbowaxs 3350* and 1450*, and Carbopol 934* (Union Carbide)), oleic acid, glyceryl
monostearate, sorbitan monooleate, sorbitan monolaurate, triethanolamine oleate,
polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate, polyoxyethylene sorbitan monolaurate, sodium oleate,
sodium lauryl sulfate, sodium docusate, triacetin, vitamin E TPGS, sodium taurocholate,
simethicone, phosphotidylcholine and the like
[00425] Suitable preservatives for the aqueous suspensions or dispersions described herein
include, for example, potassium sorbate, parabens (e.g., methylparaben and propylparaben),
benzoic acid and its salts, other esters of parahydroxybenzoic acid such as butylparaben,
alcohols such as ethyl alcohol or benzyl alcohol, phenolic compounds such as phenol, or
quaternary compounds such as benzalkonium chloride. Preservatives, as used herein, are
incorporated into the dosage form at a concentration sufficient to inhibit microbial growth.
[00426] Suitable viscosity enhancing agents for the aqueous suspensions or dispersions
described herein include, but are not limited to, methyl cellulose, xanthan gum, carboxymethyl
cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose, Plasdon* S-630, carbomer,
polyvinyl alcohol, alginates, acacia, chitosans and combinations thereof. The concentration of
the viscosity enhancing agent will depend upon the agent selected and the viscosity desired.
[00427] Examples of sweetening agents suitable for the aqueous suspensions or dispersions
described herein include, for example, acacia syrup, acesulfame K, alitame, anise, apple,
aspartame, banana, Bavarian cream, berry, black currant, butterscotch, calcium citrate, camphor,
caramel, cherry, cherry cream, chocolate, cinnamon, bubble gum, citrus, citrus punch, citrus
cream, cotton candy, cocoa, cola, cool cherry, cool citrus, cyclamate, cylamate, dextrose,
eucalyptus, eugenol, fructose, fruit punch, ginger, glycyrrhetinate, glycyrrhiza (licorice) syrup,
grape, grapefruit, honey, isomalt, lemon, lime, lemon cream, monoammonium glyrrhizinate
(MagnaSweet*), maltol, mannitol, maple, marshmallow, menthol, mint cream, mixed berry,
neohesperidine DC, neotame, orange, pear, peach, peppermint, peppermint cream, Prosweet*
Powder, raspberry, root beer, rum, saccharin, safrole, sorbitol, spearmint, spearmint cream,
strawberry, strawberry cream, stevia, sucralose, sucrose, sodium saccharin, saccharin,
aspartame, acesulfame potassium, mannitol, talin, sucralose, sorbitol, swiss cream, tagatose,
tangerine, thaumatin, tutti fruitti, vanilla, walnut, watermelon, wild cherry, wintergreen, xylitol,
or any combination of these flavoring ingredients, e.g., anise-menthol, cherry-anise, cinnamon
orange, cherry-cinnamon, chocolate-mint, honey-lemon, lemon-lime, lemon-mint, menthol
eucalyptus, orange-cream, vanilla-mint, and mixtures thereof. In one embodiment, the aqueous
liquid dispersion can comprise a sweetening agent or flavoring agent in a concentration ranging
                                                 - 134 -

from about 0.001% to about 1.0% the volume of the aqueous dispersion. In another
embodiment, the aqueous liquid dispersion can comprise a sweetening agent or flavoring agent
in a concentration ranging from about 0.005% to about 0.5% the volume of the aqueous
dispersion. In yet another embodiment, the aqueous liquid dispersion can comprise a sweetening
agent or flavoring agent in a concentration ranging from about 0.01% to about 1.0% the volume
of the aqueous dispersion.
[00428] In addition to the additives listed above, the liquid formulations can also include inert
diluents commonly used in the art, such as water or other solvents, solubilizing agents, and
emulsifiers. Exemplary emulsifiers are ethyl alcohol, isopropyl alcohol, ethyl carbonate, ethyl
acetate, benzyl alcohol, benzyl benzoate, propyleneglycol, 1,3-butyleneglycol,
dimethylformamide, sodium lauryl sulfate, sodium doccusate, cholesterol, cholesterol esters,
taurocholic acid, phosphotidylcholine, oils, such as cottonseed oil, groundnut oil, corn germ oil,
olive oil, castor oil, and sesame oil, glycerol, tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol, polyethylene glycols,
fatty acid esters of sorbitan, or mixtures of these substances, and the like.
[00429] In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulations described herein can be self
emulsifying drug delivery systems (SEDDS). Emulsions are dispersions of one immiscible
phase in another, usually in the form of droplets. Generally, emulsions are created by vigorous
mechanical dispersion. SEDDS, as opposed to emulsions or microemulsions, spontaneously
form emulsions when added to an excess of water without any external mechanical dispersion or
agitation. An advantage of SEDDS is that only gentle mixing is required to distribute the
droplets throughout the solution. Additionally, water or the aqueous phase can be added just
prior to administration, which ensures stability of an unstable or hydrophobic active ingredient.
Thus, the SEDDS provides an effective delivery system for oral and parenteral delivery of
hydrophobic active ingredients. SEDDS may provide improvements in the bioavailability of
hydrophobic active ingredients. Methods of producing self-emulsifying dosage forms are known
in the art and include, but are not limited to, for example, U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,858,401, 6,667,048,
and 6,960,563, each of which is specifically incorporated by reference.
[00430] It is to be appreciated that there is overlap between the above-listed additives used in the
aqueous dispersions or suspensions described herein, since a given additive is often classified
differently by different practitioners in the field, or is commonly used for any of several
different functions. Thus, the above-listed additives should be taken as merely exemplary, and
not limiting, of the types of additives that can be included in formulations described herein. The
amounts of such additives can be readily determined by one skilled in the art, according to the
particular properties desired.
                                                 - 135 -

[00431] Intranasal Formulations
[00432] Intranasal formulations are known in the art and are described in, for example, U.S. Pat.
Nos. 4,476,116, 5,116,817 and 6,391,452, each of which is specifically incorporated by
reference. Formulations that include a compound of any of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila),
(Ilb), (III), (Ila), (IlIb), or (IIc), which are prepared according to these and other techniques
well-known in the art are prepared as solutions in saline, employing benzyl alcohol or other
suitable preservatives, fluorocarbons, and/or other solubilizing or dispersing agents known in the
art. See, for example, Ansel, H. C. et al., Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms and Drug Delivery
Systems, Sixth Ed. (1995). Preferably these compositions and formulations are prepared with
suitable nontoxic pharmaceutically acceptable ingredients. These ingredients are known to those
skilled in the preparation of nasal dosage forms and some of these can be found in
REMINGTON: THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF PHARMACY, 21st edition, 2005, a
standard reference in the field. The choice of suitable carriers is highly dependent upon the exact
nature of the nasal dosage form desired, e.g., solutions, suspensions, ointments, or gels. Nasal
dosage forms generally contain large amounts of water in addition to the active ingredient.
Minor amounts of other ingredients such as pH adjusters, emulsifiers or dispersing agents,
preservatives, surfactants, gelling agents, or buffering and other stabilizing and solubilizing
agents may also be present. The nasal dosage form should be isotonic with nasal secretions.
[00433] For administration by inhalation, the compounds of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Ib), (II),
(Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (IlIb), or (IIc), described herein may be in a form as an aerosol, a mist
or a powder. Pharmaceutical compositions described herein are conveniently delivered in the
form of an aerosol spray presentation from pressurized packs or a nebuliser, with the use of a
suitable propellant, e.g., dichlorodifluoromethane, trichlorofluoromethane,
dichlorotetrafluoroethane, carbon dioxide or other suitable gas. In the case of a pressurized
aerosol, the dosage unit may be determined by providing a valve to deliver a metered amount.
Capsules and cartridges of, such as, by way of example only, gelatin for use in an inhaler or
insufflator may be formulated containing a powder mix of the compound described herein and a
suitable powder base such as lactose or starch.
[00434] Buccal Formulations
[00435] Buccal formulations that include compounds of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila),
(Ilb), (ITT), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc), may be administered using a variety of formulations known in
the art. For example, such formulations include, but are not limited to, U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,229,447,
4,596,795, 4,755,386, and 5,739,136, each of which is specifically incorporated by reference. In
addition, the buccal dosage forms described herein can further include a bioerodible
(hydrolysable) polymeric carrier that also serves to adhere the dosage form to the buccal
                                                    - 136 -

mucosa. The buccal dosage form is fabricated so as to erode gradually over a predetermined
time period, wherein the delivery of the compound of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila),
(Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc), is provided essentially throughout. Buccal drug delivery, as
will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, avoids the disadvantages encountered with oral
drug administration, e.g., slow absorption, degradation of the active agent by fluids present in
the gastrointestinal tract and/or first-pass inactivation in the liver. With regard to the bioerodible
(hydrolysable) polymeric carrier, it will be appreciated that virtually any such carrier can be
used, so long as the desired drug release profile is not compromised, and the carrier is
compatible with the compound of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Ib), (I), (Ila), (Ib), (III), (Ila),
(Iub), or (IIc), and any other components that may be present in the buccal dosage unit.
Generally, the polymeric carrier comprises hydrophilic (water-soluble and water-swellable)
polymers that adhere to the wet surface of the buccal mucosa. Examples of polymeric carriers
useful herein include acrylic acid polymers and co, e.g., those known as "carbomers"
(Carbopol*, which may be obtained from B.F. Goodrich, is one such polymer). Other
components may also be incorporated into the buccal dosage forms described herein include, but
are not limited to, disintegrants, diluents, binders, lubricants, flavoring, colorants, preservatives,
and the like. For buccal or sublingual administration, the compositions may take the form of
tablets, lozenges, or gels formulated in a conventional manner.
[00436] Transdermal Formulations
[00437] Transdermal formulations described herein may be administered using a variety of
devices which have been described in the art. For example, such devices include, but are not
limited to, U.S. Pat. Nos. 3,598,122, 3,598,123, 3,710,795, 3,731,683, 3,742,951, 3,814,097,
3,921,636, 3,972,995, 3,993,072, 3,993,073, 3,996,934, 4,031,894, 4,060,084, 4,069,307,
4,077,407, 4,201,211, 4,230,105, 4,292,299, 4,292,303, 5,336,168, 5,665,378, 5,837,280,
5,869,090, 6,923,983, 6,929,801 and 6,946,144, each of which is specifically incorporated by
reference in its entirety.
[00438] The transdermal dosage forms described herein may incorporate certain
pharmaceutically acceptable excipients which are conventional in the art. In one embodiment,
the transdermal formulations described herein include at least three components: (1) a
formulation of a compound of any of Formula (I), (I), or (III); (2) a penetration enhancer; and
(3) an aqueous adjuvant. In addition, transdermal formulations can include additional
components such as, but not limited to, gelling agents, creams and ointment bases, and the like.
In some embodiments, the transdermal formulation can further include a woven or non-woven
backing material to enhance absorption and prevent the removal of the transdermal formulation
from the skin. In other embodiments, the transdermal formulations described herein can
                                                  - 137 -

maintain a saturated or supersaturated state to promote diffusion into the skin.
[00439] Formulations suitable for transdermal administration of compounds described herein
may employ transdermal delivery devices and transdermal delivery patches and can be lipophilic
emulsions or buffered, aqueous solutions, dissolved and/or dispersed in a polymer or an
adhesive. Such patches may be constructed for continuous, pulsatile, or on demand delivery of
pharmaceutical agents. Still further, transdermal delivery of the compounds described herein can
be accomplished by means of iontophoretic patches and the like. Additionally, transdermal
patches can provide controlled delivery of the compounds of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I),
(Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc). The rate of absorption can be slowed by using rate
controlling membranes or by trapping the compound within a polymer matrix or gel.
Conversely, absorption enhancers can be used to increase absorption. An absorption enhancer or
carrier can include absorbable pharmaceutically acceptable solvents to assist passage through the
skin. For example, transdermal devices are in the form of a bandage comprising a backing
member, a reservoir containing the compound optionally with carriers, optionally a rate
controlling barrier to deliver the compound to the skin of the host at a controlled and
predetermined rate over a prolonged period of time, and means to secure the device to the skin.
[00440] Injectable Formulations
[00441] Formulations that include a compound of any of Formula (I), (Ta), (Ib), (I), (Ila), (Ilb),
(III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc), suitable for intramuscular, subcutaneous, or intravenous injection
may include physiologically acceptable sterile aqueous or non-aqueous solutions, dispersions,
suspensions or emulsions, and sterile powders for reconstitution into sterile injectable solutions
or dispersions. Examples of suitable aqueous and non-aqueous carriers, diluents, solvents, or
vehicles including water, ethanol, polyols (propyleneglycol, polyethylene-glycol, glycerol,
cremophor and the like), suitable mixtures thereof, vegetable oils (such as olive oil) and
injectable organic esters such as ethyl oleate. Proper fluidity can be maintained, for example, by
the use of a coating such as lecithin, by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case
of dispersions, and by the use of surfactants. Formulations suitable for subcutaneous injection
may also contain additives such as preserving, wetting, emulsifying, and dispensing agents.
Prevention of the growth of microorganisms can be ensured by various antibacterial and
antifungal agents, such as parabens, chlorobutanol, phenol, sorbic acid, and the like. It may also
be desirable to include isotonic agents, such as sugars, sodium chloride, and the like. Prolonged
absorption of the injectable pharmaceutical form can be brought about by the use of agents
delaying absorption, such as aluminum monostearate and gelatin.
[00442] For intravenous injections, compounds described herein may be formulated in aqueous
solutions, preferably in physiologically compatible buffers such as Hank's solution, Ringer's
                                                   - 138 -

solution, or physiological saline buffer. For transmucosal administration, penetrants appropriate
to the barrier to be permeated are used in the formulation. Such penetrants are generally known
in the art. For other parenteral injections, appropriate formulations may include aqueous or
nonaqueous solutions, preferably with physiologically compatible buffers or excipients. Such
excipients are generally known in the art.
[00443] Parenteral injections may involve bolus injection or continuous infusion. Formulations
for injection may be presented in unit dosage form, e.g., in ampoules or in multi-dose containers,
with an added preservative. The pharmaceutical composition described herein may be in a form
suitable for parenteral injection as a sterile suspensions, solutions or emulsions in oily or
aqueous vehicles, and may contain formulatory agents such as suspending, stabilizing and/or
dispersing agents. Pharmaceutical formulations for parenteral administration include aqueous
solutions of the active compounds in water-soluble form. Additionally, suspensions of the active
compounds may be prepared as appropriate oily injection suspensions. Suitable lipophilic
solvents or vehicles include fatty oils such as sesame oil, or synthetic fatty acid esters, such as
ethyl oleate or triglycerides, or liposomes. Aqueous injection suspensions may contain
substances which increase the viscosity of the suspension, such as sodium carboxymethyl
cellulose, sorbitol, or dextran. Optionally, the suspension may also contain suitable stabilizers or
agents which increase the solubility of the compounds to allow for the preparation of highly
concentrated solutions. Alternatively, the active ingredient may be in powder form for
constitution with a suitable vehicle, e.g., sterile pyrogen-free water, before use.
[00444] Other Formulations
[00445] In certain embodiments, delivery systems for pharmaceutical compounds may be
employed, such as, for example, liposomes and emulsions. In certain embodiments,
compositions provided herein can also include an mucoadhesive polymer, selected from among,
for example, carboxymethylcellulose, carbomer (acrylic acid polymer),
poly(methylmethacrylate), polyacrylamide, polycarbophil, acrylic acid/butyl acrylate
copolymer, sodium alginate and dextran.
[00446] In some embodiments, the compounds described herein may be administered topically
and can be formulated into a variety of topically administrable compositions, such as solutions,
suspensions, lotions, gels, pastes, medicated sticks, balms, creams or ointments. Such
pharmaceutical compounds can contain solubilizers, stabilizers, tonicity enhancing agents,
buffers and preservatives.
[00447] The compounds described herein may also be formulated in rectal compositions such as
enemas, rectal gels, rectal foams, rectal aerosols, suppositories, jelly suppositories, or retention
enemas, containing conventional suppository bases such as cocoa butter or other glycerides, as
                                                 - 139 -

well as synthetic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone, PEG, and the like. In suppository
forms of the compositions, a low-melting wax such as, but not limited to, a mixture of fatty acid
glycerides, optionally in combination with cocoa butter is first melted.
Examples of Methods of Dosing and Treatment Regimens
[00448] The compounds described herein can be used in the preparation of medicaments for the
inhibition of Btk or a homolog thereof, or for the treatment of diseases or conditions that would
benefit, at least in part, from inhibition of Btk. In addition, a method for treating any of the
diseases or conditions described herein in a subject in need of such treatment, involves
administration of pharmaceutical compositions containing at least one compound of any of
Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (IlIb), or (IIc), described herein, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt, pharmaceutically acceptable N-oxide, pharmaceutically active
metabolite, pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug, or pharmaceutically acceptable solvate
thereof, in therapeutically effective amounts to said subject.
[00449] The compositions containing the compound(s) described herein can be administered for
prophylactic and/or therapeutic treatments. In therapeutic applications, the compositions are
administered to a patient already suffering from a disease or condition, in an amount sufficient
to cure or at least partially arrest the symptoms of the disease or condition. Amounts effective
for this use will depend on the severity and course of the disease or condition, previous therapy,
the patient's health status, weight, and response to the drugs, and the judgment of the treating
physician. It is considered well within the skill of the art for one to determine such
therapeutically effective amounts by routine experimentation (including, but not limited to, a
dose escalation clinical trial).
[00450] In prophylactic applications, compositions containing the compounds described herein
are administered to a patient susceptible to or otherwise at risk of a particular disease, disorder
or condition. Such an amount is defined to be a "prophylactically effective amount or dose." In
this use, the precise amounts also depend on the patient's state of health, weight, and the like. It
is considered well within the skill of the art for one to determine such prophylactically effective
amounts by routine experimentation (e.g., a dose escalation clinical trial). When used in a
patient, effective amounts for this use will depend on the severity and course of the disease,
disorder or condition, previous therapy, the patient's health status and response to the drugs, and
the judgment of the treating physician.
[00451] In the case wherein the patient's condition does not improve, upon the doctor's
discretion the administration of the compounds may be administered chronically, that is, for an
extended period of time, including throughout the duration of the patient's life in order to
ameliorate or otherwise control or limit the symptoms of the patient's disease or condition.
                                                     - 140 -

[00452] In the case wherein the patient's status does improve, upon the doctor's discretion the
administration of the compounds may be given continuously; alternatively, the dose of drug
being administered may be temporarily reduced or temporarily suspended for a certain length of
time (i.e., a "drug holiday"). The length of the drug holiday can vary between 2 days and 1 year,
including by way of example only, 2 days, 3 days, 4 days, 5 days, 6 days, 7 days, 10 days, 12
days, 15 days, 20 days, 28 days, 35 days, 50 days, 70 days, 100 days, 120 days, 150 days, 180
days, 200 days, 250 days, 280 days, 300 days, 320 days, 350 days, or 365 days. The dose
reduction during a drug holiday may be from 10%-100%, including, by way of example only,
10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%,85%,
90%, 95%, or 100%.
[00453] Once improvement of the patient's conditions has occurred, a maintenance dose is
administered if necessary. Subsequently, the dosage or the frequency of administration, or both,
can be reduced, as a function of the symptoms, to a level at which the improved disease,
disorder or condition is retained. Patients can, however, require intermittent treatment on a long
term basis upon any recurrence of symptoms.
[00454] The amount of a given agent that will correspond to such an amount will vary
depending upon factors such as the particular compound, disease or condition and its severity,
the identity (e.g., weight) of the subject or host in need of treatment, but can nevertheless be
routinely determined in a manner known in the art according to the particular circumstances
surrounding the case, including, e.g., the specific agent being administered, the route of
administration, the condition being treated, and the subject or host being treated. In general,
however, doses employed for adult human treatment will typically be in the range of 0.02-5000
mg per day, or from about 1-1500 mg per day. The desired dose may conveniently be presented
in a single dose or as divided doses administered simultaneously (or over a short period of time)
or at appropriate intervals, for example as two, three, four or more sub-doses per day.
[00455] In one embodiment, the daily dosage appropriate for the compound of Formula (I), (II)
or (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, described herein is about 1 mg per day. In
another embodiment, the daily dosage appropriate for the compound of Formula (I), (II) or (III),
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, described herein is about 2 mg per day. In another
embodiment, the daily dosage appropriate for the compound of Formula (I), (II) or (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, described herein is about 5 mg per day. In another
embodiment, the daily dosage appropriate for the compound of Formula (I), (II) or (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, described herein is about 10 mg per day. In another
embodiment, the daily dosage appropriate for the compound of Formula (I), (II) or (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, described herein is about 20 mg per day. In another
                                                - 141  -

embodiment, the daily dosage appropriate for the compound of Formula (I), (II) or (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, described herein is about 30 mg per day. In another
embodiment, the daily dosage appropriate for the compound of Formula (I), (II) or (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, described herein is about 40 mg per day. In another
embodiment, the daily dosage appropriate for the compound of Formula (I), (II) or (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, described herein is about 50 mg per day. In another
embodiment, the daily dosage appropriate for the compound of Formula (I), (II) or (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, described herein is about 60 mg per day. In another
embodiment, the daily dosage appropriate for the compound of Formula (I), (II) or (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, described herein is about 70 mg per day. In another
embodiment, the daily dosage appropriate for the compound of Formula (I), (II) or (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, described herein is about 80 mg per day. In another
embodiment, the daily dosage appropriate for the compound of Formula (I), (II) or (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, described herein is about 90 mg per day. In another
embodiment, the daily dosage appropriate for the compound of Formula (I), (II) or (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, described herein is about 100 mg per day. In another
embodiment, the daily dosage appropriate for the compound of Formula (I), (II) or (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, described herein is about 150 mg per day. In another
embodiment, the daily dosage appropriate for the compound of Formula (I), (II) or (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, described herein is about 200 mg per day. In another
embodiment, the daily dosage appropriate for the compound of Formula (I), (II) or (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, described herein is about 250 mg per day. In another
embodiment, the daily dosage appropriate for the compound of Formula (I), (II) or (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, described herein is about 300 mg per day. In another
embodiment, the daily dosage appropriate for the compound of Formula (I), (II) or (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, described herein is about 350 mg per day. In another
embodiment, the daily dosage appropriate for the compound of Formula (I), (II) or (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, described herein is about 400 mg per day. In another
embodiment, the daily dosage appropriate for the compound of Formula (I), (II) or (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, described herein is about 500 mg per day. In another
embodiment, the daily dosage appropriate for the compound of Formula (I), (II) or (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, described herein is about 600 mg per day. In another
embodiment, the daily dosage appropriate for the compound of Formula (I), (II) or (III), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, described herein is about 700 mg per day. In another
embodiment, the daily dosage appropriate for the compound of Formula (I), (II) or (III), or a
                                             - 142 -

pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, described herein is about 800 mg per day.
[00456] In one embodiment, the daily dosages appropriate for the compound of Formula (I), (II)
or (III), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, described herein are from about 0.01 to
about 50 mg/kg per body weight.
[00457] In some embodiments, the daily dosage or the amount of active in the dosage form are
lower or higher than the ranges indicated herein, based on a number of variables in regard to an
individual treatment regime. In various embodiments, the daily and unit dosages are altered
depending on a number of variables including, but not limited to, the activity of the compound
used, the disease or condition to be treated, the mode of administration, the requirements of the
individual subject, the severity of the disease or condition being treated, and the judgment of the
practitioner.
[00458] The pharmaceutical composition described herein may be in unit dosage forms suitable
for single administration of precise dosages. In unit dosage form, the formulation is divided into
unit doses containing appropriate quantities of one or more compound. The unit dosage may be
in the form of a package containing discrete quantities of the formulation. Non-limiting
examples are packaged tablets or capsules, and powders in vials or ampoules. Aqueous
suspension compositions can be packaged in single-dose non-reclosable containers.
Alternatively, multiple-dose reclosable containers can be used, in which case it is typical to
include a preservative in the composition. By way of example only, formulations for parenteral
injection may be presented in unit dosage form, which include, but are not limited to ampoules,
or in multi-dose containers, with an added preservative.
[00459] The foregoing ranges are merely suggestive, as the number of variables in regard to an
individual treatment regime is large, and considerable excursions from these recommended
values are not uncommon. Such dosages may be altered depending on a number of variables, not
limited to the activity of the compound used, the disease or condition to be treated, the mode of
administration, the requirements of the individual subject, the severity of the disease or
condition being treated, and the judgment of the practitioner.
[00460] Toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of such therapeutic regimens can be determined by
standard pharmaceutical procedures in cell cultures or experimental animals, including, but not
limited to, the determination of the LD5 o (the dose lethal to 50% of the population) and the ED 5o
(the dose therapeutically effective in 50% of the population). The dose ratio between the toxic
and therapeutic effects is the therapeutic index and it can be expressed as the ratio between LD 50
and ED5 o. Compounds exhibiting high therapeutic indices are preferred. The data obtained from
cell culture assays and animal studies can be used in formulating a range of dosage for use in
human. The dosage of such compounds lies preferably within a range of circulating
                                                - 143 -

concentrations that include the ED 50 with minimal toxicity. The dosage may vary within this
range depending upon the dosage form employed and the route of administration utilized.
Combination Treatments
[00461] The reversible or irreversible Btk inhibitor compositions described herein can also be
used in combination with other well known therapeutic reagents that are selected for their
therapeutic value for the condition to be treated. In general, the compositions described herein
and, in embodiments where combinational therapy is employed, other agents do not have to be
administered in the same pharmaceutical composition, and may, because of different physical
and chemical characteristics, have to be administered by different routes. The determination of
the mode of administration and the advisability of administration, where possible, in the same
pharmaceutical composition, is well within the knowledge of the skilled clinician. The initial
administration can be made according to established protocols known in the art, and then, based
upon the observed effects, the dosage, modes of administration and times of administration can
be modified by the skilled clinician.
[00462] In certain instances, it may be appropriate to administer at least one reversible or
irreversible Btk inhibitor compound described herein in combination with another therapeutic
agent. By way of example only, if one of the side effects experienced by a patient upon
receiving one of the reversible or irreversible Btk inhibitor compounds described herein is
nausea, then it may be appropriate to administer an anti-nausea agent in combination with the
initial therapeutic agent. Or, by way of example only, the therapeutic effectiveness of one of the
compounds described herein may be enhanced by administration of an adjuvant (i.e., by itself
the adjuvant may have minimal therapeutic benefit, but in combination with another therapeutic
agent, the overall therapeutic benefit to the patient is enhanced). Or, by way of example only,
the benefit experienced by a patient may be increased by administering one of the compounds
described herein with another therapeutic agent (which also includes a therapeutic regimen) that
also has therapeutic benefit. In any case, regardless of the disease, disorder or condition being
treated, the overall benefit experienced by the patient may simply be additive of the two
therapeutic agents or the patient may experience a synergistic benefit.
[00463] The particular choice of compounds used will depend upon the diagnosis of the
attending physicians and their judgment of the condition of the patient and the appropriate
treatment protocol. The compounds may be administered concurrently (e.g., simultaneously,
essentially simultaneously or within the same treatment protocol) or sequentially, depending
upon the nature of the disease, disorder, or condition, the condition of the patient, and the actual
choice of compounds used. The determination of the order of administration, and the number of
repetitions of administration of each therapeutic agent during a treatment protocol, is well within
                                               -  144 -

the knowledge of the skilled physician after evaluation of the disease being treated and the
condition of the patient.
[00464] It is known to those of skill in the art that therapeutically-effective dosages can vary
when the drugs are used in treatment combinations. Methods for experimentally determining
therapeutically-effective dosages of drugs and other agents for use in combination treatment
regimens are described in the literature. For example, the use of metronomic dosing, i.e.,
providing more frequent, lower doses in order to minimize toxic side effects, has been described
extensively in the literature Combination treatment further includes periodic treatments that start
and stop at various times to assist with the clinical management of the patient.
[00465] For combination therapies described herein, dosages of the co-administered compounds
will of course vary depending on the type of co-drug employed, on the specific drug employed,
on the disease or condition being treated and so forth. In addition, when co-administered with
one or more biologically active agents, the compound provided herein may be administered
either simultaneously with the biologically active agent(s), or sequentially. If administered
sequentially, the attending physician will decide on the appropriate sequence of administering
protein in combination with the biologically active agent(s).
[00466] In any case, the multiple therapeutic agents (one of which is a compound of Formula (I),
(Ta), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (IlIb), or (IIc) described herein) may be administered in
any order or even simultaneously. If simultaneously, the multiple therapeutic agents may be
provided in a single, unified form, or in multiple forms (by way of example only, either as a
single pill or as two separate pills). One of the therapeutic agents may be given in multiple
doses, or both may be given as multiple doses. If not simultaneous, the timing between the
multiple doses may vary from more than zero weeks to less than four weeks. In addition, the
combination methods, compositions and formulations are not to be limited to the use of only two
agents; the use of multiple therapeutic combinations are also envisioned.
[00467] It is understood that the dosage regimen to treat, prevent, or ameliorate the condition(s)
for which relief is sought, can be modified in accordance with a variety of factors. These factors
include the disorder from which the subject suffers, as well as the age, weight, sex, diet, and
medical condition of the subject. Thus, the dosage regimen actually employed can vary widely
and therefore can deviate from the dosage regimens set forth herein.
[00468] The pharmaceutical agents which make up the combination therapy disclosed herein
may be a combined dosage form or in separate dosage forms intended for substantially
simultaneous administration. The pharmaceutical agents that make up the combination therapy
may also be administered sequentially, with either therapeutic compound being administered by
a regimen calling for two-step administration. The two-step administration regimen may call for
                                                       - 145 -

sequential administration of the active agents or spaced-apart administration of the separate
active agents. The time period between the multiple administration steps may range from, a few
minutes to several hours, depending upon the properties of each pharmaceutical agent, such as
potency, solubility, bioavailability, plasma half-life and kinetic profile of the pharmaceutical
agent. Circadian variation of the target molecule concentration may also determine the optimal
dose interval.
[00469] In addition, the compounds described herein also may be used in combination with
procedures that may provide additional or synergistic benefit to the patient. By way of example
only, patients are expected to find therapeutic and/or prophylactic benefit in the methods
described herein, wherein pharmaceutical composition of a compound dislcosed herein and /or
combinations with other therapeutics are combined with genetic testing to determine whether
that individual is a carrier of a mutant gene that is known to be correlated with certain diseases
or conditions.
[00470] The compounds described herein and combination therapies can be administered before,
during or after the occurrence of a disease or condition, and the timing of administering the
composition containing a compound can vary. Thus, for example, the compounds can be used as
a prophylactic and can be administered continuously to subjects with a propensity to develop
conditions or diseases in order to prevent the occurrence of the disease or condition. The
compounds and compositions can be administered to a subject during or as soon as possible after
the onset of the symptoms. The administration of the compounds can be initiated within the first
48 hours of the onset of the symptoms, within the first 6 hours of the onset of the symptoms, or
within 3 hours of the onset of the symptoms. The initial administration can be via any route
practical, such as, for example, an intravenous injection, a bolus injection, infusion over 5
minutes to about 5 hours, a pill, a capsule, transdermal patch, buccal delivery, and the like, or
combination thereof. A compound should be administered as soon as is practicable after the
onset of a disease or condition is detected or suspected, and for a length of time necessary for the
treatment of the disease, such as, for example, from about 1 month to about 3 months. The
length of treatment can vary for each subject, and the length can be determined using the known
criteria. For example, the compound or a formulation containing the compound can be
administered for at least 2 weeks, between about 1 month to about 5 years, or from about 1
month to about 3 years.
Exemplary Therapeutic Agents for Use in Combination with a Reversible or Irreversible
Btk Inhibitor Compound
[00471] Where the subject is suffering from or at risk of suffering from an autoimmune disease,
                                                - 146  -

an inflammatory disease, or an allergy disease, a reversible or irreversible Btk inhibitor
compound can be used in with one or more of the following therapeutic agents in any
combination: immunosuppressants (e.g., tacrolimus, cyclosporin, rapamicin, methotrexate,
cyclophosphamide, azathioprine, mercaptopurine, mycophenolate, or FTY720), glucocorticoids
(e.g., prednisone, cortisone acetate, prednisolone, methylprednisolone, dexamethasone,
betamethasone, triamcinolone, beclometasone, fludrocortisone acetate, deoxycorticosterone
acetate, aldosterone), non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (e.g., salicylates, arylalkanoic acids,
2-arylpropionic acids, N-arylanthranilic acids, oxicams, coxibs, or sulphonanilides), Cox-2
specific inhibitors (e.g., valdecoxib, celecoxib, or rofecoxib), leflunomide, gold thioglucose,
gold thiomalate, aurofin, sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquinine, minocycline, TNF-a binding
proteins (e.g., infliximab, etanercept, or adalimumab), abatacept, anakinra, interferon-p,
interferon-y, interleukin-2, allergy vaccines, antihistamines, antileukotrienes, beta-agonists,
theophylline, or anticholinergics.
[00472] Where the subject is suffering from or at risk of suffering from a B-cell proliferative
disorder (e.g., plasma cell myeloma), the subject can be treated with a reversible or irreversible
Btk inhibitor compound in any combination with one or more other anti-cancer agents. In some
embodiments, one or more of the anti-cancer agents are proapoptotic agents. Examples of anti
cancer agents include, but are not limited to, any of the following: gossyphol, genasense,
polyphenol E, Chlorofusin, all trans-retinoic acid (ATRA), bryostatin, tumor necrosis factor
related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL), 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, all trans retinoic acid,
doxorubicin, vincristine, etoposide, gemcitabine, imatinib (Gleevec@), geldanamycin, 17-N
Allylamino-17-Demethoxygeldanamycin (17-AAG), flavopiridol, LY294002, bortezomib,
trastuzumab, BAY 11-7082, PKC412, or PD184352, TaxolTM, also referred to as "paclitaxel",
which is a well-known anti-cancer drug which acts by enhancing and stabilizing microtubule
formation, and analogs of TaxolTM, such as TaxotereTM. Compounds that have the basic taxane
skeleton as a common structure feature, have also been shown to have the ability to arrest cells
in the G2-M phases due to stabilized microtubules and may be useful for treating cancer in
combination with the compounds described herein.
[00473] Further examples of anti-cancer agents for use in combination with a reversible or
irreversible Btk inhibitor compound include inhibitors of mitogen-activated protein kinase
signaling, e.g., U0126, PD98059, PD184352, PD0325901, ARRY-142886, SB239063,
SP600125, BAY 43-9006, wortmannin, or LY294002; Syk inhibitors; mTOR inhibitors; and
antibodies (e.g., rituxan).
[00474] Other anti-cancer agents that can be employed in combination with a reversible or
irreversible Btk inhibitor compound include Adriamycin, Dactinomycin, Bleomycin,
                                                - 147 -

Vinblastine, Cisplatin, acivicin; aclarubicin; acodazole hydrochloride; acronine; adozelesin;
aldesleukin; altretamine; ambomycin; ametantrone acetate; aminoglutethimide; amsacrine;
anastrozole; anthramycin; asparaginase; asperlin; azacitidine; azetepa; azotomycin; batimastat;
benzodepa; bicalutamide; bisantrene hydrochloride; bisnafide dimesylate; bizelesin; bleomycin
sulfate; brequinar sodium; bropirimine; busulfan; cactinomycin; calusterone; caracemide;
carbetimer; carboplatin; carmustine; carubicin hydrochloride; carzelesin; cedefingol;
chlorambucil; cirolemycin; cladribine; crisnatol mesylate; cyclophosphamide; cytarabine;
dacarbazine; daunorubicin hydrochloride; decitabine; dexormaplatin; dezaguanine; dezaguanine
mesylate; diaziquone; doxorubicin; doxorubicin hydrochloride; droloxifene; droloxifene citrate;
dromostanolone propionate; duazomycin; edatrexate; eflomithine hydrochloride; elsamitrucin;
enloplatin; enpromate; epipropidine; epirubicin hydrochloride; erbulozole; esorubicin
hydrochloride; estramustine; estramustine phosphate sodium; etanidazole; etoposide; etoposide
phosphate; etoprine; fadrozole hydrochloride; fazarabine; fenretinide; floxuridine; fludarabine
phosphate; fluorouracil; flurocitabine; fosquidone; fostriecin sodium; gemcitabine; gemcitabine
hydrochloride; hydroxyurea; idarubicin hydrochloride; ifosfamide; iimofosine; interleukin Il
(including recombinant interleukin II, or rlL2), interferon alfa-2a; interferon alfa-2b; interferon
alfa-n1; interferon alfa-n3; interferon beta-1 a; interferon gamma-1 b; iproplatin; irinotecan
hydrochloride; lanreotide acetate; letrozole; leuprolide acetate; liarozole hydrochloride;
lometrexol sodium; lomustine; losoxantrone hydrochloride; masoprocol; maytansine;
mechlorethamine hydrochloride; megestrol acetate; melengestrol acetate; melphalan; menogaril;
mercaptopurine; methotrexate; methotrexate sodium; metoprine; meturedepa; mitindomide;
mitocarcin; mitocromin; mitogillin; mitomalcin; mitomycin; mitosper; mitotane; mitoxantrone
hydrochloride; mycophenolic acid; nocodazoie; nogalamycin; ormaplatin; oxisuran;
pegaspargase; peliomycin; pentamustine; peplomycin sulfate; perfosfamide; pipobroman;
piposulfan; piroxantrone hydrochloride; plicamycin; plomestane; porfimer sodium;
porfiromycin; prednimustine; procarbazine hydrochloride; puromycin; puromycin
hydrochloride; pyrazofurin; riboprine; rogletimide; safingol; safingol hydrochloride; semustine;
simtrazene; sparfosate sodium; sparsomycin; spirogermanium hydrochloride; spiromustine;
spiroplatin; streptonigrin; streptozocin; sulofenur; talisomycin; tecogalan sodium; tegafur;
teloxantrone hydrochloride; temoporfin; teniposide; teroxirone; testolactone; thiamiprine;
thioguanine; thiotepa; tiazofurin; tirapazamine; toremifene citrate; trestolone acetate; triciribine
phosphate; trimetrexate; trimetrexate glucuronate; triptorelin; tubulozole hydrochloride; uracil
mustard; uredepa; vapreotide; verteporfin; vinblastine sulfate; vincristine sulfate; vindesine;
vindesine sulfate; vinepidine sulfate; vinglycinate sulfate; vinleurosine sulfate; vinorelbine
tartrate; vinrosidine sulfate; vinzolidine sulfate; vorozole; zeniplatin; zinostatin; zorubicin
                                                 - 148 -

hydrochloride.
[00475] Other anti-cancer agents that can be employed in combination with a reversible or
irreversible Btk inhibitor compound include: 20-epi-1, 25 dihydroxyvitamin D3; 5
ethynyluracil; abiraterone; aclarubicin; acylfulvene; adecypenol; adozelesin; aldesleukin; ALL
TK antagonists; altretamine; ambamustine; amidox; amifostine; aminolevulinic acid; amrubicin;
amsacrine; anagrelide; anastrozole; andrographolide; angiogenesis inhibitors; antagonist D;
antagonist G; antarelix; anti-dorsalizing morphogenetic protein-1; antiandrogen, prostatic
carcinoma; antiestrogen; antineoplaston; antisense oligonucleotides; aphidicolin glycinate;
apoptosis gene modulators; apoptosis regulators; apurinic acid; ara-CDP-DL-PTBA; arginine
deaminase; asulacrine; atamestane; atrimustine; axinastatin 1; axinastatin 2; axinastatin 3;
azasetron; azatoxin; azatyrosine; baccatin III derivatives; balanol; batimastat; BCR/ABL
antagonists; benzochlorins; benzoylstaurosporine; beta lactam derivatives; beta-alethine;
betaclamycin B; betulinic acid; bFGF inhibitor; bicalutamide; bisantrene; bisaziridinylspermine;
bisnafide; bistratene A; bizelesin; breflate; bropirimine; budotitane; buthionine sulfoximine;
calcipotriol; calphostin C; camptothecin derivatives; canarypox IL-2; capecitabine;
carboxamide-amino-triazole; carboxyamidotriazole; CaRest M3; CARN 700; cartilage derived
inhibitor; carzelesin; casein kinase inhibitors (ICOS); castanospermine; cecropin B; cetrorelix;
chlorlns; chloroquinoxaline sulfonamide; cicaprost; cis-porphyrin; cladribine; clomifene
analogues; clotrimazole; collismycin A; collismycin B; combretastatin A4; combretastatin
analogue; conagenin; crambescidin 816; crisnatol; cryptophycin 8; cryptophycin A derivatives;
curacin A; cyclopentanthraquinones; cycloplatam; cypemycin; cytarabine ocfosfate; cytolytic
factor; cytostatin; dacliximab; decitabine; dehydrodidemnin B; deslorelin; dexamethasone;
dexifosfamide; dexrazoxane; dexverapamil; diaziquone; didemnin B; didox; diethylnorspermine;
dihydro-5-azacytidine; 9- dioxamycin; diphenyl spiromustine; docosanol; dolasetron;
doxifluridine; droloxifene; dronabinol; duocarmycin SA; ebselen; ecomustine; edelfosine;
edrecolomab; eflomithine; elemene; emitefur; epirubicin; epristeride; estramustine analogue;
estrogen agonists; estrogen antagonists; etanidazole; etoposide phosphate; exemestane;
fadrozole; fazarabine; fenretinide; filgrastim; finasteride; flavopiridol; flezelastine; fluasterone;
fludarabine; fluorodaunorunicin hydrochloride; forfenimex; formestane; fostriecin; fotemustine;
gadolinium texaphyrin; gallium nitrate; galocitabine; ganirelix; gelatinase inhibitors;
gemcitabine; glutathione inhibitors; hepsulfam; heregulin; hexamethylene bisacetamide;
hypericin; ibandronic acid; idarubicin; idoxifene; idramantone; ilmofosine; ilomastat;
imidazoacridones; imiquimod; immunostimulant peptides; insulin-like growth factor-I receptor
inhibitor; interferon agonists; interferons; interleukins; iobenguane; iododoxorubicin;
ipomeanol, 4-; iroplact; irsogladine; isobengazole; isohomohalicondrin B; itasetron;
                                                 - 149 -

jasplakinolide; kahalalide F; lamellarin-N triacetate; lanreotide; leinamycin; lenograstim;
lentinan sulfate; leptolstatin; letrozole; leukemia inhibiting factor; leukocyte alpha interferon;
leuprolide+estrogen+progesterone; leuprorelin; levamisole; liarozole; linear polyamine
analogue; lipophilic disaccharide peptide; lipophilic platinum compounds; lissoclinamide 7;
lobaplatin; lombricine; lometrexol; lonidamine; losoxantrone; lovastatin; loxoribine; lurtotecan;
lutetium texaphyrin; lysofylline; lytic peptides; maitansine; mannostatin A; marimastat;
masoprocol; maspin; matrilysin inhibitors; matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors; menogaril;
merbarone; meterelin; methioninase; metoclopramide; MIF inhibitor; mifepristone; miltefosine;
mirimostim; mismatched double stranded RNA; mitoguazone; mitolactol; mitomycin analogues;
mitonafide; mitotoxin fibroblast growth factor-saporin; mitoxantrone; mofarotene;
molgramostim; monoclonal antibody, human chorionic gonadotrophin; monophosphoryl lipid
A+myobacterium cell wall sk; mopidamol; multiple drug resistance gene inhibitor; multiple
tumor suppressor 1 -based therapy; mustard anticancer agent; mycaperoxide B; mycobacterial
cell wall extract; myriaporone; N-acetyldinaline; N-substituted benzamides; nafarelin; nagrestip;
naloxone+pentazocine; napavin; naphterpin; nartograstim; nedaplatin; nemorubicin; neridronic
acid; neutral endopeptidase; nilutamide; nisamycin; nitric oxide modulators; nitroxide
antioxidant; nitrullyn; 06-benzylguanine; octreotide; okicenone; oligonucleotides; onapristone;
ondansetron; ondansetron; oracin; oral cytokine inducer; ormaplatin; osaterone; oxaliplatin;
oxaunomycin; palauamine; palmitoylrhizoxin; pamidronic acid; panaxytriol; panomifene;
parabactin; pazelliptine; pegaspargase; pegfilgrastim; peldesine; pentosan polysulfate sodium;
pentostatin; pentrozole; perflubron; perfosfamide; perillyl alcohol; phenazinomycin;
phenylacetate; phosphatase inhibitors; picibanil; pilocarpine hydrochloride; pirarubicin;
piritrexim; placetin A; placetin B; plasminogen activator inhibitor; platinum complex; platinum
compounds; platinum-triamine complex; porfimer sodium; porfiromycin; prednisone; propyl
bis-acridone; prostaglandin J2; proteasome inhibitors; protein A-based immune modulator;
protein kinase C inhibitor; protein kinase C inhibitors, microalgal; protein tyrosine phosphatase
inhibitors; purine nucleoside phosphorylase inhibitors; purpurins; pyrazoloacridine;
pyridoxylated hemoglobin polyoxyethylerie conjugate; raf antagonists; raltitrexed; ramosetron;
ras famesyl protein transferase inhibitors; ras inhibitors; ras-GAP inhibitor; retelliptine
demethylated; rhenium Re 186 etidronate; rhizoxin; ribozymes; RII retinamide; rogletimide;
rohitukine; romurtide; roquinimex; rubiginone B 1; ruboxyl; safingol; saintopin; SarCNU;
sarcophytol A; sargramostim; Sdi 1 mimetics; semustine; senescence derived inhibitor 1; sense
oligonucleotides; signal transduction inhibitors; signal transduction modulators; single chain
antigen-binding protein; sizofiran; sobuzoxane; sodium borocaptate; sodium phenylacetate;
solverol; somatomedin binding protein; sonermin; sparfosic acid; spicamycin D; spiromustine;
                                                - 150 -

splenopentin; spongistatin 1; squalamine; stem cell inhibitor; stem-cell division inhibitors;
stipiamide; stromelysin inhibitors; sulfinosine; superactive vasoactive intestinal peptide
antagonist; suradista; suramin; swainsonine; synthetic glycosaminoglycans; tallimustine;
tamoxifen methiodide; tauromustine; tazarotene; tecogalan sodium; tegafur; tellurapyrylium;
telomerase inhibitors; temoporfin; temozolomide; teniposide; tetrachlorodecaoxide; tetrazomine;
thaliblastine; thiocoraline; thrombopoietin; thrombopoietin mimetic; thymalfasin; thymopoietin
receptor agonist; thymotrinan; thyroid stimulating hormone; tin ethyl etiopurpurin; tirapazamine;
titanocene bichloride; topsentin; toremifene; totipotent stem cell factor; translation inhibitors;
tretinoin; triacetyluridine; triciribine; trimetrexate; triptorelin; tropisetron; turosteride; tyrosine
kinase inhibitors; tyrphostins; UBC inhibitors; ubenimex; urogenital sinus-derived growth
inhibitory factor; urokinase receptor antagonists; vapreotide; variolin B; vector system,
erythrocyte gene therapy; velaresol; veramine; verdins; verteporfin; vinorelbine; vinxaltine;
vitaxin; vorozole; zanoterone; zeniplatin; zilascorb; and zinostatin stimalamer.
[00476] Yet other anticancer agents that can be employed in combination with a reversible or
irreversible Btk inhibitor compound include alkylating agents, antimetabolites, natural products,
or hormones, e.g., nitrogen mustards (e.g., mechloroethamine, cyclophosphamide, chlorambucil,
etc.), alkyl sulfonates (e.g., busulfan), nitrosoureas (e.g., carmustine, lomusitne, ete.), or
triazenes (decarbazine, etc.). Examples of antimetabolites include but are not limited to folic
acid analog (e.g., methotrexate), or pyrimidine analogs (e.g., Cytarabine), purine analogs (e.g.,
mercaptopurine, thioguanine, pentostatin).
[00477] Examples of natural products useful in combination with a reversible or irreversible Btk
inhibitor compound include but are not limited to vinca alkaloids (e.g., vinblastin, vincristine),
epipodophyllotoxins (e.g., etoposide), antibiotics (e.g., daunorubicin, doxorubicin, bleomycin),
enzymes (e.g., L-asparaginase), or biological response modifiers (e.g., interferon alpha).
[00478] Examples of alkylating agents that can be employed in combination a reversible or
irreversible Btk inhibitor compound include, but are not limited to, nitrogen mustards (e.g.,
mechloroethamine, cyclophosphamide, chlorambucil, meiphalan, etc.), ethylenimine and
methylmelamines (e.g., hexamethlymelamine, thiotepa), alkyl sulfonates (e.g., busulfan),
nitrosoureas (e.g., carmustine, lomusitne, semustine, streptozocin, etc.), or triazenes
(decarbazine, ete.). Examples of antimetabolites include, but are not limited to folic acid analog
(e.g., methotrexate), or pyrimidine analogs (e.g., fluorouracil, floxouridine, Cytarabine), purine
analogs (e.g., mercaptopurine, thioguanine, pentostatin.
[00479] Examples of hormones and antagonists useful in combination with a reversible or
irreversible Btk inhibitor compound include, but are not limited to, adrenocorticosteroids (e.g.,
prednisone), progestins (e.g., hydroxyprogesterone caproate, megestrol acetate,
                                                  - 151 -

medroxyprogesterone acetate), estrogens (e.g., diethlystilbestrol, ethinyl estradiol), antiestrogen
(e.g., tamoxifen), androgens (e.g., testosterone propionate, fluoxymesterone), antiandrogen (e.g.,
flutamide), gonadotropin releasing hormone analog (e.g., leuprolide). Other agents that can be
used in the methods and compositions described herein for the treatment or prevention of cancer
include platinum coordination complexes (e.g., cisplatin, carboblatin), anthracenedione (e.g.,
mitoxantrone), substituted urea (e.g., hydroxyurea), methyl hydrazine derivative (e.g.,
procarbazine), adrenocortical suppressant (e.g., mitotane, aminoglutethimide).
[00480] Examples of anti-cancer agents which act by arresting cells in the G2-M phases due to
stabilized microtubules and which can be used in combination with a reversible or irreversible
Btk inhibitor compound include without limitation the following marketed drugs and drugs in
development: Erbulozole (also known as R-55104), Dolastatin 10 (also known as DLS-10 and
NSC-376128), Mivobulin isethionate (also known as CI-980), Vincristine, NSC-639829,
Discodermolide (also known as NVP-XX-A-296), ABT-751 (Abbott, also known as E-7010),
Altorhyrtins (such as Altorhyrtin A and Altorhyrtin C), Spongistatins (such as Spongistatin 1,
Spongistatin 2, Spongistatin 3, Spongistatin 4, Spongistatin 5, Spongistatin 6, Spongistatin 7,
Spongistatin 8, and Spongistatin 9), Cemadotin hydrochloride (also known as LU-103793 and
NSC-D-669356), Epothilones (such as Epothilone A, Epothilone B, Epothilone C (also known
as desoxyepothilone A or dEpoA), Epothilone D (also referred to as KOS-862, dEpoB, and
desoxyepothilone B), Epothilone E, Epothilone F, Epothilone B N-oxide, Epothilone A N-oxide,
16-aza-epothilone B, 21-aminoepothilone B (also known as BMS-310705), 21
hydroxyepothilone D (also known as Desoxyepothilone F and dEpoF), 26-fluoroepothilone),
Auristatin PE (also known as NSC-654663), Soblidotin (also known as TZT-1027), LS-4559-P
(Pharmacia, also known as LS-4577), LS-4578 (Pharmacia, also known as LS-477-P), LS-4477
(Pharmacia), LS-4559 (Pharmacia), RPR-1 12378 (Aventis), Vincristine sulfate, DZ-3358
(Daiichi), FR-182877 (Fujisawa, also known as WS-9885B), GS-164 (Takeda), GS-198
(Takeda), KAR-2 (Hungarian Academy of Sciences), BSF-223651 (BASF, also known as ILX
651 and LU-22365 1), SAH-49960 (Lilly/Novartis), SDZ-268970 (Lilly/Novartis), AM-97
(Armad/Kyowa Hakko), AM-132 (Armad), AM-138 (Armad/Kyowa Hakko), IDN-5005
(Indena), Cryptophycin 52 (also known as LY-355703), AC-7739 (Ajinomoto, also known as
AVE-8063A and CS-39.HCI), AC-7700 (Ajinomoto, also known as AVE-8062, AVE-8062A,
CS-39-L-Ser.HCI, and RPR-258062A), Vitilevuamide, Tubulysin A, Canadensol, Centaureidin
(also known as NSC-106969), T-138067 (Tularik, also known as T-67, TL-138067 and TI
138067), COBRA-1 (Parker Hughes Institute, also known as DDE-261 and WHI-261), HI
(Kansas State University), H16 (Kansas State University), Oncocidin Al (also known as BTO
956 and DIME), DDE-313 (Parker Hughes Institute), Fijianolide B, Laulimalide, SPA-2 (Parker
                                               - 152 -

Hughes Institute), SPA-1 (Parker Hughes Institute, also known as SPIKET-P), 3-IAABU
(Cytoskeleton/Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, also known as MF-569), Narcosine (also known as
NSC-5366), Nascapine, D-24851 (Asta Medica), A-105972 (Abbott), Hemiasterlin, 3-BAABU
(Cytoskeleton/Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, also known as MF-191), TMPN (Arizona State
University), Vanadocene acetylacetonate, T-138026 (Tularik), Monsatrol, lnanocine (also
known as NSC-698666), 3-1AABE (Cytoskeleton/Mt. Sinai School of Medicine), A-204197
(Abbott), T-607 (Tuiarik, also known as T-900607), RPR- 115781 (Aventis), Eleutherobins
(such as Desmethyleleutherobin, Desaetyleleutherobin, lsoeleutherobin A, and Z-Eleutherobin),
Caribaeoside, Caribaeolin, Halichondrin B, D-64131 (Asta Medica), D-68144 (Asta Medica),
Diazonamide A, A-293620 (Abbott), NPI-2350 (Nereus), Taccalonolide A, TUB-245 (Aventis),
A-259754 (Abbott), Diozostatin, (-)-Phenylahistin (also known as NSCL-96F037), D-68838
(Asta Medica), D-68836 (Asta Medica), Myoseverin B, D-43411 (Zentaris, also known as D
81862), A-289099 (Abbott), A-318315 (Abbott), HTI-286 (also known as SPA-110,
trifluoroacetate salt) (Wyeth), D-82317 (Zentaris), D-82318 (Zentaris), SC-12983 (NCI),
Resverastatin phosphate sodium, BPR-OY-007 (National Health Research Institutes), and SSR
250411 (Sanofi).
[00481] Where the subject is suffering from or at risk of suffering from a thromboembolic
disorder (e.g., stroke), the subject can be treated with a reversible or irreversible Btk inhibitor
compound in any combination with one or more other anti-thromboembolic agents. Examples of
anti-thromboembolic agents include, but are not limited any of the following: thrombolytic
agents (e.g., alteplase anistreplase, streptokinase, urokinase, or tissue plasminogen activator),
heparin, tinzaparin, warfarin, dabigatran (e.g., dabigatran etexilate), factor Xa inhibitors (e.g.,
fondaparinux, draparinux, rivaroxaban, DX-9065a, otamixaban, LY517717, or YM150),
ticlopidine, clopidogrel, CS-747 (prasugrel, LY640315), ximelagatran, or BIBR 1048.
Kits/Articles of Manufacture
[00482] For use in the therapeutic applications described herein, kits and articles of manufacture
are also described herein. Such kits can include a carrier, package, or container that is
compartmentalized to receive one or more containers such as vials, tubes, and the like, each of
the container(s) including one of the separate elements to be used in a method described herein.
Suitable containers include, for example, bottles, vials, syringes, and test tubes. The containers
can be formed from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic.
[00483] The articles of manufacture provided herein contain packaging materials. Packaging
materials for use in packaging pharmaceutical products are well known to those of skill in the
art. See, e.g., U.S. Patent Nos. 5,323,907, 5,052,558 and 5,033,252. Examples of pharmaceutical
packaging materials include, but are not limited to, blister packs, bottles, tubes, inhalers, pumps,
                                                - 153 -

bags, vials, containers, syringes, bottles, and any packaging material suitable for a selected
formulation and intended mode of administration and treatment. A wide array of formulations of
the compounds and compositions provided herein are contemplated as are a variety of treatments
for any disease, disorder, or condition that would benefit by inhibition of Btk, or in which Btk is
a mediator or contributor to the symptoms or cause.
[00484] For example, the container(s) can include one or more compounds described herein,
optionally in a composition or in combination with another agent as disclosed herein. The
container(s) optionally have a sterile access port (for example the container can be an
intravenous solution bag or a vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle).
Such kits optionally comprising a compound with an identifying description or label or
instructions relating to its use in the methods described herein.
[00485] A kit will typically may include one or more additional containers, each with one or
more of various materials (such as reagents, optionally in concentrated form, and/or devices)
desirable from a commercial and user standpoint for use of a compound described herein. Non
limiting examples of such materials include, but not limited to, buffers, diluents, filters, needles,
syringes; carrier, package, container, vial and/or tube labels listing contents and/or instructions
for use, and package inserts with instructions for use. A set of instructions will also typically be
included.
[00486] A label can be on or associated with the container. A label can be on a container when
letters, numbers or other characters forming the label are attached, molded or etched into the
container itself; a label can be associated with a container when it is present within a receptacle
or carrier that also holds the container, e.g., as a package insert. A label can be used to indicate
that the contents are to be used for a specific therapeutic application. The label can also indicate
directions for use of the contents, such as in the methods described herein.
[00487] In certain embodiments, the pharmaceutical compositions can be presented in a pack or
dispenser device which can contain one or more unit dosage forms containing a compound
provided herein. The pack can for example contain metal or plastic foil, such as a blister pack.
The pack or dispenser device can be accompanied by instructions for administration. The pack
or dispenser can also be accompanied with a notice associated with the container in form
prescribed by a governmental agency regulating the manufacture, use, or sale of
pharmaceuticals, which notice is reflective of approval by the agency of the form of the drug for
human or veterinary administration. Such notice, for example, can be the labeling approved by
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for prescription drugs, or the approved product insert.
Compositions containing a compound provided herein formulated in a compatible
pharmaceutical carrier can also be prepared, placed in an appropriate container, and labeled for
                                                 - 154 -

treatment of an indicated condition.
[00488] Examples
[00489] The following specific and non-limiting examples are to be construed as merely
illustrative, and do not limit the present disclosure in any way whatsoever. Without further
elaboration, it is believed that one skilled in the art can, based on the description herein, utilize
the present disclosure to its fullest extent. All publications cited herein are hereby incorporated
by reference in their entirety. Where reference is made to a URL or other such identifier or
address, it is understood that such identifiers can change and particular information on the
internet can come and go, but equivalent information can be found by searching the internet.
Reference thereto evidences the availability and public dissemination of such information.
Example 1: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-4-(dimethylamino)but-2-enamide (8)
                                                                                      Bn.   -Bn
                                                                        NH2               N
                                                   Bns N Bn                             I        N02
                       NO2            Bn2NH                     NO2          NHBoc        N      NH            Fe, NH4CI
                              ,X                     l       (        TEA, dioxane                     NH     F/eoc
                 N     CI          TEA DCM               N      CI                                         THF/MeOH/H 20
                                                                                                  61 NHBoc
                                                         1                                   2
             Bn-  -Bn                            Bn. NRn                                  NH2
                       NH2                                    HH
                                                                        H2 Pd(OH) 2/C            N           PhO            B(OH) 2
                                    triphosgene        N
                 N     NH            TEA, DCM         N       N        MeOH, con. HCI     N       N                Cu(OAC)2, Py
                                                                                                       /           4A MS, DMF
                               NH-                               .. NHBoc                                 NHBoc
                         6NHBocb-b
                   3                                      4                                    5
                              OPh                              OPh                                       OPh
                 NH  2     -                      NH 2      -                                  NH 2
                               N        TEA     N~       N                         N                 N>
                             >=O        TFAMO                       CIO
                 N      N               DM        NN                                           N     N
                                                                                                               oN          NC
                                       b         _OM
                                   NHBoc                      -NH   2
                                                                                                             N
                        6                                7                                           8
[00490] To a stirred solution of 4,6-dichloro-5-nitropyrimidine (7 g, 36 mmol) and TEA (10 mL,
72 mmol) in DCM (60 mL) at 0C under N2 was added Bn 2NH in DCM (10 mL) dropwise over
2 hrs. Stirring was continued for 30 min before the reaction mixture was diluted with water (100
mL). The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with DCM (50 mL X 3).
The combined organic layer was washed with water (100 mL X 2) and brine (100 mL X 1),
dried over Na2 SO4 and concentrated in vacuo. NN-dibenzyl-6-chloro-5-nitropyrimidin-4-amine
(1) (12.8 g, 100 %) was obtained as a brown slurry. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 355.
                                                                     -  155   -

[00491] To a solution of NN-dibenzyl-6-chloro-5-nitropyrimidin-4-amine (1) (7.0 g, 19.7
mmol) and TEA (5.5 mL, 40 mmol) in dioxane (100 mL) was added tert-butyl 3
aminophenylcarbamate (4.2 g, 20.0 mmol). The reaction mixture was heated to 70 0C for 6 hrs
under N 2 . After the reaction was cooled down to room temperature, water (150 mL) was
introduced. The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (50 mL
X 2). The combined organic layer was washed with water (150 mL X 2) and brine (100 mL X
1), dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated to dryness. tert-Butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5
nitropyrimidin-4-ylamino) phenylcarbamate (2) (9.2 g, 88 %) was obtained as a brown solid.
LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 527.
[00492] To a solution of tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5-nitropyrimidin-4-ylamino)
phenylcarbamate (2) (9.2 g, 17.5 mmol) in 100 mL THF were added Fe powder (9.8 g, 175
mmol), NH 4 Cl (18.7 g, 350 mmol), 100 mL MeOH and 20 mL H2 0. The reaction mixture was
heated at 50 0C for 7 hrs under N 2 . After cooling to rt, the reaction mixture was filtered through
a pad of Celite. The filtrate was concentrated to 100 mL, and extracted with EtOAc (80 mL X
3). The combined organic layer was washed with water (100 mL X 2) and brine (100 mL X 1),
dried over Na 2 SO 4 , then concentrated to dryness in vacuo. The residual was purified by column
chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 30% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether) to give tert-butyl 3-(5
amino-6-(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4-ylamino)phenylcarbamate (3) (4.0 g, 46.10%) as a brown
solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 497.
[00493] A solution of tert-butyl 3-(5-amino-6-(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4-ylamino)
phenylcarbamate (3) (4.0 g, 8.1 mmol) and TEA (2 mL, 14.5 mmol) in 80 mL dry DCM was
cooled to 0 0C under N 2 , triphosgene (1.2 g, 4.0 mmol) in 10 mL dry DCM was added dropwise
during 2 hrs. After additional 1 hr stirring, the reaction was quenched with water (100 mL).
The organic layer was separated, washed with water (100 mL X 2) and brine (100 mL X 1),
dried over Na 2 SO 4 , then concentrated to dryness in vacuo. tert-Butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8
oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenylcarbamate (4) (3.0 g, 71 %) was obtained as a brown solid. LC
MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 523.
[00494] To a mixture of tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)
phenylcarbamate (4) (3.0 g, 5.7 mmol) in 120 mL MeOH was added 3.0 g Pd(OH) 2 /C (20 wt%)
and 6 drops of con. HCl. After two vacuum/H 2 cycles to remove air from the reaction flask, the
stirred mixture was heated at 60 0C under hydrogen atmosphere overnight. The reaction mixture
was filtered through a Celite pad and the filtrate was concentrated to dryness in vacuo. The
residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 5% methanol in DCM) to give
tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenylcarbamate (5) (1.5 g, 76%) as a white
solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 343.
                                                - 156 -

[00495] To a stirred mixture of tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenylcarbamate (5) (600 mg, 1.8 mmol) and 400 mg 4A MS in 16 mL dry DMF were added
4-phenoxyphenylboronic acid (1.05 g, 4.9 mmol), Cu(OAc) 2 (320 mg, 1.8 mmol) and pyridine
(1 mL, 12.7 mmol). The reaction mixture was heated at 37 0C for 5 hrs under an       02  atmosphere.
After cooling down to rt, the reaction mixture was filtered through a Celite pad. The filtrate was
diluted with water (100 mL) and extracted with EtOAc (50 mL X 3). The combined organic
layer was washed with water (100 mL X 2) and brine (100 mL X 1), dried over Na 2 SO 4 , then
concentrated to dryness. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to
5% methanol in DCM) to give tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin
9(8H)-yl) phenylcarbamate (6) (404 mg, 45 %) as a brown solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 511.
[00496] To a solution of tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)
phenylcarbamate (6) (404 mg, 0.8 mmol) in 8 mL DCM was added 2 mL TFA dropwise. The
reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 1 hr, then concentrated to dryness. The residue was
purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 5 % methanol in DCM (0.3% Et 3N)) to give
6-amino-9-(3-aminophenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one           (7) (325 mg, 100%) as a
yellow solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 411.
[00497] To a mixture of 4-(dimethylamino)but-2-enoic acid hydrochloride (81 mg, 0.49 mmol)
and 1 drop of DMF in 3 mL dry CH 3 CN was added 0.5 mL oxalyl chloride dropwise under N 2 .
The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 1 hr, then concentrated to dryness in vacuo. The
resulting solid was dissolved in 2 mL dry DCM and was transferred to a stirred solution of 6
amino-9-(3-aminophenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one           (7) (100 mg, 0.24 mmol)
and one drop of TEA in 3 mL dry DCM in an ice-water bath. After stirring for 2 hrs, the
reaction was quenched with MeOH. The resulting mixture was concentrated to dry, pre-purified
by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 5 % methanol in DCM), followed by Gilson using
10 to 95% acetonitrile in water (0.1% TFA) to give (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(dimethylamino)but-2-enamide            (8) (61 mg, 48%)
as a white solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 10.56 (s, 1H), 9.79 (s, 1H), 8.11 (s, 1H), 8.00
(s, 1H), 7.71 (d, J= 8.9 Hz, 1H), 7.58 - 7.32 (m, 6H), 7.25 - 7.07 (m, 5H), 6.84 - 6.65 (m, 1H),
6.46 (d, J= 15.4 Hz, 1H), 5.88 (s, 2H), 4.02 - 3.87 (m, 2H), 2.79 (s, 3H), 2.78 (s, 3H). LC-MS
(ESI): m/z (M+1) 522.
                                                - 157 -

Example 2: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enamide              (9)
                                  OPh                                 Ph
                                H2
                                 -NH                         2
                               N           CI            N      N
                         N     N       N                   N
                                  b    NH2                      -        N
                                                                         H
                             7                                        9
[00498] In a similar manner as described in Example 1, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enamide            (9)
(29 mg, 28%) was prepared as a white solid from intermediate 7 (80 mg, 0.19 mmol) and (E)-4
(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enoyl chloride.       1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 10.58 (s, 1H),
9.64 (s, 1H), 8.11 (s, 1H), 8.02 (s, 1H), 7.70 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.56 - 7.39 (m, 5H), 7.36 (d, J
=  8.9 Hz, 1H), 7.23 - 7.11 (m, 5H), 6.85 - 6.73 (m, 1H), 6.49 (d, J= 15.3 Hz, 1H), 5.90 (s, 2H),
4.23 - 3.96 (m, 2H), 2.86 (s, 4H), 0.87 (d, J= 30.2 Hz, 4H). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 548.
Example 3: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclobutyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enamide            (10)
                                   OPh                                Ph
                         NH2                               NH2
                               N           CI                   N
                         N     N       NN
                                   b   NH2                       -.      N
                                                                         H
                             7                                        10
[00499] In a similar manner as described in Example 1, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclobutyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enamide           (10)
(29 mg, 27%) was prepared as a white solid from intermediate 7 (80 mg, 0.19 mmol) and (E)-4
(cyclobutyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enoyl chloride. IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 10.29 (s, 1H),
8.10 (s, 1H), 8.00 (s, 1H), 7.67 (d, J= 8.9 Hz, 1H), 7.58 - 7.38 (m, 5H), 7.30 (d, J= 8.7 Hz,
1H), 7.24 - 7.09 (m, 5H), 6.82 - 6.65 (m, 1H), 6.27 (d, J= 14.8 Hz, 1H), 5.85 (s, 2H), 3.14
2.93 (m, 2H), 2.92 - 2.75 (m, 1H), 2.02 (s, 3H), 1.99 - 1.90 (m, 2H), 1.87 - 1.68 (m, 2H), 1.69
1.50 (m, 2H). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 562.
                                                - 158 -

Example 4: Synthesis of N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)acrylamide (11)
                                       OPh                                              Ph
                              NH2                              0                NH2
                                    N                    CI                       NN
                              N     N                                           N
                                       b    NH2                                     -..    N
                                                                                           H
                                  7                                                     11
[00500] In a similar manner as described in Example 1, N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)acrylamide (11) (33 mg) was prepared as a off
white solid as a TFA salt after prep-HPLC purification from intermediate 7 and acryloyl
chloride. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 449.
Example 5: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-4-(dimethylamino)but-2-enamide (14)
                                                                        CI                            CI
                  NH2 H                               CI      NH                             NH2
                            O        (HO)2B                N        N             TFA             N
                  N                    Cu(OAc) 2 , Py         N     N                        N    N
                          -   NHBoc                                         NHBoc                   -    NH2
                      5                                           12                             13
                                                        CI
                                N
                                C            NH2
                        O                    N
                                                                           N
                                                    b9       N
                                                             H
                                                                           N/
                                                     14
[00501] To a mixture of tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenylcarbamate (5)
(300 mg, 0.88 mmol) and 4A MS (300 mg) in dry DMF (10 mL) were added 4
chlorophenylboronic acid (413 mg, 2.64 mmol), Cu(OAc) 2 (160 mg, 0.88 mmol) and pyridine (1
mL). The reaction mixture was heated to 35 0C overnight under an 02 atmosphere, and filtered
through a Celite pad. The filtrate was diluted with water (50 mL), extracted with EtOAc (30 mL
X 3). The combined organic layer was washed with water and brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , and
concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 5%
methanol in methylene chloride) to give tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin- 9(8H)-yl)phenylcarbamate (12) (234 mg, 59.1%). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M/M+2) 453/455.
[00502] To a solution of tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)
                                                             -   159  -

phenylcarbamate (12) (234 mg, 0.52 mmol) in DCM (8 mL) was added TFA (2 mL) dropwise.
The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 1 h before concentrated. The residue was purified by
column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 5 % methanol in methylene chloride (0.3% Et 3N)) to
give 6-amino-9-(3-aminophenyl)-7-(4-chlorophenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one             as a brown solid (13)
(180 mg, 98.9%). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M/M+2) 353/355.
[00503] To a suspension of (E)-4-(dimethylamino)but-2-enoic acid hydrochloride salt (94 mg,
0.57 mmol) in dry acetonitrile (5 mL) was added 1 drop of DMF before introducing (COCl) 2
(0.5 mL, 5.3 mmol). Resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour.
Concentrated and dissolved in dry DCM (2 mL) before introducing a solution of 6-amino-9-(3
aminophenyl)-7-(4-chlorophenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (13) (100 mg, 0.28 mmol) in DCM (2
mL). Resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours before quenched the
reaction with MeOH (2 mL). Solvent was removed and the residue was pre-purified by column
chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 10% methanol in methylene chloride (0.30% Et 3N)) followed by
preparative HPLC (RP, C18, 10 to 95% acetonitrile in water (0.2% NH 3 'H2 0)) to give (E)-N-(3
(6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(dimethylamino)but-2
enamide (14) (25 mg, 19.l1%) as a white solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M/M+2) 464/466.                1H NMR
(400 MHz, DMSO) 6 10.57 (s, 1H), 9.82 (s, 1H), 8.11 (s, 1H), 7.99 (s, 1H), 7.71 (d, J= 8.5 Hz,
1H), 7.62 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 2H), 7.56 -7.45 (m, 3H), 7.35 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 1H), 6.82 - 6.65 (m, 1H),
6.46 (d, J= 15.3 Hz, 1H), 5.98 (s, 2H), 4.01 - 3.87 (m, 2H), 2.79 (s, 3H), 2.78 (s, 3H).
Example 6: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(dimethylamino)but-2-enamide                    (17)
                                          0
               NH2 H                                            _\0\                    0
               -   N                                  NH2                     NH2
                 N             (HO) 2B                     N            TFA       N
               N                ______==
                         N o     Cu(OAC)2, Py         N    N                  N   N
                      -  NHBoc   DMF,4AMS                  /     - H o             /    -H
                                                                  NHBoc             -.   NH2
                   5                                      15                      16
                                        NH2         0
                      CI                     N
                                        N    N
                                                      0        N
                                                 bN
                                                    H
                                              17
[00504] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4
methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(dimethylamino)but-2-enamide                 (17) (26 mg)
was prepared as a white solid in three steps starting from intermediate 5 and 3-methoxy-4
                                                      - 160  -

methylphenylboronic acid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 474. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6
10.57 (s, 1H), 9.79 (s, 1H), 8.11 (s, 1H), 8.00 (s, 1H), 7.71 (d, J= 8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.50 (t, J= 8.1
Hz, 1H), 7.39 - 7.29 (m, 2H), 7.15 (s, 1H), 7.03 (d, J= 7.7 Hz, 1H), 6.79 - 6.69 (m, 1H), 6.46
(d, J= 15.2 Hz, 1H), 5.74 (s, 2H), 3.97 - 3.90 (m, 2H), 3.80 (s, 3H), 2.79 (s, 3H), 2.78 (s, 3H),
2.22 (s, 3H).
Example 7: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-4-(dimethylamino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide                                        (27)
                                                                                                Boc                            Boc
           02N ,          NH2 (Boc) 20     0 2N ,        NHBoc      NaH, Mel       0 2N  a      N,       Pd/C       H2N a      N
                                                                                                           H2
                                                   18                                      19                               20
               Bn,   Bn
                   N       O2 Bns N Bn                                 Bn,    -Bn                                Bn'N -Bn
                               N          NO2                           N           NH2                                   H
                   N      CI                                                                                      N         XN
                    N             N       NH            Fe, NH4CI           N       NH          triphosgene         N     N
               TEA, dioxan e                    N    THF/MeOH/H20
                                                                                                 TEA, DCM                 /       cN
                                                N                                        N                                     BoN
                                                Boc                                      BocBo
                                      21                                        22                                         23
                                       NH2     HC                                      I       N
                                              H                                                H
                                   N          N)                (H         ::
              H2, Pd(OH)/C                                      (HO)2B                               N                    TFA
             MeOH, con. HCI            NCu(OAc)2,                             Py              N
                                                       /-N        DMF,4AMS
                                                      Boc                                                     N
                                                                                                              Boc
                                              24                                                    25
                    NH  2                   CI          N     .          NH2
                                         NH      0          N
                           N                                                    N
                    NN                                                                                 N
                                     -Nj              N
                                 H                                               -       N
                          26                                                   27
[00505] To a solution of 3-nitroaniline (10 g, 72.5 mmol), triethylamine (10 mL) and 4-(N, N
dimethylamino)pyridine (4.42 g, 36.3 mmol) in anhydrous CH 2Cl 2 (150 mL) was added a
solution of di-tert-butyl dicarbonate (15.8 g, 72.5 mmol) in CH 2Cl 2 (50 mL) dropwise. The
mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours and washed with brine. The organic phase
was dried over Na 2 SO 4 , concentrated in vacuo and the residue was purified by column
chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 20% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether) to give tert-butyl 3
nitrophenylcarbamate (18) 8.3 g as yellow solid (yield 48%). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 237.
[00506] To a suspension of NaH (60% dispersion in mineral oil, 2.1 g, 41.8 mmol) in DMF (80
mL) at 0 0C was added a solution of tert-butyl 3-nitrophenylcarbamate (18) (8.3 g, 34.9 mmol)
                                                                  -  161    -

in DMF (50 mL). The mixture was stirred at 0 C for 0.5 hour before CH 3I (4.9 mL, 52.35
mmol) was added dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours,
diluted with water (200 mL), and extracted with DCM (60 mL X 3). The combined organic
layer was washed with brine, dried over Na 2SO 4 and concentrated in vacuo to afford tert-butyl
methyl(3-nitrophenyl)carbamate (19) 8.8 g as yellow solid (yield 100%). LC-MS (ESI): m/z
(M+1) 253.
[00507] A round-bottom flask containing tert-butyl methyl(3-nitrophenyl)carbamate (19) (8.8 g,
34.9 mmol), 10% palladium on charcoal (880 mg), and THF-MeOH (80 mL/80 mL) was
evacuated and flushed with hydrogen three times. The mixture was stirred vigorously overnight
under an atmosphere of hydrogen. The catalyst was removed by filtration through a pad of
Celite, and the filtrate evaporated to afford tert-butyl 3-aminophenyl(methyl)carbamate (20) 7 g
as yellow solid (yield 91%). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 223.
[00508] To a solution of tert-butyl 3-aminophenyl(methyl)carbamate (20) (4.6 g, 20.8 mmol)
and N,N-dibenzyl-6-chloro-5-nitropyrimidin-4-amine (1) (7 g, 19.8 mmol) in dioxane (100 mL)
was added Et 3 N (6 mL) and the reaction mixture was stirred at 60 0 C overnight. The mixture
was cooled to room temperature, the solvent was evaporated before water (200 mL) and EA
(100 mL) was introduced. Organic layer was separated and extracted with EA (60 mL X 2).
After the organic layer was washed with brine and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, the
solvent was evaporated. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to
30% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether) to give tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5-nitropyrimidin
4-ylamino)phenyl (methyl)carbamate (21) 6.7 g as yellow solid (yield 63%). LC-MS (ESI): m/z
(M+1) 541.
[00509] To a solution of tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5-nitropyrimidin-4-ylamino)phenyl
(methyl)carbamate (21) (6.7 g, 12.4 mmol) in THF/MeOH/H 20 (100 mL/50 mL/30 mL) was
added Fe powder (3.47 g, 62 mmol) and NH 4 Cl (6.63 g, 124 mmol). The reaction mixture was
heated at 50 0C for 5 h under N 2 . After cooling to rt, the reaction mixture was filtered through a
pad of Celite. The filtrate was extracted with EtOAc (30 mL X 3), washed with water and brine,
dried over Na 2 SO 4, and concentrated in vacuo to afford tert-butyl 3-(5-amino-6
(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4- ylamino)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (22) (6 g, yield 95%) as a
yellow solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 511.
[00510] To a stirred solution of tert-butyl 3-(5-amino-6-(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4
ylamino)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (22) (3.1 g, 6.08 mmol) and TEA (1.75 mL, 12.16 mmol) in
dry DCM (40 mL) at 0 0C and under N 2 atmosphere was added a solution of triphosgene (722
mg, 2.43 mmol) in dry DCM (20 mL) dropwise during 1 h. After the stirring was continued for 1
h, the reaction was quenched with water (10 mL). The organic layer was separated, washed with
                                                - 162 -

water and brine, dried over Na 2 SO4 , and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by
column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 20% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether) to give tert-butyl
3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate           (23) (3 g, 92 %) as a
light brown solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 537.
[00511] To a mixture of tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8 -oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl(methyl) carbamate (23) (3 g, 5.6 mmol) in MeOH (120 mL) was added Pd(OH) 2 /C (3
g, 20 wt%) and 6 drops of con. HCl. The resulting mixture was purged with H2 (2 X) before
heated to 60 0C overnight under H2 atmosphere. The mixture was cooled to r.t., filtered through
a Celite pad, and the solvent was removed in vacuo to give tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (24) (1.9 g, 95%) as a light yellow solid. LC-MS
(ESI): m/z (M+1) 357.
[00512] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)
8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(dimethylamino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide             (27) (55 mg) was
prepared as a white solid in three steps from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (24). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M/M+2) 478/480. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
DMS0) 6 8.12 (s, 1H), 7.71 - 7.52 (m, 5H), 7.48 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 2H), 7.34 (d, J= 7.8 Hz, 1H),
6.65 (dt, J= 15.2, 6.0 Hz, 1H), 6.11 - 5.90 (m, 3H), 3.27 (s, 3H), 2.91 (d, J= 5.7 Hz, 2H), 2.04
(s, 6H).
Example 8: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(dimethylamino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide              (30)
                NH2 H                     0                      O\             0     0\
                                                     NH2                   NH2
                                                          N
                                                          N          ~
                N    N          (HO)2B                    N            TFA       N
                                 Cu(OAc)2, Py        N    N                N     N
                          Boc                             /
                                                              bN                bN
                                                                 Boc                  H
                     24                                  28                    29
                                         NH2    /\
                  CI          N        N      N
                                         N    N
                                                     0         N
                                               30
[00513] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4
methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(dimethylamino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide
(30) (26 mg) was prepared as a white solid in three steps starting from intermediate 24 and 3
methoxy-4-methylphenylboronic acid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 488. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
                                                   -  163   -

DMSO) 6 8.11 (s, 1H), 7.71 - 7.55 (m, 3H), 7.33 (t, J= 8.1 Hz, 2H), 7.12 (s, 1H), 7.00 (d, J=
7.6 Hz, 1H), 6.71 - 6.59 (m, 1H), 6.03 (m, 1H), 5.74 (br, 2H), 3.80 (s, 3H), 3.27 (s, 3H), 2.91 (d,
J= 5.7 Hz, 2H), 2.21 (s, 3H), 2.04 (s, 6H).
Example 9: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-4-(dimethylamino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide                   (33)
                                                             OPh                      OPh
                   NH2H                      Oh
                        N      (HO) 2B              NH2                   TFA NH2
                   N             Cu(OAc)2,PY
                             Boc                    N   N        Boc          N       N
                                                             bNI                  bNH
                     24                                 31                         32
                                                     Ph
                    CI                     NH2   N
                                                N
                                           33
[00514] To a mixture of tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl(methyl)
carbamate (24) (600 mg, 1.68 mmol) and 4A MS (800 mg) in dry DMF (10 mL) were added 4
phenoxyphenylboronic acid (1.08 g, 5.06 mmol), Cu(OAc) 2 (307 mg, 1.68 mmol) and pyridine
(1 mL). The reaction mixture was heated to 37'C overnight under 02 atmosphere, and filtered
through a Celite pad. The filtrate was diluted with water (30 mL), extracted with EtOAc (10 mL
X 3). The combined organic layer was washed with water and brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , and
concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 5%
methanol in methylene chloride) to give tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate as a light yellow solid (31) (450 mg, 51%). LC-MS
(ESI): m/z (M+1) 525.
[00515] To a solution of tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)
phenyl(methyl)carbamate (31) (450 mg, 0.86 mmol) in DCM (8 mL) was added TFA (2 mL)
dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 1 h and then concentrated. The residue was
purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 10% methanol in methylene chloride (0.3%
Et 3N)) to give 6-amino-9-(3- (methylamino)phenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one
(32) (364 mg, 100%). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 425.
[00516] To a suspension of (E)-4-(dimethylamino)but-2-enoic acid hydrochloride salt (95 mg,
0.57 mmol) in acetonitrile (5 mL) was added 1 drop of DMF before introducing (COCl) 2 (0.25
mL, 2.86 mmol). Resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. Concentrated
                                                   -  164  -

and dissolved in DCM (2 mL) before introduced to the solution of 6-amino-9-(3
(methylamino)phenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (32) (100 mg, 0.24 mmol) in
DCM (2 mL). Resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours before quenched
the reaction with MeOH (2 mL). Solvent was removed and the residue was pre-purified by
column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 10% methanol in methylene chloride (1%Et 3N))
followed by preparative HPLC (RP, C18, 10 to 95% acetonitrile in water (0.2% NH 3 )) to give
(E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(dimethylamino)
N-methylbut-2-enamide (33) (60 mg, 47%) as white solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M +1) 536. 1H
NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.11 (s, 1H), 7.72 - 7.56 (m, 3H), 7.51 - 7.33 (m, 5H), 7.23 - 7.09
(m, 5H), 6.65 (dt, J= 15.2, 6.1 Hz, 1H), 6.04 (d, J= 16.6 Hz, 1H), 5.90 (br, 2H), 3.27 (s, 3H),
2.99 (s, 2H), 2.10 (s, 6H).
Example 10: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide             (34)
                                                                OPh
                                OPh
                         NH2           C         N      NH2
                             N             O              N
                         N   N
                             N      NH                          N
                                                                     C/     N
                                                                    N
                             32                              34
[00517] In a similar manner as described in Example 9, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2
enamide (34) (67 mg) was prepared as a white solid from intermediate 32 and (E)-4
(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enoyl chloride. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 562. 1H NMR (400
MHz, DMSO) 6 8.11 (s, 1H), 7.70 - 7.56 (m, 3H), 7.52 - 7.30 (m, 5H), 7.23 - 7.10 (m, 5H),
6.72 - 6.62 (m, 1H), 5.99 (d, J= 14.3 Hz, 1H), 5.90 (s, 2H), 3.27 (s, 3H), 3.11 (d, J= 6.4 Hz,
2H), 2.11 (s, 3H), 1.64 - 1.54 (m, 1H), 0.39 - 0.28 (m, 2H), 0.25 - 0.11 (m, 2H).
Example 11: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclobutyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide            (35)
                                                                OPh
                         NH2           CIh       N E3   NH2
                             N             0          1
                         N   N                                              N
                                                                    N
                             32                              35
[00518] In a similar manner as described in Example 9, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclobutyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2
                                              - 165 -

enamide (35) (61 mg) was prepared as a white solid from intermediate 32 and (E)-4
(cyclobutyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enoyl chloride. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 576. 1H NMR (400
MHz, DMSO) 6 8.12 (s, 1H), 7.71 - 7.57 (m, 3H), 7.50 - 7.36 (m, 5H), 7.21 - 7.11 (m, 5H),
6.74 - 6.61 (m, 1H), 6.29 - 6.00 (m, 1H), 5.91 (s, 2H), 3.50 - 3.30 (m, 4H), 2.35 - 1.74 (m, 7H),
1.63 - 1.44 (m, 2H).
Example 12: Synthesis of (E)-N-(4-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-4-(dimethylamino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide                                       (43)
                                                                                              Bn,     Bn
                                                                                                   N
                                                                            Bn, N'Bn                    NO2
                                                                             N        N            N NH
            0 2N                 1) (Boc) 20       H2N                           N NI CN                            Fe, NH4CI
                                2) Fe/NH 4CI                     N' Boc      TEA, dioxane                        THF/MeOH/H-2O
                                                                                    0                                    0
                           H                                     I               70 C                   NB            60 C
                                                             36                                      37
             BnsN' Bn                         Bns   -Bn                                  NH2
                        NH2                             H                                     H           ~          BO)
                                                                                                            O        B
                                 H2                _H2,                 Pd(OH)/C
                 N      NHfipg triphosgene        N     N         -N                          N          Ph
                               TEA, DCM                            MeOH, con. HCI                             Cu(OAc)2, PY,
                                                                                             0                DMF, 4A MS
                                                                       0
                                                           /N-Boc                                /N'Boc
                     ,,N Boc
                 38                                    39                                     40
                          OPh                             OPh                                        Ph
                NH2                            NH2                  0                    NH2
                 N   ~N           TFN                           C1                        N
                                             'RI- -K 0                          N,,          ~
                N      N                       N      NN                                       N
                                             41                                                                N
                          N-Boc                           NH
                    41                             42                                          43
[00519] To a solution of N-methyl-4-nitroaniline (5.0 g, 32.9 mmol) in THF (50 mL) were
added di-tert-butyl dicarbonate (10.76 g, 49.4 mmol) and DMAP (201 mg, 1.6 mmol). The
reaction mixture was refluxed under N 2 for 2 h before cooled to rt. After removal of the solvent,
the residue was dissolved with EtOAc (200 mL). The resulting solution was washed with water
and brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4, and concentrated in vacuo to give tert-butyl methyl(4
nitrophenyl)carbamate (8.3 g, 100%) as a brown oil. To a solution of tert-butyl methyl(4
nitrophenyl)carbamate (8.3 g, 32.9 mmol) in THF/MeOH/H 2 0 (150 mL/40 mL/80 mL) was
added Fe powder (9.4 g, 168 mmol) and NH 4Cl (18 g, 337 mmol). The reaction mixture was
heated at 50 0C for 4 h under N 2 . After cooling to rt, the reaction mixture was filtered through a
pad of Celite. The filtrate was extracted with EtOAc (100 mL X 3), washed with water and
brine, dried over Na 2SO 4 , and concentrated in vacuo to afford tert-butyl 4
                                                                     -   166  -

aminophenyl(methyl)carbamate (36) (7.3 g, yield 100%) as a yellow solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z
(M+1) 223.
[00520] To a solution of tert-butyl 4-aminophenyl(methyl)carbamate (36) (7 g, 31.5 mmol) and
N,N-dibenzyl-6-chloro-5-nitropyrimidin-4-amine (1) (11.2 g, 31.5 mmol) in dioxane (100 mL)
was added Et 3 N (8 mL) and the reaction mixture was stirred at 60 0 C overnight. The mixture
was cooled to room temperature, the solvent was evaporated before water (200 mL) and EA
(100 mL) was introduced. The organic layer was separated and extracted with EA (60 mL X 2).
After the organic layer was washed with brine and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, the
solvent was evaporated. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to
30% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether) to give tert-butyl 4-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5-nitropyrimidin
4-ylamino) phenyl(methyl)carbamate (37) 9 g as yellow solid (yield 53%). LC-MS (ESI): m/z
(M+1) 541.
[00521] To a solution of tert-butyl 4-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5-nitropyrimidin-4-ylamino)phenyl
(methyl)carbamate (37) (6 g, 11.1 mmol) in THF/MeOH/H 2 0 (100 mL/100 mL/30 mL) was
added Fe powder (3.11 g, 55.5 mmol) and NH 4 Cl (5.94 g, 111 mmol). The reaction mixture was
heated at 60 0C for 4 h under N 2 . After cooling to rt, the reaction mixture was filtered through a
pad of Celite. The filtrate was extracted with EtOAc (100 mL X 3), washed with water and
brine, dried over Na 2SO 4 , and concentrated in vacuo to afford tert-butyl 4-(5-amino-6
(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4- ylamino)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (38) (5.4 g, yield 95%) as a
yellow solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 511.
[00522] To a stirred solution of tert-butyl 4-(5-amino-6-(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4
ylamino)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (38) (5.4 g, 10.6 mmol) and TEA (2.14 g, 21.2 mmol) in dry
DCM (60 mL) at 0 0C and under N 2 atmosphere, was added a solution of triphosgene (1.07 g,
3.6 mmol) in dry DCM (30 mL) dropwise during 1 h. Stirring was continued for 1 h before the
reaction was quenched with water (20 mL). The organic layer was separated, washed with water
and brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by column
chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 20% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether) to give tert-butyl 4-(6
(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate           (39) (4.2 g, 74 %) as a
light brown solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 537.
[00523] To a mixture of tert-butyl 4-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl(methyl) carbamate (39) (3 g, 5.6 mmol) in MeOH (120 mL) was added Pd(OH) 2 /C (3
g, 20 wt%) and 6 drops of con. HCl. The resulting mixture was purged with H2 (2 X) and heated
to 60 0C overnight under H 2 atmosphere. The mixture was cooled to r.t., filtered through a
Celite pad, and the solvent was removed in vacuo to obtain tert-butyl 4-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (40) (2 g, 100%) as a light yellow solid. LC-MS
                                                - 167 -

(ESI): m/z (M+1) 357.
[00524] In a similar manner as described in Example 9, (E)-N-(4-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(dimethylamino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide          (43)
(25 mg) was prepared as a white solid in three steps starting from intermediate 40. LC-MS
(ESI): m/z (M+1) 536.    1H  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 9.69 (s, 1H), 8.13 (s, 1H), 7.76 (d, J= 8.4
Hz, 2H), 7.59 - 7.37 (m, 6H), 7.29 - 7.05 (m, 5H), 6.77 - 6.57 (m, 1H), 6.36 - 6.11 (m, 1H),
5.92 (s, 2H), 3.91 - 3.69 (m, 2H), 3.31 (s, 3H), 2.68 (s, 6H).
Example 13: Synthesis of (E)-N-(4-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide            (44)
                                                                  Ph
                                       OPh
                             NH2q
                                   N
                                           01
                                           CI
                                              O
                                                  y   NNH
                                                      N
                                                        NH2
                                                            N
                                                        N   N
                                       NH                       N
                                 42                          44
[00525] In a similar manner as described in Example 12, (E)-N-(4-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2
enamide (44) (27 mg) was prepared as a white solid from intermediate 42 and (E)-4
(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enoyl chloride. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 562.         1H NMR (400
MHz, DMSO) 6 9.51 (s, 1H), 8.13 (s, 1H), 7.76 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 2H), 7.56 - 7.39 (m, 6H), 7.26
7.10 (m, 5H), 6.79 - 6.62 (m, 1H), 6.34 - 6.13 (m, 1H), 5.94 (s, 2H), 4.12 - 3.82 (m, 2H), 3.31
(s, 3H), 2.76 (s, 4H), 0.97 - 0.67 (m, 4H).
Example 14: Synthesis of (E)-N-(4-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclobutyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide           (45)
                                                                  Ph
                                       OPh
                                                        NH2
                              H2
                              H2     -            N      N N
                                   N       C
                                                        N
                             N     N
                                       NH                       N
                                 42                          45
[00526] In a similar manner as described in Example 11, (E)-N-(4-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclobutyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2
enamide (45) (61 mg) was prepared as a white solid from intermediate 42 and (E)-4
(cyclobutyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enoyl chloride. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 576.        1H  NMR (400
                                                - 168 -

MHz, DMSO) 6 9.85 (s, 1H), 8.13 (s, 1H), 7.76 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 2H), 7.56 - 7.38 (m, 6H), 7.26
7.09 (m, 5H), 6.74 - 6.57 (m, 1H), 6.34 - 6.15 (m, 1H), 5.93 (s, 2H), 3.89 - 3.76 (m, 1H), 3.72
3.50 (m, 2H), 3.30 (s, 3H), 2.53 (d, J= 4.4 Hz, 3H), 2.20 - 2.00 (m, 4H), 1.76 - 1.55 (m, 2H).
Example 15: Synthesis of (E)-N-(4-(6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-4-(dimethylamino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide                          (48)
                                                                               1          CI
                      NH2 H                       B(OH)2       NH2                NH2
                           N                                  NN      N       TFA       N
                      NN                Cu (OAC) 2,PY           N!                  N
                                  /      DMF, 4AMSN
                              /NBoc                                     ,NBC              N
                          40                                        46                47
                                NN
                                             NH2
                           ClyN                       >=o
                                     0/
                                                           0
                                                48
[00527] In a similar manner as described in Example 12, (E)-N-(4-(6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)
8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(dimethylamino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide                      (48) (34 mg) was
prepared as a white solid in three steps starting from intermediate 40 and 4-chlorophenylboronic
acid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M/M+2) 479/481.                  1H    NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.13 (s, 1H), 7.73
(d, J= 8.6 Hz, 2H), 7.63 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 2H), 7.48 (dd, J= 19.3, 8.7 Hz, 4H), 6.72 - 6.60 (m,
1H), 6.08 - 5.90 (m, 3H), 3.27 (s, 3H), 2.95 (d, J= 5.2 Hz, 2H), 2.08 (s, 6H).
Example 16: Synthesis of (E)-N-(4-(6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide                      (49)
                                        CI
                                                                    N NH2
                               H2
                                    N        CI                       N
                              N     N
                                        NH                                      0
                                  47                                      49
[00528] In a similar manner as described in Example 15, (E)-N-(4-(6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)
8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide                      (49)
(32 mg) was prepared as a white solid from intermediate 47 and (E)-4
                                                         -   169  -

(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enoyl chloride. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M/M+2) 504/506. 1H
NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.13 (s, 1H), 7.72 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 2H), 7.63 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 2H), 7.47
(dd, J= 23.1, 8.7 Hz, 4H), 6.76 - 6.61 (m, 1H), 6.09- 5.83 (m, 3H), 3.27 (s, 3H), 3.11 (d, J= 5.9
Hz, 2H), 2.13 (s, 3H), 1.68 - 1.55 (m, 1H), 0.42 - 0.29 (m, 2H), 0.26 - 0.17 (m, 2H).
Example 17: Synthesis of (E)-N-(4-(6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclobutyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide               (50)
                                     CI
                                               0            NH2
                            NH2                 0   <.N.    '
                                            C             N     N
                                  N
                            N     N
                                      NH                            N
                                47                               50
[00529] In a similar manner as described in Example 15, (E)-N-(4-(6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)
8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclobutyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide            (50)
(30 mg) was prepared as a white solid from intermediate 47 and (E)-4
(cyclobutyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enoyl chloride. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M/M+2) 518/520.            1H
NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 9.84 (s, 1H), 8.13 (s, 1H), 7.75 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 2H), 7.63 (d, J= 8.7
Hz, 2H), 7.49 (d, J= 7.1 Hz, 4H), 6.74 - 6.57 (m, 1H), 6.36 -6.15 (m, 1H), 6.03 (s, 2H), 3.90
3.74 (m, 1H), 3.72 - 3.51 (m, 2H), 3.30 (s, 3H), 2.53 (d, J= 4.4 Hz, 3H), 2.21 - 2.00 (m, 4H),
1.82 - 1.53 (m, 2H).
Example 18: Synthesis of N-(4-(6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-N-methylacrylamide (51)
                                            CI
                                 NH2     -0                     NH2
                                               NCI
                                            NH
                                         NH
                                          /                              0
                                     47                               51
[00530] In a similar manner as described in Example 15, N-(4-(6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)-8
oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-N-methylacrylamide (51) (40 mg) was prepared as a white solid
from intermediate 47 and acryloyl chloride. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M/M+2) 421/423.          1H NMR
(400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.13 (s, 1H), 7.72 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 2H), 7.62 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 2H), 7.48 (dd, J
=  17.1, 8.5 Hz, 4H), 6.24 - 6.07 (m, 2H), 5.99 (s, 2H), 5.67 - 5.57 (m, 1H), 3.29 (s, 3H).
                                                   -  170 -

Example 19: Synthesis of (E)-N-(4-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(dimethylamino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide                                 (54)
                      NH2              O        B(OH)2           H2       \NH2
                         SNt                                          N        FA         N
                             >==o
                               N          ( c2                  NH                        N    >>=o
                      N                Cu(OAc)2, PY                           TE         NN   N
                                  NBcDMF, 4A MS                                               N
                              /N'Boc                                    N-Boc                    NH
                           40                                      52                       53
                                            NH2
                      CI                          N
                                            N     N
                                                                    N
                                                           0
                                               54
[00531] In a similar manner as described in Example 12, (E)-N-(4-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4
methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(dimethylamino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide
(54) (45 mg) was prepared as a white solid in three steps starting from intermediate 40 and 3
methoxy-4-methylphenylboronic acid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 488. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
DMS0) 6 9.72 (s, 1H), 8.13 (s, 1H), 7.76 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 2H), 7.50 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 2H), 7.33 (d, J
= 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.16 - 7.09 (m, 1H), 7.06 - 6.97 (m, 1H), 6.75 - 6.57 (m, 1H), 6.30 - 6.14 (m,
 1H), 5.78 (s, 2H), 3.80 (s, 5H), 3.30 (s, 3H), 2.69 (s, 3H), 2.68 (s, 3H), 2.22 (s, 3H).
Example 20: Synthesis of N-(4-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin
9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-N-methylacrylamide                  (55)
                                                    SNH2
                                   N NH2   N--     _______
                                          N               CI                        =O
                                    N
                                                NN
                                              NH                                   N
                                                        /                              0
                                        53                                      55
[00532] In a similar manner as described in Example 19, N-(4-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4
methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-N-methylacrylamide                             (55) (30 mg) was
prepared as a white solid from intermediate 53 and acryloyl chloride. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1)
431.   1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.12 (s, 1H), 7.74 (d, J= 8.6 Hz, 2H), 7.46 (d, J= 8.7 Hz,
2H), 7.33 (d, J= 7.7 Hz, 1H), 7.14 (s, 1H), 7.02 (d, J= 7.8 Hz, 1H), 6.23 - 6.05 (m, 2H), 5.73
                                                             - 171  -

(s, 2H), 5.66 - 5.58 (m, J= 12.0 Hz, 1H), 3.80 (s, 3H), 3.29 (d, J= 8.0 Hz, 3H), 2.22 (s, 3H).
Example 21: Synthesis of (R,E)-6-amino-9-(1-(4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)but-2
enoyl)pyrrolidin-3-yl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (63)
                                      NBn2
                                   N    i  N02        NBn2                               NBn2
                  NH2                 N    CI       NCN       2                               N
                                      1               N    NH          Fe/NH4CI          N    N       triphosgene, TEA
                                                      N    NH                            N    NH                C
                   N Boc         TEA, dioxane                        THF/MeOH/H 20                        h   DC
                  56                                          Boc                                 Boc
                                                        57                                   58
                                                                                                       OPh
                    N~2H                           N2H           PhO             B(OH) 2
               N        N        H2, Pd(OH)2/C  N                PBN
                                                                  hO                          NH2              TFA
                   [      >==o                    L        o'.                                     N
                 N      N            MeOH          N    N            Py, Cu(OAc)2                              DCM
                                                                     4AMS, DMF                N    N
                               Boc                            Boc
                   59                                60                                       61          Boc
                                                                             OPh
                            OPh
                 NH2         O          HO                            N
                   ~N    NI                 o                               =
                 N      N                   DIPEA, HBTU
                                                DMF                          N
                              H
                                                                               0
                     62                                                  63
[00533] In a similar manner as described in Example 1, (R)-6-amino-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-9
(pyrrolidin-3-yl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (62) (174 mg) was prepared as a brown oil starting from
(R)-tert-butyl 3-aminopyrrolidine-1-carboxylate (56). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 389.                                      1H NMR
(400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.12 (s, 1H), 7.74 (d, J= 8.6 Hz, 2H), 7.46 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 2H), 7.33 (d, J
=  7.7 Hz, 1H), 7.14 (s, 1H), 7.02 (d, J= 7.8 Hz, 1H), 6.23 - 6.05 (m, 2H), 5.73 (s, 2H), 5.66
5.58 (m, J= 12.0 Hz, 1H), 3.80 (s, 3H), 3.29 (d, J= 8.0 Hz, 3H), 2.22 (s, 3H).
[00534] A solution of (R)-6-amino-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-9-(pyrrolidin-3-yl)-7H-purin-8(9H)
one (62) (95 mg, 0.24 mmol), 4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enoic acid hydrochloride (69
mg, 0.36 mmol) and DIPEA (213 [tL, 1.2 mmol) in 5 mL dry DMF was cooled to 0 0C. HBTU
(190 mg, 0.49 mmol) was added in one portion. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to
rt, and stirred for 2 hrs under N 2 , then purified directly by Gilson using 10 to 950% acetonitrile in
water (0.2% NH 3 H 2 0) to give (RE)-6-amino-9-(1-(4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)but-2
enoyl)pyrrolidin-3-yl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (63) (31 mg, 17.7%) as a light
yellow solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 526. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.14 (d, J= 6.0
Hz, 1H), 7.55 - 7.34 (m, 4H), 7.30 - 7.08 (m, 5H), 6.76 - 6.59 (m, 1H), 6.36 (dd, J= 37.4, 15.1
Hz, 1H), 5.82 (d, J= 9.1 Hz, 2H), 5.20 - 4.99 (m, 1H), 4.11 - 3.40 (m, 4H), 3.26 (dd, J= 17.7,
                                                               -  172   -

6.4 Hz, 2H), 2.78 - 2.59 (m, 1H), 2.24 (d, J= 12.4 Hz, 3H), 1.80 - 1.63 (m, 1H), 0.51 - 0.37 (m,
2H), 0.37 - 0.24 (m, 2H).
Example 22: Synthesis of (R,E)-6-amino-9-(1-(4-(cyclobutyl(methyl)amino)but-2
enoyl)pyrrolidin-3-yl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one           (64)
                                                                  OPh
                               OPh
                                    07\'NH                   2
                         NH         HO Y          N
                                                           N       0J
                         N   N           DIPEA, HBTU
                                oNH          DMFN
                            62                                 64
[00535] A mixture of (R)-6-amino-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-9-(pyrrolidin-3-yl)-7H-purin-8(9H)
one (62) (95 mg, 0.24 mmol), (E)-4-(cyclobutyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enoic acid hydrochloride
(76 mg, 0.37 mmol) and DIPEA (213 [tL, 1.2 mmol) in 5 mL dry DMF was cooled to 0 0C,
HBTU (190 mg, 0.49 mmol) was added in one portion. The reaction mixture was allowed to
warm up to rt, and stirred for 2 hrs under N 2, and purified directly by preparative-HPLC (RP
C18, 10 to 95% acetonitrile in water (0.2% NH 3 H 2 0)) to give (RE)-6-amino-9-(1-(4
(cyclobutyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enoyl) pyrrolidin-3-yl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)
one (64) (36 mg, 25.9%) as a light yellow solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M/M+2) 518/520.       1H
NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.11 (d, J= 6.0 Hz, 1H), 7.48 - 7.36 (m, 4H), 7.23 - 7.07 (m, 5H),
6.69 - 6.55 (m, 1H), 6.34 (dd, J= 35.9, 15.1 Hz, 1H), 5.89 - 5.67 (m, 2H), 5.18 - 4.95 (m, 1H),
4.15 - 3.42 (m, 4H), 2.97 (dd, J= 18.6, 6.2 Hz, 2H), 2.85 - 2.73 (m, 1H), 2.73 - 2.58 (m, 1H),
2.33 - 2.10 (m, 1H), 1.98 (d, J= 12.6 Hz, 3H), 1.95 -1.87 (m, 2H), 1.80 - 1.67 (m, 2H), 1.63
1.48 (m, 2H).
                                                   - 173 -

Example 23: Synthesis of (R,E)-6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)-9-(1-(4-(dimethylamino)but-2
enoyl)pyrrolidin-3-yl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (67)
                                                                          CI                   CI
                     H              CI            B(OH)  2         NH2            TH2
                                 >==oN        NH2I                                         N
                                                                                           N
               NN    N                 Py,   (
                                           C_ODC
                                       P CU(OAc)2, 2N                   >HBT     DCM            0
                                       4AMSDDMF
                            B oc                                       LNL
                  60                                                65       Boc          66
                  HO                                N
                                              NH2
                   HO n'         N'        NN       N ==
                     DI PEA,HHBTU             N        NN
                          DMF                      C
                                                           0        I
                                                    67
[00536] In a similar manner as described in Example 21, (R,E)-6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)-9
(1-(4-(dimethylamino)but-2-enoyl)pyrrolidin-3-yl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one                  (67) (24 mg) was
prepared as a white solid in three steps starting from intermediate 60 and 4-chlorophenylboronic
acid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 442. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.12 (d, J= 5.9 Hz, 1H),
7.65 - 7.53 (m, 2H), 7.41 (dd, J= 8.7, 3.3 Hz, 2H), 6.70 - 6.54 (m, 1H), 6.39 (dd, J= 38.2, 15.2
Hz, 1H), 5.89 (d, J= 11.1 Hz, 2H), 5.19 - 4.97 (m, 1H), 4.12 - 3.57 (m, 3H), 3.12 (dd, J= 19.6,
5.8 Hz, 2H), 2.76 - 2.55 (m, J= 21.1, 10.8 Hz, 1H), 2.22 (s, 3H), 2.19 (s, 3H).
                                                             - 174  -

Example 24: Synthesis of (E)-6-amino-9-((1-(4-(dimethylamino)but-2-enoyl)piperidin-4
yl)methyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one                                     (75)
                           NBn 2
                        N'        N02           NBn2                                           NBn2
                           N      CI                  N02                                            NH2
 BocNNo
                             '    C                                        Fe/NH4CI
                NH2        1                    N     NH                                       N     NH
                      TEA, dioxane                                     THF/MeOH/H20
        68                                                   N Boc                                             Boc
                                                    69                                             70
                         NBn2
                            Nn2H                                  NH2
       triphosgene             N              H2, Pd(OH)2/C          N                   PhO             B(OH)2
        TEA, DCM         N     N                  MeOH            N     N                     Cu(OAc)2, Py
                                           N-Boc                                  N'Boc        4A MS, DMF
                               71                                       72
                                                                                            OPh
               OPh                                OPh
                       NH2       -~-                                     N~         NH2
     NH                  TFA            NH2 N             HO                H            N
            N    o       DCM                 N     o        DIPEA, HBTU             N    N
                     N                     N            NH       DMF                          CN                N
                  ' N-Boc                               NH
            73                                 74                                        75
[00537] In a similar manner as described in Example 21, (E)-6-amino-9-((1-(4
(dimethylamino)but-2-enoyl)piperidin-4-yl)methyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one
(75) (31 mg) was prepared as a white solid starting from tert-butyl 4-(aminomethyl)piperidine-1
carboxylate 68. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 528. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.12 (s, 1H),
7.49 - 7.36 (m, 4H), 7.25 - 7.06 (m, 5H), 6.60 - 6.50 (m, 2H), 5.78 (s, 2H), 4.35 (d, 1H), 3.98
(d, 1H), 3.72 (d, J= 7.2 Hz, 2H), 3.05 - 2.92 (m, 3H), 2.65 - 2.52 (m, 1H), 2.11 (s, 6H), 1.63 (s,
2H), 1.22 - 0.94 (m, 3H).
Example 25: Synthesis of N-(3-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin
9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-N-methylacrylamide                          (76)
                                     NH 2    -                                           NH 2
                                           N    O               CI                             N
                                     N     N                                             N     N
                                                                   DCM
                                                                                                       N
                                               bN                                                      N
                                                    H
                                          29                                                    76
[00538] A solution of 6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-9-(3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7H
purin-8(9H)-one (29) (80 mg, 0.21 mmol) in anhydrous DCM (5 mL) was added acryloyl
chloride (26 pL, 0.32 mmol) at 0 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 hr under N 2 before it
was quenched with MeOH. The solvents were removed, and the residue was purified by
                                                                   -  175    -

preparative HPLC (RP C18, 10 to 95% acetonitrile in water (0.2% NH 3 H 2 0)) to give N-(3-(6
amino-7-(3-methoxy- 4-methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-N-methylacrylamide
(76) (30 mg, 33%) as a white solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 431.2.               1H NMR (400 MHz,
DMSO) 6 8.12 (s, 1H), 7.69 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.66 - 7.54 (m, 2H), 7.39 - 7.25 (m, 2H),7.13
(d, J= 1.8 Hz, 1H), 6.28 - 6.07 (m, 2H), 5.71 (s, 2H), 5.64 - 5.57 (m, 1H), 3.80 (s, 3H), 3.29 (s,
3H), 2.22 (s, 3H).
Example 26: Synthesis of N-(3-(6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-N-methylacrylamide (77)
                                   CI                                   CI
                          NH2    -                            NH 2
                               N     O        I            N        N
                          N    N                              N     N
                                              DC/
                                                                   6DM       N\
                                   6   N                            -~N
                                       H
                              26                                     77
[00539] In a similar manner as described in Example 25, N-(3-(6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)-8
oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-N-methylacrylamide (77) (40 mg, 44%) was prepared as a
white solid starting from 6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)-9-(3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7H-purin
8(9H)-one (26) (80 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 421.1.          1HNMR          (400 MHz, DMSO) 68.13
(s, 1H), 7.77 - 7.54 (m, 5H), 7.53 - 7.22 (m, 3H), 6.18 (s, 2H), 5.95 (s, 2H), 5.72 - 5.42 (m,
1H), 3.28 (s, 3H).
Example 27: Synthesis of (R)-9-(1-acryloylpyrrolidin-3-yl)-6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)
7H-purin-8(9H)-one (78)
                                     \                          NH2
                            NH2 N                            N        N
                             N              c                QN           =
                            N    NDCM
                                           NH                              N
                              66                                       78
[00540] In a similar manner as described in Example 25, (R)-9-(1-acryloylpyrrolidin-3-yl)-6
amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (78) (55 mg, 40%) was prepared as a white solid
starting from (R)-6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)-9-(pyrrolidin-3-yl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one          (66) (119
mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 385.1.       1H  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.15 (d, J= 2.8 Hz, 1H),
7.58 (d, J= 8.6 Hz, 2H), 7.42 (dd, J= 8.8, 2.6 Hz, 2H), 6.69 - 6.44 (m, 1H), 6.14 (dt, J= 16.7,
2.3 Hz, 1H), 5.94 (s, 2H), 5.71 - 5.60 (m, 1H), 5.21 - 4.98 (m, 1H), 4.16 - 3.34 (m, 4H), 2.76
2.54 (m, 1H), 2.35 - 2.11 (m, 1H).
                                                - 176 -

Example 28: Synthesis of (R,E)-6-amino-9-(1-(4-(dimethylamino)but-2-enoyl)pyrrolidin-3
yl)-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one                         (81)
                    NH2       H                                         0\0                 -
                  N N    N       (HO)2B                      H2               FA    NH2
                             O               N                               N A
                    N    N           Py, Cu(OAC)2                    O       DCM '            O
                                     4A MS, DMF             N     N                 N     N
                               Boc                                  N,                        H
                      60                                       79      Boc             80
                                             NH2
                                OH                N
                                             N    N
                     DIPEA, HBTU
                         DMF                           N
                                                    81   0
[00541] To a mixture of (R)-tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)pyrrolidine-1
carboxylate (60) (75 mg, 0.23 mmol) and 4A MS (200 mg) in dry DMF (5 mL) were added 2
methoxy-1-methyl-4-phenoxybenzene (150 mg, 0.9 mmol), Cu(OAc) 2 (43 mg, 0.23 mmol) and
pyridine (111 IL, 1.4 mmol). The resulting mixture was heated to 35 0 C overnight under 02
atmosphere. After cooled down to rt, the reaction solution was filtered through a Celite pad.
The filtrate was diluted with water (50 mL) and extracted with EtOAc (30 mL X 3). The
combined organic layers were washed with water and brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , and
concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 5%
methanol in methylene chloride) to give (R)-tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4
methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)pyrrolidine-1-carboxylate                    (79) (93 mg, 90%) as a
brown oil. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 441.
[00542] To a solution of (R)-tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)pyrrolidine-1-carboxylate (79) (93 mg, 0.21 mmol) in DCM (3 mL) was added
TFA (0.8 mL) dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 1 hr before concentrated in
vacuo to give (R)-6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-9-(pyrrolidin-3-yl)-7H-purin-8(9H)
one (80) (72 mg, 100%) as a brown solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 341.
[00543] A mixture of (R)-6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-9-(pyrrolidin-3-yl)-7H-purin
8(9H)-one (80) (72 mg, 0.21 mmol), (E)-4-(dimethylamino)but-2-enoic acid hydrochloride (42
mg, 0.25 mmol) and DIPEA (187 [tL, 1.1 mmol) in dry DMF (5 mL) was cooled down to 0 0 C.
HBTU (164 mg, 0.42 mmol) was added in one portion. The reaction mixture was allowed to
warm up to rt, and stirred for 2 hrs under N 2 . The reaction solution was directly loaded to a prep
HPLC and purified by using 10 to 950%acetonitrile in water (0.2% NH 3 H2 0) to give (RE)-6
                                                        -  177  -

amino-9-(1-(4-(dimethylamino)but-2-enoyl)pyrrolidin-3-yl)-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-7H
purin-8(9H)-one (81) (49 mg, 51%) as a white solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 452. HNMR
(400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.13 (d, J= 5.9 Hz, 1H), 7.31 (d, J= 7.7 Hz, 1H), 7.06 (dd, J= 5.2, 1.8
Hz, 1H), 7.00 - 6.91 (m, 1H), 6.70 - 6.59 (m, 1H), 6.39 (dd, J= 35.5, 15.2 Hz, 1H), 5.65 (s,
2H), 5.21 - 5.00 (m, 1H), 4.12 - 3.86 (m, 2H), 3.81 (s, 3H), 3.79 - 3.39 (m, 2H), 3.04 (dd, J=
16.6, 5.6 Hz, 2H), 2.81 - 2.59 (m, 1H), 2.22 (s, 3H), 2.17 (s, 3H), 2.14 (s, 3H).
Example 29: Synthesis of (R)-9-(1-acryloylpyrrolidin-3-yl)-6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4
methylphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (82)
                                                                  /\      O\
                                                              NH2
                           NH2 N           C                N     N
                           N                 DCM
                                                                      N
                             80   NH                               82   O
[00544] In a similar manner as described in Example 25, (R)-9-(1-acryloylpyrrolidin-3-yl)-6
amino-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (82) (27 mg, 25%) was prepared as
a white solid starting from (R)-6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-9-(pyrrolidin-3-yl)-7H
purin-8(9H)-one (80) (93 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 395.2.          1H  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO)
6 8.11 (d, J= 5.3 Hz, 1H), 7.29 (d, J= 7.9 Hz, 1H), 7.04 (dd, J= 4.8, 1.9 Hz, 1H), 6.98 - 6.86
(m, 1H), 6.68 - 6.45 (m, 1H), 6.14 (dd, J= 16.9, 2.0 Hz, 1H), 5.76 - 5.51 (m, 3H), 5.22 - 4.93
(m, 1H), 4.12 - 3.87 (m, 2H), 3.83 - 3.72 (m, 4H), 3.70 - 3.37 (m, 1H), 2.79 - 2.56 (m, 1H),
2.35 - 2.11 (m, 4H).
                                              - 178 -

Example 30: Synthesis of (R)-9-(1-acryloylpiperidin-3-yl)-6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)-7H
purin-8(9H)-one (90)
                              Bn,   Bn
                                  N
                                        N02       BnsN Bn                                 Bns NBn
                 NH2              N     CI                 NO2                                     NH2
                                        N                                 FCIN4C
                                                                          Fe, NH4CI             N   H     triphosgene
                                                     N
               (    N,         TEA dioxane                             THF/MeOH/H20                        TEA, DCM
                 83                                           N'Boc                                  NBoc
                                                        84                                      85
              Bn-    Bn                                  NH2                HO B        C
                                                                             HO -                  NH
                                                                                                   NH2
                   NN N   ==       HZ Pd(OH)2/C       N            0______
                                                                             HO                 N       N
                    N   N          MeOH, con. HCI        N     N               Cu(OAc)2                     O
                                                                               Py, 4AMS            N    N
                             N'Boc                            LN'Boc             DMF                        N'Boc
                     86                                    87                                        88
                                            CI
              TFA, DCM            NH2                                NH2
                                             O=                   NCI        N
                                                      DCM
                                           LNH
                                                                                  N_,
                                     89                                    90         0
[00545] To a solution of (R)-tert-butyl 3-aminopiperidine-1-carboxylate (83) (600 mg, 3.0
mmol) and TEA (0.85 mL, 6.1 mmol) in dioxane (20 mL) was added NN-dibenzyl-6-chloro-5
nitropyrimidin-4-amine (1) (1.28 g, 3.6 mmol). The reaction mixture was heated to 70 0 C for 6
h under N 2 before water (20 mL) was introduced. The resulting mixture was cooled to rt and
extracted with EtOAc (30 mL x 3). The combined organic layer was washed with brine, dried
over Na 2 SO 4 , and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by column chromatography
(silica gel, 0 to 15% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether) to give (R)-tert-butyl 3-(6
(dibenzylamino)-5-nitropyrimidin-4-ylamino) piperidine-1-carboxylate (84) (0.8 g, 51.5 %) as a
yellow solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 519.
[00546] To a solution of (R)-tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5-nitropyrimidin-4-ylamino)
piperidine-1-carboxylate (84) (0.8 g, 1.5 mmol) in THF/MeOH/H 2 0 (20 mL/10 mL/5 mL) were
added Fe powder (0.43 g, 7.7 mmol) and NH 4 Cl (0.83 g, 15.4 mmol). The reaction mixture was
heated to 50 0C for 7 h under N 2 . After cooling to rt, the reaction mixture was filtered through a
pad of Celite. The filtrate was extracted with EtOAc (30 mL X 3), washed with water and brine,
dried over Na 2 SO 4 , and concentrated in vacuo to afford (R)-tert-butyl 3-(5-amino-6
(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin- 4-ylamino)piperidine-1-carboxylate (85) (750 mg, 99.5%) as a
brown solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 489.
                                                               - 179    -

[00547] To a stirred solution of (R)-tert-butyl 3-(5-amino-6-(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4
ylamino)piperidine-1-carboxylate (85) (750 mg, 1.5 mmol) and TEA (430 [iL, 3.1 mmol) in dry
DCM (15 mL) at 0 0C and under N 2 atmosphere, was added a solution of triphosgene (229 mg,
0.77 mmol) in dry DCM (5mL) dropwise during 1 h. After the stirring was continued for 1 h, the
reaction was quenched with water (30 mL). The organic layer was separated, washed with water
and brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by column
chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 20% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether) to give (R)-tert-butyl 3
(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)piperidine-1-carboxylate       (86) (668 mg, 84.6 %) as
a light brown solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 515.
[00548] To a mixture of (R)-tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)piperidine-1-carboxylate (86) (668 mg, 1.3 mmol) in MeOH (20 mL) was added Pd(OH) 2 /C
(660 mg, 20 wt%) and 3 drops of con. HCl. The resulting mixture was purged with H 2 (2 X)
before heated to 60 0C overnight under H2 atmosphere. The mixture was cooled to r.t., filtered
through a Celite pad, and the solvent was removed in vacuo to obtain (R)-tert-butyl 3-(6-amino
8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)piperidine- 1-carboxylate (87) (434 mg, 100%) as a white solid. LC
MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 335.
[00549] In a similar manner as described in Example 23, (R)-tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(4
chlorophenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)piperidine-1-carboxylate (88) (173 mg, 100%) was
prepared as a brown solid starting from (R)-tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)piperidine-1-carboxylate (87) (130 mg) and 4-chlorophenylboronic acid (184 mg). LC-MS
(ESI): m/z (M+1) 445.3.
[00550] In a similar manner as described in Example 23, (R)-6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)-9
(piperidin-3-yl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (89) (134 mg, 100%) was prepared as a brown oil starting
from (R)-tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)piperidine-1
carboxylate (88) (173 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 345.1.
[00551] In a similar manner as described in Example 23, (R)-9-(1-acryloylpiperidin-3-yl)-6
amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (90) (26 mg, 17%) was prepared as a white solid
starting from (R)-6-amino-7-(4-chlorophenyl)-9-(piperidin-3-yl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one      (89) (134
mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M/M+2) 399.2/401.2.          1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.13 (s, 1H),
7.63 - 7.53 (m, 2H), 7.43 (d, J= 7.8 Hz, 2H), 6.87 - 6.68 (m, 1H), 6.11 (dd, J= 16.7, 2.2 Hz,
1H), 5.83 (s, 2H), 5.72 - 5.59 (m,1H), 4.58 - 4.03 (m, 3H), 3.93- 2.92 (m, 1H), 2.66 - 2.49 (m,
2H), 1.96 - 1.79 (m, 2H), 1.56 - 1.42 (m, 1H).
                                                - 180-

Example 31: Synthesis of (R)-9-(1-acryloylpiperidin-3-yl)-6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4
methylphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (93)
                  NH2            Hq
                                  0,                   /\O0                       O\
                  N H             HOB             NH2                     NH2
                            O    HO                         TFA, DCM
                           K-NN                                         N~ N
                  N      N           Cu(OAC)2       N
                                     Py, 4AMSNN
                            N'Boc      DMF
                      87                            91                       92
                                          /     O
                       0          NH2
                                NI N
                      DCM         N       N
                                            LN
                                       93       0
[00552] In a similar manner as described in Example 28, (R)-tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(3
methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)piperidine-1-carboxylate        (91) (57 mg,
32%) was prepared as a brown solid starting from (R)-tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin
9(8H)-yl)piperidine-1-carboxylate (87) (130 mg) and 3-methoxy-4-methylphenylboronic acid
(192 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 395.2. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 455.2.
[00553] In a similar manner as described in Example 28, (R)-6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4
methylphenyl)-9-(piperidin-3-yl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (92) (44 mg, 100%) was prepared as a
brown oil starting from (R)-tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)piperidine-1-carboxylate (91) (57 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 345.1.
[00554] In a similar manner as described in Example 28, (R)-9-(1-acryloylpiperidin-3-yl)-6
amino-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (93) (30 mg, 61%) was prepared as
a white solid starting from (R)-6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-9-(piperidin-3-yl)-7H
purin-8(9H)-one (92) (44 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 409.3.          1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6
8.11 (s, 1H), 7.33 - 7.24 (m, 1H), 7.10 - 6.99 (m, 1H), 6.98 - 6.88 (m, 1H), 6.88 - 6.69 (m, 1H),
6.12 (d, J= 16.6 Hz, 1H), 5.73 - 5.51 (m, 3H), 4.58 - 3.70 (m, 6H), 3.48 - 2.96 (m, 1H), 2.67
2.51 (m, 1H), 2.46 - 2.27 (m, 1H), 2.20 (s, 3H), 1.97 - 1.77 (m, 2H), 1.60 - 1.36 (m, 1H).
                                                  - 181   -

Example 32: Synthesis of (E)-N-(5-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)-2-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenyl)-4-(dimethylamino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide
(104)
              NO2                    NO2                                   NO2                          NO2
                         Boc2O                    MeO _           Br                     NaH, THF              N      Fe, NH4CI
                   NH2   EtOH              NHBoc    K 2CO3, DMF                 NHBoc       CH 31              Boc
              OH                     OH
                                    94                             MeO     95                     MeO     96
                                                  NBn2                                     NBn2
                                   NBn 2                 NO2                                     NH2
                                     N     02
                                                  N      NH                                N    NH
                                   N     C        N                          Fe/NH4CI                          triphosgene
                           oc   Et3N, dioxane                        NBoc                              NBoc        DCM
              MeO                                                        OMe                                OMe
                     97                                 98                                      99e
               NBn2                                    NH2
                    H                                        H                                          NH2
                    N>==                                 N N==
                    N                               KN      - N'-(HO)                 2B         O                  O
                      N       /   H2, Pd(OH)2/C                 -                                       N      N
                            NBoc    MeOH, HCI                 \         NBoc       Cu(OAc)2, Py
                                  00                                  -DMF,               4A MS                \/NBoc
                                OMe                                         OMe                                   0     O
                    100                                   101                                              102              OMe
                                  NH 2                        0                     NH2
                  TFA                    N               CI               NN              N
                  DCM             N      N                        DCM               Nr    N                  NO
                                                 NH                                                N
                                       103            OMe                                104          OMe
[00555] To a solution of 2-amino-4-nitrophenol (8.0 g, 52 mmol) in EtOH (100 mL) was added
Boc anhydride (22 g, 101 mmol). The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 24 h under N 2
atmosphere before the solvents were removed in vacuo. The residue was washed with
petroleum ether, dried under vacuum to give tert-butyl 2-hydroxy-5-nitrophenylcarbamate (94)
(11.2 g, 85%) as a yellow solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M-1) 253.1.
[00556] To a mixture of tert-butyl 2-hydroxy-5-nitrophenylcarbamate (94) (4.0 g, 15.7 mmol)
and K2 C0 3 (10.9 g, 79 mmol) in dry DMF (40 mL) was added 1-bromo-2- methoxyethane (4.4
mL, 47 mmol) dropwise under N 2 . The resulting mixture was heated at 40 0 C overnight, then
filtered through a Celite pad. The filtrate was diluted with water (100 mL), extracted with
EtOAc (50 mL X 3). The combined organic layer was washed with water and brine, dried over
Na 2 SO 4 , and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to
30% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether) to give tert-butyl 2-(2-methoxyethoxy)-5
                                                                   -  182-

nitrophenylcarbamate (95) (3.5 g, 76%) as a brown oil. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 311.2.
[00557] To a suspension of NaH (60% dispersion in mineral oil, 327 mg, 8.2 mmol) in
anhydrous THF (15 mL) at 0 0C was added a solution of tert-butyl 2-(2-methoxyethoxy)-5
nitrophenylcarbamate (95) (1.7 g, 5.4 mmol) in THF (10 mL). The mixture was stirred at 0 0 C
for 0.5 hour before CH 3I (0.5 mL, 8.1 mmol) was introduced dropwise. The stirring was
continued at r.t. overnight before concentrated down under reduced pressure. The residue was
diluted with water (100 mL), extracted with EtOAc (50 mL X 3). The combined organic layer
was washed with water and brine, dried over Na 2SO 4 , and concentrated in vacuo to afford tert
butyl 2-(2-methoxyethoxy)-5-nitrophenyl(methyl)carbamate (96) (1.8 g, quant.) as a brown
solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 327.2.
[00558] To a solution of tert-butyl 2-(2-methoxyethoxy)-5-nitrophenyl(methyl)carbamate (96)
(1.8 g, 5.5 mmol) in THF/EtOH/H 20 (16 mL/8 mL/4 mL) were added iron powder (1.52 g, 27
mmol) and NH 4 Cl (2.94 g, 55 mmol). The resulting mixture was heated at 50 0C for 7 hrs under
N 2 . After cooled down to r.t., the reaction mixture was filtered through a pad of Celite. The
filtrate was extracted with EtOAc (50 mL X 3), washed with water and brine, dried over
Na 2 SO 4, and concentrated in vacuo to afford tert-butyl 5-amino-2-(2
methoxyethoxy)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (97) (1.6 g, 99%) as a brown solid. LC-MS (ESI):
m/z (M+1) 297.1.
[00559] To a solution of tert-butyl 5-amino-2-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (97)
(1.6 g, 5.4 mmol) and TEA (1.5 mL, 10.8 mmol) in dioxane (50 mL) was added NN-dibenzyl-6
chloro-5-nitropyrimidin-4-amine (1) (1.9 g, 5.4 mmol). The reaction mixture was heated at 70
0C  overnight under N 2 , before water (100 mL) was introduced. The resulting mixture was
extracted with EtOAc (50 mL x 3). The combined organic layer was washed with brine, dried
over Na 2 SO 4 , and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by column chromatography
(silica gel, 0 to 20% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether) to give tert-butyl 5-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5
nitropyrimidin-4-ylamino)-2-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenyl(methyl)carbamate           (98) (3.3 g, 98 %) as
a brown oil. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 615.1.
[00560] To a solution of tert-butyl 5-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5-nitropyrimidin-4-ylamino)-2-(2
methoxyethoxy)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (98) (3.3 g, 5.4 mmol) in THF/EtOH/H 20 (24 mL/12
mL/6 mL) was added iron powder (3.0 g, 54 mmol) and NH 4 Cl (5.8 g, 108 mmol). The reaction
mixture was heated at 50 0C for 4 hrs under N 2 . After cooled down to r. t., the reaction mixture
was filtered through a pad of Celite. The filtrate was extracted with EtOAc (50 mL X 3),
washed with water and brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , and concentrated in vacuo to give tert-butyl 5
(5-amino-6-(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4-ylamino)-2-(2
methoxyethoxy)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (99) (3.0 g, 96%) as a brown oil. LC-MS (ESI): m/z
                                                - 183 -

(M+1) 585.2.
[00561] To a stirred solution of tert-butyl 5-(5-amino-6-(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4-ylamino)
2-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (99) (3.0 g, 5.1 mmol) and TEA (1.4 mL, 10
mmol) in anhydrous DCM (50 mL) at 0 0C and under N 2 atmosphere was added a solution of
triphosgen (763 mg, 2.6 mmol) in anhydrous DCM (10 mL) over 1 hr. After the stirring was
continued for 1 hr, the reaction mixture was quenched with water (100 mL). The layers were
separated, and the organic layer was washed with water and brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , and
concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to
20% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether) to give tert-butyl 5-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo-7H-purin
9(8H)-yl)-2-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (100) (1.9 g, 61 %) as a brown solid.
LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 611.3.
[00562] To a mixture of tert-butyl 5-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2-(2
methoxyethoxy)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (100) (800 mg, 1.3 mmol) in MeOH (30 mL) was
added Pd(OH) 2 /C (800 mg, 20 wt%) and 3 drops of con. HCl. The resulting mixture was purged
with H2 (2 X) before heated to 60 0C overnight under H 2 atmosphere. The mixture was cooled
to r.t., filtered through a Celite pad, and the solvent was removed in vacuo to give tert-butyl 5
(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenyl(methyl)carbamate           (101) (527
mg, 94%) as a white solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 430.2.
[00563] To a mixture of tert-butyl 5-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2-(2-methoxyethoxy)
phenyl(methyl)carbamate (101) (527 mg, 1.2 mmol) and 4A MS (300 mg) in anhydrous DMF
(15 mL) were added 3-methoxy-4-methylphenylboronic acid (612 mg, 3.7 mmol), Cu(OAc)             2
(224 mg, 1.2 mmol) and pyridine (0.6 mL, 7.2 mmol). The reaction mixture was heated at 37 0C
overnight under 02 atmosphere before filtered through a Celite pad. The filtrate was diluted
with water (50 mL), extracted with EtOAc (30 mL X 3). The combined organic layer was
washed with water and brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , and concentrated. The residue was purified by
column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 5% methanol in methylene chloride) to give tert-butyl
5-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2-(2
methoxyethoxy)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (102) (122 mg, 18%) as a brown oil. LC-MS (ESI):
m/z (M+1) 551.1.
[00564] To a solution of tert-butyl 5-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin
9(8H)-yl)-2-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (102) (122 mg, 0.22 mmol) in DCM
(4 mL) was added TFA (1 mL) dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 1 hr before
concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 5 %
methanol in methylene chloride (0.3% Et 3N)) to give 6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-9
(4-(2-methoxyethoxy)-3-(methylamino) phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (103) (100 mg, 100%) as a
                                                 - 184-

brown oil. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 451.2.
[00565] To a suspension of (E)-4-(dimethylamino)but-2-enoic acid hydrochloride salt (90 mg,
0.54 mmol) in anhydrous acetonitrile (5 mL) was added 1 drop of DMF before introducing
(COCl) 2 (0.5 mL, 5.3 mmol). The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hr.
The solvent was evaporated. The freshly generated acid chloride was dissolved in anhydrous
DCM (2 mL) and introduced to the solution of 6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-9-(4-(2
methoxyethoxy)-3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (103) (100 mg, 0.24 mmol) in
DCM (3 mL). The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hr before quenched
with MeOH (2 mL). Solvents were removed and the residue was pre-purified by column
chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 10% methanol in methylene chloride (0.30% Et 3N)) followed by
preparative HPLC (RP, C18, 10 to 95% acetonitrile in water (0.2% NH 3 'H2 0)) to give (E)-N-(5
(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2-(2
methoxyethoxy)phenyl)-4-(dimethylamino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide           (104) (26 mg, 21%) as a
white solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 562.3. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.08 (s, 1H), 7.63
(d, J= 8.7 Hz, 1H), 7.57 - 7.48 (m, 1H), 7.32 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 2H), 7.10 (s, 1H), 6.99 (d, J= 7.8
Hz, 1H), 6.68 - 6.52 (m, 1H), 5.86 (d, J= 15.3 Hz, 1H), 5.69 (s, 2H), 4.29 - 4.09 (m, J= 5.0 Hz,
2H), 3.80 (s, 3H), 3.62 (t, J= 4.5 Hz, 2H), 3.27 (s, 3H), 3.13 (s, 3H), 2.92 - 2.80 (m, 2H), 2.21
(s, 3H), 2.02 (s, 6H).
Example 33: Synthesis of (E)-N-(5-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)-2-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenyl)-4-(dimethylamino)but-2-enamide              (112)
                                              - 185 -

                                                                                                        NBn2
                                                                                         NBn 2 N               NO2
                         NO2                                   NH2                             NO2
                                                                                                  1     N      NH
                                         Fe, NH4C            I                           N      I
                               NHBoc                                 NHBoc            Et3N, dioxane            O/NHBoc
               MeO       95                           MeO      105                                            106     OMe
                            NBn 2                                      NBn2
                          N         H                               N
                               N NH                                    N
             Fe/NH4CI                              triphosgene         N                       H2, Pd(OH) 2/C
                                  O    /NHBoc         DCM                     O/NHBoc            MeOH, HCI
                                  107            OMe                          108
                 NH2                                                         /      \
                       H                                              NH2
                 N     N                    (HO)2B           O     [    H2
                                                                      N                             TFA
                            \/NHBoc            Cu(0AC) 2, PY                                        DCM
                                  N    o       DMF, 4A MS                              NHBoc
                             0-
                                    \OMe                                           0-
                    109                                                  110                OMe
                                         0\                                       -0\
                  NH2                        0                       NH2
               N        N                C                       N         N
                             O                                                   O                N-
                                               DCM                   N      N         O     /
                  N      N           2
                                 NH2                                                  NH
                      111              OMe                                 112            OMe
[00566] In a similar manner as described in Example 32, tert-butyl 5-amino-2-(2
methoxyethoxy)phenylcarbamate (105) (1.58 g, 100%) was prepared as a brown oil starting
from tert-butyl 2-(2-methoxyethoxy)-5-nitrophenylcarbamate (95) (1.75 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z
(M+1) 283.1.
[00567] In a similar manner as described in Example 32, tert-butyl 5-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5
nitropyrimidin-4-ylamino)-2-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenylcarbamate (106) (3.4 g, 100%) was
prepared as a brown oil starting from tert-butyl 5-amino-2-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenylcarbamate
(105) (1.58 g) and NN-dibenzyl-6-chloro-5-nitropyrimidin-4-amine (1). LC-MS (ESI): m/z
(M+1) 601.3.
[00568] In a similar manner as described in Example 32, tert-butyl 5-(5-amino-6
(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4-ylamino)-2-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenylcarbamate                                             (107) (3.0 g, 94%)
was prepared as a brown oil starting from tert-butyl 5-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5-nitropyrimidin-4
ylamino)-2-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenylcarbamate (106) (3.36 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1)
569.2.
                                                                -  186-

[00569] In a similar manner as described in Example 32, tert-butyl 5-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo
7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenylcarbamate (108) (1.9 g, 61%) was prepared as a
brown oil starting from tert-butyl 5-(5-amino-6-(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4-ylamino)-2-(2
methoxyethoxy)phenylcarbamate (107) (3.0 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 597.2.
[00570] In a similar manner as described in Example 32, tert-butyl 5-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin
9(8H)-yl)-2-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenylcarbamate (109) (462 mg, 83%) was prepared as a brown
solid starting from tert-butyl 5-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2-(2
methoxyethoxy)phenylcarbamate (108) (800 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 417.1.
[00571] In a similar manner as described in Example 32, tert-butyl 5-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4
methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenylcarbamate          (110) (258 mg,
43%) was prepared as a brown oil starting from tert-butyl 5-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)-2-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenylcarbamate (109) (462 mg) and 3-methoxy-4
methylphenylboronic acid (553 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 537.3.
[00572] In a similar manner as described in Example 32, 6-amino-9-(3-amino-4-(2
methoxyethoxy)phenyl)-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one          (111) (209 mg,
100%) was prepared as a brown oil starting from tert-butyl 5-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4
methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenylcarbamate          (110) (258
mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 437.2.
[00573] In a similar manner as described in Example 32, (E)-N-(5-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4
methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenyl)-4-(dimethylamino)but
2-enamide (112) (31 mg, 12%) was prepared as a white solid starting from 6-amino-9-(3-amino
4-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenyl)-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one           (111) (209
mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 548.3. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 9.25 (s, 1H), 8.31 (s,
1H), 8.07 (s, 1H), 7.36 - 7.17 (m, 3H), 7.15 (s, 1H), 7.02 (d, J= 6.2 Hz, 1H), 6.75 - 6.63 (m,
1H), 6.50 (d, J= 15.4 Hz, 1H), 5.65 (s, 2H), 4.30 - 4.18 (m, 2H), 3.80 (s, 3H), 3.76 - 3.70 (m,
2H), 3.33 (s, 3H), 3.06 (d, J= 5.7 Hz, 2H), 2.21 (s, 3H), 2.17 (s, 6H).
                                              - 187-

Example 34: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropylamino)but-2-enamide                      (116)
                                     1)LiOH H20                       (COC I)
                                                                            2
                                        2) HCI           1           DCM, DMF CI
                                                        113                      114
                      Ph                                 Ph                               OPh
               NH2                      Br     NH2                               NH2
                    N     CI  11   M               N                                N N
                       ~  ___   _____NN~             >==o
               N    N         DM               NN                       K2C03    NN                   H
                                                                                                      N
                                                             O 0     Br
                      SNH 2                        b        N                                 N
                                                            H                                 H
                  7                                    115                            116
[00574] To a solution of (E)-methyl 4-bromobut-2-enoate (6 g, 33.5 mmol) in THF (60 mL) at 0
0C  and under N 2 atmosphere was added a solution of lithium hydroxide monohydrate (1.83 g,
43.6 mmol) in water (20 mL) dropwise over 15 min. The resulting mixture was stirred at 0 0 C
for 3 hrs. Cold water (150 mL) and petroleum ether (200 mL) were then introduced and the
stirring was continued at 0 0C for 10 min. The layers were separated. The aqueous layer was
acidified with con. HCl at 0 0 C to pH ~1 and was extracted with DCM (80 mL X 3). The
combined organic extracts were dried over Na 2 SO 4 filtered and evaporated under reduced
pressure to give (E)-4-bromobut-2-enoic acid (113) (4.5 g, 82% yield) as a yellow solid.
[00575] To a solution of (E)-4-bromobut-2-enoic acid (113) (162 mg, 0.98 mmol) and a drop of
DMF in anhydrous DCM (3 mL) was added oxalyl chloride (250 mg, 1.96 mmol) dropwise.
The resulting mixture was stirred at r.t. for 1 hour. The solvent was removed in vacuo to give
(E)-4-bromobut-2-enoyl chloride (114) (quant.) and used for next step directly.
[00576] To a solution of 6-amino-9-(3-aminophenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one
(7) (200 mg, 0.49 mmol) in anhydrous DCM (3 mL) at 0 0C was added freshly generated (E)-4
bromobut-2-enoyl chloride (114) (179 mg, 0.98 mmol) in DCM (2 mL) dropwise. The resulting
mixture was stirred at r.t. for 1 hour before it was quenched with MeOH (0.5 mL) and water (5
mL). The reaction mixture was then extracted with DCM (3 mL X 3). The combined organic
layers were washed with brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated in vacuo to give (E)-N-(3
(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-bromobut-2-enamide                             (115)
(quant.) as a light yellow oil. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M/M+2) 557.4/559.4.
[00577] To a suspension of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-4-bromobut-2-enamide (115) (273 mg, 0.49 mmol) and K 2 C0                        3  (200 mg, 1.47 mmol)
in MeCN (5 mL) was added cyclopropanamine (56 mg, 0.98 mmol). The resulting mixture was
stirred at r.t. overnight. The solid suspension was filtered off, and the filtrate was concentrated
                                                           -  188 -

in vacuo. The residue was pre-purified by column chromatography (0 to 10% MeOH in DCM)
followed by preparative HPLC purification (RP C18, 10 to 950%acetonitrile in water (0.2%
NH 3 H2 0)) to give (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)
4-(cyclopropylamino)but-2-enamide (116) (29 mg, 3 step yield 11 %) as a white solid. LC-MS
(ESI): m/z (M+1) 534.4. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 10.25 (s, 1H), 8.34 - 8.21 (m, 1H),
8.10 (s, 1H), 8.00 (s, 1H), 7.66 (s, 1H), 7.53 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 2H), 7.46 - 7.40 (m, 3H), 7.30 (s,
1H), 7.22 - 7.11 (m, 5H), 6.88 - 6.75 (m, 1H), 6.24 (d, J= 15.4 Hz, 1H), 5.82 (s, 2H), 3.36 (d, J
=  4.2 Hz, 2H), 2.13 - 2.02 (m, 1H), 0.41 - 0.30 (m, 2H), 0.28 - 0.16 (m, 2H).
Example 35: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropylamino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide                      (118)
                     OPh                          OPh                                  Ph
                              0
             NH2   -             l- Br    NH2                                  NH2
                                                                      NH 2         N
                           CI                 N
               - N                         -                  N                  N
                                114                                K2O
                         N      DCM                     N\      Br             N               N
                     6   NH                    -.      N _b                               N
                32                                117                              118
[00578] In a similar manner as described in Example 34, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-bromo-N-methylbut-2-enamide                      (117) (100 mg,
62%) was prepared as a white solid starting from 6-amino-9-(3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (32) (120 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M/M+2) 571.4/573.4.
[00579] In a similar manner as described in Example 34, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropylamino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide
(118) (32 mg, 34%) was prepared as a white solid starting from (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-bromo-N-methylbut-2-enamide                      (117) (100 mg).
LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 540.2.          1H  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.11 (s, 1H), 7.66 (d, J= 7.9
Hz, 1H), 7.62 - 7.56 (m, 2H), 7.49 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 2H), 7.43 (t, J= 7.9 Hz, 2H), 7.34 (d, J= 8.6
Hz, 1H), 7.18 - 7.12 (m, 5H), 6.78 - 6.70 (m, 1H), 6.03 (d, J= 15.3 Hz, 1H), 5.87 (s, 2H), 3.28
(s, 3H), 3.25 - 3.17 (m, 3H),2.01 - 1.86 (m, 1H), 0.25 - 0.19 (m, 2H), 0.13 - 0.04 (m, 2H).
                                                      -  189-

Example 36: Synthesis of (S,E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-N-methyl-4-(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)amino)but-2-enamide                                          (123)
                      0                            -C
                      O        BHCI                                                           HCHO
                                          K2003, MeCN            0       /       NH      NaBH(OAc) 3, DCM 0  /   N
                                                                        119                                 120
                                                 00
                 1) UOH     -H20     0               (s)       (COI)2              CI
                    2) HCI                12                  DCM, DMF               1
                                         121                                           122
                               OPh                                                  Ph
                    NH2                                   (S)         NH2
                           N           CI        1 2Z    N2                 N
                                      __     __     __   __        '          >=o
                                                122                  710S)
                    N              N             DCM                  N                          N
                              -NH                                            -..       N
                           32                                                 123
[00580] To a suspension of (S)-tetrahydrofuran-3-amine hydrochloride (500 mg, 4 mmol) and
K 2 C0  3 (830 mg, 6 mmol) in MeCN (10 mL) were added (E)-methyl 4-bromobut-2-enoate (663
mg, 3.9 mmol). The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hrs. The solid was filtered
off, and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by column
chromatographic (silica gel, 0 to 50% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether) to give (SE)-methyl 4
(tetrahydrofuran-3-ylamino)but-2-enoate (119) (500 mg, 69%) as light yellow oil. LC-MS
(ESI): m/z (M +1) 186.1
[00581] To a solution of (SE)-methyl 4-(tetrahydrofuran-3 -ylamino)but-2-enoate (119) (400
mg, 2.16 mmol) and HCHO (38%, 854 mg, 10.8 mmol) in DCM (8 mL) was added
NaBH(OAc) 3 (1.37 g, 6.48 mmol). The resulting mixture was stirred at r.t. for 1 hr before
quenched with water (0.5 mL). The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was purified
by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 50% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether) to give (SE)
methyl 4-(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)amino)but-2-enoate (120) (350 mg, 810%) as light yellow
oil. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M +1) 200.1.
[00582] To a stirred solution of (SE)-methyl 4-(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)amino)but-2
enoate (120) (350 mg, 1.76 mmol) in THF (3 mL) was added a solution of lithium hydroxide
monohydrate (148 mg, 3.51 mmol) in water (2 mL) dropwise. The resulting mixture was stirred
at r.t. for 1 h and subsequently was acidified with con. HCl to pH~1. The solvent was directly
removed in vacuo to give crude (SE)-4-(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)amino)but-2-enoic acid
(121) (quant.) mixed with LiCl salt. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M +1) 186.1.
[00583] In a similar manner as described in Example 34, (S,E)-4-(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3
yl)amino)but-2-enoyl chloride (122) (quant.) was prepared as a yellow solid starting from (SE)
                                                                      -   190    -

4-(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)amino)but-2-enoic acid (121) (55 mg).
[00584] In a similar manner as described in Example 34, (S,E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-N-methyl-4-(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3
yl)amino)but-2-enamide (123) (22 mg, 15%) was prepared as a white solid starting from 6
amino-9-(3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one                             (32) (100 mg).
LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 592.3.            1H   NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.12 (s, 1H), 7.76 - 7.54 (m,
3H), 7.54 - 7.30 (m, 5H), 7.25 - 7.06 (m, 5H), 6.71 - 6.60 (m, 1H), 6.12 - 5.98 (m, 1H), 5.87
(br, 2H), 3.75 - 3.64 (m, 1H), 3.61 - 3.55 (m, 1H), 3.54 - 3.46 (m, 1H), 3.42 - 3.33 (m, 1H),
3.28 (s, 3H), 3.11 - 2.90 (m, 3H), 2.01 (s, 3H), 1.90 - 1.73 (m, 1H), 1.70 - 1.54 (m, 1H).
Example 37: Synthesis of (R,E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin
9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-N-methyl-4-(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)amino)but-2-enamide                                (129)
                          0       qR)NH2                          07
                                          TsOH           0                      HCHO         0
                 SK2CO3,                 MeCN         0             NH     NaBH(OAc)3, DCM O
                                                      00    124                                125
              1) UOHH20         0         NR)       (COC )2
                 2 ) H CI          126             DCM , DM F          1   27
                                  126                                    127
                            OPh                                       Ph
                 NH2                            R)         NH2
                        0               -1    N,                N              9)
                         N         CI 127                       N
                 N                     DCM                               N        N
                         32                                       129
[00585] In a similar manner as described in Example 36, (R,E)-methyl 4-(tetrahydrofuran-3
ylamino)but-2-enoate (124) (330 mg, 68%) was prepared as a white solid starting from (E)
methyl 4-bromobut-2-enoate (466 mg) and (R)-tetrahydrofuran-3-amine 4
methylbenzenesulfonate (676 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M +1) 186.1.
[00586] In a similar manner as described in Example 36, (RE)-methyl 4
(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)amino)but-2-enoate (125) (320 mg, 100%) was prepared as a light
yellow oil starting from (RE)-methyl 4-(tetrahydrofuran-3-ylamino)but-2-enoate                         (124) (300
mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M +1) 200.1.
[00587] In a similar manner as described in Example 36, (RE)-4-(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3
yl)amino)but-2-enoic acid (126) (quant.) was prepared as a light yellow oil starting from (RE)
methyl 4-(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)amino)but-2-enoate (125) (320 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z
(M +1) 186.1.
[00588] In a similar manner as described in Example 34, (R,E)-4-(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3
                                                           -  191  -

yl)amino)but-2-enoyl chloride (127) (quant.) was prepared as a yellow solid starting from (RE)
4-(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)amino)but-2-enoic acid (126) (55 mg).
[00589] In a similar manner as described in Example 34, (R,E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-N-methyl-4-(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3
yl)amino)but-2-enamide (129) (40 mg, 28%) was prepared as a white solid starting from 6
amino-9-(3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one                              (32) (100 mg).
LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 592.2.                 1H  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.14 (s, 1H), 7.74 - 7.59 (m,
3H), 7.50 - 7.37 (m, 5H), 7.21 - 7.14 (m, 4H), 6.70 - 6.60 (m, 1H), 6.42 - 6.22 (m, 1H), 5.92
(br, 2H), 4.02 - 3.75 (m, 5H), 3.67 - 3.44 (m, 2H), 3.31 (s, 3H), 2.60 (s, 3H), 2.22 - 1.94 (m,
2H).
Example 38: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-4-((2-methoxyethyl)(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide                                (134)
                                                                        O0                              O
                                               0
                                 Br   H2 N-"- o'                                  HHO
                                      K2CO3, MeCN      O             NH      NaBH(OAc)3, DCM O
                                                            130                                131
               1) LiOHH 20                           (COC1)2            0
                  2)HCI         HO                 DCM, DMF
                                     132                                  133
                              OPh                                    OPh
                  NH2      -                               NH  2
                        N           CI                  N13       N
                               >==o        ~133          IJC>=
                  N     N                  DCM
                                                           N&             0        N
                       N     -NH           DCMN
                        32                                          134
[00590] In a similar manner as described in Example 36, (E)-methyl 4-(2
methoxyethylamino)but-2-enoate (130) (800 mg, 82%) was prepared as a light yellow oil
starting from (E)-methyl 4-bromobut-2-enoate (1 g) and 2-methoxyethanamine (504 mg). LC
MS (ESI): m/z (M +1) 174.1.
[00591] In a similar manner as described in Example 36, (E)-methyl 4-(2
methoxyethyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enoate (131) (330 mg, 72%) was prepared as a light yellow
oil starting from (E)-methyl 4-(2-methoxyethylamino)but-2-enoate (130) (500 mg). LC-MS
(ESI): m/z (M +1) 188.1.
[00592] In a similar manner as described in Example 36, (E)-4-((2
methoxyethyl)(methyl)amino)but-2-enoic acid (132) (quant.) was prepared as a white solid
starting from (E)-methyl 4-(2-methoxyethyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enoate (131) (330 mg). LC
                                                             -   192  -

MS (ESI): m/z (M +1) 172.2.
[00593] In a similar manner as described in Example 34, (E)-4-((2
methoxyethyl)(methyl)amino)but-2-enoy chloride (133) (quant.) was prepared as a yellow solid
starting from (E)-4-((2-methoxyethyl)(methyl)amino)but-2-enoic acid (132) (133 mg).
[00594] In a similar manner as described in Example 34, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-((2-methoxyethyl)(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut
2-enamide (134) (32 mg, 23%) was prepared as a white solid starting from 6-amino-9-(3
(methylamino)phenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (32) (100 mg). LC-MS (ESI):
m/z (M+1) 580.2.   1H  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 9.74 (s, 1H), 8.14 (s, 1H), 7.85 - 7.59 (m,
3H), 7.51 - 7.37 (m, 4H), 7.23 - 7.10 (m, 4H), 6.66 (dd, J= 14.8, 7.1 Hz, 1H), 6.36 - 6.22 (m,
1H), 5.93 (br, 2H), 3.95 - 3.70 (m, 2H), 3.64 - 3.44 (m, 2H), 3.31 (s, 3H), 3.27 - 3.02 (m, 5H),
2.66 (s, 3H).
Example 39: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenyl)-4-(dimethylamino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide
(147)
                                              - 193 -

                   NO2             OH        NO2                    PMBNH2                                          TFA
                           NaH    THF                -            DMSO, 180 0C     PMBsN             O
             F          F               F 1                       MW                      H
                                           135                                                   136
                    N02                                             NO2                                  N02
                                      (Boc)20, DMAP                                       NaHl
                                                         BocjNj           O-O-            Mel    BocN                    O
           H2N           O             THF, 50-60C
                   137                                               138                                 139
                                                                          NBn2                               NBn2
                                                    NBn2 N02                   N02                                  N H2
                              NH2                          1              N    NH                            N      NH
              H2               NN                         CI                                 Fe/NH4CI
            Pd/C     Boc,               N    O  Et3N, dioxane
                                             0-O~~N.~              O             ~N       B
                                                                                         Boc
                                                                                                       O
                                                                                                                '.           .Boc
                               N,  060-70                OC               0                                  0            N'
                            140                                              141                               142
                        Bn N Bn                                NH2     N.                                      H
                                  NN.                       N        N                 ~.                   NH2
           triphosgene               O         Pd(OH)2               N    O         (HO)2 B                        N
                                           NoNBo                                     Cu(OAc)2, Py, DMF    1 N'     N
                                                                                       NN
                                         N                                                                                     ,Boc
                                                         0/-0~.~                                                             N'
                              143                                  144                                             145
                                         N 2                                   N
                           NH2                                      I            _    N>=
               TFA              N    O             CI                                                    N
               DCM         N                            DCM                                    N
                                         N
                             146                                                      147
[00595] To a stirred solution of 2-methoxyethanol (3.58 g, 47.2 mmol) in anhydrous DMF (50
mL) at 0 0C were added NaH (60%, 3.14 g, 78.6 mmol). The mixture was stirred at room
temperature for 10 min before 1,3-difluoro-5-nitrobenzene (452 mg, 2.4 mmol) was introduced.
After the resulting mixture was stirred at rt for 2 hr, the reaction was quenched with water (100
mL) and extracted with EA (50 mL X 3). Combined organic layers were washed with brine,
dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by column
chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 20% ethyl acetate in petroleum) to provide 1-fluoro-3-(2
methoxyethoxy)-5-nitrobenzene (135) (6.4 g, 95%) as yellow oil. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M +1)
216.1.
[00596] To a solution of 1-fluoro-3-(2-methoxyethoxy)-5-nitrobenzene (135) (1 g, 4.65 mmol)
and (4-methoxyphenyl)methanamine (3.18 g, 23.2 mmol) in DMSO (14 mL) was added K2 C0                                                3
(1.93 g, 13.95 mmol). The mixture was stirred under microwave at 180                                     0C   for 1 hr. After
cooled down to r. t., the reaction mixture was poured into water (100 mL) and extracted with EA
                                                                 - 194    -

( 30 mL X 3). Combined organic layers were washed with brine, dried over Na 2 SO3 and
concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 20
% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether) to give N-(4-methoxybenzyl)- 3-(2-methoxyethoxy)-5
nitroaniline (136) (530 mg, 35%) as red oil. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M +1) 333.2.
[00597] N-(4-Methoxybenzyl)-3-(2-methoxyethoxy)-5-nitroaniline (136) (3.6 g, 10.8 mmol)
was stirred in TFA (15 mL) at r.t. overnight. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue
was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 30% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether) to
give 3-(2-methoxyethoxy)-5-nitroaniline (137) (1.84 g, 80%) as a yellow oil. LC-MS (ESI): m/z
(M +1) 213.2.
[00598] To a solution of 3-(2-methoxyethoxy)-5-nitroaniline (137) (1.83 g, 8.63 mmol), Et 3 N
(2 mL) and (Boc) 2 0 (3.76 g, 17.26 mmol) in anhydrous THF (20 mL) was added DMAP (cat.).
The mixture was stirred at 65 0C under N2 overnight. After the reaction mixture was cool down
to r.t., the solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was purified by column
chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 20% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether) to afford tert-butyl 3-(2
methoxyethoxy)-5-nitrophenylcarbamate (138) (1.78 g, 66%). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M +1) 313.2.
[00599] In a similar manner as described in Example 32, tert-butyl 3-(2-methoxyethoxy)-5
nitrophenyl(methyl)carbamate (139) (1.25, 68%) was prepared as an orange oil starting from
tert-butyl 3-(2-methoxyethoxy)-5-nitrophenylcarbamate (138) (1.78 g).
[00600] tert-Butyl 3-(2-methoxyethoxy)-5-nitrophenyl(methyl)carbamate (139) (1.25 g, 3.8
mmol) and Pd/C ( 125 mg) was suspended in MeOH ( 50 mL). The reaction mixture was
stirred at r.t. under H2 atmosphere for 2 hrs. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was
concentrated in vacuo to give tert-butyl 3-amino-5-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenyl(methyl)carbamate
(140) (1.13 g, quant.) as a yellow oil. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M +1) 297.3.
[00601] In a similar manner as described in Example 32, tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5
nitropyrimidin-4-ylamino)-5-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenyl(methyl)carbamate         (141) (2.0 g, 85%)
was prepared as a yellow solid starting from tert-butyl 3-amino-5-(2
methoxyethoxy)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (140) (1.13 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 615.2.
[00602] In a similar manner as described in Example 32, tert-butyl 3-(5-amino-6
(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4-ylamino)-5-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenyl(methyl)carbamate            (142)
(1.35 g, 25%) was prepared as a yellow solid starting from tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5
nitropyrimidin-4-ylamino)-5-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenyl(methyl)carbamate         (141) (2.0 g). LC
MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 585.3.
[00603] In a similar manner as described in Example 32, tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo
7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (143) (1.3 g, 93%) was
prepared as a yellow solid starting from tert-butyl 3-(5-amino-6-(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4
                                               - 195 -

ylamino)-5-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (142) (1.35 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z
(M+1) 611.3.
[00604] In a similar manner as described in Example 32, tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin
9(8H)-yl)-5-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (144) (800 mg, 89%) was prepared as
a brown solid starting from tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-(2
methoxyethoxy)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (143) (1.3 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 431.3.
[00605] In a similar manner as described in Example 32, tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4
methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenyl(methyl)carbamate            (145)
(660 mg, 25%) was prepared as a light yellow solid starting from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo
7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenyl(methyl)carbamate         (144) (800 mg). LC-MS
(ESI): m/z (M+1) 551.3.
[00606] In a similar manner as described in Example 32, 6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4
methylphenyl)-9-(3-(2-methoxyethoxy)-5-(methylamino)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one            (146)
(quant.) was prepared as a white solid starting from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4
methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenyl(methyl)carbamate            (145)
(660 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 451.2.
[00607] In a similar manner as described in Example 32, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4
methylphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-(2-methoxyethoxy)phenyl)-4-(dimethylamino)-N
methylbut-2-enamide (147) (49 mg, 40%) was prepared as a white solid starting from 6-amino
7-(3-methoxy-4-methylphenyl)-9-(3-(2-methoxyethoxy)-5-(methylamino)phenyl)-7H-purin
8(9H)-one (146) (100 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 562.3.         1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6
8.11 (s, 1H), 7.36 - 7.26 (m, 2H), 7.20 (s, 1H), 7.11 (d, J= 1.8 Hz, 1H), 7.02 - 6.95 (m, 2H),
6.64 (dt, J= 15.2, 6.1 Hz, 1H), 6.05 (d, J= 15.1 Hz, 1H), 5.71 (s, 2H), 4.18 - 4.11 (m, 2H), 3.80
(s, 3H), 3.69 - 3.62 (m, 2H), 3.26 (s, 3H), 2.91 (d, J= 5.6 Hz, 2H), 2.21 (s, 3H), 2.04 (s, 6H).
Example 40: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(4-(3-fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide              (151)
                                               - 196 -

                       Br     F          B(OH)2                          Br   n-BuLi                     B(OH)2
             HO             Cu(OAc) 2, DCM            F      0               B(Oi-Pr)3     F    0
                                                          148                                    149
                                                                               F
                                                         F
                 NH2                                     F              0
                             NI                              NH2
                                 O    (HO0)2B                NH2
                 SN                           149              .1   N>=                  1)TFA
                          b     N       Cu(OAc) 2, PY        N      N              2   1       N
                                Boc     DMF, 4A MS/\/2)1                                     N
                    24            c                                         N            0
                                                                  150
                                        F
                               0
                     NH2
                            N     N 0             N
                           151
[00608] To a solution of 4-bromophenol (500 mg, 2.89 mmol), 3-fluorophenylboronic acid (809
mg, 5.78 mmol) and Et 3N (2 mL, 14.45 mmol) in DCM was added Cu(OAc) 2 (525 mg, 2.89
mmol) and molecular sieve (4A, 1 g). The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight
under 02 atmosphere. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The
residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 30% ethyl acetate in petroleum
ether) to give 1-(4-bromophenoxy)-3-fluorobenzene (148) (350 mg, 45%) as yellow solid.
[00609] To a solution of 1-(4-bromophenoxy)-3-fluorobenzene (148) (345 mg, 1.3 mmol) in
THF (10 mL) at -78 0C and under N 2 atmosphere was added n-BuLi (2.5 M, 0.7 mL, 1.7 mmol)
dropwise. The mixture was stirred at -78 0C for 20 min before triisopropyl borate (0.35 mL) was
added. The mixture was allowed warm to room temperature and stirred for 3 hrs. The reaction
was quenched with HCl (IN) and extracted with EA (5 mL X 3). Combined organic layer was
washed with brine and dried over Na 2 SO 4 . The solvent was removed in vacuo to give 4-(3
fluorophenoxy) phenylboronic acid (149) (150 mg, 50%) as white solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M
1) 231.1.
[00610] In a similar manner as described in Example 1, tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(4-(3
fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate                                (150) (80 mg, 43%)
was prepared as a yellow solid starting from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (24) (525 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 543.3.
                                                           -  197     -

[00611] In a similar manner as described in Example 1, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(4-(3
fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N
methylbut-2-enamide (151) (26 mg, 33%) was prepared as a white solid starting from tert-butyl
3-(6-amino-7-(4-(3-fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate
(150) (80 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 543.3. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.12 (s, 1H),
7.71 - 7.56 (m, 3H), 7.51 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 2H), 7.44 (dd, J= 15.3, 8.1 Hz, 1H), 7.34 (d, J= 8.0
Hz, 1H), 7.23 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 2H), 7.08 - 6.95 (m, 3H), 6.75 - 6.60 (m, 1H), 6.09 - 5.87 (m, 3H),
3.30 (s, 3H), 3.12 (d, J= 5.6 Hz, 2H), 2.12 (s, 3H), 1.68 - 1.51 (m, 1H), 0.36 - 0.28 (m, 2H),
0.25 - 0.13 (m, 2H).
Example 41: Synthesis of (E)-6-amino-9-(4-(4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enoyl)-3,4
dihydro-2H-benzo [b] [1,4] oxazin-6-yl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one                                            (161)
                     N2                             N02                          N02                          NH2
                                 Br       Br                     Boc:O                        Fe, NH4CI
                          NH2       K2CO3                NH     Py, DMAP              NBoc                         NBoc
                     OH              DMF           O               DCM           O                           O
                                                   152                           153                         154
                     N~2          NBn2                              NBn 2 N2N                            Bn2H
                                                                                                              N
                                                                          NH2
              N        NO2             NO2
                                  N    NH            Fe/NH4C        N     NH            triphosgen      N    N
                                                NBoc                               NBoc     DCM                      NBoc
              Et3N, dioxane
                                      155                                 156                                157
                                                                                                   OPh
                                     NH2                                      OPh
                                           H                                   O          NH2
                                  N              CNN
                 H2, Pd(OH)2/C       N        =              (H0)2 B                  riijj:   I\o              TEA
                   MeOH, HOI                                    Cu(OAc)2, PYN                  NDC
                                                 \    0~C        DMF, 4A MS                     \/N
                                                                                                    0j
                                          158                    199
                              OPh                                             OPh
                                                NH                                 N
                   NH2      -0
                                           16
                                                       7           NH2       161
                          N                     DCM0/
                                       160
                                      160                                  161
[006121 To a solution of 2-amino-4-nitrophenol (5.0 g, 32.5 mmol) in anhydrous DMF (100 mL)
was added K 2 C0 3 (13.4 g, 97 mmol) and 1,2-dibromoethane (3.3 mL, 39 mmol). The resulting
mixture was stirred at 125 'C under N2 overnight. After cooling down to r.t., the reaction
mixture was concentrated, diluted with water (100 mL), and extracted with EtOAc (5 0 mL X 3).
                                                              -  198    -

The combined organic layer was washed with water and brine, dried over Na 2 SO4 , and
concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 30% ethyl
acetate in petroleum ether) to give 6-nitro-3,4-dihydro-2H-benzo[b][1,4]oxazine(152) (2.0 g,
34%) as a yellow solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 181.2.
[00613] A solution of 6-nitro-3,4-dihydro-2H-benzo[b][1,4]oxazine (152) (2.0 g, 11.1 mmol) in
anhydrous DCM (50 mL) was treated with Boc 2 0 (6.2g, 28.4 mmol), pyridine (3.6 mL, 45
mmol), and catalytic DMAP (40 mg). The mixture was stirred at r.t. overnight and then diluted
with water (100 mL), extracted with EtOAc (50 mL X 3). The combined organic layer was
washed with 10% citric acid solution and brine, dried over Na 2 SO4 , and concentrated. The
residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 20% ethyl acetate in petroleum
ether) to give tert-butyl 6-nitro-2H-benzo[b][1,4]oxazine-4(3H)-carboxylate (153) (1.0 g, 32%)
as a yellow solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 281.1.
[00614] To a solution of tert-butyl 6-nitro-2H-benzo[b][1,4]oxazine-4(3H)-carboxylate (153)
(1.0 g, 3.6 mmol) in THF/MeOH/H 20 (24 mL/12 mL/6 mL) was added iron powder (2.0 g, 36
mmol) and NH 4 Cl (3.9 g, 72 mmol). The resulting suspension was heated at 50 0C for 5 hrs
under N2 . After cooled down to r.t., the reaction mixture was filtered through a pad of Celite.
The filtrate was extracted with EtOAc (50 mL X 3), washed with water and brine, dried over
Na2 SO4 , and concentrated in vacuo to give tert-butyl 6-amino-2H-benzo[b][1,4]oxazine-4(3H)
carboxylate (154) (0.8 g, 89%) as a brown oil. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 251.1.
[00615] To a solution of tert-butyl 6-amino-2H-benzo[b][1,4]oxazine-4(3H)-carboxylate (154)
(0.8 g, 3.2 mmol) and TEA (0.9 mL, 6.4 mmol) in dioxane (20 mL) was added NN-dibenzyl-6
chloro-5-nitropyrimidin-4-amine (1) (1.13 g, 3.2 mmol). The reaction mixture was heated at 70
0C  overnight under N2 , before water (100 mL) was introduced. The resulting mixture was
extracted with EtOAc (50 mL x 3), the combined organic layer was washed with brine, dried
over Na2 SO4 , and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by column chromatography
(silica gel, 0 to 20% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether) to give tert-butyl 6-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5
nitropyrimidin-4-ylamino)-2H-benzo[b][1,4]oxazine-4(3H)-carboxylate         (155) (1.8 g, 99 %) as a
brown oil. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 569.1.
[00616] To a solution of tert-butyl 6-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5-nitropyrimidin-4-ylamino)-2H-benzo
[b][1,4]oxazine-4(3H)-carboxylate (155) (1.8 g, 3.2 mmol) in THF/EtOH/H 20 (24 mL/12 mL/6
mL) was added Fe powder (1.77 g, 32 mmol) and NH 4 Cl (3.46 g, 64 mmol). The resulting
suspension was heated at 50 0C for 5 hrs under N2 . After cooled down to r.t., the reaction
mixture was filtered through a pad of Celite. The filtrate was extracted with EtOAc (50 mL X
3), washed with water and brine, dried over Na2 SO4, and concentrated in vacuo to afford tert
butyl 6-(5-amino-6-(dibenzylamino) pyrimidin-4-ylamino)-2H-benzo[b][1,4]oxazine-4(3H)
                                               - 199 -

carboxylate (156) (1.7 g, quant.) as a brown oil. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 539.0.
[00617] To a stirred solution of tert-butyl 6-(5-amino-6-(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4-ylamino)
2H-benzo[b][1,4]oxazine-4(3H)-carboxylate(156) (1.7 g, 3.2 mmol) and TEA (0.9 mL, 6.4
mmol) in anhydrous DCM (50 mL) at 0 0C and under N 2 atmosphere was added a solution of
triphosgene (475 mg, 1.6 mmol) in anhydrous DCM (10 mL) over 1 hr. The stirring was
continued for 1 hr before the reaction was quenched with water (100 mL). The layers was
separated, the organic layer was washed with water and brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , and
concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to
30% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether) to give tert-butyl 6-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo-7H-purin
9(8H)-yl)-2H-benzo[b][1,4]oxazine-4(3H)-carboxylate (157) (1.5 g, 85 %) as a brown solid.
LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 565.2.
[00618] To a mixture of tert-butyl 6-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2H
benzo[b][1,4]oxazine-4(3H)-carboxylate (157) (0.8 g, 1.4 mmol) in MeOH (30 mL) was added
Pd(OH) 2 /C (800 mg, 20 wt%) and 3 drops of con. HCl. The resulting mixture was purged with
H 2 (2 X) before heated to 60 0C overnight under H 2 atmosphere. The reaction mixture was
cooled down to r.t., filtered through a Celite pad, and the filtrate was concentrated down in
vacuo to give tert-butyl 6-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2H-benzo[b][1,4]oxazine-4(3H)
carboxylate (158) (0.5 g, 92%) as a yellow solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 385.0.
[00619] To a mixture of tert-butyl 6-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2H
benzo[b][1,4]oxazine-4(3H)-carboxylate (158) (0.5 g, 1.3 mmol) and 4A MS (300 mg) in dry
DMF (20 mL) were added 4-phenoxyphenylboronic acid (836 mg, 3.9 mmol), Cu(OAc) 2 (237
mg, 1.3 mmol) and pyridine (0.6 mL, 7.8 mmol). The reaction mixture was heated at 37 0 C
overnight under  02  atmosphere, filtered through a Celite pad. The filtrate was diluted with
water (80 mL), extracted with EtOAc (30 mL X 3). The combined organic layer was washed
with water and brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , and concentrated. The residue was purified by column
chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 5% methanol in methylene chloride) to give tert-butyl 6-(6
amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2H-benzo [b] [1,4]oxazine-4(3H)
carboxylate (159) (663 mg, 92%) as a brown oil. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 553.2.
[00620] To a solution of tert-butyl 6-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)
2H-benzo[b][1,4]oxazine-4(3H)-carboxylate (159) (663 mg, 1.2 mmol) in DCM (4 mL) was
added TFA (1 mL) dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 1 hr before concentrated.
The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 5 % methanol in methylene
chloride (0.3% Et 3N)) to give 6-amino-9-(3,4-dihydro-2H-benzo[b][1,4]oxazin-6-yl)-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (160) (424 mg, 78%) as a brown oil. LC-MS (ESI): m/z
(M+1) 453.1.
                                                - 200 -

[00621] To a suspension of (E)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enoic acid hydrochloride
salt (169 mg, 0.88 mmol) in anhydrous acetonitrile (5 mL) was added 1 drop of DMF before
introducing (COCl) 2 (1.0 mL, 10.6 mmol). The resulting mixture was stirred at room
temperature for 1 hr. The solvents were evaporated. The freshly generated acid chloride was
dissolved in dry DCM (2 mL) and introduced to the solution of 6-amino-9-(3,4-dihydro-2H
benzo[b][1,4]oxazin-6-yl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one        (160) (200 mg, 0.44
mmol) in DCM (5 mL). Resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hr before
quenched with MeOH (2 mL). Solvent was removed and the residue was pre-purified by
column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 10% methanol in methylene chloride (0.3% Et 3N))
followed by preparative HPLC (RP, Cl 8, 10 to 95% acetonitrile in water (0.2% NH 3 'H2 0)) to
give (E)-6-amino-9-(4-(4-(cyclopropyl(methyl) amino)but-2-enoyl)-3,4-dihydro-2H
benzo[b][1,4]oxazin-6-yl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one        (161) (19 mg, 7%) as a
white solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 590.1. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 9.60 (s, 1H), 8.13
(s, 1H), 7.52 - 7.40 (m, 4H), 7.40 - 7.34 (m, 1H), 7.23 - 7.11 (m, 5H), 7.08 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 1H),
7.02 - 6.88 (m, 1H), 6.82 - 6.66 (m, 1H), 5.86 (s, 2H), 4.36 (t, 2H), 4.09 - 3.89 (m, 4H), 2.88
2.63 (m, 4H), 0.93 - 0.58 (m, 4H).
Example 42: Synthesis of (E)-N-(5-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)-2-methoxyphenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide             (171)
                                              -201-

                   NO2                            O02                              02                          NH2
                                 Boc2O ,NaH,                       THF_                        Fe, NH4 CI ,
                          NH2     EtOH                NHBoc      CH31                   N                           N
                  OMe                           OMe                               OMe Boc                     OMe Boc
                                               162                               163                          164
                       N~2          NBn2                              NBn2 NHNBn2H
                                                                         N      H2                               N
               NNO                           2
                  NN CI             N     NH            Fe/NH4CI      N      NH             triphosgen      N    N
                  N      C1
                                           \/NBoc                           O/NBoc              DCM                   NBoc
               Et3N, d ioxane
                                       165      OMe                      166        OMe                        167
                                                                                                    OPh
                                     P     H                                    OPh       NH2
                    H2,Pd(OH2 NNO                             HO2BNHO                                            TF
                                            CI                                    O              N
                                                                                          N      NDCOM
                        ae,   60H m              The reaco                    r        s sf
                                                \/NBoc           DMF, 4A MS                      \/N
                                                 OMee
                                        168                                                   169    OMe
                                 Ph                                              OPh
                   NH2                          0        7           NH2
                     A(N~                                                   N
                   N :X=                       1DOM                  N      N         0/
                                    NH                                                N\
                                OMe                                                OMe
                         170                                             171
[00622] To a solution of 2-methoxy-5-nitroaniline (5.0 g, 30 mmol) in EtOH (50 mL) was added
Boc anhydride (13 g, 60 mmol). The reaction mixture was stirred at r.t. for 24 h under N 2
atmosphere. The solvents were removed in vacuo. The residue was washed with petroleum
ether, dried under vacuum to give tert-butyl 2-methoxy-5-nitrophenylcarbamate (162) (6.0 g,
75o)   as a yellow solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 269.0.
[00623] To a suspension of NaH (6000 dispersion in mineral oil, 1.3 g, 33 mmol) in dry THF (40
mL) at oC
        0     was added a solution of tert-butyl 2-methoxy-5-nitrophenylcarbamate (162) (6.0 g,
22 mmol) in TH-F (40 mL). The mixture was stirred at 0 C for 0.5 hour before CH3 (2.5 mL,
37 mmol) was added dropwise. Stirring was continued at room temperature overnight, then
concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was diluted with water (200 mL), extracted
with EtOAc (80 mL X 3). The combined organic layer was washed with water and brine, dried
over Na2 SO 4 , and concentrated in vacuo to afford tert-butyl 2-methoxy-5
nitrophenyl(methyl)carbamate (163) (6.3 g, quant.) as a brown solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1)
283.2.
[006241 In a similar manner as described in Example 4 1, tert-butyl 5 -amino-2
methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate (164) (5.6 g, 1000%) was prepared as a brown solid starting
                                                                 - 202    -

from tert-butyl 2-methoxy-5-nitrophenyl(methyl)carbamate (163) (6.3 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z
(M+1) 253.1.
[00625] In a similar manner as described in Example 41, tert-butyl 5-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5
nitropyrimidin-4-ylamino)-2-methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate       (165) (8.0 g, 63%) was prepared
as a brown oil starting from tert-butyl 5-amino-2-methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate (164) (5.6
g) and NN-dibenzyl-6-chloro-5-nitropyrimidin-4-amine (1) (7.8 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1)
571.2.
[00626] In a similar manner as described in Example 41, tert-butyl 5-(5-amino-6
(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4-ylamino)-2-methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate          (166) (6.9 g, 91%)
was prepared as a brown solid starting from tert-butyl 5-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5-nitropyrimidin-4
ylamino)-2-methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate (165) (8.0 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 541.1.
[00627] In a similar manner as described in Example 41, tert-butyl 5-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo
7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2-methoxyphenyl(methyl) carbamate (167) (6.0 g, 83%) was prepared as a
brown oil starting from tert-butyl 5-(5-amino-6-(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4-ylamino)-2
methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate (166) (6.9 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 567.0.
[00628] In a similar manner as described in Example 41, tert-butyl 5-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin
9(8H)-yl)-2-methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate (168) (0.5 g, 92%) was prepared as a brown solid
starting from tert-butyl 5-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2
methoxyphenyl(methyl) carbamate (167) (0.8 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 387.2.
[00629] In a similar manner as described in Example 41, tert-butyl 5-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2-methoxyphenyl(methy)carbamate           (169) (300 mg, 42%)
was prepared as a brown oil starting from tert-butyl 5-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2
methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate (168) (500 mg) and 4-phenoxyphenylboronic acid (832 mg).
LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 555.1.
[00630] In a similar manner as described in Example 41, 6-amino-9-(4-methoxy-3
(methylamino)phenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (170) (217 mg, 100%) was
prepared as a brown oil starting from tert-butyl 5-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)-2-methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate (169) (265 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1)
455.1.
[00631] In a similar manner as described in Example 41, (E)-N-(5-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2-methoxyphenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N
methylbut-2-enamide (171) (34 mg, 26%) was prepared as a white solid starting from 6-amino
9-(4-methoxy-3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one           (170) (100
mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 592.1.       1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.11 (s, 1H), 7.73 - 7.63
(m, 1H), 7.58 (s, 1H), 7.49 - 7.40 (m, 4H), 7.34 (d, J= 9.0 Hz, 1H), 7.22 - 7.11 (m, 5H), 6.71
                                              - 203 -

6.59(m, 1H), 6.14 (d, J= 14.9 Hz, 1H), 5.88 (s, 2H), 3.98 - 3.88 (m, 2H), 3.86 (s, 3H), 3.16 (s,
3H), 2.78 - 2.65 (m, 4H), 0.87 - 0.67 (m, 4H).
Example 43: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)-4-methoxyphenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide (181)
                     NO2                           N02                               N0 2                         NH2
             /O                Boc2O                            NaH, THF                         Fe, NH4C
                          NH2   EtOH                     NHBoc      CH 31                   No                        Nc
                                                                                            Boc                       Boc
                                                 172                                173                          174
                      N~2        NBn 2                                NBfl2                               N Bf2H
                  N       2            NH2                                  NH2
                                                                      N     NH2
                                                                            NOH                                N
                                 N     NH              Fe/NH4CI       N     NH            triphosgene     N     N
                  N
              Et3N, dioxane        O             NBoc                  O            NBoc      DCM           O          NBoc
                                     175                                    176                      Ph         177
                                        H                                     OPh       NH 2
                                        N               ~    (HOjl    NN                       N                  A
              H 2 ,Pd(OH)2C       N     N                    (HO)2 B                                OTA
                MeOH, HCI                              o       CU(OAC)2,                N      NN          o   DCM
                                          /\/NBoc               DME, 4A MS                0        /No
                                       178                                                     179
                               Ph                                               OPh
                    NH2                                              NH2
                          N)=O            C I Y_   _      7N                Nc>=
                    N
                                                 DCM
                                                                     N              O\
                          180                                                 181
[00632] In a similar manner as described in Example 42, tert-butyl 4-methoxy-3
nitrophenylcarbamate (172) (3.2 g, 100%) was prepared as a yellow solid starting from 4
methoxy-3-nitroaniline (2.0 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 269.1.
[00633] In a similar manner as described in Example 42, tert-butyl 4-methoxy-3
nitrophenyl(methyl)carbamate (173) (3.4 g, 100%) was prepared as a brown solid starting from
tert-butyl 4-methoxy-3-nitrophenylcarbamate (172) (3.2 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 283.2.
[00634] In a similar manner as described in Example 41, tert-butyl 3-amino-4
methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate (174) (3.0 g, 100%) was prepared as a brown solid starting
from tert-butyl 4-methoxy-3-nitrophenyl(methyl)carbamate (173) (3.4 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z
(M+1) 253.0.
[00635] In a similar manner as described in Example 41, tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5
nitropyrimidin-4-ylamino)-4-methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate                                      (175) (6.8 g, 98%) was prepared
as a brown oil starting from tert-butyl 3-amino-4-methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate (174) (3.0
g) and NN-dibenzyl-6-chloro-5-nitropyrimidin-4-amine (1) (4.25 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1)
                                                                -  204    -

571.0.
[00636] In a similar manner as described in Example 41, tert-butyl 3-(5-amino-6
(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4-ylamino)-4-methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate           (176) (6.1 g, 94%)
was prepared as a brown solid starting from tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5-nitropyrimidin-4
ylamino)-4-methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate (175) (6.8 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 541.1.
[00637] In a similar manner as described in Example 41, tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo
7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-4-methoxyphenyl(methyl) carbamate (177) (5.4 g, 85%) was prepared as a
brown oil starting from tert-butyl 3-(5-amino-6-(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4-ylamino)-4
methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate (176) (6.1 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 567.1.
[00638] In a similar manner as described in Example 41, tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin
9(8H)-yl)-4-methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate (178) (0.9 g, 100%) was prepared as a yellow
solid starting from tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-4
methoxyphenyl(methyl) carbamate (177) (1.3 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 387.2.
[00639] In a similar manner as described in Example 41, tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-4-methoxyphenyl(methy)carbamate            (179) (440 mg, 34%)
was prepared as a brown oil starting from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-4
methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate (178) (902 mg) and 4-phenoxyphenylboronic acid (1.5 g).
LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 555.1.
[00640] In a similar manner as described in Example 41, 6-amino-9-(2-methoxy-5
(methylamino)phenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (180) (360 mg, 100%) was
prepared as a brown oil starting from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)-4-methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate (179) (440 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1)
455.1.
[00641] In a similar manner as described in Example 41, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-4-methoxyphenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N
methylbut-2-enamide (181) (35 mg, 12%) was prepared as a white solid starting from 6-amino
9-(2-methoxy-5-(methylamino)phenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one            (180) (230
mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 592.1.        1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.32 (HCOOH), 8.03 (s,
1H), 7.52 - 7.24 (m, 6H), 7.22 - 7.09 (m, 6H), 6.72 - 6.58 (m, 1H), 6.02 - 5.88 (m, 1H), 5.86 (s,
2H), 3.78 (s, 3H), 3.22 (s, 3H), 3.10 (d, J= 6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.12 (s, 3H), 1.67 - 1.54 (m, 1H), 0.37
- 0.30 (m, 2H), 0.26 - 0.17 (m, 2H).
                                               - 205 -

Example 44: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)-4-methylphenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide                                                 (191)
                   N02                           N02                             N02                         NH2
                               Boc2O         -6               NaH, THF        j              Fe, NkCI
                        NH2     THF                  NHBoc       CH31                  N                           N c
                                                                                       Boc                         Boc
                                                182                             183                         184
                                   NBn2                               NBn2                               NBn2
                 NBn2                                                       N2H
                                                                            NH2N                                N
              N         NNO                 2
                                   N     NH            Fe/NH4CI       N     NH             triphosgene   N     N
                 N     CI--                                                           /           --                     /
                                                  NBoc                               NBoc      DCM                      NBoc
              Et3N,dioxane             -
                                       185                                  186                                187
                                                                                                      Ph
                                         H                                   OPh         NH2 N
             H2, Pd(OH)2/C         N     N                  (HO)2B                                   O        TFA
                                                                                        N
                                                                                      kDOM=     N
               MeOH, HCI                                       Cu(OAc)2, Py S               NN                DCM
                                              \/NBoc            DME,4AMS                        \/No
                                        188                                                     189
                              OPh                                                Ph
                  NH2      -7                                        NH2                     <\
                     N N-                                N         N~
                        SNO               CI                              N     O                N
                   N              NHNDCMN                                           O
                                  NH                                    -b          N
                            -b
                         190                                                191
[00642] To a solution of 4-methyl-3-nitroaniline (5.0 g, 33 mmol) in THF (50 mL) was added
Boc anhydride (12 g, 55 mmol). The reaction mixture was refluxed overnight under N 2
atmosphere. The solvents were removed in vacuo. The residue was partitioned between with
water (100 mL) and DCM (150 mL). The layers were separated. The organic layer was washed
with 10% citric acid solution and brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , and concentrated in vacuo to afford
tert-butyl 4-methyl-3-nitrophenylcarbamate (182) (8.3 g, quant.) as a brown solid. LC-MS
(ESI): m/z (M+1) 253.2.
[00643] To a suspension of NaH (60% dispersion in mineral oil, 1.98 g, 49.5 mmol) in dry THF
(40 mL) at 0 0C was added a solution of tert-butyl 4-methyl-3-nitrophenylcarbamate (182) (8.3
g, 33 mmol) in THF (40 mL). The resulting mixture was stirred at 0 0C for 0.5 hour before CH 3I
(3.0 mL, 50 mmol) was introduced dropwise. Stirring was continued at room temperature
overnight before the reaction was quenched with water (10 mL). The mixture was concentrated
under reduced pressure. The residue was treated with water (200 mL), and the crude product
was extracted with EtOAc (80 mL X 3). The combined organic layer was washed with water
and brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by column
                                                                 -  206   -

chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 30% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether) to give tert-butyl
methyl(4-methyl-3-nitrophenyl)carbamate (183) (6.7 g, 77%) as a brown solid. LC-MS (ESI):
m/z (M+1) 267.2.
[00644] To a solution of tert-butyl methyl(4-methyl-3-nitrophenyl)carbamate (183) (3.0 g, 11.3
mmol) in THF/MeOH/H 20 (24 mL/12 mL/6 mL) was added iron powder (6.3 g, 113 mmol) and
NH 4 Cl (12.2 g, 226 mmol). The resulting mixture was heated at 50 0 C for 5 hrs under N 2 . After
cooled down to r.t., the reaction mixture was filtered through a pad of Celite. The filtrate was
extracted with EtOAc (60 mL X 3), and the combined organic extract was washed with water
and brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4, and concentrated in vacuo to give tert-butyl 3-amino-4
methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (184) (2.0 g, 75%) as a brown solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1)
237.1.
[00645] To a solution of tert-butyl 3-amino-4-methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (184) (2.0 g, 8.5
mmol) and TEA (2.3 mL, 17 mmol) in dioxane (40 mL) was added NN-dibenzyl-6-chloro-5
nitropyrimidin-4-amine (1) (3.0 g, 8.5 mmol). The resulting mixture was heated at 70 0C
overnight under N 2 . Water (100 mL) was introduced to quench the reaction. The reaction
mixture was extracted with EtOAc (50 mL x 3), and the combined organic layer was washed
with brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by
column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 20% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether) to give tert-butyl
3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5-nitropyrimidin-4-ylamino)-4-methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate           (185)
(2.6 g, 55 %) as a brown oil. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 555.1.
[00646] To a solution of tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5-nitropyrimidin-4-ylamino)-4
methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (185) (2.6 g, 4.7 mmol) in THF/MeOH/H 20 (24 mL/12 mL/6
mL) was added iron powder (2.6 g, 47 mmol) and NH 4 Cl (5.0 g, 94 mmol). The resulting
suspenaion was heated at 50 0 C for 5 hrs under N 2 . After cooled to rt, the reaction mixture was
filtered through a pad of Celite. The filtrate was extracted with EtOAc (50 mL X 3), and the
combined organic layer was washed with water and brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , and concentrated
in vacuo. tert-butyl 3-(5-amino-6-(dibenzylamino) pyrimidin-4-ylamino)-4
methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (186) (2.0 g, 81%) was afforded as a brown oil. LC-MS (ESI):
m/z (M-1) 523.0.
[00647] To a stirred solution of tert-butyl 3-(5-amino-6-(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4-ylamino)
4-methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (186) (2.0 g, 3.8 mmol) and TEA (1.1 mL, 7.6 mmol) in
anhydrous DCM (50 mL) at 0 0C and under N 2 atmosphere was added a solution of triphosgen
(564 mg, 1.9 mmol) in anhydrous DCM (10 mL) dropwise over 1 hr. After the stirring was
continued for 1 hr, the reaction was quenched with water (100 mL). The layers were separated.
The organic layer was washed with water and brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , and concentrated in
                                                - 207 -

vacuo. The crude product was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 30% ethyl
acetate in petroleum ether) to give tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-4
methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (187) (2.1 g, 100 %) as a brown solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z
(M+1) 551.1.
[00648] To a mixture of tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-4
methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (187) (0.8 g, 1.45 mmol) in MeOH (30 mL) was added
Pd(OH) 2 /C (800 mg, 20 wt%) and 3 drops of con. HCl. The resulting mixture was purged with
H 2 (2 X) before heated to 60 0C overnight under H 2 atmosphere. The mixture was cooled down
to r.t., and filtered through a Celite pad. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give tert-butyl
3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-4-methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate            (188) (538 mg, 100%)
as a yellow solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 371.0.
[00649] To a mixture of tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-4
methylphenyl(methyl) carbamate (188) (538 mg, 1.45 mmol) and 4A MS (300 mg) in anhydrous
DMF (20 mL) were added 4-phenoxyphenylboronic acid (934 mg, 4.4 mmol), Cu(OAc) 2 (265
mg, 1.4 mmol) and pyridine (0.7 mL, 8.7 mmol). The resulting mixture was heated at 37 0C
overnight under 02 atmosphere. After the mixture was filtered through a Celite pad, the filtrate
was further diluted with water (80 mL), extracted with EtOAc (30 mL X 3). The combined
organic layer was washed with water and brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , and concentrated. The
residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 5% methanol in methylene
chloride) to give tert-butyl 3 -(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H- purin-9(8H)-yl)-4
methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (189) (300 mg, 38%) as a brown oil. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1)
539.1.
[00650] To a solution of tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)- yl)
4-methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (189) (300 mg, 0.56 mmol) in DCM (4 mL) was added TFA
(1 mL) dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at r.t. for 1 hr before concentrated. The
residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 5 % methanol in methylene
chloride (0.3% Et 3N)) to give 6-amino-9-(2-methyl-5-(methylamino)phenyl)-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (190) (244 mg, 100%) as a brown oil. LC-MS (ESI): m/z
(M+1) 439.1.
[00651] To a suspension of (E)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enoic acid hydrochloride
salt (230 mg, 0.92 mmol) in anhydrous acetonitrile (5 mL) was added 1 drop of DMF followed
by (COCl) 2 (1.0 mL, 10.6 mmol). The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1
hr. The solvent was evaporated. The freshly generated acid chloride was dissolved in dry DCM
(2 mL) and then introduced to a solution of 6-amino-9-(2-methyl-5-(methylamino)phenyl)-7- (4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (190) (200 mg, 0.46 mmol) in DCM (5 mL). Stirring was
                                                 -208-

continued at room temperature for 1 hr before the reaction was quenched with MeOH (2 mL).
The solvent was removed and the residue was pre-purified by column chromatography (silica
gel, 0 to 10% methanol in methylene chloride (0.30% Et 3N)) followed by preparative HPLC (RP,
C18, 10 to 95% acetonitrile in water (0.2% NH 3 'H2 0)) to give (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl) -4-methylphenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N
methylbut-2-enamide (191) (14 mg, 5%) as a white solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 576.1. 1H
NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.05 (s, 1H), 7.54 - 7.39 (m, 5H), 7.37 - 7.30 (m, 2H), 7.23 - 7.10
(m,5H), 6.72 - 6.60 (m, 1H), 6.06 - 5.93 (m, 1H), 5.87 (s, 2H), 3.24 (s, 3H), 3.11 (d, J= 6.2 Hz,
2H), 2.17 (s, 3H), 2.12 (s, 3H), 1.63 - 1.55 (m, 1H), 0.36 - 0.29 (m, 2H), 0.25 - 0.19 (m, 2H).
Example 45: Synthesis of (E)-N-(5-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)-2-methylphenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide                                                     (201)
                     NO2                         NO 2                             N02                           N H2
                                 Boc2O                            CH31                        Fe, NH4CI
                          NH2     EtOH                NHBoc                            N                               N
                                                           NocDMF                      Boc                             Boc
                                                192                             193                            194
                   SBn2             NBn 2                                NBn2                                 NBn 2 H
                         N02      N       N02                         NNH2                                N         N
                                    N     NH            Fe/N   CI        N     H            triphosgene
               Et 3N, dioxane                     NBoc                                 No       DCM
                                                                                       NBoc                                 Boc
                                                    Nt c
                                         195                                  196                     OPh           197
                                     NH2                                                    NH2
                                                                               OPh             N
                                      N_ N H                                             N-       N
               H2, Pd(OH) 2/C        N                      _ (HO)2B
                                                                  _    _  _      _             N                   TEA
                MeOH, HCI                                        Cu(OAC)2, PY                                      DCM
                                                 -N               DMF, 4A MS                         /N
                                                   Boc                                                    Boc
                                          198                                                    199
                                 OPh                                               OPh
                       NH2     -                                         NH 2
                            N                 C                               N
                                                    DCM
                                     N/                                                N
                                     H
                           200                                                 201
[00652] To a solution of 2-methyl-5-nitroaniline (5 g, 32.86 mmol) in EtOH (60 mL) was added
(Boc) 2 0 (9.32 g, 42.72 mmol). The mixture was stirred at r.t. for 24 hrs. A yellow precipitate
was collected by filtration, and was further washed with petroleum ether to give tert-butyl 2
methyl-5-nitrophenylcarbamate (192) (6.3 g, 76%) as yellow solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1)
253.1.
[00653] To a stirred suspension of tert-butyl 2-methyl-5-nitrophenylcarbamate (192) (5 g, 19.8
                                                                 -  209    -

mmol) and Cs 2 CO 3 (12.9 g, 39.6 mmol) in DMF (80 mL) was added Mel (4.22 g, 29.7 mmol).
The mixture was stirred at r.t. for 5 hrs under N2 atmosphere. The reaction was quenched with
water (100 mL) and the resulting mixture was extracted with EA (50 mL X3). The combined
organic layer was washed with brine, dried over Na 2SO4 and concentrated in vacuo to give tert
butyl methyl(2-methyl-5-nitrophenyl)carbamate (193) (5.1 g, 97%) as yellow solid. LC-MS
(ESI): m/z (M+1) 267.2.
[00654] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, tert-butyl 5-amino-2
methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (194) (2.66 g, 100%) was prepared as a light yellow solid
starting from tert-butyl methyl(2-methyl-5-nitrophenyl)carbamate (193) (3.0 g). LC-MS (ESI):
m/z (M+1) 237.2.
[00655] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, tert-butyl 5-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5
nitropyrimidin-4-ylamino)-2-methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (195) (5.32 g, 85%) was prepared
as a yellow solid starting from tert-butyl 5-amino-2-methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (194) (2.66
g) and NN-dibenzyl-6-chloro-5-nitropyrimidin-4-amine (1). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 555.6.
[00656] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, tert-butyl 5-(5-amino-6
(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4-ylamino)-2-methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate         (196) (2.4 g, 85%)
was prepared as a yellow solid starting from tert-butyl 5-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5-nitropyrimidin-4
ylamino)-2-methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (195) (3 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 525.1.
[00657] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, tert-butyl 5-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo
7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2-methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (197) (2.3 g, 100%) was prepared as a
yellow solid starting from tert-butyl 5-(5-amino-6-(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4-ylamino)-2
methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (196) (2.2 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 551.2.
[00658] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, tert-butyl 5-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin
9(8H)-yl)-2-methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (198) (1.33 g, 100%) was prepared as a light
yellow solid starting from tert-butyl 5-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2
methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (197) (2.0 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 371.2.
[00659] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, tert-butyl 5-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2-methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate         (199) (1.4 g, 70%) was
prepared as a light yellow solid starting from tert-butyl 5-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2
methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (198) (1.3 g) and 4-phenoxyphenylboronic acid. LC-MS (ESI):
m/z (M+1) 539.1.
[00660] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, 6-amino-9-(4-methyl-3
(methylamino)phenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (200) (quant.) was prepared as
a yellow solid starting from tert-butyl 5-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)-2-methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (199) (1.4 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 439.1.
                                               -210-

[00661] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, (E)-N-(5-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2-methylphenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N
methylbut-2-enamide (201) (24 mg, 18%) was prepared as a white solid starting from 6-amino
9-(4-methyl-3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one                                               (200) (100
mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 576.1.                     1H   NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.11 (s, 1H), 7.71 - 7.33
(m, 8H), 7.21 - 7.12 (m, 5H), 6.77 - 6.68 (m, 1H), 5.87 (s, 3H), 3.17 (s, 3H), 2.26 - 2.09 (m,
4H), 1.01 - 0.05 (m, 4H).
Example 46: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)-5-methylphenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide                                                 (211)
                  N02                           NO2                             N02                          NH2
                               Boc;O                        NaH, THE                       Fe, NH4CI       d
                        NH2      EtOH                NHBoc     CH31                  N                             N
                                               202                            203    Boc                    204    Boc
                 NBn2              NBn2                             NBn2                                  Bn2 H
                       NO2     N         N02                     N        NH2                                 N
                                   N    NH            Fe/NH4CI      N     NH             triphosgene    N      N
              ________                                            -                                                      /
              Et3N, d                   O    /oanNBoc                      \ /NBoc                             6        No
                                       205                                206                        Ph       207
                                      NH2
                                        N2H                                      Ph      NH2
                H2, Pd(OH)2/               N                 (HO)2BN                       N      =O             T
                                                                                         NC                      DCMk>=o
                  MeO H, HC I                        N   c      Cu(O A c                 N              N oc     DC M
                                           \/0      No          DMF, 4A MS                      \/NBoc
                                          208                                                  209
                                 OPh                                             OPh
                      NH2     -7                                       NH2
                                       NN                                    N        0/
                                                                                  O                -
                              C-    >o        CI
                      N                            DC M
                                      NH                                      /       N
                          210                                                211
[00662] To a solution of 2-methoxy-5-nitroaniline (2.0 g, 13 mmol) in EtOH (30 mL) was added
Boc anhydride (8.6 g, 39 mmol). The resulting mixture was stirred at rt for 24 hrs under N 2
atmosphere. The solvents were removed in vacuo. The residue was washed with petroleum
ether, dried under vacuum to give tert-butyl 3-methyl-5-nitrophenylcarbamate (202) (3.3 g,
quant.) as a yellow solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 253.0.
[00663] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, tert-butyl methyl(3-methyl-5
nitrophenyl)carbamate (203) (3.5 g, 100%) was prepared as a brown solid starting from tert
butyl 3-methyl-5-nitrophenylcarbamate (202) (3.3 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 267.2.
                                                               -211-

[00664] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, tert-butyl 3-amino-5
methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (204) (3.1 g, 99%) was prepared as a brown solid starting from
tert-butyl methyl(3-methyl-5-nitrophenyl)carbamate (203) (3.5 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1)
237.2.
[00665] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5
nitropyrimidin-4-ylamino)-5-methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (205) (6.9 g, 94%) was prepared
as a brown oil starting from tert-butyl 3-amino-5-methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (204) (3.1 g)
and NN-dibenzyl-6-chloro-5-nitropyrimidin-4-amine (1). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 555.1.
[00666] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, tert-butyl 3-(5-amino-6
(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4-ylamino)-5-methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate        (206) (6.0 g, 92%)
was prepared as a brown solid starting from tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5-nitropyrimidin-4
ylamino)-5-methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (205) (6.9 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 525.1.
[00667] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo
7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (207) (5.1 g, 81%) was prepared as a
brown oil starting from tert-butyl 3-(5-amino-6-(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4-ylamino)-5
methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (206) (6.0 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 551.1.
[00668] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin
9(8H)-yl)-5-methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (208) (807 mg, 100%) was prepared as a yellow
solid starting from tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5
methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (207) (1.2 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 371.2.
[00669] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate        (209) (420 mg, 36%)
was prepared as a brown oil starting from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5
methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (208) (807 mg) and 4-phenoxyphenylboronic acid (1.58 g).
LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 539.1.
[00670] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, 6-amino-9-(3-methyl-5
(methylamino)phenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (210) (293 mg, 86%) was
prepared as a brown oil starting from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-methylphenyl(methyl)carbamate (209) (420 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1)
439.1.
[00671] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-methylphenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N
methylbut-2-enamide (211) (44 mg, 12%) was prepared as a white solid starting from 6-amino
9-(3-methyl-5-(methylamino)phenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one         (210) (293
mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 576.1.       1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.26 (HCOOH), 8.11 (s,
                                              - 212 -

1H), 7.53 - 7.32 (m, 6H), 7.23 - 7.09 (m, 6H), 6.73 - 6.60 (m, 1H), 6.01 (d, J= 15.4 Hz, 1H),
5.86 (s, 2H), 3.25 (s, 3H), 3.12 (d, J= 6.4 Hz, 2H), 2.38 (s, 3H), 2.12 (s, 3H), 1.65 - 1.55 (m,
1H), 0.37 - 0.28 (m, 2H), 0.24 - 0.16 (m, 2H).
Example 47: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)-5-methoxyphenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide                                                        (224)
                        N02                                   NO 2                                NO2
                                       Me2SO4           O                   NH3 H2 0        OOHNaOH,                     Br2
                 0A           COOH                      02O
                                                        Oj:COOMe                            0 6         COONH2
                                                             212                                 213
                     NO2                             NO2                                  NO2                           NH2
                                 Boc2O                              NaH, THF                         Fe, NH4C
               0           NH2   EtOH          O           NHBoc       CH 31         0         N                  ON         N
                                                                                               Boc                           Boc
                   214                              215                                 216                           217
                  NBn2             NBn 2                                 NBn2                                  NBn 2 H
                        NO               NO2N                                   NH2                            N
                                   N     NH               Fe/NH4CI             NH             triphosgene
               EtaN, dioxane                 -      NBocN                                         DCM                         NBoc
                                     -O                                    -- O
                                      218                                     219                          Ph       220
                                                       N H2                                                ~
                                                                                                          O h
                                         HIH
                                           H>OPh
                                                                                              NH2
                 H2, Pd(OH)2/C       N      N                     (HO)2Bf                   NTFA                       TFA
                                                           N"    N>==o
                                                                                              N                        DCM
                  MeOH, HOI                     -       /            Cu(OAc)2, Py
                                           O      /NBoc               DMF, 4AMS                               NBoc
                                        -0
                                          221                                                       222
                                  Ph                                                   Ph
                      NH2                                     7           NH2
                   N         N                                 N                 N
                         I->=oN       N        CI              NN                 N                    N
                      N                              DCM                  N      N
                                     NH                                           \/      N
                         -0                                                  -0
                            223                                                    224
[00672] To a refluxing solution of 3-methoxy-5-nitrobenzoic acid (2.12 g, 10.7 mmol) and
K 2 C0 3 (1.68 g, 12.2 mmol) in anhydrous acetone (20 mL) was added dimethyl sulfate (2 mL)
dropwise over a period of 30 min. The reaction mixture was refluxed overnight and cooled
down to room temperature. The solvent was removed in vacuo. The resulting solid was washed
with water, dried in vacuo to give methyl 3-methoxy-5-nitrobenzoate (212) (2.3 g, quant.) as a
yellow solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M +1) 212.1.
[00673] To a solution of methyl 3-methoxy-5-nitrobenzoate (212) (2.3 g, 11 mmol) in methanol
(20 mL) was added aqueous ammonium hydroxide (25 mL). The mixture was stirred in a sealed
tube at rt for 3 days, then concentrated in vacuo. The resulting solid was filtered, washed with
                                                                    -213-

water, dried in vacuo to give 3-methoxy-5-nitrobenzamide (213) (2.1 g, quant.) as a brown solid.
LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M +1) 197.1.
[00674] To a solution of NaOH (6 g, 150 mmol) in water (50 mL) at 0 'C was added neat
bromine (4.8 g, 30 mmol) dropwise. A portion of this prepared aqueous NaOBr (21 mL) was
slowly transferred to a solution of 3-methoxy-5-nitrobenzamide (213) (2.0 g, 10 mmol) in
methanol (60 mL). The stirring was continued for 1.5 hrs at room temperature. The solvent was
removed under reduced pressure. The solid residue was redissolved in a solution of NaHCO 3
(1.2 g) in water (60 mL), heated to 80 'C, and stirred for 2 hrs. The orange precipitate was
collected by filtration to yield 3-methoxy-5-nitroaniline (214) (1.0 g, 59 %). LC-MS (ESI): m/z
(M +1) 169.0.
[00675] In a similar manner as described in Example 46, tert-butyl 3-methoxy-5
nitrophenylcarbamate (215) (710 mg, 44%) was prepared as a brown solid starting from 3
methoxy-5-nitroaniline (214) (1.0 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 269.1.
[00676] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, tert-butyl 3-methoxy-5
nitrophenyl(methyl)carbamate (216) (733 mg, 100%) was prepared as a brown solid starting
from tert-butyl 3-methoxy-5-nitrophenylcarbamate (215) (700 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1)
283.2.
[00677] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, tert-butyl 3-amino-5
methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate (217) (655 mg, 100%) was prepared as a brown solid starting
from tert-butyl 3-methoxy-5-nitrophenyl(methyl)carbamate (216) (733 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z
(M+1) 253.1.
[00678] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5
nitropyrimidin-4-ylamino)-5-methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate         (218) (800 mg, 54%) was
prepared as a brown oil starting from tert-butyl 3-amino-5-methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate
(217) (655 mg) and NN-dibenzyl-6-chloro-5-nitropyrimidin-4-amine (1) (922 mg). LC-MS
(ESI): m/z (M+1) 571.1.
[00679] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, tert-butyl 3-(5-amino-6
(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4-ylamino)-5-methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate          (219) (750 mg,
100%) was prepared as a brown solid starting from tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5
nitropyrimidin-4-ylamino)-5-methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate         (218) (800 mg). LC-MS (ESI):
m/z (M+1) 541.1.
[00680] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo
7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate (220) (540 mg, 68%) was prepared as a
brown oil starting from tert-butyl 3-(5-amino-6-(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4-ylamino)-5
methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate (219) (750 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 567.1.
                                              - 214 -

[00681] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin
9(8H)-yl)-5-methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate (221) (300 mg, 82%) was prepared as a yellow
solid starting from tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5
methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate (220) (540 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 387.2.
[00682] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate           (222) (230 mg, 54%)
was prepared as a brown oil starting from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5
methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate (221) (300 mg) and 4-phenoxyphenylboronic acid (500 mg).
LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 555.1.
[00683] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, 6-amino-9-(3-methoxy-5
(methylamino)phenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (223) (129 mg, 67%) was
prepared as a brown oil starting from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate (222) (230 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1)
455.1.
[00684] In a similar manner as described in Example 44, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-methoxyphenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N
methylbut-2-enamide (224) (69 mg, 12%) was prepared as a white solid starting from 6-amino
9-(3-methoxy-5-(methylamino)phenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one           (223) (129
mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 592.1.       1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.27 (HCOOH), 8.11 (s,
1H), 7.51 - 7.39 (m, 4H), 7.27 (s, 1H), 7.21 - 7.11 (m, 6H), 6.96 (s, 1H), 6.75 - 6.61 (m, 1H),
6.04 (d, J= 15.2 Hz, 1H), 5.87 (s, 2H), 3.80 (s, 3H), 3.26 (s, 3H), 3.13 (d, J= 6.5 Hz, 2H), 2.12
(s, 3H), 1.64 - 1.55 (m, 1H), 0.38 - 0.27 (m, 2H), 0.25 - 0.16 (m, 2H).
                                              - 215 -

Example 48: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-N-methyl-4-(methylamino)but-2-enamide                          hydrochloride (229)
                                     1)CH3NH2                         LOH        H           Boc    (COCI)2
                  0
                    k,.-        Br
                                     2)(Boc)20
                                                   0)H3H        ~     L          HO          N
                                                           225        THF            226             DCM
                                                    OPh
                                             NH2                          OPh
                                                 N
                                             N   N                NH2
                                              32                      N
                                                         N        NN                             HCI
                                                 DCM                                             MeCN
                       227                                                         -  N,
                                                                        -     NI         Boc
                             OPh
                                                                            228
                   NH2
                           N N
                        N'   N
                                       0    HI
                                   |        HCI
                             229
[00685] To a suspension of methanamine (33% in MeOH, 20 mL, 56 mmol) and K 2 CO 3 (11 g,
80 mmol) in THF (50 mL) at 0 0C was added (E)-methyl 4-bromobut-2-enoate (5 g, 28 mmol).
After the resulting mixture was stirred at 0 0 C for 3 hrs, the reaction solution was filtered. The
filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in DCM (50 mL), Et 3N (7.7
mL, 56 mmol) and (Boc) 20 (7.32 g, 33.6 mmol) were added. The resulting mixture was stirred
at r.t. for 2 hrs before water (50 mL) was introduced. The layers were separated and the aqueous
phase was extracted with DCM (20 mL X 2). The combined organic layer was washed with
brine, dried over Na 2SO 4 and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by column
chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 50 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether) to give (E)-methyl 4-(tert
butoxycarbonyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enoate (225) (3 g, two steps yield 47%) as a yellow oil.
LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 230.1.
[00686] To a solution of (E)-methyl 4-(tert-butoxycarbonyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enoate (225)
(6.1 g, 26.6 mmol) in THF (60 mL) at 0 0 C and under N 2 atmosphere was added a solution of
lithium hydroxide monohydrate (1.68 g, 43.6 mmol) in water (20 mL) dropwise over 15 min.
The resulting mixture was stirred at 0 0C for 3 hrs. Cold water (150 mL) and petroleum ether
(200 mL) were then introduced and the stirring was continued at 0 0 C for 10 min. The layers
were separated. The aqueous layer was carefully acidified with con. HCl at 0 0 C to pH ~ 4 and
was extracted with DCM (80 mL X 3). The combined organic extracts were dried over Na 2 SO 4 ,
filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure to give (E)-4-(tert
                                                            -216-

butoxycarbonyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enoic acid (226) (3.5 g, 61% yield) as a yellow oil. LC
MS (ESI): m/z (M-1) 214.1.
[00687] To a suspension of (E)-4-(tert-butoxycarbonyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enoic acid (226, 200
mg, 0.93 mmol) in anhydrous DCM (3 mL) at 0 0 C was added 1 drop of DMF, followed by
addition of (COCl) 2 (0.4 mL, 0.93 mmol). The resulting mixture was stirred at room
temperature for 1 hr. The solvent was then evaporated. The freshly generated acid chloride
(227) was dissolved in anhydrous DCM (2 mL) and was subsequently introduced into a solution
of 6-amino-9-(3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one            (32) (197
mg, 0.465 mmol) in DCM (3 mL). After the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature
for 1 hr, the reaction was quenched with MeOH (2 mL). Solvents were removed and the residue
was purified by preparative TLC (DCM/MeOH        =  8/1 (v/v)) to give (E)-tert-butyl 4-((3-(6
amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)(methyl)amino)-4-oxobut-2
enyl(methyl)carbamate (228) (120 mg, 42% yield) as a white solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1)
622.1.
[00688] To a solution of (E)-tert-butyl 4-((3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin
9(8H)-yl)phenyl)(methyl)amino)-4-oxobut-2-enyl(methyl)carbamate          (228) (100 mg, 0.16 mmol)
in MeCN (2 mL) at 0 0C was added HCl (con. 0.3 mL). The mixture was stirred at 0 0C for 1
hour, the solvent was removed in vacuo and dried by lypholization to give (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8
oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-N-methyl-4-(methylamino)but-2-enamide
(229) (75 mg, 89% yield) as a white solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 522.0. 1H NMR (400
MHz, DMSO) 6 9.20 (br, 2H), 8.33 (s, 1H), 7.69 - 7.57 (m, 3H), 7.51 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 2H), 7.46
7.38 (m, 3H), 7.23 - 7.11 (m, 5H), 6.74 - 6.64 (m, 1H), 6.36 - 6.16 (m, 1H), 3.60 (d, J= 5.7 Hz,
2H), 3.31 (s, 3H), 2.44 - 2.35 (m, 3H).
                                              - 217  -

Example 49: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(4-(benzyloxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin
9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide                                (234)
                                                                                           NH2
                                                                                                 H
                                                                                           N     N
                                                                                            24        N
                        Br     BnBr                  Br     n-BuLi              B(OH)2                  N
                                        BnO                B(Oi-Pr)3 BnO
             HO     -      K2CO 3, MeCN
                                             230                            231
                         OBn                        Bn                                    OBn
                NH2                       NH2                    "N_     CI       NH2
                      N             TFA C      N                                 N     N
                       >=o                                                              >==oo
                N N             ,B cN          N\NNN
                               ,Boc                     /                                           /
                                   N                   N                                       N
                                                       H
                      232                       233                                     234
[00689] To a suspension of 4-bromophenol (3.7 g, 21.4 mmol) and K 2 C0                       3 (4 g, 29.1 mmol) in
MeCN (40 mL) was added (bromomethyl)benzene (3.66 g, 21.4 mmol). The resulting mixture
was stirred at r.t. overnight. The solid was filtered off, and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo
to give crude 1-(benzyloxy)-4-bromobenzene (230) (5.2 g, 92% yield) as a yellow oil.
[00690] To a stirred solution of 1-(benzyloxy)-4-bromobenzene (230) (1.5 g, 6 mmol) in
anhydrous THF (20 mL) at -78 0C and under N 2 atmosphere was added n-BuLi (2.5 M, 3.1 mL,
7.8 mmol) via syringe over 5 min. Stirring was continued for 20 min at the same temperature
before triisopropyl borate (1.5 mL) was introduced. The reaction was then slowly warmed up to
r.t. over a 3-hrs period, and was quenched with IN HCl (5 mL). The layers were separated. The
aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate (30 mLX 2). The combined organic layers were
washed with brine, dried over MgSO 4 .and evaporated. The residue was washed with PE and
Et 20 to give 4-(benzyloxy)phenylboronic acid (231) (1 g, 73%) as white solid. LC-MS (ESI):
m/z (M-1) 227.1.
[00691] To a mixture of tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (24) (500 mg, 1.4 mmol) and 4A MS (500 mg) in anhydrous DMF
(15 mL) were added 4-(benzyloxy)phenylboronic acid (231) (800 mg, 3.5 mmol), Cu(OAc) 2
(255 mg, 1.4 mmol) and pyridine (670 mg, 8.4 mmol). The reaction mixture was heated to 40
0C  overnight under 02 atmosphere. After the reaction was completed, the oil bath was removed.
The reaction was then cooled down to r.t. and was quenched with NH 3'H2 0 (3 mL). The solvent
was evaporated in vacuum. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to
50% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether) to give tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(4-(benzyloxy)phenyl)-8
oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (232) (365 mg, 48%) as a yellow solid. LC
                                                          -218-

MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 539.2.
[00692] To a solution of tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(4-(benzyloxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (232) (365 mg, 0.678 mmol) in DCM (8 mL) was added TFA (2
mL) dropwise. The resulting mixture was stirred at rt for 1 hr before concentrated. The residue
was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 5 % methanol in methylene chloride
(0.3% Et 3N)) to afford 6-amino-7-(4-(benzyloxy)phenyl)-9-(3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7H-purin
8(9H)-one (233) (quant.) as a yellow oil. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 439.2.
[00693] In a similar manner as described in Example 48, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(4
(benzyloxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N
methylbut-2-enamide (234) (50 mg, 38%) was prepared as a white solid starting from 6-amino
7-(4-(benzyloxy)phenyl)-9-(3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one                 (233) (100 mg). LC
MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 576.2. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.10 (s, 1H), 7.71 - 7.55 (m, 3H),
7.49 - 7.38 (m, 6H), 7.37 - 7.30 (m, 2H), 7.20 (d, J= 8.9 Hz, 2H), 6.68 (dt, J= 15.1, 6.5 Hz,
1H), 6.00 (d, J= 14.1 Hz, 1H), 5.68 (br, 2H), 5.17 (s, 2H), 3.27 (s, 3H), 3.12 (d, J= 5.6 Hz, 2H),
2.12 (s, 3H), 1.67 - 1.52 (m, 1H), 0.36 - 0.29 (m, 2H), 0.25 - 0.16 (m, 2H).
Example 50: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(4-(3-methylbenzyloxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide                     (239)
                                                                                    NH2
                                                                                          H
                                                                                       ~. N
                                                                                  JN      N0
                                  Br                   Br n                 B(OH) 2     2      Boc
                        Br  1                             nj-BuLi.                    24     NO
           HO          K2CO3 MeCN                        B(Oi-Pr)3
                                           235                     236
                NH2                TFA      H2                 CI        NH2
              NN.N                     N,   N>=                        N-'~
                    NNo                   N     N                        N'
                                                                               N               N
                                                       /
                             BocN              b-H
                                                                                        \
                    237                           238
                                                                               239
[00694] In a similar manner as described in Example 49, 1-((4-bromophenoxy)methyl)-3
methylbenzene (235) (3.2 g, 100%) was prepared as a yellow oil starting from 4-bromophenol (2
g) and 1-(bromomethyl)-3-methyl benzene (2.14 g).
[00695] In a similar manner as described in Example 49, 4-(3-methylbenzyloxy)phenylboronic
acid (236) (1.1 g, 100%) was prepared as a white solid starting from 1-((4
                                                      -219-

bromophenoxy)methyl)-3-methylbenzene (235) (1.5 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M-1) 241.1.
[00696] In a similar manner as described in Example 49, tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(4-(3
methylbenzyloxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate                           (237) (370 mg,
48%) was prepared as a yellow solid starting from 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl(methyl) carbamate (24) (500 mg) and 4-(3-methylbenzyloxy)phenylboronic acid
(236) (850 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M-1) 553.2.
[00697] In a similar manner as described in Example 49, 6-amino-9-(3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7
(4-(3-methylbenzyloxy)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (238) (100 mg, 100%) was prepared as a
yellow solid starting from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(4-(3-methylbenzyloxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (237) (120 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M-1) 453.2.
[00698] In a similar manner as described in Example 48, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(4-(3
methylbenzyloxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N
methylbut-2-enamide (239) (50 mg, 39%) was prepared as a white solid starting from 6-amino
9-(3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7-(4-(3-methylbenzyloxy)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one                          (238) (100
mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 590.2. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.10 (s, 1H), 7.72 - 7.54
(m, 3H), 7.45 (d, J= 8.9 Hz, 2H), 7.37 - 7.23 (m, 4H), 7.21 - 7.11 (m, 3H), 6.74 - 6.62 (m, 1H),
6.08 - 5.89 (m, 1H), 5.68 (br, 2H), 5.13 (s, 2H), 3.27 (s, 3H), 3.12 (d, J= 5.9 Hz, 2H), 2.32 (s,
3H), 2.12 (s, 3H), 1.64 - 1.54 (m, 1H), 0.35 - 0.29 (m, 2H), 0.24 - 0.16 (m, 2H).
Example 51: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(4-(3-fluorobenzyloxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide                              (244)
                                                                                        NH2
                                                                                          _'-H
                                                                                     N       N>=N
                                                                                        N    N
                                                            Br                     B(OH)2       /   \  Boc
                     BrF             Br
                                  _____F ~                       -BuLi F                     2
          HO            K2CO3, MeCN                            B(Oi-Pr) 3
                                             240                          241
                                                                                        - Y   '    F
                                                       O        F
                          Oq       F
               NH 2                 TFA    NH2                    CIN          NH2
              N-     N                -N         N
                                                 N                            -N   N
               N     N                     N     N                               N
                             ,Boc                        NNN
                                  N-                     N
                                                         H                                 N
                    242                            243                              244
[00699] In a similar manner as described in Example 49, 1-((4-bromophenoxy)methyl)-3
fluorobenzene (240) (3.2 g, 100%) was prepared as a yellow oil starting from 4-bromophenol (2
                                                          -  220   -

g) and 1-(bromomethyl)-3-fluorobenzene (2.2 g).
[00700] In a similar manner as described in Example 49, 4-(3-fluorobenzyloxy)phenylboronic
acid (241) (400 mg, 310%) was prepared as a light yellow oil starting from 1-((4
bromophenoxy)methyl)-3-fluorobenzene (240) (1.5 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M-1) 245.1.
[00701] In a similar manner as described in Example 49, tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(4-(3
fluorobenzyloxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate                     (242) (300 mg,
39%) was prepared as a yellow solid starting from 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl(methyl) carbamate (24) (500 mg) and 4-(3-fluorobenzyloxy)phenylboronic acid (241)
(400 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M-1) 557.2.
[00702] In a similar manner as described in Example 49, 6-amino-9-(3-(fluoroamino)phenyl)-7
(4-(3-methylbenzyloxy)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (243) (100 mg, 100%) was prepared as a
yellow solid starting from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(4-(3-fluorobenzyloxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (242) (120 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M-1) 457.2.
[00703] In a similar manner as described in Example 48, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(4-(3
fluorobenzyloxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N
methylbut-2-enamide (244) (50 mg, 38%) was prepared as a white solid starting from 6-amino
9-(3-(fluoroamino)phenyl)-7-(4-(3-methylbenzyloxy)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one                    (243) (100
mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 594.1. 1HNMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.10 (s, 1H), 7.68 - 7.56
(m, 3H), 7.51 - 7.41 (m, 3H), 7.35 - 7.28 (m, 3H), 7.23 - 7.12 (m, 3H), 6.73 - 6.63 (m, 1H),
6.08 - 5.92 (m, 1H), 5.69 (s, 2H), 5.20 (s, 2H), 3.27 (s, 3H), 3.11 (d, J= 6.4 Hz, 2H), 2.11 (s,
3H), 1.63 - 1.56 (m, 1H), 0.35 - 0.29 (m, 2H), 0.23 - 0.16 (m, 2H).
Example 52: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-N-methyl-3-(pyridin-2-yl)acrylamide                           (247)
                       N    CHO       HO           OH                         H (CO) 2     C
                                        Piperidine                  -N           DMF
                                                                245              DCMH  246
                                   Ph
                        NH 2                             OPh
                                -5
                      N      N
                             N
                          ~.  >=o               NH2
                        N32
                                      N         N    N         0
                                      H0
                                                         bN\
                                                     247
[00704] A solution of pyridine-2-carbaldehyde (5.0 g, 46.7 mmol), malonic acid (4.8 g, 46.1
mmol), pyridine (10 mL) and piperidine (0.05 mL) was heated at 100 C for 2 hrs followed by
stirring at r.t. for 10 hrs. The reaction mixture was then acidified to pH~4 with 6N HCl. The
                                                             -  221    -

generated precipitate was collected by filtration. After washed with cold water and dried over
pump, (E)-3-(pyridin-2-yl)acrylic acid (245) was obtained as a white solid (2.3 g, 35%). LC-MS
(ESI): m/z (M+1) 150.2.
[00705] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-N-methy-3-(pyridin-2-yl)acrylamide                                           (247) (52 mg,
20%) was prepared as a light yellow oil starting from (E)-3-(pyridin-2-yl)acrylic acid (140 mg)
and 6-amino-9-(3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one                                            (32) (200
mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M-1) 556.1.                    1H  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.53 (d, J= 4.4 Hz, 1H),
8.04 (s, 1H), 7.87 - 7.78 (m, 1H), 7.75 - 7.68 (m, 2H), 7.66 - 7.54 (m, 3H), 7.50 (d, J= 8.8 Hz,
2H), 7.45 - 7.38 (m, 3H), 7.36 - 7.30 (m, 1H), 7.22 - 7.10 (m, 5H), 7.07 - 6.96 (m, 1H), 5.91
(br, 2H), 3.35 (s, 3H).
Example 53: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)-5-methylphenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enamide                                           (255)
                                                                           NBn2                 NBn2
                                                      NH2               N       NO2                  N02
                            N2
                                    Fe, NH4CI                                   C               N    NH
                          NHBoc                            NHBoc        EtaN dioxane
                    202                              248                                                   NHBoc
                                                                                                    249
                                       NBn2                                     NBn 2
                                          SNH2
                                                                                  N   ~NH
                    Fe/NH4CI        1 N                     triphosgene         N       NXO             H2, Pd(OH)2/C
                                                                  DCM                                    MeOH, HCI
                                                                                     l/         NHBoc
                                              SNHBoc
                                            250                                          251            Ph
                                   NH2
                                         H                                      OPh          NH2
                                         N\     HON                                        N 'O   N
                                   N     N                        NHoxa                                          TcA
                                                                   Cu(OAC)2, py              N                   DCM
                                             /    NHBoc            DMF,4AMS                                NHBoc
                                         252
                                                                                                   253
                                     OPh                                                  OPh
                          NH2                      0                          NH2
                           N   ~N                                           N"      N                     _
                             U>=o              HON.,
                          N"    N                oxalyl chloride              N     N         0    /
                                                   DMF, DCM
                                 lb      NH2                                        P        -N
                                 254                                                    255
[007061 To a solution of tert-butyl 3-methyl-5-nitrophenylcarbamate (202) (1.47 g, 5.8 mmol) in
THF/MeOH/H 2 0 (24 mL/12 mL/6 mL) were added iron powder (3.28 g, 58 mmol) and                                             NH 4 Cl
(6.32 g, 117 mmol). The resulting mixture was heated at 50 TC for 5 hrs under N2 . After
cooling down to r.t., the reaction mixture was filtered through a pad of Celite. The filtrate was
                                                                -  222   -

extracted with EtOAc (50 mL X 3), and the combined organic extract was washed with water
and brine, dried over Na2 SO4, and concentrated in vacuo to give tert-butyl 3-amino-5
methylphenylcarbamate (248) (0.9 g, 75%) as a brown solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 223.1.
[00707] To a solution of tert-butyl 3-amino-5-methylphenylcarbamate (248) (0.9 g, 4.0 mmol)
and TEA (1.1 mL, 8 mmol) in dioxane (30 mL) was added NN-dibenzyl-6-chloro-5
nitropyrimidin-4-amine (1) (1.4 g, 4.0 mmol). The resulting mixture was heated at 70 0C
overnight under N2 before cooled down to rt , quenched with water (50mL) and extracted with
EtOAc (50mLX3). The combined organic extracts was washed with brine, dried over Na 2 SO4 ,
and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by column chromatography (silica
gel, 0 to 20% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether) to give tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5
nitropyrimidin-4-ylamino)-5-methylphenylcarbamate (249) (1.8 g, 82 %) as a brown oil. LC
MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 541.1.
[00708] To a solution of tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5-nitropyrimidin-4-ylamino)-5
methylphenylcarbamate (249) (1.8 g, 3.3 mmol) in THF/MeOH/H 20 (24 mL/12 mL/6 mL) were
added iron powder (1.87 g, 33 mmol) and NH 4 Cl (3.6 g, 67 mmol). The resulting suspension
was heated at 50 0C for 5 hrs under N2 . After cooled down to rt, the reaction mixture was
filtered through a pad of Celite. The filtrate was extracted with EtOAc (50 mL X 3), and the
combined organic extracts was washed with water and brine, dried over Na2 SO4 , and
concentrated in vacuo. tert-butyl 3-(5-amino-6-(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4-ylamino)-5
methylphenylcarbamate (250) (1.56 g, 92%) was obtained as a brown oil. LC-MS (ESI): m/z
(M-1) 511.0.
[00709] To a stirred solution of tert-butyl 3-(5-amino-6-(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4-ylamino)
5-methylphenylcarbamate (250) (1.56 g, 3.0 mmol) and TEA (0.85 mL, 6.1 mmol) in anhydrous
DCM (20 mL) at 0 0C and under N2 atmosphere was added a solution of triphosgene (456 mg,
1.5 mmol) in anhydrous DCM (10 mL) dropwise over 1 hr. The stirring was continued for 1 hr
before quenched with water (100 mL). The layers were separated. The organic layer was
washed with water and brine, dried over Na2 SO4 , and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product
was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 30% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether) to
give tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-methylphenylcarbamate       (251)
(1.6 g, quant.) as a brown solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 537.1.
[00710] To a mixture of tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5
methylphenylcarbamate (251) (1.6 g, 3.0 mmol) in MeOH (30 mL) was added Pd(OH) 2 /C (1.6
g, 20 wt%) and 3 drops of con. HCl. The resulting mixture was purged with H2 (2 X) before
heated to 60 0C overnight under H2 atmosphere. The mixture was cooled down to rt, and filtered
through a Celite pad. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8
                                               - 223 -

oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-methylphenylcarbamate (252) (1.04 g, 97%) as a yellow solid. LC
MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 357.0.
[00711] In a similar manner as described in Example 46, tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-methylphenylcarbamate         (253) (350 mg, 46%) was
prepared from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-methylphenylcarbamate (252)
(520 mg) and 4-phenoxyphenylboronic acid (938 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 525.1.
[00712] In a similar manner as described in Example 46, 6-amino-9-(3-amino-5-methylphenyl
7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (254) (230 mg, 81%) was prepared from tert-butyl 3
(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-methylphenylcarbamate           (253) (350
mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 425.1.
[00713] To a suspension of (E)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enoic acid hydrochloride
salt (207 mg, 1.1 mmol) in anhydrous acetonitrile (5 mL) was added 1 drop of DMF followed by
addition of (COCl) 2 (1.0 mL, 10.6 mmol). The resulting mixture was stirred at room
temperature for 1 hr. The solvent was evaporated. The freshly generated acid chloride was
dissolved in dry DCM (2 mL) and was then introduced to a solution of 6-amino-9-(3-amino-5
methylphenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one        (254) (230 mg, 0.54 mmol) in DCM
(5 mL). Stirring was continued at room temperature for 1 hr before quenched with MeOH (2
mL). The solvent was removed and the residue was pre-purified by column chromatography
(silica gel, 0 to 10% methanol in methylene chloride (0.3% Et 3N)) followed by preparative
HPLC (RP, C18, 10 to 95% acetonitrile in water (0.2% NH 3 'H2 0)) to give (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8
oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-methylphenyl)-4
(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enamide (255) (45 mg, 15%) as a white solid. LC-MS (ESI):
m/z (M+1) 562.1.     1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 10.18 (s, 1H), 8.09 (s, 1H), 7.77 (s, 1H), 7.56
- 7.47 (m, 3H), 7.43 (t, J= 7.9 Hz, 2H), 7.24 - 7.07 (m, 6H), 6.81 - 6.70 (m, 1H), 6.22 (d, J=
15.3 Hz, 1H), 5.81 (s, 2H), 3.29 - 3.25 (m, 2H), 2.33 (s, 3H), 2.25 (s, 3H), 1.77 - 1.68 (m, 1H),
0.46 - 0.38 (m, 2H), 0.34 - 0.27 (m, 2H).
                                             - 224  -

Example 54: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)-5-methoxyphenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enamide                                       (263)
                                                                                             NNBn2
                       N02                               NH2               NNH2 N02        N      NO2
                Fe/NH4CI                NN         triph    eH
                                                   0
                                               N0oNHBoc                               cNHBo
                     215                               256               EtN, dioxane
                                                                         59NHBoc
                                NBn 2                              NBn 2                         257
                                      NH2        O                       HH2
                                                                         N
                                                                 N '~
                Fe/NH4CI              N            triphosgene     N
                                                                                                       NNHBoc
                                                                           \Cu/
                                        O      NHBoc
                                  -0-
                                    258                                 259
                         H2     NdOH2CNH                       (H)2                             OTF
                                                                                                OPh
                                      NH2
                                            H~                                 OPh      NH
                                                                           N.
                                                                                      t
                      N-  NN=                           CIH                                 N-
                          N    02 N== NN-)2 DCMo
                               PdOH2/                                                        >O
                    NeH HOI                                              2 PNN
                                                                      NuOc                  ND
                                                                                                      H o
                                      H      \- /-    NHNHM,              AM
                           -0            -0
                              262
                              262          260                              263
[00714] In a similar manner as described in Example 53, tert-butyl 3-amino-5
methoxyphenylcarbamate (256) (2.19 g, 97%) was prepared as a brown solid starting from tert
butyl 3-methoxy-5-nitrophenylcarbamate (215) (2.54 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 239.0.
[00715] In a similar manner as described in Example 53, tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5
nitropyrimidin-4-ylamino)-5-methoxyphenylcarbamate (257) (3.35 g, 65%) was prepared as a
brown oil starting from tert-butyl 3-amino-5-methoxyphenylcarbamate (256) (2.19 g) and NN
dibenzyl-6-chloro-5-nitropyrimidin-4-amine (1) (3.3 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 557.1.
[00716] In a similar manner as described in Example 53, tert-butyl 3-(5-amino-6
(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4-ylamino)-5-methoxyphenylcarbamate                                   (258) (750 mg, 100%) was
prepared as a brown solid starting from tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-5-nitropyrimidin-4
ylamino)-5-methoxyphenylcarbamate (257) (800 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 527. 1.
[00717] In a similar manner as described in Example 53, tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo
7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-methoxyphenylcarbamate (259) (1.2 g, 37%) was prepared as a brown
solid starting from tert-butyl 3-(5-amino-6-(dibenzylamino)pyrimidin-4-ylamino)-5
                                                                -N225 -

methoxyphenylcarbamate (258) (3.12 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 553.1.
[00718] In a similar manner as described in Example 53, tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin
9(8H)-yl)-5-methoxyphenylcarbamate (260) (787 mg, 97%) was prepared as a yellow solid
starting from tert-butyl 3-(6-(dibenzylamino)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5
methoxyphenylcarbamate (259) (1.2 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 373.2.
[00719] In a similar manner as described in Example 53, tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-methoxyphenylcarbamate (261) (236 mg, 54%) was
prepared as a brown oil starting from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5
methoxyphenylcarbamate (260) (300 mg) and 4-phenoxyphenylboronic acid (600 mg). LC-MS
(ESI): m/z (M+1) 541.1.
[00720] In a similar manner as described in Example 53, 6-amino-9-(3-amino-5
methoxyphenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (262) (192 mg, 100%) was prepared
as a brown oil starting from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)-5-methoxyphenylcarbamate (261) (236 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 441.1.
[00721] In a similar manner as described in Example 53, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-methoxyphenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)but-2
enamide (263) (54 mg, 210%) was prepared as a white solid starting from 6-amino-9-(3-amino-5
methoxyphenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (262) (192 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z
(M+1) 577.8.   1H  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 10.23 (s, 1H), 8.10 (s, 1H), 7.59 - 7.48 (m, 3H),
7.47 - 7.37 (m, 3H), 7.25 - 7.07 (m, 5H), 6.96 - 6.89 (m, 1H), 6.82 - 6.71 (m, 1H), 6.22 (d, J=
15.4 Hz, 1H), 5.82 (s, 2H), 3.76 (s, 3H), 3.28 (d, J= 6.2 Hz, 2H), 2.25 (s, 3H), 1.79 - 1.66 (m,
1H), 0.46 - 0.39 (m, 2H), 0.34 - 0.28 (m, 2H).
                                              - 226 -

Example 55: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(4-(4-hydroxyphenoxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide                                                (269)
              OMe            Br
                             +N     Cu(OAc)2, PY           :   -j        '       nLiL    1B(Pr)3
                 SDCM,4AMS                           Br                    OMe    THF            (HO)2B                  OMe
              B(OH) 2        OH
                                                              264                                              265
                                                                                                                 OMe
               NH2
                        H
                 N    '
                          -- O                                           Cu(OAC)2, Py      NN                        TFA
               N        N         +              a       ~                                N        N
                                  c   (HO)2B            265        OMe    DMF, 4A MS               N
                                Boc
                   24                                                                                 /N
                                                                                                           Boc
                                                                                                   266
                                     OMe                                          OMe                                 OH
             NH2                                   N         NH2                      BBr3        NH2
                                  HON
              NO                     oxalyl chloride                   O                                    =o
             NN N                     DMFNDCM                                                                            N
                        bN                                        bN                                    bN
                             H
                 267                                                268                                  269
[00722] To a mixture of 4-bromophenol (760 mg, 4.4 mmol) and 4A MS (500 mg) in dry DCM
(20 mL) was added 4-methoxyphenylboronic acid (1.0 g, 6.6 mmol), Cu(OAc) 2 (798 mg, 4.4
mmol) and pyridine (2.1 mL, 26 mmol). The reaction mixture was heated at 37 C overnight
under  02  atmosphere, then filtered through a Celite pad. The filtrate was diluted with water (80
mL), extracted with DCM (50 mL X 3). The combined organic extracts was washed with water
and brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , and concentrated. The residue was purified by column
chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 10% ethyl acetate in methylene chloride) to give 1-bromo-4-(4
methoxyphenoxy)benzene (264) (1.2 g, quant.) as a yellow solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M/M-2)
278.9/276.9.
[00723] To a stirred solution of 1-bromo-4-(4-methoxyphenoxy)benzene (264) (1.2 g, 4.3 mmol)
in anhydrous THF (20 mL) at -78 0C and under N 2 atmosphere was added n-butyllithium (2.2
mL, 5.6 mmol, 2.5 M in hexane) dropwise over 30 min. The resulting mixture was continued
for 1 hr at -78 0C before triisopropyl borate (2.0 mL, 8.6 mmol) was introduced. Stirring was
continued for additional 1 hr. The reaction was then allowed to slowly warm up to r.t., quenched
with IN HCl (30 mL) and concentrated down to half a volume in vacuo. The resulting mixture
was extracted with EtOAc (50 mL x 3). The combined organic extracts was washed with brine,
dried over Na 2 SO 4 , and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was washed with petroleum
ether, dried under vacuum to give 4-(4-methoxyphenoxy)phenylboronic acid (265) (1.05 g,
                                                                   - 227    -

quant.) as a white solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M-1) 243.0.
[00724] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(4-(4
methoxyphenoxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl) phenyl(methyl)carbamate (266) (320 mg,
38%) was prepared from tert-butyl 3 -(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (24) (535 mg, 1.5 mmol) and 4-(4-methoxyphenoxy)phenylboronic
acid (265) (1.05 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 555.1.
[00725] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, 6-amino-7-(4-(4
methoxyphenoxy)phenyl)-9-(3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one           (267) (223 mg,
85%) was prepared from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(4-(4-methoxyphenoxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl) phenyl(methyl)carbamate (266) (320 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 455.1.
[00726] In a similar manner as described in Example 53, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(4-(4
methoxyphenoxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N
methylbut-2-enamide (268) (230 mg, 79%) was prepared as a yellow solid starting from 6
amino-7-(4-(4-methoxyphenoxy)phenyl)-9-(3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one            (267)
(223 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 592.1.
[00727] To a stirred solution of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(4-(4-methoxyphenoxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide         (268) (230 mg,
0.39 mmol) in anhydrous DCM (8 mL) at -78 0C and under N 2 atmosphere was added BBr 3
(0.19 mL, 2.0 mmol) dropwise. The resulting mixture was stirred for 1 hr at -78 0C before
allowed to slowly warm up to rt., quenched with ice-water, and basified with sodium carbonate
solution to pH 6~7. The solution was concentrated in vacuo, and the residue was purified by
preparative HPLC (RP, C18, 10 to 95% acetonitrile in water (0.2% NH 3 'H2 0)) to give (E)-N-(3
(6-amino-7-(4-(4-hydroxyphenoxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4
(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide (269) (32 mg, 14%) as a white solid. LC
MS (ESI): m/z (M +1) 578.1.
[00728] 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.23 (s, 1H), 8.10 (s, 1H), 7.70 - 7.53 (m, 3H), 7.44 (d, J
=  8.8 Hz, 2H), 7.33 (d, J= 7.7 Hz, 1H), 7.10 - 6.91 (m, 4H), 6.80 (d, J= 8.9 Hz, 2H), 6.74
6.60 (m, 1H), 6.07 - 5.91 (m, 1H), 5.78 (s, 2H), 3.27 (s, 3H), 3.11 (d, J= 6.4 Hz, 2H), 2.11 (s,
3H), 1.64 - 1.54 (m, 1H), 0.37 - 0.25 (m, 2H), 0.25 - 0.14 (m, 2H).
                                              -228-

Example 56: Synthesis of (E)-N-(4-(6-amino-9-(3-(4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N
methylbut-2-enamido)phenyl)-8-oxo-8,9-dihydro-7H-purin-7-yl)phenyl)benzamide                                        (274)
                               Br                               H                                            H
                                         TEA                    N  O       BuLi _ B(O'Pr)3                   N O
                                                                          THF                 (HO)2B
                      CI       NH2       DCM     Br
                                                            270                                          271
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                   HN
                   NH2
                         H                              H
                             O                                       Cu(OAc) 2, PY         NH2
                                        (HO)2B                        DMF, 4A MS
                                                                                           N    N0
                           /    N                  271
                                Boc
                     24
                                                                                                    /  N
                                                                                                      Boc
                                        O                                           0           272
                                    HN                                          HN
                           NH2                               7         NH2
                TFA                          H                       N   .   N
                           N      N            oxalyl chloride         N      N
                                                DMF, DCM               N          N     (        N
                                     bN                                      bN
                                        H
                                273                                           274
[00729] To a stirred solution of 4-bromoaniline (4.7 g, 27 mmol) and TEA (3.8 mL, 27 mmol) in
anhydrous DCM (30 mL) at 0 0C and under N 2 atmosphere was added benzoyl chloride (3.8 mL,
33 mmol) dropwise. Stirring was continued for 1 hr at rt before quenched with MeOH (10 mL).
The resulting mixture was concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was washed with ether and
water, dried in vacuo to give N-(4-bromophenyl)benzamide (270) (7.0 g, 93%) as a white solid.
LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M/M+2) 276.0/278.0.
[00730] In a similar manner as described in Example 55, 4-benzamidophenylboronic acid (271)
(0.73 g, 42%) was prepared as a yellow solid from N-(4-bromophenyl)benzamide (270) (2.0 g).
LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 242.1.
[00731] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(4
benzamidophenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate                                   (272) (227 mg, 73%)
was prepared from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate
(24) (200 mg) and 4-benzamidophenylboronic acid (271) (406 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1)
552.1.
[00732] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, N-(4-(6-amino-9-(3
(methylamino)phenyl)-8-oxo-8,9-dihydro-7H-purin-7-yl)phenyl)benzamide                                   (273) (186 mg,
100%) was prepared from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(4-benzamidophenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (272) (227 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 452.1.
[00733] In a similar manner as described in Example 53, (E)-N-(4-(6-amino-9-(3-(4
                                                             - 229 -

(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamido)phenyl)-8-oxo-8,9-dihydro-7H-purin-7
yl)phenyl)benzamide (274) (85 mg, 35%) was prepared as a white solid starting from N-(4-(6
amino-9-(3-(methylamino)phenyl)-8-oxo-8,9-dihydro-7H-purin-7-yl)phenyl)benzamide                   (273)
(186 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 589.1. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 10.49 (s, 1H), 8.12
(s, 1H), 8.03 - 7.93 (m, 4H), 7.68 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 1H), 7.64 - 7.45 (m, 7H), 7.39 - 7.29 (m, 1H),
6.78 - 6.57 (m, 1H), 6.01 (d, J= 14.9 Hz, 1H), 5.77 (s, 2H), 3.28 (s, 3H), 3.12 (d, J= 6.2 Hz,
2H), 2.12 (s, 3H), 1.66 - 1.53 (m,1H), 0.36 - 0.29 (m, 2H), 0.24 - 0.18 (m, 2H).
Example 57: Synthesis of (E)-4-(6-amino-9-(3-(4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N
methylbut-2-enamido)phenyl)-8-oxo-8,9-dihydro-7H-purin-7-yl)-N-phenylbenzamide                       (280)
                             OH 1) SOCl2              H         B2(Pin)2                     H
                 Br              2) aniline  Br                Pd(dppf)C12          9
                                                   275                              0    276
                                                  NH2
                                                        H                             H
                                                N
                                                 N
                                                                         Bc   NH 2
                 NaO4:                              24            Boc               N          TFA
                       (HO)2B              H      Cu(OAc)2/py/DMF             N
                                      277                                              N
                                                                                  278
                              O    H
                                     0                     01H
                                                                N
                       NH2                          NH2
                                        O>=o
                            N   N      H            N    N
                                                             -   N          N
                               -NH
                          279                             280
[00734] A suspension of 4-bromobenzoic acid (4.02 g, 20 mmol) in SOCl 2 (40 mL) was heated
to reflux for lhr. Excess SOCl 2 was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was
diluted with DCM (10 mL) before it was introduced into a solution of aniline (1.86 g, 20 mmol)
and TEA (1 mL) in DCM (10 mL) at 00 C under N 2 atmosphere. The resulting mixture was
stirred at r.t. overnight and was next quenched with IN NaOH (30 mL). The layers were
separated and the organic layer was washed with IN HCl (30 mL), H2 0, dried over Na 2 SO 4 and
concentrated to provide 4-bromo-N-phenylbenzamide (275) (4.47 g, 810%) as a white solid. LC
MS (ESI): m/z (M/M+2) 274.0/276.0.
[00735] A suspension of 4-bromo-N-phenylbenzamide (4.47 g, 16.188 mmol), 4-bromo-N
phenylbenzamide (4.11 g, 16.188 mmol), Pd(dppf)C12~DCM (397 mg, 0.486 mmol) and KOAc
(4.766 g, 48.564 mmol) in dioxane (100 mL) was purged with N 2 (3X). The reaction mixture
                                                       -230-

was then stirred at 90'C overnight. The solvents were evaporated and the residue was directly
purified by flash chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 10% EA in PE/DCM(1/1)) to afford N-phenyl
4-(4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-1,3,2- dioxaborolan-2-yl)benzamide (276) (5.4 g, 100%) as a yellow
solid. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 324.1.
[00736] To a solution of N-phenyl-4-(4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-1,3,2-dioxaborolan-2-yl)benzamide
(1.94 g, 6 mmol) in THF/H 2 0 (40 mL / 8mL) was added NaIO 4 (7.70 g, 36 mmol). The
resulting mixture was stirred at r.t. overnight before diluted with EA (30 mL) and H 2 0 (30 mL).
The product was extracted with 850% DCM/IPA (100 mL). The organic extract was dried over
Na 2 SO 4 . Filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography (silica
gel, 0 to 50% EA in PE) to provide 4-(phenylcarbamoyl)phenylboronic acid (277) (816 mg,
56%). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M-1) 240.0.
[00737] In a similar manner as described in Example 7, tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
(phenylcarbamoyl)phenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl (methyl)carbamate (278) (225 mg, 41%)
was prepared as a yellow oil from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (24) (356 mg) and 4-(phenylcarbamoyl)phenylboronic acid (241
mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 551.8.
[00738] In a similar manner as described in Example 7, (E)-4-(6-amino-9-(3-(4
(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamido)phenyl)-8-oxo-8,9-dihydro-7H-purin-7
yl)-N-phenylbenzamide (280) (75 mg, 37%) was prepared as a white solid in two steps starting
from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-(phenylcarbamoyl)phenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl
(methyl)carbamate (278) (225 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 589.1.          1H  NMR (400 MHz,
DMSO) 6 10.37 (s, 1H), 9.52 (br, 1H), 8.21 - 8.11 (m, 3H), 7.79 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 2H), 7.71 (d, J
8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.67 - 7.58 (m, 4H), 7.43 - 7.32 (m, 3H), 7.11 (t, J= 7.4 Hz, 1H), 6.70 (dt, J=
14.9, 7.4 Hz, 1H), 6.48 - 6.24 (m, 1H), 6.03 (s, 2H), 3.94 (s, 2H), 3.32 (s, 3H), 2.75 (s, 4H), 0.94
- 0.64 (m, 4H).
                                                - 231 -

Example 58: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4-phenoxyphenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide                                  (285)
                                                                                          NH2
                                                                                                 H
                                                                                            N
                                                                                        N-         >=O
                                                                                          N
                                                                                           24            Boc
           MeO  -::Br     PhB(OH) 2
                                    MeO
                                    Me
                                             ~Br
                                            1B         n-BuLi
                                                                    Me-,BO)
                                                                    MeO         B(OH)2
                                                                                                       N
            HO
                    )LJ   Cu(OAc)2
                                    PhO
                                                           -~~
                                                      B(Oi-Pr)3      PhO
                                         281                                282
                          Ph            MeO      Ph                                MeO        Ph
                MeO
                NH2    -               NH2                 7    N ,-,,,OH          NH2
                      N                N     N                                     N                O
                                                                                                 N
                             N BN
                                                    H
                      283                    284                                         285
[00739] In a similar manner as described in Example 40, 4-bromo-2-methoxy-1
phenoxybenzene (281) (1.6 g, 78%) was prepared from 4-bromo-2-methoxyphenol (1.5 g).
[00740] In a similar manner as described in Example 40, 3-methoxy-4-phenoxyphenylboronic
acid (282) (488 mg, 56%) was prepared from 4-bromo-2-methoxy-1-phenoxybenzene (281) (1.0
g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 243.1.
[00741] In a similar manner as described in Example 40, tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4
phenoxyphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate                         (283) (342 mg, 44%) was
prepared from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (24)
(500 mg) and 3-methoxy-4-phenoxyphenylboronic acid (282) (488 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z
(M+1) 555.2.
[00742] In a similar manner as described in Example 40, 6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4
phenoxyphenyl)-9-(3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (284) (quant.) was prepared
from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4-phenoxyphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (283) (170 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 455.2.
[00743] In a similar manner as described in Example 40, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(3-methoxy-4
phenoxyphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut
2-enamide (285) (118 mg, 66%) was prepared as a white solid starting from 6-amino-7-(3
methoxy-4-phenoxyphenyl)-9-(3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one                               (284) (136 mg).
LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 592.3. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.12 (s, 1H), 7.73 - 7.53 (m,
3H), 7.33 (dd, J= 14.1, 5.4 Hz, 4H), 7.15 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.10 - 7.03 (m, 2H), 6.99 (d, J=
7.7 Hz, 2H), 6.73 - 6.63 (m, 1H), 6.06 - 5.92 (m, 3H), 3.76 (s, 3H), 3.28 (s, 3H), 3.12 (d, J= 5.9
Hz, 2H), 2.12 (s, 3H), 1.64 - 1.55 (m, 1H), 0.35 - 0.28 (m, 2H), 0.24 - 0.17 (m, 2H).
                                                     -232-

Example 59: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(2-methyl-4-phenoxyphenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide                                        (290)
                                 0                                                               P        B(OH)2
                                                                             BuLi     B(OPr) 3
                                      OH        u(OAc)2, PBr
                          Br
              HO                               DCM,4AMS PhO                  THIF                PhO
                                                                286                                  287
                                                                                        Ph
                   NH2
                          NH                      Ph                         NH2
                           N =0                          Cu(OAc)2, Py             N              TFA
                       N               +                                           >O
                             -                           DMF, 4A MS          N    N
                                 /N             B(OH)2
                                                                                     /N
                         24                     287                                        Boc
                                                                                  288
                              Ph                                       Ph
                  NH 2              HO                       NH2
                N         >  O          oxalyl chloride   N        N
                  N      N                DMF.DCM            N      6      _
                                 N
                                 H                                        N
                        289                                        290
[00744] In a similar manner as described in Example 55, 1-bromo-2-methyl-4-phenoxybenzene
(286) (8.0 g, 95%) was prepared as a yellow liquid from 4-bromo-3-methylphenol (6.0 g) and
phenylboronic acid (11.7 g).
[00745] In a similar manner as described in Example 55, 2-methyl-4-phenoxyphenylboronic
acid (287) (3.0 g, 87%) was prepared as a white solid from 1-bromo-2-methyl-4
phenoxybenzene (286) (4.0 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M-1) 226.0.
[00746] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(2-methyl-4
phenoxyphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl (methyl)carbamate (288) (350 mg, 52%) was
prepared as a brown oil from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (24) (450 mg) and 2-methyl-4-phenoxyphenylboronic acid (287)
(861 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 539.1.
[00747] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, 6-amino-7-(2-methyl-4
phenoxyphenyl)-9-(3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (289) (195 mg, 68%) was
prepared as a brown oil from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(2-methyl-4-phenoxyphenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl (methyl)carbamate (288) (350 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 439.1.
[00748] In a similar manner as described in Example 53, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(2-methyl-4
phenoxyphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut
2-enamide (290) (18 mg, 7%) was prepared as a white solid starting from 6-amino-7-(2-methyl
4-phenoxyphenyl)-9-(3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one                                  (289) (195 mg). LC-MS
(ESI): m/z (M+1) 576.1. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 9.46 (s, 1H), 8.13 (s, 1H), 7.80 - 7.53
                                                            -233-

(m, 3H), 7.46 - 7.37 (m, 3H), 7.24 - 7.11 (m, 3H), 7.08 (d, J= 2.6 Hz, 1H), 6.96 (dd, J= 8.5,
2.8 Hz, 1H), 6.74 - 6.63 (m, 1H), 6.39 - 6.23 (m, 1H), 5.72 (s, 2H), 4.02 - 3.85 (m, 2H), 3.31 (s,
3H), 2.84 - 2.64 (m, 4H), 2.16 (s, 3H), 0.91 - 0.64 (m, 4H).
Example 60: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(4-(benzyloxy)-3-methoxyphenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide                         (295)
                                                                                       NH2
                                                                                           H
                                                                                           N
                                                                                       N   N
           MeO       Br      BnBr                   Br     n-BuLi   MeO     B(OH)2             N24
                                                                                                 Boc
                                       BnO                B(Oi-Pr)3 BnO
            HO          K2 CO 3 , MeCN
                                           291                          292
               Meo    OBn               Meo       OBn                         Me     OBn
               NH2                 TFO  M2 N
                                        NH                   7,N              NH2
                 NN                     NF    N                                 N
                             ,Boc//
                                                       N                                 N
                           N,H
                           N
                   293                         294                                 295
[00749] In a similar manner as described in Example 49, 1-(benzyloxy)-4-bromo-2
methoxybenzene (291) (1.44 g, quant.) was prepared from 4-bromo-2-methoxyphenol (1 g) and
(bromomethyl)benzene (0.93 g).
[00750] In a similar manner as described in Example 49, 4-(benzyloxy)-3
methoxyphenylboronic acid (292) (410 mg, 59%) was prepared from 1-(benzyloxy)-4-bromo-2
methoxybenzene (291) (800 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M-1) 257.1.
[00751] In a similar manner as described in Example 7, tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(4-(benzyloxy)
3-methoxyphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl) phenyl(methyl)carbamate (293) (324 mg, 37%)
was prepared from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate
(24) (550 mg) and 4-(benzyloxy)-3-methoxyphenylboronic acid (292) (400 mg). LC-MS (ESI):
m/z (M+1) 569.3.
[00752] In a similar manner as described in Example 49, 6-amino-7-(4-(benzyloxy)-3
methoxyphenyl)-9-(3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one                    (294) (quant.) was prepared
from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(4-(benzyloxy)-3-methoxyphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)
phenyl(methyl)carbamate (293) (170 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 469.3.
[00753] In a similar manner as described in Example 7, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(4-(benzyloxy)-3
methoxyphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut
2-enamide (295) (53 mg, 29%) was prepared from 6-amino-7-(4-(benzyloxy)-3
methoxyphenyl)-9-(3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one                    (294) (140 mg). LC-MS
                                                         -234-

(ESI): m/z (M+1) 606.3.       HNMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.10 (s, 1H), 7.67 (d, J= 7.9 Hz, 1H),
7.62 - 7.57 (m, 2H), 7.47 (d, J= 7.3 Hz, 2H), 7.40 (t, J= 7.4 Hz, 2H), 7.33 (d, J= 5.1 Hz, 2H),
7.19 (dd, J= 9.9, 5.4 Hz, 2H), 7.05 (dd, J= 8.5, 2.3 Hz, 1H), 6.68 (dd, J= 14.2, 7.6 Hz, 1H),
6.13 - 5.92 (m, 1H), 5.73 (br, 2H), 5.15 (s, 2H), 3.78 (s, 3H), 3.27 (s, 3H), 3.11 (d, J= 6.0 Hz,
2H), 2.12 (s, 3H), 1.68 - 1.53 (m, 1H), 0.36 - 0.15 (m, 4H).
Example 61: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(2-methyl-4-phenoxyphenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-methylphenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enamide                                (298)
                                                                                      OPh
                      NH2
                          H                       Ph                         NH2
                                                            Cu(OAc) 2, PY N       N             TFA
                      N   N             +      -
                                                            DMF,4A MS        N    N             DCM
                              /     NHBoc       B(OH)2
                                               287                                        NHBoc
                          251
                                                                                    296
                                OPh                                           Ph
                      NH2                   O                         NH2
                          NH > =N         O                       N       >N                N
                                           oxalyl chloride            N        o           N
                        N
                      N                      D MF DCM
                          \/        NH2                                          NH
                           297                                             298
[00754] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(2-methyl-4
phenoxyphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-methylphenylcarbamate                              (296) (245 mg, 310%) was
prepared as a brown oil from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5
methylphenylcarbamate (251) (520 mg) and 2-methyl-4-phenoxyphenylboronic acid (287) (995
mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 539.1.
[00755] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, 6-amino-9-(3-amino-5-methylphenyl)-7
(2-methyl-4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (297) (199 mg, quant.) was prepared as a
brown oil from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(2-methyl-4-phenoxyphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)
5-methylphenylcarbamate (296) (245 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 439.1.
[00756] In a similar manner as described in Example 53, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(2-methyl-4
phenoxyphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-methylphenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)but
2-enamide (298) (17 mg, 6%) was prepared as a white solid from 6-amino-9-(3-amino-5
methylphenyl)-7-(2-methyl-4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one                             (297) (199 mg). LC-MS
(ESI): m/z (M+1) 576.1.      1H   NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 10.18 (s, 1H), 8.09 (s, 1H), 7.77 (s,
1H), 7.53 (s, 1H), 7.49 - 7.36 (m, 3H), 7.24 - 7.10 (m, 4H), 7.07 (d, J= 2.5 Hz, 1H), 6.97 - 6.90
(m, 1H), 6.81 - 6.70 (m, 1H), 6.22 (d, J= 15.2 Hz, 1H), 5.62 (s, 2H), 3.28 - 3.26 (m, 2H), 2.34
(s, 3H), 2.24 (s, 3H), 2.16 (s, 3H), 1.75 - 1.68 (m, 1H), 0.47 - 0.37 (m,2H), 0.36 - 0.25 (m, 2H).
                                                           -235-

Example 62: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(2-methyl-4-phenoxyphenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-methoxyphenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enamide                                   (301)
                                                                                       OPh
                     NH2                          Ph                          NH2
                     N    N             +                   Cu(OAc) 2, Py  N                      TFA
                     N    N                                                 Q      N>=o           DC
                                                            DMF, 4A MS        N                   DCM
                              /     NHBoc      B(OH)2
                        O                      287                                    /    NHBoc
                          260                                                    O   299
                                OPh                                          OPh
                      NH2   -NH2
                                                                          -    1
                                 N      HO                                    ON
                      N                    oxalyl chloride            NKO
                                             DMF, DCM                             NH
                                /Ob NH2      8
                             300                                            301
[00757] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(2-methyl-4
phenoxyphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-methoxyphenylcarbamate                                 (299) (359 mg, 50%)
was prepared as a brown oil from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5
methoxyphenylcarbamate (251) (487 mg) and 2-methyl-4-phenoxyphenylboronic acid (287)
(895 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 555.1.
[00758] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, 6-amino-9-(3-amino-5-methoxyphenyl)
7-(2-methyl-4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (300) (243 mg, 83%) was prepared as a
brown oil from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(2-methyl-4-phenoxyphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)
5-methoxyphenylcarbamate (299) (359 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 455.1.
[00759] In a similar manner as described in Example 53, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(2-methyl-4
phenoxyphenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-5-methoxyphenyl)-4
(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enamide (301) (35 mg, 6%) was prepared as a white solid
from 6-amino-9-(3-amino-5-methylphenyl)-7-(2-methyl-4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one
(300) (243 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 593.2. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 10.23 (s, 1H),
8.10 (s, 1H), 7.57 - 7.50 (m, 1H), 7.48 - 7.39 (m, 4H), 7.24 - 7.11 (m, 3H), 7.07 (d, J= 2.6 Hz,
1H), 6.98 - 6.89 (m, 2H), 6.83 - 6.70 (m, 1H), 6.21 (d, J= 15.4 Hz, 1H), 5.63 (s, 2H), 3.76 (s,
3H), 3.28 (d, J= 6.2 Hz, 2H), 2.25 (s, 3H), 2.16 (s, 3H), 1.77 - 1.68 (m, 1H), 0.45 - 0.39 (m,
2H), 0.34 - 0.28 (m, 2H).
                                                           -236-

Example 63: Synthesis of (E)-6-amino-9-(4-(4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enoyl)-3,4
dihydro-2H-benzo[b] [1,4]oxazin-6-yl)-7-(4-(3-fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one
(306)
                             Br
                     F             Cu(OAC)2,M       B   r   O          F   nBuLi    B( Pr)3         C    O      _F
                                   DCM,4AMS      Br                         THF             (H0)2 B
               B(OH)  2      OH                           302                                           303
                                                                                            O
               NH 2                              F                                   H                F
                                     NH
               N      N              +                         Cu(OAc)2, Py             N                TFA
                              NBoc                             DMF, 4A MS           N(  NO               DCM
                                       (HO)2B
                    158                         303                                         /    NBoc
                                                                                             0
                                                                                       304
                                 F                                               F
              NH2                   FN                         H2                 F
               N'N                   H               N,,
               N ~       O(COCI)2,            DMF, DCM
              N     N                                         N    N        O/
                         \/NH
                          Oj                                             0
                     305                                           306
[00760] In a similar manner as described in Example 55, 1-(4-bromophenoxy)-3-fluorobenzene
(302) (2.5 g, 96%) was prepared as a yellow solid from 4-bromophenol (1.7 g) and 3
fluorophenylboronic acid (1.95 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 267.1.
[00761] In a similar manner as described in Example 55, 4-(3-fluorophenoxy)phenylboronic
acid (303) (1.7 g, 78%) was prepared as a yellow solid from 1-(4-bromophenoxy)-3
fluorobenzene (302) (2.5 g). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 231.0.
[00762] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, tert-butyl 6-(6-amino-7-(4-(3
fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2H-benzo[b][1,4]oxazine-4(3H)-carboxylate
(304) (317 mg, 57%) was prepared as a brown oil from tert-butyl 6-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin
9(8H)-yl)-2H-benzo[b][1,4]oxazine-4(3H)-carboxylate (158) (372 mg) and 4-(3
fluorophenoxy)phenylboronic acid (303) (340 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 571.0.
[00763] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, 6-amino-9-(3,4-dihydro-2H
benzo[b][1,4]oxazin-6-yl)-7-(4-(3-fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one                                  (305) (261 mg,
quant.) was prepared as a brown oil from tert-butyl 6-(6-amino-7-(4-(3-fluorophenoxy)phenyl)
8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2H-benzo[b][1,4]oxazine-4(3H)-carboxylate(304) (317 mg). LC
MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 470.9.
[00764] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, (E)-6-amino-9-(4-(4
                                                             -237-

(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enoyl)-3,4-dihydro-2H-benzo[b] [1,4]oxazin-6-yl)-7-(4-(3
fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (306) (72 mg, 21%) was prepared as a white solid
starting from 6-amino-9-(3,4-dihydro-2H-benzo[b][1,4]oxazin-6-yl)-7-(4-(3
fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (305) (261 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 607.6.
 H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.11 (s, 1H), 7.55 - 7.37 (m, 3H), 7.32 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 1H), 7.22
(d, J= 8.8 Hz, 2H), 7.10 - 6.92 (m, 4H), 6.84 - 6.67 (m, 2H), 5.93 (s, 2H), 4.39 - 4.25 (m, 2H),
4.04 - 3.87 (m, 2H), 2.48 (s, 3H, overlapped with DMSO), 2.38 - 1.99 (m, 3H), 0.60 - 0.01 (m,
4H).
Example 64: Synthesis of (S,E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(4-(3-fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-N-methyl-4-(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)amino)but-2-enamide
(309)
                                                  0          F                    F
                  NH2                               la           NI
                           O      (HO)2B        303                  N                 TFA
                                                                 N                     DM
                       N          Cu(OAc)2, Py, DMF, 4A MS
                    N        -O                                          N
                                          /                                  Boc
                      24                                                307
                                   F            '         121                    F
                    NH2                 HO                121    NH2             F
                         N              (COCI)2, DMF, TH       N     NO
                    N                          DCM               N           \      N
                                N                                           N
                                H
                           308                                        309
[00765] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(4-(3
fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl (methyl)carbamate (307) (353 mg,
510%) was prepared as a brown oil from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl(methyl)carbamate (24) (459 mg) and 4-(3-fluorophenoxy)phenylboronic acid (303)
(300 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 543.2.
[00766] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, 6-amino-7-(4-(3
fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-9-(3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one                   (308) (quant.) was
prepared as a brown oil from tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(4-(3-fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl (methyl)carbamate (307) (118 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 443.2.
[00767] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, (S,E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(4-(3
fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-N-methyl-4-(methyl(tetrahydrofuran
3-yl)amino)but-2-enamide (309) (13 mg, 9%) was prepared as a white solid starting from 6
                                                       -238-

amino-7-(4-(3-fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-9-(3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one(308)
(97 mg) and (SE)-4-(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)amino)but-2-enoic acid (81 mg) (121). LC
MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 610.1.             1H   NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.11 (s, 1H), 7.69 - 7.40 (m, 6H),
7.34 (d, J= 8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.22 (d, J= 7.8 Hz, 2H), 7.08 - 6.92 (m, 3H), 6.71 - 6.59 (m,1H), 6.12
- 5.99 (m, 1H), 5.94 (s, 2H), 3.73 - 3.64 (m, 1H), 3.62 - 3.46 (m, 2H), 3.41 - 3.33 (i, 1H), 3.27
(s, 3H), 3.11 - 2.88 (m, 3H), 2.00 (s, 3H), 1.90 - 1.72 (m, 1H), 1.70 - 1.50 (m, 1H).
Example 65: Synthesis of (E)-N-(5-(6-amino-7-(4-(3-fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)-2-methoxyphenyl)-4-(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide
(312)
                NH2    HFF
                                 N)K                                          NH2
                                     +                     Cu(OAc) 2 , Py       N          TFA
                N     N
                                        (HO)2B             DMF, 4A MS                      DCM
                                  \     (HO)2Ba
                     168      0P                   303                             \ / Boc
                                                                                310 /0
                  NH 2 -                                    NH2
                         N     O        COCl02, DMF, DCM                          N
                                               DCM
                           \/NH                                           -N\
                         311                                    312
[00768] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, tert-butyl 5-(6-amino-7-(4-(3
fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2-methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate                   (310)
(263 mg, 36%) was prepared as a brown oil from tert-butyl 5-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)-2-methoxyphenyl(methyl) carbamate (168) (500 mg) and 4-(3-fluorophenoxy)phenylboronic
acid (303) (500 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 573.1.
[00769] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, 6-amino-7-(4-(3
fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-9-(4-methoxy-3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one                   (311) (217
mg, quant.) was prepared as a brown oil from tert-butyl 5-(6-amino-7-(4-(3
fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2-methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate                   (310)
(263 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 473.1.
[00770] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, (E)-N-(5-(6-amino-7-(4-(3
fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2-methoxyphenyl)-4
(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide (312) (29 mg, 10%) was prepared as a
                                                         -239-

white solid starting from 6-amino-7-(4-(3-fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-9-(4-methoxy-3
(methylamino)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (311) (217 mg) and (E)-4
(cyclopropyl(methyl)amino)but-2-enoic acid hydrochloride salt (176 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z
(M+1) 610.1.    HNMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.09 (s, 1H), 7.65 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 1H), 7.59- 7.37
(m, 4H), 7.30 (d, J= 9.1 Hz, 1H), 7.22 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 2H), 7.10 - 6.91 (m, 3H), 6.70 - 6.56 (m,
1H), 5.91 (s, 2H), 5.81 (d, J= 15.1 Hz, 1H), 3.83 (s, 3H), 3.12 (s, 3H), 3.07 (d, J= 6.5 Hz, 2H),
2.10 (s, 3H), 1.64 - 1.50 (m, 1H), 0.31 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 0.24 - 0.14 (m, 2H).
Example 66: Synthesis of (S,E)-N-(5-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)-2-methoxyphenyl)-N-methyl-4-(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)amino)but-2-enamide
(313)
                                    Ph                                  Ph
                             NbHO                       N   NH2
                              N                  121N
                               >=o     N(COCl)2, DMF, DCM     -   N
                             N__N                           N   N
                               N-NH            DCM
                                                                   \
                                  O NH
                                  /P                                   /P
                            170                                    313
[00771] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, (S,E)-N-(5-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2-methoxyphenyl)-N-methyl-4-(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3
yl)amino)but-2-enamide (313) (8 mg, 3%) was prepared as a white solid starting from 6-amino
9-(4-methoxy-3-(methylamino)phenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one           (170) (200
mg) and (SE)-4-(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)amino)but-2-enoic acid (195 mg) (121). LC-MS
(ESI): m/z (M+1) 622.1.    1H  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.09 (s, 1H), 7.69 - 7.61 (m, 1H), 7.57
- 7.52 (m, 1H), 7.51 - 7.38 (m, 4H), 7.30 (d, J= 8.9 Hz, 1H), 7.19 (d, J= 7.4 Hz, 1H), 7.17
7.11 (m, 4H), 6.67 - 6.54 (m, 1H), 5.90 - 5.75 (m, 3H), 3.83 (s, 3H), 3.75 - 3.64 (m, 1H), 3.62
3.43 (m, 2H), 3.42 - 3.31 (m, 1H), 3.12 (s, 3H), 3.04 - 2.84 (m, 3H), 1.98 (s, 3H), 1.86 - 1.73
(m, 1H), 1.70 - 1.51 (m, 1H).
                                                    - 240 -

Example 67: Synthesis of (S,E)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(4-(3-fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)amino)but-2-enamide                               (316)
                                                          0       F                       F
                   NH2   H               (H)2                           NH2
                             N           (HO) 2B
                               O                       303            N     N                   TFA
                   N     N               Cu(OAc)2, Py, DMF, 4A MS       N   N                   DCM
                           /       NHBo                                         /   NHBoc
                       5                                                        314
                                 0
                                          F                   0F                O
                     NH2     -                                          NH2
                                                 HO      121
                     N     N                    (COCI)2, DMF, THF       N   N
                                                                                              N
                                     NH2               DCM
                               315                                          316
[00772] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(4-(3
fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenylcarbamate                           (314) (650 mg, 65%) was
prepared as a light yellow solid from tert-butyl 5-(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)-2
methoxyphenyl(methyl)carbamate (5) (650 mg) and 4-(3-fluorophenoxy)phenylboronic acid
(303) (880 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 529.2.
[00773] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, 6-amino-9-(3-aminophenyl)-7-(4-(3
fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (315) (quant.) was prepared as a yellow oil from
tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-7-(4-(3-fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenylcarbamate (314) (650 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 429.2.
[00774] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, (SE)-N-(3-(6-amino-7-(4-(3
fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3
yl)amino)but-2-enamide (316) (21 mg, 15%) was prepared as a white solid starting from 6
amino-9-(3-aminophenyl)-7-(4-(3-fluorophenoxy)phenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one                            (315) (100 mg)
and (SE)-4-(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)amino)but-2-enoic acid (51 mg) (121). LC-MS (ESI):
m/z (M+1) 596.1. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 10.28 (s, 1H), 8.10 (s, 1H), 8.01 (s, 1H), 7.67
(d, J= 7.9 Hz, 1H), 7.55 (d, J= 8.6 Hz, 2H), 7.48 - 7.40 (m, 2H), 7.31 (d, J= 7.7 Hz, 1H), 7.22
(d, J= 8.6 Hz, 2H), 7.15 - 6.88 (m, 3H), 6.79 - 6.72 (m, 1H), 6.29 (d, J= 15.7 Hz, 1H), 3.82
3.70 (m, 2H), 3.65 - 3.56 (m, 1H), 3.52 - 3.45 (m, 1H), 3.18 - 3.08 (m, 3H), 2.14 (s, 3H), 2.01
1.90 (m, 1H), 1.78 - 1.67 (m, 1H).
Example 68: Synthesis of (S,E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-4-(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)amino)but-2-enamide                              (317)
                                                             - 241  -

                                     100                                 1-0
                       NH2                                      NH2
                           N =121
                       N   N               (COC0)2, DMF, THF    N   N
                                   NH2            DCM                             NN
                             7                                       317
[00775] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, (SE)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)amino)but-2
enamide (317) (10 mg, 7%) was prepared as a white solid starting from 6-amino-9-(3
aminophenyl)-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (7) (100 mg) and (SE)-4
(methyl(tetrahydrofuran-3-yl)amino)but-2-enoic acid (67 mg) (121). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1)
578.1. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 10.26 (s, 1H), 8.09 (s, 1H), 8.00 (s, 1H), 7.71 - 7.61 (m,
1H), 7.56 - 7.35 (m, 5H), 7.34 - 7.25 (m, 1H), 7.23 - 7.02 (m, 5H), 6.79 - 6.70 (m, 1H), 6.28 (d,
J= 16.1 Hz, 1H), 5.80 (s, 2H), 3.87 - 3.67 (m, 2H), 3.66 - 3.55 (m, 1H), 3.54 - 3.42 (m, 1H),
3.20 - 3.05 (m, 3H), 2.14 (s, 3H), 2.02 - 1.87 (m, 1H), 1.81 - 1.65 (m, 1H).
Example 69: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-4-((2-methoxyethyl)(methyl)amino)but-2-enamide                   (318)
                                                                         O
                   NH2                 MeO                   OH NH2
                        N                (COCI)2, DMF, DCM                O          OMe
                             NDOM                               N   b         0   N
                       N      NH 2                                           H
                       7                                                 318
[00776] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4-((2-methoxyethyl)(methyl)amino)but-2-enamide
(318) (36 mg, 27%) was prepared as a white solid starting from 6-amino-9-(3-aminophenyl)-7
(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (7) (100 mg) and (E)-4-((2
methoxyethyl)(methyl)amino)but-2-enoic acid (62 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 566.1. 1H
NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 10.29 (s, 1H), 8.10 (s, 1H), 8.00 (s, 1H), 7.68 (d, J= 8.3 Hz, 1H),
7.55 - 7.38 (m, 5H), 7.31 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 1H), 7.23 - 7.08 (m, 5H), 6.74 (dt, J= 15.4, 6.0 Hz,
1H), 6.29 (d, J= 15.3 Hz, 1H), 5.82 (br, 2H), 3.44 (t, J= 5.7 Hz, 2H), 3.27 - 3.13 (m, 5H), 2.64
- 2.53 (m, 2H), 2.32 - 2.17 (m, 3H).
                                                      - 242  -

Example 70: Synthesis of (R,E)-2-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)piperidine-1-carbonyl)-3-cyclopropylacrylonitrile (324)
                        NC       0Oj<                                          TFA          OH
                                            piperidine            ON                   ON
                             319               EtOH              320                 321
                                                                       OPh                   OPh
                    NH2                B         OPh         NH2                    NH2
                           >O       HO
                                                                   N       TFA, DCM    NN
                    N     N           Cu(OAc)2                        -- O                    O
                                      Py, 4AMS               N     N                N     N
                              N'Boc     DMF                       LN-Boc                 LNH
                      87                                       322                     323
                             O                           0
                        -      OH
                           CN                 NH2
                         321                         N
                     HBTU, DMF                    N N
                                              N        N
                                                            0
                                                     324
[00777] To a solution of cyclopropanecarbaldehyde (4 g, 57 mmol) in EtOH (50 mL) were
added tert-butyl 2-cyanoacetate (319) (8.04 g, 57 mmol) and piperidine (628 mg, 7.4 mmol).
The resulting mixture was stirred at 85 C for 2 hrs under N 2 atmosphere. The solvents were
removed under vacuum and the residue was purified by flash chromatography (silica gel, 0 to
5% EA in PE) to provide (E)-tert-butyl 2-cyano-3-cyclopropylacrylate (320) (7.7 g, 100 %).
[00778] To a solution of (E)-tert-butyl 2-cyano-3-cyclopropylacrylate (320) (7.7 g, 40 mmol) in
DCM (30 mL) was added TFA (30 mL). The resulting mixture was stirred at r.t. overnight.
Excess TFA was removed under vacuum. The residue was triturated with H2 0/MeOH (10:1, 10
mL X 3). The white solid was collected by filtration and dried to provide (E)-2-cyano-3
cyclopropylacrylic acid (321) (3.7 g, 68 %). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M-1) 136.0.
[00779] To a mixture of (R)-tert-butyl 3 -(6-amino-8-oxo-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)piperidine- 1
carboxylate (87) (200 mg, 0.6 mmol) and 4A MS (300 mg) in dry DMF (8 mL) were added 4
phenoxyphenylboronic acid (384 mg, 1.8 mmol), Cu(OAc) 2 (110 mg, 0.6 mmol) and pyridine
(284 [tL, 3.6 mmol). The reaction mixture was heated at 37 0 C for 5 h under an 02 atmosphere,
and filtered through a Celite pad. The filtrate was diluted with water (30 mL) and extracted with
EtOAc (10 mL X 3). The combined organic layer was washed with water and brine, dried over
Na 2 SO 4 , and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to
5% methanol in methylene chloride) to give (R)-tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)piperidine- 1-carboxylate as a brown solid (322) (297 mg,
99.0%). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 503.
                                                           -  243   -

[00780] To a solution of (R)-tert-butyl 3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin
9(8H)-yl)piperidine-1-carboxylate (322) (297 mg, 0.6 mmol) in DCM (8 mL) was added TFA (2
mL) dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at r.t. for 1 h and then concentrated. The
residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 0 to 5% methanol in methylene
chloride (0.3% Et 3N)) to give (R)-6-amino-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-9-(piperidin-3-yl)-7H-purin
8(9H)-one as a yellow solid (323) (227 mg, 95.4%). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 403.
[00781] In a similar manner as described in Example 21, (R,E)-2-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)piperidine-1-carbonyl)-3-cyclopropylacrylonitrile      (324) (13
mg, 11I% yield) was prepared as a white solid starting from (R)-3-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-1
(piperidin-3-yl)-1H- pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin-4-amine (323) (95 mg) and (E)-2-cyano-3
cyclopropylacrylic acid (321) (49 mg). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 522.1.       1H NMR (400 MHz,
DMSO) 6 8.12 (s, 1H), 7.50 - 7.35 (m, 4H), 7.26 - 7.04 (m, 5H), 6.70 - 6.55 (m, 1H), 5.77 (s,
2H), 4.64 - 3.39 (m, 4H), 2.70 - 2.51 (m, 1H), 2.02 - 1.46 (m, 5H), 1.19 - 1.09 (m, 2H), 0.97
0.85 (m, 2H).
Example 71: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-2-cyano-3-cyclopropyl-N-methylacrylamide             (325)
                                                     0                  0
                                                       OH
                        NH2                      CN             NH2
                             N                321                   N
                             N o           (COCI) 2, DMF            N==o
                        N    N                                  N N
                            32                                      325
[00782] In a similar manner as described in Example 5, (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4
phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-2-cyano-3-cyclopropyl-N-methylacrylamide           (325)
(29 mg, 15%) was prepared as a white solid starting from 6-amino-9-(3-(methylamino)phenyl)
7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-8(9H)-one (32) (150 mg) and (E)-2-cyano-3-cyclopropylacrylic
acid (86 mg) (121). LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 544.0.           1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 8.12 (s,
1H), 7.80 - 7.55 (m, 3H), 7.53 - 7.30 (m, 5H), 7.25 - 7.02 (m, 5H), 6.55 (d, J= 11.2 Hz, 1H),
5.89 (br, 2H), 3.34 (s, 3H), 1.82 - 1.62 (m, 1H), 1.13 - 1.03 (m, 2H), 0.80 - 0.68 (m, 2H).
                                                -  244    -

Example 72: Synthesis of (E)-4-amino-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H
purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-N-methylbut-2-enamide                  (326)
                                                   OPh
                                        NH2
                                      N H N
                                       N      N
                                                         0          NH2
                                              326
[00783] (E)-4-amino-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-N
methylbut-2-enamide (326) was prepared in a similar manner as described in the procedures
above. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 508.1.
Example 73: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-N-methyl-3-(1-methyl-1H-imidazol-4-yl)acrylamide             (327)
                                                   Ph
                                      NH2
                                      N     N
                                                       00     /   /N
                                             327
[00784] (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-N-methyl
3-(1-methyl-1H-imidazol-4-yl)acrylamide (327) was prepared in a similar manner as described
in the procedures above. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 559.1.
Example 74: Synthesis of (E)-N-((1s,4s)-4-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin
9(8H)-yl)cyclohexyl)-4-(dimethylamino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide              (328)
                                                     OPh
                                          NH2
                                       N  '~N
                                             NS>=o
                                                NN
                                                     N
                                                          0
                                                  328
[00785] (E)-N-((1 s,4s)-4-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)cyclohexyl)
4-(dimethylamino)-N-methylbut-2-enamide (328) was prepared in a similar manner as described
in the procedures above. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 542.1.
                                                 -  245     -

Example 75: Synthesis of (E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)
yl)phenyl)-4-(methylamino)but-2-enamide (329)
                                                       Ph
                                           NH2
                                         N     N
                                               N~   =
                                           N   N
                                                          0      NH
                                                     bN
                                                         H
                                               329
(E)-N-(3-(6-amino-8-oxo-7-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-7H-purin-9(8H)-yl)phenyl)-4
(methylamino)but-2-enamide (329) was prepared in a similar manner as described in the
procedures above. LC-MS (ESI): m/z (M+1) 508.1.
Example 76a: Btk in vitro Inhibitory Activity (method A)
TR-FRET assay
[00786] The Btk IC 50s of compounds disclosed herein is determined in both a cellular kinase
assay and in a cellular functional assay of BCR-induced calcium flux as described below.
[00787] Btk kinase activity is determined using a time-resolved fluorescence resonance energy
transfer (TR-FRET) methodology. Measurements are performed in a reaction volume of 50 tL
using 96-well assay plates. Kinase enzyme, inhibitor, ATP (at the Km for the kinase), and 1 tM
peptide substrate (Biotin-AVLESEEELYSSARQ-NH 2) are incubated in a reaction buffer
composed of 20 mM Tris, 50 mM NaCl, MgCl 2 (5-25 mM depending on the kinase), MnCl 2 (0
10 mM), 1 mM DTT, 0.1 mM EDTA, 0.010%bovine serum albumin, 0.0050% Tween-20, and
10% DMSO at pH 7.4 for one hour. The reaction is quenched by the addition of 1.2 equivalents
of EDTA (relative to divalent cation) in 25 tL of 1x Lance buffer (Perkin-Elmer). Streptavidin
APC (Perkin-Elmer) and Eu-labeled p-Tyr100 antibody (Perkin-Elmer) in 1x Lance buffer are
added in a 25 tL volume to give final concentrations of 100 nM and 2.5 nM, respectively, and
the mixture is allowed to incubate for one hour. The TR-FRET signal is measured on a
multimode plate reader with an excitation wavelength (xEx) of 330 nm and detection
wavelengths (XEm) of 615 and 665 nm. Activity is determined by the ratio of the fluorescence at
665 nm to that at 615 nm. For each compound, enzyme activity is measured at various
concentrations of compound. Negative control reactions are performed in the absence of
inhibitor in replicates of six, and two no-enzyme controls are used to determine baseline
fluorescence levels. Inhibition constants, Ki(app), were obtained using the program BatchKi
(Kuzmic et al. (2000), Anal. Biochem. 286:45-50). IC 5 os are obtained according to the equation:
[00788] IC 50  = {Ki(app)/(1+[ATP]/KmATP)} + [E]total/2;
[00789] For all kinases, [ATP]    = KmATP, [Btk]totai     = 0.5 nM and [Lck]totai = 6 nM.
                                                  -   246 -

Example 76b: Btk in vitro Inhibitory Activity (method B)
[00790] Kinase activity is measured in vitro using electrophoretic mobility shift assay. The
kinase reactions are assembled in a total volume of 25 tL in 384 well plates. The reactions
comprise: BTK enzyme (lnM, N-terminal His6-tagged, recombinant, full-length, human BTK
purified from baculovirus Sf21 insect cell system), inhibitor, ATP (16 tM, the apparent Km for
the kinase), fluorescently labeled peptide substrate (1 piM, FAM-GEEPLYWSFPAKKK-NH2)
in a reaction buffer composed of 100 mM HEPES, pH7.5, 5 mM MgCl 2 1 mM DTT, 0.l1%
bovine serum albumin, 0.010%Triton X- 100, and 1% DMSO. The reaction is incubated for one
hour and is quenched by the addition of 45 tL of termination buffer (100 mM HEPES, pH7.5,
0.010%Triton X-100, 30 mM EDTA). The terminated reactions are analyzed using 12 channel
LabChip@ 3000 microfluidic detection instrument (Caliper Life Sciences). The enzymatic
phosphorylation of the peptide results in a change in net charge, enabling electrophoretic
separation of product from substrate peptide. As substrate and product peptides are separated,
two peaks of fluorescence are observed. Change in the relative fluorescence intensity of the
substrate and product peaks is the parameter measured, reflecting enzyme activity. In the
presence of an inhibitor, the ratio between product and substrate is altered: the signal of the
product decreases, while the signal of the substrate increases.
[00791] Activity in each sample is determined as the product to sum ratio (PSR): P/(S+P), where
P is the peak height of the product peptide and S is the peak height of the substrate peptide. For
each compound, enzyme activity is measured at various concentrations (12 concentrations of
compound spaced by 3x dilution intervals). Negative control samples (0%- inhibition in the
absence of inhibitor) and positive control samples (100%-inhibition, in the presence of 20 mM
EDTA) are assembled in replicates of four and are used to calculate %-inhibition values for each
inhibitor at each concentration. Percent inhibition (Pil) is determined using following equation:
[00792] Pih= (PSRo% - PSRin)/(PSRo% - PSRiooo)* 100 , where PSRia is the product sum ratio
in the presence of inhibitor, PSRo% is the average product sum ration in the absence of inhibitor
and PSRioo% is the average product sum ratio in 100%-inhibition control samples;
[00793] The IC50 values of inhibitors are determined by 4 parameter sigmoidal dose-response
model fitting of the inhibition curves (Pin versus inhibitor concentration) using XLfit 4
software.
Example 76c: Btk in vitro Inhibitory Activity (method C)
[00794] Human Btk kinase (Genbank accession # NP_000052) was purified from insect cells as
a full-length construct containing a N-terminal 6X-His tag. Btk kinase activity was determined
using a radiometric filter binding assay. Measurements are performed in a low tL reaction
                                               - 247 -

volume 384-well assay plates. BTK enzyme (8 nM final in reaction), inhibitor (at requested
doses), and 0.2 mg/mL peptide substrate (Poly-Glu-Tyr, 4:1 ratio) are incubated in a reaction
buffer composed of 20 mM Hepes (pH 7.5), 10 mM MgCl 2 , 1 mM EGTA, 0.02% Brij35, 0.02
mg/ml BSA, 0.1 mM Na 3 VO 4 , 2 mM DTT, 1% DMSO for 15 min. followed by addition of 1
pM ATP to start the assay. Kinase reactions are carried out for 120 min. at RT. The reaction
was stopped by spotting of reaction sample onto P81 cationic exchange paper (Whatman).
Unbound phosphate was removed by extensive washing of filters in 0.75% Phosphoric acid.
After subtraction of background derived from control reactions containing inactive enzyme (via
addition of saturating EDTA), kinase activity data for each dose of compound tested was
expressed as the percent of remaining kinase activity in test samples compared to vehicle
(dimethyl sulfoxide) reactions. IC 50 values and curve fits were obtained using Prism (GraphPad
Software).
[00795] The degree of inhibition of a panel of kinases is determined using one of the methods
outlined in Example 76a, 76b and 76c.
[00796]
                     Compound          BTK           EGFR             LCK
                                       IC50           IC50            IC50
                          8              A              A               B
                          9              A              A               B
                          10             A              A               B
                          11             A              A              A
                          14             A              C               C
                          17             A              C               C
                         27              A              D              D
                         30              A              D              D
                         33              A              B               C
                         34              A              B               C
                         35              A              --              -
                         43              A              C               B
                         44              A              C               B
                         45              A              C               B
                         48              B              D               C
                         49              B              D               C
                         50              B              D               C
                         51              A              B               C
                         54              A              C               C
                         55              A              C               C
                                               -248-

 63 A         C B
 64 A         C B
 67 B         D C
 75 A         C B
 76 A
 77 A
 78 A
 81 A         D C
 82 A
 90 A
 93 A
104 B         D D
112 A         C C
116 A
118 A         B B
123 A         C C
129 A         C C
134 A         B C
147 A         D D
151 A         C C
161 A         B C
171 A         C C
181 B
191 B         D D
201 A         C C
211 A         B C
224 A         C C
229 A         A C
234 A         C C
239 A         C D
244 A         C D
247 B         C C
255 A         B B
263 A
269 A
274 A
280 B
      - 249 -

                             285              A                C              C
                             290              A                C              C
                             295              A               D               D
                             298              A                B              C
                             301              A                B              C
                             306              A                B              C
                             309              A                C              C
                             312              A               D               D
                             313              A                C              C
                             316              A                B              C
                             317              A                B              B
                             318              A               A               B
                             324              A                B              B
                             325              A                B              B
                             326              B
                             327              B                C              C
                             328              A               A               A
                             329              A               A               B
            IC 5 0: A <100 nM; 100 nM < B < 1 piM; 1 pM < C < 10lM; D >10lM; -- =no data
Example 77: Pharmaceutical Compositions
[00797] The compositions described below are presented with a compound of Formula (I), (Ta),
(Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (Ic)  for illustrative purposes.
Example 77a: Parenteral Composition
[00798] To prepare a parenteral pharmaceutical composition suitable for administration by
injection, 100 mg of a water-soluble salt of a compound of Formula (I), (Ta), (Ib), (I), (Ila),
(Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc) is dissolved in DMSO and then mixed with 10 mL of 0.9%
sterile saline. The mixture is incorporated into a dosage unit form suitable for administration by
injection.
Example 77b: Oral Composition
[00799] To prepare a pharmaceutical composition for oral delivery, 100 mg of a compound of
Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc) is mixed with 750 mg of
starch. The mixture is incorporated into an oral dosage unit for, such as a hard gelatin capsule,
which is suitable for oral administration.
Example 77c: Sublingual (Hard Lozenge) Composition
[00800] To prepare a pharmaceutical composition for buccal delivery, such as a hard lozenge,
mix 100 mg of a compound of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ib), (ITT), (Ila), (Iub), or
                                                    -250-

(IIc), with 420 mg of powdered sugar mixed, with 1.6 mL of light corn syrup, 2.4 mL distilled
water, and 0.42 mL mint extract. The mixture is gently blended and poured into a mold to form a
lozenge suitable for buccal administration.
Example 77d: Inhalation Composition
[00801] To prepare a pharmaceutical composition for inhalation delivery, 20 mg of a compound
of Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc) is mixed with 50 mg of
anhydrous citric acid and 100 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride solution. The mixture is incorporated
into an inhalation delivery unit, such as a nebulizer, which is suitable for inhalation
administration.
Example 77e: Rectal Gel Composition
[00802] To prepare a pharmaceutical composition for rectal delivery, 100 mg of a compound of
Formula (I), (Ta), (Ib), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc) is mixed with 2.5 g of
methylcelluose (1500 mPa), 100 mg of methylparapen, 5 g of glycerin and 100 mL of purified
water. The resulting gel mixture is then incorporated into rectal delivery units, such as syringes,
which are suitable for rectal administration.
Example 77f. Topical Gel Composition
[00803] To prepare a pharmaceutical topical gel composition, 100 mg of a compound of
Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc) is mixed with 1.75 g of
hydroxypropyl celluose, 10 mL of propylene glycol, 10 mL of isopropyl myristate and 100 mL
of purified alcohol USP. The resulting gel mixture is then incorporated into containers, such as
tubes, which are suitable for topicl administration.
Example 77g: Ophthalmic Solution Composition
[00804] To prepare a pharmaceutical opthalmic solution composition, 100 mg of a compound of
Formula (I), (Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ib), (ITT), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc) is mixed with 0.9 g of NaCl in
100 mL of purified water and filterd using a 0.2 micron filter. The resulting isotonic solution is
then incorporated into ophthalmic delivery units, such as eye drop containers, which are suitable
for ophthalmic administration.
Example 78: Clinical Trial of a Compound of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (1Ib), (III),
(I1a), (1I1b), or (Ic)     and Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Older Patients With
Previously Untreated B-Cell Lymphoma
[00805] The purpose of this study is to determine how well giving a compound of Formula (I),
(Ta), (Tb), (I), (Ila), (Ib), (ITT), (Ila), (Iub), or (IIc) together with combination chemotherapy
works in treating older patients with previously untreated B cell lymphoma.
                                                    - 251 -

Criteria
    DISEASE CHARACTERISTICS:
.   Histological diagnosis of aggressive B-cell lymphoma
.   Previously untreated disease
.   Stage I-IV disease
*   CD20-positive disease
.   Any International Prognostic Index (IPI) score
*   No secondary lymphoma after prior chemotherapy or radiotherapy
*   No primary CNS lymphoma
.   No primary gastrointestinal (MALT) lymphoma
    PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS:
.   ECOG performance status 0-2
.   Life expectancy > 3 months
.   AST and ALT < 3 times normal unless related to lymphoma
.   Bilirubin < 2 mg/dL unless related to lymphoma
*   Creatinine < 2 times normal unless related to lymphoma
.   Fertile patients must use effective contraception
.   No known allergic reactions against foreign proteins
*   No active infections requiring systemically administered antibiotics or antiviral
    medications
.   No noncompensated heart failure
.   No dilatative cardiomyopathy
*   No coronary heart disease with ST-segment depression in ECG
*   No myocardial infarction during the past 6 months
*   No chronic lung disease with hypoxemia
*   No severe noncompensated hypertension
*   No severe noncompensated diabetes mellitus
*   No clinical signs of cerebral dysfunction
*   No severe psychiatric disease
.   No known HIV infection
.   No active chronic hepatitis B or C infection
*   No other concurrent diseases that exclude the administration of therapy as outlined by
    the study protocol
.   More than 12 weeks since prior clinical trial participation
.   No prior participation in this study
                                           - 252 -

*   No prior therapy, including murine antibody, for this cancer
.   No prior organ transplantation
*   No concurrent response-adapted radiotherapy ("iceberg radiotherapy")
.   No other concurrent anticancer chemotherapy or other study medication
Study Design
Ages Eligible for Study:                61 Years to 80 Years
Genders Eligible for Study:             Both
Accepts Healthy Volunteers:             No
All patients undergo the following treatment.
.   Prephase treatment: Patients receive vincristine subcutaneously on day -6 and oral
    prednisone on days -6 to 0.
.   Immunochemotherapy and radiotherapy: Patients receive CHOP chemotherapy
    comprising cyclophosphamide IV over 15 minutes, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV, and
    vincristine IV on day 1 and oral prednisone once daily on days 1-5. Patients also receive
    pegfilgrastim subcutaneously on days 4, 18, and 32. Treatment with CHOP
    chemotherapy repeats every 14 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
    progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who show no response after course 4 of
    CHOP chemotherapy proceed to salvage chemotherapy off study.
Patients are evaluated 2-4 weeks after completion of CHOP. Patients with initial bulky
disease (i.e., diameter > 7.5 cm) or extranodal involvement AND achieving complete
remission (CR), unconfirmed CR (CRu), or partial remission undergo radiotherapy 5 days a
week for 4 weeks. Patients who do not achieve CR or CRu 2 months after completion of
radiotherapy proceed to salvage chemotherapy off study.
Patients are then stratified according to center, International Prognostic Index (1-2 vs 3-5),
disease involvement (bulky vs extranodal vs bulky and/or extranodal), age (61-70 years old
vs 71-80 years old), and gender. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.
.   Arm I: Patients receive compound of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila),
    (IlIb), or (IIc) at 500 mg once daily for 105 days.
.   Arm II (pharmacokinetic-based dose of compound of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila),
    (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (IlIb), or (IIc)) at 500 mg once daily for 35 days.
Some patients undergo blood sample collection periodically during and after treatment for
pharmacokinetic studies.
                                               -253-

    After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every
    6 months for 3 years, and then once a year therafter.
    Primary Outcome Measures
    .   Pharmacokinetics (in first 20 patients of each cohort with a distinct variation of the
        compound of Formula (I), (Ia), (Ib), (II), (Ila), (Ilb), (III), (Ila), (IlIb), or (IIc) schedule)
    .   Safety and treatment related deaths at 3 months after study completion
    .   Toxicity assessed by NCI criteria, adverse events, serious adverse events, protocol
        adherence, and treatment-related deaths at 3 months after study completion
    Secondary Outcome Measures
    *   Time to treatment failure assessed at 2 years within the study and periodically thereafter
    *   Complete response rate assessed at 2 years within the study and periodically thereafter
    *   Progression rate
    *   Survival time
    *   Progression-free survival
[00806] It is understood that the examples and embodiments described herein are for illustrative
purposes only and that various modifications or changes in light thereof will be suggested to
persons skilled in the art and are to be included within the spirit and purview of this application
and scope of the appended claims. All publications, patents, and patent applications cited herein
are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.
                                                - 254 -

   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
   1. A compound of Formula (I) having the structure:
                                                   (R 24 )n        \
                                                   NH2
                                                   N          N
                                                               p R3
                                                     Formula (I);
wherein:
         La is a bond, -CH 2 -, -CH(OH)-, -C(O)-, -CH 2 0-, -OCH 2 -, -SCH 2 , -CH 2 S-, -N(R2 1)-,
              N(R 21)C(O)-, -C(O)N(R 21)-, -N(R2 1)C(O)N(R 2 1)-, -0-, -S-, -S(O)-, -S(O) 2-,
              N(R21)S(O)2-, or -S(O)2N(R21)-;
         Ar is a substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
              heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or a substituted or unsubstituted
              heteroaryl;
         R 3 is optionally substituted C3 -C6 alkyl, substituted cycloalkyl, optionally substituted
              aryl, optionally substituted heteroaryl, -(C=O)Ci-C 6 alkyl, -(C=0)OR 4 ,
                                                              - -Y--Z          R6
              (C=O)NR 4R 4 , -(C=O)SR 4 , -G-X, or                   Rs        R7;
         G is optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl, optionally substituted aryl, or optionally
              substituted heteroaryl;
         X is optionally substituted cycloalkyl; optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl; optionally
              substituted aryl, optionally substituted heteroaryl, -OR 4, -SR 4 , or -NR4R 4 ;
         each R 4 is each independently H, Ci-C 6 alkyl, C1-C6 heteroalkyl, C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, or C2
              C6 heterocycloalkyl;
         Y is an optionally substituted group selected from among alkyl, heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl,
              aryl, and heteroaryl;
         Z is C(=O), OC(=O), N(R 2 1)C(=O), C(=S), S(=O)x, OS(=O)x, or N(R 2 1)S(=O)x, where x
              is 1 or 2;
         each R 2 4 is each independently halogen, -CN, -NO 2 , -OH, -OCF 3, -OCH 2F, -OCF 2H,
              CF 3, -SR  21 , -N(R 2 1)S(=0) 2R 23 , -S(=0) 2N(R 21 )(R 22), -S(=O)R   23 , -S(=0) 2R 23 ,
              C(=O)R    23 , -OC(=O)R    23 , -C0 2 R 2 1 , -N(R2 1)(R 22), -C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22),
                                                           - 255 -

            N(R 2 1)C(=O)R 2 3, -N(R2 1)C(=O)OR 22 , -N(R21)C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22), substituted or
            unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkoxy, substituted or unsubstituted
            heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or
            unsubstituted cycloalkyl;
      R 2 1 and R 2 2 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6alkyl, or
            substituted or unsubstituted C 3 -Cscycloalkyl;
      R 2 3 is each independently substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted or
            unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
      n is 0-4;
      p is 0-2;
      R 6 is H, or L-J-W;
      R 7 and Rs are independently H or L-J-W; or R7 and Rs taken together form a bond;
      L and J are each independently a bond, substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 6 alkylene,
            substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6
            heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or
            unsubstituted C6 -C12 arylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C1 2 heteroarylene, -CO
            , -0-, or -S-;
      W is H, halogen, -CN, or NR 25 R 2 6 ;
      R 25 and R 26 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkyl,
            substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C6
            heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or
            unsubstituted C6 -C12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C 3 -C1 2 heteroaryl; or R 25
            and R 26 together with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocycloalkyl
            ring;
      or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
2. The compound of claim 1, wherein La is -0-, or -OCH 2-.
3. The compound of claim 2, wherein Ar is phenyl.
                                                - -Y--Z        R6
4. The compound of claim 3, wherein R 3 is             R8      R7.
5. The compound of claim 4, wherein Z is C(=0), NHC(=0), N(CH 3 )C(=0), or S(=0) 2 .
6. The compound of claim 5, wherein R6 , R7 , and Rs are H.
7. The compound of claim 5, wherein R6 is H; Rs is -CN; and R7 is L-J-W.
8. The compound of claim 7, wherein R7 is C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, C6 -C1 2 aryl, or C3 -C1 2 heteroaryl.
9. The compound of claim 8, wherein R7 is cyclopropyl or phenyl.
                                                -256-

10. The compound of claim 5, wherein R6 and Rs are H; and R7 is L-J-W.
11. The compound of claim 10, wherein L is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C I-C6 alkylene,
    or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene; and J is a bond, substituted or
    unsubstituted Ci-C6 alkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted
    or unsubstituted Ci-C6 heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7
    heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C1 2 arylene, or substituted or
    unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroarylene.
12. The compound of claim 11, wherein L is a bond; J is -CH 2 -; and W is NR 25 R 2 6 .
13. The compound of claim 12, wherein R 25 is H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkyl, or
    substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl; and R 2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6
    alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C6
    heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
    C 6 -C1 2 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C1 2 heteroaryl.
14. A compound of Formula (II) having the structure:
                                                               -Ar
                                                               a
                                                (R24)n
                                                NH2
                                                       N
                                                         p R3
                                                 Formula (II);
wherein:
         La is a bond, -CH 2 -, -CH(OH)-, -C(O)-, -CH 2 0-, -OCH 2 -, -SCH 2 , -CH 2 S-, -N(R 2 1)-,
              N(R 21)C(O)-, -C(O)N(R 21)-, -N(R2 1)C(O)N(R 2 1)-, -0-, -S-, -S(O)-, -S(0) 2-,
              N(R21)S(O)2-, or -S(O)2N(R21)-;
         Ar is a substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
              heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or a substituted or unsubstituted
              heteroaryl;
                - -Y-Z           R6
         R 3 is        Rs        R7;
         Y is an optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl;
         Z is C(=0), OC(=0), N(R 2 1)C(=0), C(=S), S(=0)x, OS(=0)x, or N(R 2 1)S(=0)x, where x
              is 1 or 2;
                                                   - 257 -

each R 2 4 is each independently halogen, -CN, -NO 2 , -OH, -OCF 3, -OCH 2F, -OCF 2H,
      CF 3, -SR  21 , -N(R2 1)S(=O) 2R 23 , -S(=O) 2N(R 21 )(R 22), -S(=O)R   23 , -S(=0) 2R 23 ,
      C(=O)R    23,  -OC(=O)R    23, -C0 2 R 2 1 , -N(R2 1)(R 22), -C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22),
      N(R 2 1)C(=O)R 2 3, -N(R2 1)C(=O)OR 2 2 , -N(R21 )C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22), substituted or
      unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkoxy, substituted or unsubstituted
      heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or
      unsubstituted cycloalkyl;
R 2 1 and R 2 2 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C 6alkyl, or
      substituted or unsubstituted C 3 -Cscycloalkyl;
R 2 3 is each independently substituted or unsubstituted CI-Calkyl, or substituted or
      unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
n is 0-4;
p is 0-2;
R 6 and Rs are independently H or L-J, and R7 is T-W; or
R 6 and R7 are independently H or L-J, and Rs is T-W; or
R 7 and Rs are independently H or L-J, and R 6 is T-W; or
R 7 and Rs taken together form a bond, and R6 is T-W;
L is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 alkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3
      C 6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 heteroalkylene, substituted or
      unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C1 2 arylene,
      substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C1 2 heteroarylene, -CO-, -0-, or -S-;
J is substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
      cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 heteroalkyl, substituted or
      unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C1 2 aryl,
      NR 27R 28 , or substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 1 2 heteroaryl;
T is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C6 alkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3
      C 6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 heteroalkylene, substituted or
      unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C1 2 arylene,
      substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C1 2 heteroarylene, or -S-;
W is NR 25 R 2 6 , -CN, substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkyl, or substituted or
      unsubstituted C-linked C2 -C7heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C1 2
      aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C1 2 heteroaryl;
R 25 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
      cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 heteroalkyl, substituted or
                                                  -258-

               unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C1 2 aryl, or
               substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C1 2 heteroaryl;
         R 2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C6
               heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or
               unsubstituted C6 -C12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C 3 -C1 2 heteroaryl;
         R 2 7 and R 2 8 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkyl,
               substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C6
               heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or
               unsubstituted C6 -C12 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C 3 -C1 2 heteroaryl; or R 27
               and R 28 together with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocycloalkyl
               ring;
         or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
15. The compound of claim 14, wherein La is -0-.
16. The compound of claim 15, wherein Ar is phenyl.
17. The compound of claim 16, wherein Z is C(=O), NHC(=O), N(CH 3 )C(=O), or S(=0) 2 .
18. The compound of claim 17, wherein R6 is H; R8 is -CN; and R7 is L-J.
19. The compound of claim 18, wherein R7 is C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, C6 -C1 2 aryl, or C3-C12
    heteroaryl.
20. The compound of claim 19, wherein R7 is cyclopropyl or phenyl.
21. The compound of claim 17, wherein R6 and R 8 are H; and R7 is T-W.
22. The compound of claim 21, wherein T is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 6 alkylene,
    or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene.
23. The compound of claim 22, wherein T is -CH 2-; and W is NR 25 R 2 6 .
24. The compound of claim 23, wherein R 25 is H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 alkyl,
    substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl; and R 26 is substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6
    cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 6 heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7
    heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C1 2 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3
    C 12 heteroaryl.
25. The compound of claim 24, wherein R 25 is -CH 3; and R 2 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C3
    C6 cycloalkyl.
26. A compound of Formula (III) having the structure:
                                                   -259-

                                                      (R24)n             R20
                                                        NH2
                                                                N
                                                        N       N
                                                                  P R3
                                                       Formula (III);
wherein:
   A is aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl, or heterocycloalkyl;
   R 2 0 is H, halogen, -CN, -CF 3 , -NO 2 , -OH, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl,
   N(R 2 1)C(=O)R 2 3, -C(=O)N(R 21)(R22), -O-(Ci-C 6 alkyl), -O-alkylene-OR 2 1, -CO 2 H, -0
   alkylene-CO 2 H, -O-alkylene-C(=O)N(R                  21 )(R 22 ), or -N(R2 1)C(=0)N(R 2 1)(R 2 2);
   each R 2 1 is independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted or
   unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
   each R 2 2 is independently H, substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted or
   unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
   each R 2 3 is independently substituted or unsubstituted Ci-Calkyl, or substituted or
   unsubstituted C3 -Cscycloalkyl;
   each R 2 4 is each independently halogen, -CN, -NO 2 , -OH, -OCF 3, -OCH 2 F, -OCF 2H, -CF 3 ,
   SR 2 1 , -N(R 21 )S(=0) 2 R 23 , -S(=0) 2N(R 2 1 )(R 2 2 ), -S(=O)R       2 3, -S(=0) 2 R 23 , -C(=O)R 23 ,
   OC(=O)R      23 , -C0 2 R 2 1 , -N(R 21 )(R 22 ), -C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22), -N(R 21)C(=O)R            23 ,
   -N(R 2 1)C(=O)OR 22 , -N(R 21)C(=O)N(R 2 1)(R 22), substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted
   or unsubstituted alkoxy, substituted or unsubstituted heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   heterocycloalkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl;
   p is 0-2;
   n is 0-4;
   R 3 is optionally substituted alkyl, optionally substituted cycloalkyl, optionally substituted
   heterocycloalkyl, optionally substituted aryl, optionally substituted heteroaryl, -(C=0)Ci-C 6
                                                                                - -Y-Z              R6
   alkyl, -(C=O)OR 4 , -(C=O)NR 4 R4 , -(C=O)SR 4, -G-X, or                           R8            R7;
   G is optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl, optionally substituted aryl, or optionally
   substituted heteroaryl;
   X is optionally substituted cycloalkyl; optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl; optionally
   substituted aryl, optionally substituted heteroaryl, -OR 4 , -SR 4 , or -NR4 R 4 ;
                                                            - 260   -

    each R 4 is each independently H, C1-C6 alkyl, C2 -C6 heteroalkyl, C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, or C2-C6
    heterocycloalkyl;
    Y is an optionally substituted group selected from among alkyl, heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl,
    heterocycloalkyl, aryl, and heteroaryl;
    Z is C(=O), OC(=O), N(R 21)C(=O), C(=S), S(=O)x, OS(=O)x, or N(R 2 1)S(=O)x, where x is 1
    or 2;
    R 6 is H or L-J-W;
    R 7 and Rs are independently H or L-J-W; or R7 and Rs taken together form a bond;
    L and J are each independently a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene,
    substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6
    heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkylene, substituted or
    unsubstituted C6 -C12 arylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C1 2 heteroarylene, -CO-, -0-,
    or -S-;
    W is H, -CN, or NR 25 R 2 6 ;
    R 2 5 and R 26 are each independently H, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 alkyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 heteroalkyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C1 2 aryl, or substituted
    or unsubstituted C3 -C12 heteroaryl; or R 25 and R 26 together with the nitrogen to which they
    are attached form a heterocycloalkyl ring;
    or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
27. The compound of claim 26, wherein A is phenyl.
                                                  - _Y -Z         R6
28. The compound of claim 27, wherein R 3 is             Rs       R7.
29. The compound of claim 28, wherein Z is C(=0), NHC(=0), N(CH 3 )C(=0), or S(=0) 2 .
30. The compound of claim 29, wherein R6 , R7 , and Rs are H.
31. The compound of claim 29, wherein R6 is H; Rs is -CN; and R7 is L-J-W.
32. The compound of claim 31, wherein R7 is C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, C6 -C1 2 aryl, or C3-C12
    heteroaryl.
33. The compound of claim 32, wherein R7 is cyclopropyl or phenyl.
34. The compound of claim 29, wherein R6 and Rs are H; and R7 is L-J-W.
35. The compound of claim 34, wherein L is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6 alkylene,
    or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene; and J is a bond, substituted or
    unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkylene, substituted
    or unsubstituted C1 -C6 heteroalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7
                                                -261-

    heterocycloalkylene, substituted or unsubstituted C6 -C1 2 arylene, or substituted or
    unsubstituted C3 -C1 2 heteroarylene.
36. The compound of claim 35, wherein L is a bond; J is -CH 2 -; and W is NR 25 R26 .
37. The compound of claim 36, wherein R 25 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkyl, or
    substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl; and R 26 is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C6
    alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6
    heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C7 heterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
    C6 -C1 2 aryl, or substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C1 2 heteroaryl.
38. The compound of claim 37, wherein R20 is H, halogen, -CN, -CF 3, or substituted or
    unsubstituted CI-C 6 alkyl.
39. A compound having the structure:
                OPh                             OPh                             OPh
       NH2                              NH2                           NH2
                   N           NNO          N
                                                      o-      N-     N
                                                                      N    N        O
                                                                                    0   N
                     N                      Cy       N                       ..
                     H             ,                 H           ,                 H
                OPh                      OPh                           OPh
       NH2                      NH2                            NH2
     N       N>=              N      N>=o                   r0h     N
             N       N   N      N- N
                                N     NN                            N
                    N                       N           N                  N
                    H
                                                 OPh                       OPh
                OPh
                                        NH2 N2                     NH2
       NH   2                            .
                             9          NN N N
                                       NMO                       NN     N
       N' N           0        N-              9                                      N
                O N                            /N                         ,N
                                                     0        ,                 0
                                                   -  262 -

           OPh
                                        OPh                                OPh
  NH 2 0
        N                     NH2 -                             NH2 0
  N     N   o               N      N                          N        N
                              N    NN                               N
             ,NN                        N~         N
               0                          0           I0
           OPh                              OPh                                  OPh
  NH2                            NH2                                     NH2
          N                    NNC                 N                      N N         C
  N    N                H        N     N                    H            N    N
               N                                 N        N                          N
               H
                                                                                   F
                                             N                                   N
              O _       N
           OPh                          OPh                                 0
  NH2                          NH2                                            hNH
                                                                      2
  N     N               N-     N    N         ON                                        N
                  N                           N                                 N
NN          ON       ~N                  O               N-         N
  NH2        P                NH2      ~~~                       N
           OPh                          OPhOh
                                                                    NN
        N N               NN
  N        O                  N          ON 0
                                          OMe                     /    0
                                        OPh                                OPh
             Oh
                              NH 2   -                           NH 2
  NH2    5           <-            N                            -1N
         N                    N     N          0/N                     N =XoN- 0   /_/
    N      N     0/j                          N
                                            - 263   -

              OPh                        OPh                          OBn
  NH 2                          NH 2                         NH2
               O:,                N.= N               N1              N
                     0/:1                                      )!,:~roN
                                                         H                        0   N
     -0                                       IHOI
                           0                      0                    OPh
  NH2                            NH2                         NH2
N                              N               N>
         -..      No                     -N                               N.  N
                                     N-OOH
              OPh                        OPh                                   OH
  NH2                           NH2                         NH2
   N           O            NN       N)-O               N-         N
  N N              O            N    N         0/           N      N              N
               \/NH                   \/      NH
                 0                      0H
             HN                                   N          MeO       OPh
  NH2                            NH2                          NH20
                                                           ~N
                               NN
                   N      N--
                                                                          NC)       N
              OPh                MeG       OBn                         OPh
  NH 2 0\                        NH2 \                        NH  2 0
        N                      N                                       -N          N
                  N                           NNH
                                            -  264  -

              OPh                         O
                                                         FF
   NH2                                                         NH2
                              NN         =o             N---N      N         O>
fl         )- >--
   N     N        O               N   N        O               N   N
         O        NH                                         N
        0                                   01
                                          OPh
                     F0
   NH2F                           NH2                ON                    F
        'I0/               )='o         )=o           _N            >o       0
   N     N                        NH2                               NH   O      NH
                  N             N
                                NJ        -NN                      N
     11        N N                         N                         N       N
              /0                            /0H
   NH 2               H/          NH2 >                             NH2 H
                         0L&,                              -          N
                             N     NN                              N    N
   N
                                             0_NNH
                             N      N                            N
                      NHN
                                                0
                                                25                    N N
                                    NH    -     2NH-

                                                            OPh
                 OPh                          NH 2
       NH 2                                 N      N
             NXL0             H
                              N                           N
         NN                o  N-                                    .N
                      N
                                       or                         0         ; or a pharmaceutically acceptable
    salt thereof.
40. A compound having the structure:
                  CI                                                                    CI
       NH2      -                          NH 2                                  NH2
             N                            N        N                        N    N    N
           NoN                 N-          NN                  0         N-      NN         0           N
                  YN                                   -      N                         -  N
                      H                                       H
                                                         CI                          CI
                                            NH20                              NH20
       NH2O
                       -ON~NN~
                                            N      N                          N     N
                        N0NN                      NN                                        -    N
                     N                                 N                             N
                                                              0                          0
      N      N CI                 N               N CI               NA
       NH 2 0                              NH 2                        NH 2                      NH 2
             N                           N-N"N                                                 N      N
       N                                   NN            N              N             N                N
                                               N.
                                                    ,r,N -<                  /N
                                      --
               /N
                      0           ,0,                                             0        ,0,
                                                            -  266   -

                                                    267
                   CI                                                                      CI
                                                                      CI
         NH2    --                               0                                   NH2
      N        N                       NH2 N                 NH2 N                 N     N
         N                         N          -0                N            NX0
               N                            N                N                           N
                                      N     N                N N
                                                   0                     0
                            Ow/- ,                      ,\                   J   ,
                                                                   CI
         NH 2                          NH 2                NH 2                  NH2
               N                      N     N                     N                      N
         NN                                   N                 N              N     N
              NN        ON                    N      O                                 N
                      o                          0                     0,                  0
                                                                         NH2
         NH2                             NH 2                                   X=0
      N       N                               N                                               N
                                  X=0~~                                                       N-X0
           N-            0 /             N0              /
                                    ,                    MOMe ,or
                                                        Oe                /0                    ; or
     a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
41.       A pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a
compound of claim 1, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, pharmaceutically acceptable
solvate, or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug thereof, and a pharmaceutically acceptable
excipient.
                                            Pharmacyclics LLC
                        Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                        SPRUSON & FERGUSON
(14317243 1):AXG

