Abstract
An adjustable pier support that has a post section, and a top cap, the top cap having a
threaded opening, a supporting head plate having downwardly extending side sections and
a threaded shank, the threaded shank being in threading engagement with the threaded
opening so as to allow the head plate to be raised or lowered as required and the supporting
head plate shaped to prevent the passage of termites.

             1/6
       65---            62         60
   676
                    770
         45                      2
                          _ ,30
10                             5
                      Fiue 20
                                 - ,12
               Figure 1

ADJUSTABLE PIER
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The present invention relates to an adjustable insect proof pier system.
In particular, the present invention relates to an adjustable insect proof pier system that can
be easily adapted to fit a variety of posts.
BACKGROUND
In many areas it is common building practice to use adjustable piers in order to support the
frame components of a house or other building. Adjustable piers have the benefit of being
able to be readily shortened or lengthened in order to fit a range of situations. For example,
where there is a change between the foundation of the building and the floor structure,
which can be caused by or unstable foundations, the pier can be readily adjusted in order to
suit the specific height variation with minimal effort.
Known pier systems typically include a base plate with a post securely attached to it and a
pier section that is shaped to fit the post. The pier section has a number of fastening
openings on its side and bolts can be inserted into these openings to place the pier at the
required height. These systems however can be difficult to adjust quickly, often requiring
more time to accurately secure.
Other pier systems include a cap that has a threaded opening into which a bolt can be
threaded, the bolt being capped with a pier supporting plate. Once in position, the head
section can be rotated in order to adjust its height.
However, known adjustable pier systems suffer from the same issue as standard concrete
piers or stumps in relation to pests such as ants and terminates. Termites build tunnels and
can ascend the side of either concrete piers or adjustable piers in order to gain access to the
underside of the floor or bearer being supported.
                                                 1

SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
According to the present invention, there is provided an adjustable pier including a post
section, a top cap, the top cap having a threaded opening, a supporting head plate having
downwardly extending side sections and a threaded shank.
In preference, the supporting plate has a planer surface for supporting a framing member.
In preference, the supporting plate is concave.
In preference, the supporting plate has a vertical cleat.
in preference, the top cap is shaped to nestingly fit with the post section.
in preference, the top cap has a opening on its underside into which a top portion of the post
section can be inserted.
In preference, the top cap fits within the post section.
In preference, the top cap has an outer flange.
In preference, the top cap outer flange abuts a top rim surface of the post section to prevent
it from sliding down past a preset position. However, the head assembly can be lifted up to
 100 mm and fixed into position with fasteners, such as screws.
In preference, the supporting head is load bearing.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
By way of example, an embodiment of the invention is described more fully hereinafter
                                                2

with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
Figure l is a side view of a first form of the adjustable pier of the present invention,
Figure 2 is a front view of the adjustable pier shown in figure 1,
Figure 3 is a cross sectional view through B-B in figure 2,
Figure 4 is a perspective view of the ant cap or supporting head,
Figure 5 is a underside view of the supporting head shown in figure 4,
Figure 6 is a side view of a further embodiment of the adjustable pier of the present
invention,
Figure 7 is a cross sectional view through C-C in figure 6.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION.
In one embodiment, the apparatus 10 has a base plate 12 and a post section 15 extending
substantially upright. The post section 15 is hollow and can be round or square or any other
suitable shape and is made from a suitably resilient material, such as steel.
The lower section 20 of the post section 15 can be welded to the base plate 12. Other means
of fastening the post section 15 to the base plate section 12 is considered to fall within the
scope of the invention. The upper end 22 of the post section 15 is hollow and has an
opening 25.
The top cap 30 is shaped similar to the post section 15 in that when the post section 15 is
circular then be top cap 30 is also circular so that the upper end 22 proposed section 15 can
really be inserted into the opening 35 until the face 38 abuts the underside 40 of the top
                                                3

 section 42 of the top cap 30.
In the middle of the top section 42 is an opening into which the nut 45 is inserted into. The
nut 45 has an extended outer flange 46 that has an outer diameter less than the inner
 diameter of the opening 31 in the top section 42 of the top cap 30. An opening passes
through the extended outer flange 46 to allow the insertion of a circlip 50, which is used to
hold the nut 45 in place but still allows it to be rotated relative to the top cap 30.
 The supporting head 60 is load bearing and has a flat planer section 62 with generally
 downwardly extending face sections 67, an upright cleat 65 for attachment to the beam or
joist that is placed on the flat planar section 62, and a threaded shank or rod 70 attached to
 an underside 68. The upright cleat 65 is shown in the figures to be approximately 900
relative to the flat planar section 92 but may be positioned at different angles as required
when welding or otherwise joining the upright cleat 65 to the flat planer section 62. In the
 figures, the rod 70 is shown to have a thread along its full-length however both the length
 of the thread and the length of the shank can be modified to suit any particular purpose or
 structural requirement without departing from the scope of the invention.
 The threaded rod 70 engages the nut 45 and rotation of the nut 45 causes the load bearing
 supporting head 60 to move up and down relative to the top cap 30. In this way the
 supporting head 60 can be readily adjusted when in place and supporting a beam using a
 suitably sized wrench to rotate the nut 45 and if required bolts can pass through the
 openings on the cleat 65 to join a floor joist to the load bearing supporting head 60.
Known sheet metal ant-caps cannot be welded due to the thickness of these ant-caps, which
 is usually approximately 0.55mm. The vertical flange or cleat 65 on the load bearing
 supporting head 60 of the present invention allows it to be connected to main frame joists
thus providing a termite barrier as well as being structurally certifiable for both downward
 and upward load forces.
 The downwardly extending faces 67 of the of the supporting head 60 acts as a barrier to
                                                  4

termites or tore such pests from travelling up the pier and gaining access to the bearer or
joist that is being supported. Pests, such as termites build tunnels in order to traverse such
 structures however they rely on the pier in order to support their tunnel and cannot branch
 out from the pier.
In an alternative embodiment, shown in figure 6, the top cap 80 has a top section 82, a nut
 84 having an internal thread and an extending flange section that is inserted into an opening
 in the top section 82. As shown in figure 7, the outer diameter of the main body 81 of the
top cap 80 is of an outer diameter that is less than the inner diameter of the post 90 so that
the end face 95 abuts the underside 83 of the top section 82 of the top cap 80.
As can now be appreciated, the present invention provides a readily adjustable pier that can
be readily fitted to a post section of suitable diameter. In use, the post sections are first
 installed in the ground or other suitable foundation, the top caps are then placed to nest with
the matching post with the supporting head plates. The adjustable piers can then be raised
 or lowered by rotation of the nut so that the supporting head plates are supporting the floor
joist or beams, the cleat provides a fixing location for the supporting head plate to be
 affixed to the beam/joist as required. Once in place the downwardly extending side sections
 of the supporting head plates act as a barrier to the movement of termites up the adjustable
joist to prevent or reduce their ability to access the floor joists/bearers.
                                                 5

CLAIMS:
 1.     An adjustable pier including a post section, and a top cap, the top cap having a
threaded opening, a supporting head plate having downwardly extending side sections and
a threaded shank, the threaded shank being in threading engagement with the threaded
opening.
2.      The adjustable pier of claim 1, wherein the supporting plate has a planer surface for
supporting a framing member.
3.      The adjustable pier of any one of the above claims, wherein the supporting plate is
concave.
4.       The adjustable pier of any one of the above claims, wherein the supporting plate
has a cleat.
5.      The adjustable pier of any one of the above claims, wherein the top cap is shaped to
nestingly fit with the post section.
6.      The adjustable pier of any one of the above claims, wherein the top cap has a
opening on its underside into which a top portion of the post section can be inserted.
7.      The adjustable pier of any one of the above claims, wherein the top cap fits within
the post section.
8.      The adjustable pier of any one of the above claims, wherein the top cap has an outer
flange.
9.      The adjustable pier of any one of the above claims, wherein the top cap outer flange
abuts a top rim surface of the post section to prevent it from sliding down past a preset
position.
                                                6

10.      The adjustable pier of any one of the above claims, wherein the supporting head
plate is load bearing.
                                                7

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
