                                     ABSTRACT
        Systems and methods for the delivery of linear accelerator radiotherapy in
conjunction with magnetic resonance imaging in which components of a linear
accelerator may be placed in shielding containers around a gantry, may be connected
with RF waveguides, and may employ various systems and methods for magnetic and
radio frequency shielding.

WO 2014/144399                         PCT/US2014/028792
                        104
        400
                                   119
                      404
                                                 08
      40E
                                                    104
112
                                                         12
                     406
               1408
                    10440
                            FIG. 4

           SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR LINEAR ACCELERATOR
        RADIOTHERAPY WITH MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING
               CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
        [0001]      The present PCT application claims priority to U.S. Pat. App. Ser.
No. 13/841,478 filed March 15, 2013, entitled "Systems and Methods For Linear
Accelerator Radiotherapy With Magnetic Resonance Imaging," the filing date and full
disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                   TECHNICAL FIELD
        [0002]      The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for the
delivery of linear accelerator radiotherapy in conjunction with magnetic resonance
imaging.
                                      BACKGROUND
        [0003]      It is desirable to combine radiation therapy with repetitive real-time
imaging using a magnetic resonance imaging system (MRI) in order to better locate
and treat therapy targets while sparing nearby healthy tissue. While MRIs and
radiation treatment systems such as linear accelerators (linacs) have operated
separately from one another for quite some time, combining the two technologies
presents many significant technological challenges. Such challenges include the
magnetic fields and eddy currents generated in ferromagnetic and conductive
radiotherapy equipment through the MRI's main magnet and gradient coils, both of
which can destroy an MRI's ability to provide quality images. In addition, an MRI's
main magnetic field can interfere with many of the components of a linear accelerator,
and the high-power radiofrequency (RF) generated by linac components can likewise
destroy the imaging capabilities of the MRI.
                                             1

                                      SUMMARY
         [0004]     Disclosed herein are systems and methods for combining
radiotherapy with magnetic resonance imaging. One embodiment of a disclosed
system may include a magnetic resonance imaging system, a gantry, two or more
shielding containers attached to the gantry, at least two of the two or more shielding
containers containing components of a linear accelerator, and at least one radio
frequency waveguide connecting components contained in at least two of the two or
more shielding containers.
         [0005]     In another embodiment, the at least one radio-frequency waveguide
is oriented to be substantially perpendicular to the magnetic field lines of a main
magnet of the magnetic resonance imaging system and/or may include a magnetic
shield.
         [0006]     In a further embodiment the two or more shielding containers are
spaced substantially equidistant from one another around the circumference of the
gantry.
         [0007]     In yet another embodiment, the system may include at least one
shielding container that does not contain components of a linear accelerator.
         [0008]     In one embodiment, the system may include multiple radio
frequency waveguides, the radio frequency waveguides extending substantially
around the entire circumference of the gantry. In some cases, at least one of the radio
frequency waveguides will not transmit radiofrequency waves.
         [0009]     In certain embodiments, the system may include three shielding
containers adapted to contain RF power source components in a first shielding
container, circulator and AFC components in a second shielding container, and linear
accelerator components in a third shielding container.
                                            2

         [0010]     In yet another embodiment, the at least one radio frequency
waveguide includes RF shielding. The RF shielding may be an RF absorbing
material, an RF reflecting material, or multiple layers of RF reflecting and absorbing
materials. And may include carbon fiber, silicon carbide, copper, aluminum, or
copper or aluminum alloys or oxides.
         [0011]     In some embodiments, the RF shielding may include water cooling
or air cooling.
         [0012]     Embodiments of the disclosure may also include a method of
providing a magnetic resonance imaging system, providing a gantry, affixing two or
more shielding containers to the gantry, placing components of a linear accelerator
into at least two of the two or more shielding containers, and connecting components
contained in at least two of the two or more shielding containers with at least one
radio frequency waveguide.
         [0013]     In some embodiments of the method, the at least one radio
frequency waveguide may be oriented to be substantially perpendicular to the
magnetic field lines of a main magnet of the magnetic resonance imaging system. In
other embodiments, the at least one radiofrequency waveguide may include a
magnetic shield.
         [0014]     In other embodiments of the method, multiple radio frequency
waveguides may be included, extending substantially around the entire circumference
of the gantry. In some embodiments, the at least one radio frequency waveguide may
include RF shielding, which may be an RF absorbing material, an RF reflecting
material, or multiple layers of RF reflecting and absorbing materials and may include
air or water cooling.
         [0015]     These and other features, aspects, and advantages of the present
                                            3

disclosure will become better understood with reference to the following description
and claims.
                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
         [0016]    Features, aspects, and implementations of the disclosure are
described in conjunction with the attached drawings, in which:
         [0017]    FIG. 1 is a simplified diagram illustrating aspects of a radiation
therapy device operating in conjunction with a magnetic resonance imaging system
consistent with implementations of the current subject matter;
         [0018]    FIG. 2 is a top view of the device depicted in FIG. 1;
         [0019]    FIG. 3 is a simplified diagram illustrating various components of
an exemplary linear accelerator;
         [0020]    FIG. 4 is a section view of the gantry and associated components of
the exemplary device depicted in FIG. 1; and
         [0021]    FIG. 5 illustrates a map of magnetic field strength around an
exemplary MRI, consistent with implementations of the current subject matter.
                             DETAILED DESCRIPTION
         [0022]    Disclosed herein are systems and methods for combining
radiotherapy with magnetic resonance imaging. FIG. 1 is a simplified schematic view
of an example radiation therapy system including shield containers 104 mounted on a
gantry 106, which can rotate to different positions to enable radiation delivery from
different angles. The exemplary system depicted in FIG. 1 also includes an MRI 102,
which may be used for real-time imaging during radiation therapy and may be of the
split or open type of MRI as shown (as is beneficial so the radiation beam need not be
transmitted through the side of an MRI). Radiation therapy devices may be placed
                                            4

inside shield containers 104 and can be used to direct a treatment beam at a target
within patient 108 lying on couch 110. Also depicted are waveguides 112, which may
be used to connect radiation therapy device components, as explained further below.
FIG. 2 depicts a top view of the simplified example system shown in FIG. 1. A
similar system is described in U.S. Patent 8,190,233 to Dempsey, titled "System for
Delivering Conformal Radiation Therapy while Simultaneously Imaging Soft Tissue,"
which is hereby incorporated by reference. The system of the present disclosure
differs in many respects from that disclosed in Dempsey '233, a primary difference
being that the radiation therapy system of the present disclosure specifically includes
a linac.
         [0023]     Magnetic resonance imaging is primarily a medical imaging
technique most commonly used in radiology to visualize the internal structure and
function of the body. MRI is described, for example, by E. MARK HAACKE ET
AL., MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING: PHYSICAL PRINCIPLES AND
SEQUENCE DESIGN (Wiley-Liss 1999), which is hereby incorporated by reference.
The split magnet system illustrated in FIG. 1 includes a pair of main magnets and can
also include conventional MRI components not shown, such as a split gradient coil,
shim coils and an RF system. The strength of the magnetic field generated by the
main magnets can vary, but in an embodiment of the disclosed system the main
magnet field strength is 0.35 T.
         [0024]     A linear particle accelerator (also called a linac) is a type of particle
accelerator used to accelerate subatomic ions at great speeds. Linacs are described,
for example, by C. J. KARZMARK ET AL., MEDICAL ELECTRON
ACCELERATORS (McGraw-Hill, Inc., Health Professions Division 1993), which is
hereby incorporated by reference. The linac may be designed to accelerate electrons
                                             5

of relatively low energy, in the range of 4 to 6 mega-electron volts (MV) accelerating
potential, and have a standing wave guide to keep it compact and, for example, may
operate at S-band or X-Band frequencies.
         [0025]     FIG. 3 includes a simplified diagram of some of the main
components of a linear accelerator 300. The simplified, exemplary linac may include
a pulse modulator 304 that may amplify AC power from supply 302, rectify it to DC
power, and produce high-voltage DC pulses used to power electron gun 312 and RF
power source 306. High-voltage cables electrically connect pulse modulator 304 to
the electron gun 312 and RF power source 306. RF power source 306 may be, for
example, a magnetron or klystron.
         [0026]     RF power source 306 produces and sends pulses of microwaves,
with pulse powers that may be approximately 2.5 mega watts (MW), to accelerating
resonating cavity 316 through a waveguide 307. Waveguides 307 may be pressurized
by a waveguide gas system 308. Accelerating resonating cavity 316 may be
evacuated by vacuum pump 318 and utilize RF pulses from RF power source 306 to
accelerate an electron beam 314 generated by electron gun 312. Electron gun 312
creates bursts of electrons, which enter accelerating resonating cavity 316, a
resonating cavity excited by RF pulses from the RF power source 306, accelerating an
electron beam to near the speed of light.
         [0027]     Electron beam 314 may optionally be aimed at a target 320,
commonly made from tungsten, to produce Bremsstrahlung X-rays for x-ray/photon
beam therapy, or the target may be removed for electron-beam therapy. The resulting
beam may optionally pass through flattening filter 322 in head 324 prior to entering
collimator 326, which may be a multi-leaf collimator as described further below.
         [0028]     The exemplary, simplified linear accelerator 300 depicted in FIG. 3
                                             6

also includes a circulator 310 and an automatic frequency control system (AFC) 328.
The circulator 310 can control the flow of RF waves. For example, it can send energy
reflected by the waveguide to an RF dump instead of allowing it back to RF power
source 306, which could cause interference or damage. Circulator 310 may also
communicate reflected RF waves to AFC 328, which may monitor the reflected
waves to determine whether the resonant frequency of accelerating resonating cavity
316 has changed, for example, due to heating. AFC 328 may then communicate with
control unit 332, or directly with RF power source 306, to adjust the frequency of the
RF waves emitted by RF power source 306.
        [0029]      In one embodiment of the disclosure, various components of a
linear accelerator, including, but not limited to the linac components illustrated in
FIG. 3, may be separated into two or more sets of components that may be attached to
gantry 106. FIG. 4 depicts one embodiment of such an arrangement, in which linear
accelerator components may be grouped and placed within shield containers 104
around gantry 106. Where the particular groupings of linear accelerator components
require as much, RF waveguides 112 can be placed around gantry 106, connecting the
various shield containers 104 and the linear accelerator components within. For
example, an RF waveguide 112 would be required if RF power source 306 was
located within one shield container and the linear accelerator, including electron gun
312, accelerating resonating cavity 316, target 320 and head 324, was in a separate
shield container 104 (as shown in FIG. 3, a waveguide 307 is required to transmit the
RF energy from the RF power source 306 to the accelerating resonating cavity 316).
        [0030]      This disclosure contemplates any number of potential divisions or
groupings of linear accelerator components, and any number of shield containers 104
spaced around gantry 106 to contain such components. In addition, the components
                                             7

to create more than one linear accelerator could be divided and grouped in shield
containers 104 around gantry 106 if multiple radiation therapy beams were desired.
        [0031]      In one embodiment, depicted in FIG. 4, there may be three shield
containers 104 spaced substantially equidistant from one another around the
circumference of gantry 106, with waveguides 112 connecting the shield containers
104 in series. Various groupings of linear accelerator components may be placed in
each of shielding containers 104. In an exemplary embodiment, the major
components of a linear accelerator may be divided as such: RF power source
components 404 may be placed within one shield container 104, circulator and AFC
components 406 may be placed in another shield container 104, and linear accelerator
components 402 (e.g., electron gun 312, accelerating resonating cavity 316, target
320, head 324 and collimating device 326) may be placed in a third shield container
104. In this embodiment, as well as in other contemplated embodiments, additional
linear accelerator components may be distributed amongst the shield containers 104
as is convenient. In addition, certain linear accelerator components may be located
off of gantry 106. For example, pulse modulator 304 may be located on the gantry,
on the gantry supporting stand, in a separate cabinet outside gantry 106, or possibly
outside the RF shielding room of the system. The systems and methods of the
disclosure do not require any particular number of shielding containers 104 or any
particular groupings or locations of linear accelerator components. The embodiments
described herein are merely examples consistent with aspects related to the described
subject matter, and any limitations on particular arrangements may only be made in
the claims.
        [0032]      One embodiment of the present disclosure may include one or
more shielding containers 104 as described herein, or shielding containers 104
                                             8

consisting merely of materials that mimic the ferromagnetic and conductive aspects of
the shielding containers, placed around gantry 106, which do not contain components
of a linear accelerator. Such additional shielding containers 104 may be included
when shielding containers are not required to hold and/or shield linear accelerator
components, but are beneficial in simplifying the ability to shim the overall system for
the magnetic field homogeneity necessary for quality imaging by MRI 102.
Similarly, embodiments of the disclosure may include one or more waveguides 112,
which may merely be made of similar materials that mimic the ferromagnetic and
conductive aspects of other waveguides 112, when it is not necessary to transmit RF
waves from one shielding container 104 to another (because the container does not
include linear accelerator components or because the components within the shielding
container do not involve the transmission of RF waves).
         [0033]     Embodiments of shield containers 104 have been described in U.S.
Patent Application 12/837,309 to Shvartsman et al., entitled "Method And Apparatus
For Shielding A Linear Accelerator And A Magnetic Resonance Imaging Device
From Each Other," which is hereby incorporated by reference. Shield containers 104
can be designed to shield various linear accelerator components from the magnetic
field of MRI 102. One example of such a shield includes a shell made of high
magnetic permeability material. The shell may be cylindrical in shape with one or
both ends of the shell being open. While a cylindrical shape is preferred, the
disclosed shield shells can be other shapes. The shell can have a thickness chosen
according to characteristics of the shell material and magnetic field being shielded
against. The shell may be formed of non-oriented silicon steel, for example a nickel
iron alloy, such as the commercially-available material sold by ThyssenKrupp Steel
under the trade name 530-50 AP and having a thickness of, for example, about 5 mm.
                                            9

Other material options include M19 steel, M45 steel, and Carpenter High
Permeability "49" Steel. The outer diameter and length of the shell can vary; in the
one embodiment, the outer diameter is about 30 cm and the length is about 70 cm.
        [0034]       In some embodiments, shield container 104 can include multiple
shield shells. The multiple shield shells may be concentric/coaxial layers of steel,
which can be separated by layers of air or other insulating material. In such
embodiments, the inner shell(s) can be of a higher permeability but a lower saturation
flux density than the outer shells, as the outer shell has already greatly reduced the
magnetic field from the MRI 102. In another embodiment, a current carrying coil
may be used inside of the inner shell or outside of an outer shell to cancel the residual
field.
        [0035]       Embodiments of shield containers 104 may also contain RF
shielding to decrease the leakage of RF energy from linear accelerator components to
the surroundings. Such shielding may take the form of additional shells of RF
absorbing and/or RF reflecting material, as detailed in Application 12/837,309, and
further below.
        [0036]       As discussed above, radiofrequency waveguides 112 are structures
that can transmit RF wave energy, for example, from RF power source 306 to
circulator 310 and accelerating resonating cavity 316. In the embodiments of the
disclosure, it is contemplated that at least one waveguide 112 will connect two shield
containers 104 containing components of a linear accelerator. In other embodiments,
waveguides 112 will connect multiple pairs of shield containers 104. In an exemplary
embodiment, waveguides 112 will connect each of the multiple shield containers 104
located on gantry 106, spanning substantially around the entire circumference of
gantry 106. As detailed above, such an embodiment may be implemented even if the
                                              10

linear accelerator components contained in each of the shield containers 104 do not
need to be connected by a waveguide. This embodiment may be beneficial to
facilitate shimming of MRI 102 for optimal magnetic field homogeneity.
         [0037]     In one embodiment, waveguides 112 may extend from RF power
source components 404 to circulator and AFC components 406 to linear accelerator
components 402, and back to RF power source components 404, as depicted in FIG.
4. If necessary, multiple RF waveguides 112 may extend between shield containers
104. For example, if it was necessary to transmit RF waves in both directions
between two shield containers 104 based upon the linear accelerator components
contained within. In such an embodiment, the same number of waveguides would
preferably be placed between each pair of shield containers 104 so that substantial
symmetry would exist around the entire circumference of gantry 106.
         [0038]     In one embodiment, waveguides 112 may be made from copper. In
other embodiments waveguides 112 may be formed from multiple materials, such as,
a non-ferromagnetic metal coated on the interior with copper, silver, gold or another
conductive metal. In an exemplary embodiment, waveguides 112 may be pressurized
by waveguide gas system 308 with an inert gas such as SF-6 to prevent dielectric
breakdown and may have the following specifications: Hollow Rectangular
Waveguide, EIA: WR284, RCSC: WG1O, IEC: R32, S band, Recommended
Frequency Band (GHz): 2.60 -       3.95, Lower Cutoff Frequency GHz 2.078, Higher
Cutoff Frequency GHz 4.156, Inner Wave Guide Dimensions (Inches): 2.840 x 1.340,
with wall thickness WG1O: 0.08 inches. Waveguides 112 should also be designed
within bending radii restrictions, as is known in the art.
         [0039]     In embodiments where waveguides 112 are not required to transmit
RF waves, they may merely be made of materials that mimic the ferromagnetic and
                                            11

conductive qualities of the other waveguides 112.
         [0040]      In one embodiment, waveguides 112 may be magnetically
shielded, utilizing, for example, the concepts, materials and designs discussed above
with respect to shielding containers 104. Shielding concepts and designs that may
also be used are disclosed in U.S. Patent Application 13/801,680 to Shvartsman et al.
entitled "Systems And Methods For Radiotherapy With Magnetic Resonance
Imaging," which is incorporated herein by reference.
         [0041]      In an exemplary embodiment, waveguides 112 do not require
magnetic shielding, but instead are oriented to be substantially perpendicular to the
main MRI magnet's field lines. FIG. 5 shows an exemplary map of contours 502 of
magnetic field strength magnitude for a split MRI 102 having a 0.35T main magnet.
FIG. 5 depicts a top view of an exemplary main magnet 504 as is shown in FIG. 2
also, as magnet halves 102. Right angle indicator 506 in the contour map of FIG. 5
shows that the magnetic field lines for MRI 102 at the preferable location of
waveguides 112, as also shown in FIG. 2, will result in the waveguides 112 being
substantially perpendicular to the magnetic field lines.
         [0042]      The systems and methods of the present disclosure also include
numerous types and placement of radiofrequency shielding and absorbing materials.
As discussed above, a linear accelerator's RF power source 306 and electron gun 312
involve the generation of significant radiofrequency energy. Such energy is also
transmitted throughout the system via waveguides and within additional linear
accelerator components such as a circulator 310 or an AFC 328. Embodiments of
radiofrequency shielding disclosed herein control the dispersion and transmission of
such RF energy, so as to limit the negative effects on the MRI's ability to acquire
quality images resulting from eddy currents or interference with the MRI's radio
                                            12

frequency coils.
          [0043]    As noted above, one embodiment of the disclosure involves the
inclusion of RF shielding as part of shield containers 104 in the form of, for example,
one or more shells of RF reflective materials such as copper or aluminum, and/or RF
absorbing materials such as carbon fiber or Silicon Carbide (SiC). Embodiments may
include any number of layers. In some embodiments, the layers of shells can be made
of combinations of different materials or of the same material. For example, in some
embodiments, the shield shell layers can include alternating layers formed of RF
absorbing material and RF reflecting material. In such embodiments, it is desirable to
provide an air gap between the layers of shield shells.
          [0044]    When shield containers 104 include linear accelerator components
involving the substantial generation of RF energy, the containers 104 may also
optionally include RF shielding that covers the top and the bottom of an open
cylindrically shaped shield. When shield container 104 contains the linear accelerator
itself, the treatment beam will thus pass through the RF shielding. In such a case, the
RF shield material is preferably uniform and minimally attenuating to the
radiotherapy beam.
          [0045]    In addition to the inclusion of RF shielding in conjunction with
shield containers 104, certain embodiments of the disclosure will provide additional
RF shielding, for example, around the waveguides 112. The amount of RF energy
leakage from the waveguides 112 is likely to be small, and will not necessarily require
shielding, however, RF shielding is preferably included at any points where leakage is
more likely, such as at flanges, connection points for the waveguides, RF sinks,
couplers, etc.
          [0046]     Shielding material may include RF absorbing material such as
                                             13

carbon fiber or silicon carbide (SIC) and/or RF reflecting material such as copper or
aluminum. In some embodiments it may be advantageous to provide a number of
alternating layers of RF reflecting material and RF absorbing material.
         [0047]      Additionally, such RF absorbing/shielding material can be used to
line the interior surface of the room in which the system of the current disclosure is
placed. The room walls, ceiling and floor could be lined with meshed or chopped
carbon fiber, carbon fiber wallpaper, carbon fiber panels, carbon fiber paint, etc.
Furthermore, RF absorbing/shielding material may be placed on the outer surfaces of
MRI 102, on gantry 106, and on any linear accelerator components or other
components not placed on gantry 106 or MRI 102 (for example, if pulse modulator
304 is not located on the gantry).
         [0048]      The RF shielding materials disclosed herein may be flexible and
wrapped around the various components, or may be molded to fit the shape of the
components.
         [0049]      Cooling can be provided as needed to the RF shielding/absorbing
materials. A variety of known cooling methods can be used. The cooling system may
include, for example, fluid-carrying conduit for circulating a fluid in the vicinity of
the shielding/absorbing materials. Also, air-cooling can be provided by incorporating
a system for moving air across the surfaces of the RF shielding/absorbing materials.
         [0050]      FIG. 4 also depicts collimating devices 408 attached to gantry 106
and associated with each of the shield containers 104. Collimating devices 408 may,
for example, be multi-leaf collimators (MLCs), which typically have two banks of
opposing pairs of leaves that move independently and can open to form apertures of
various shapes and sizes. The leaves may be made of tungsten or any suitable
material or materials for blocking radiation. MLCs may also employ a tongue and
                                              14

groove arrangement on the long sides and front of the leaves to limit interleaf
radiation leakage and can be configured for inter-digitation of the leaves in the closed
position. Each leaf of each bank of leaves may be capable of independent motion and
may be driven by leaf motors through connecting rods. An MLC control system can
control the two opposing banks of leaves to independently position the edge of each
leaf to a specified location in order to block a radiation beam and form a field size of a
specific shape. The MLC leaves, motors, and other components may be supported by
housing that then attaches to gantry 106. The housing may be, for example, made
from aluminum.
         [0051]      In one embodiment, there may be only one collimating device 408,
associated with the one shield container 104 that contains the linear accelerator
components creating the actual treatment beam. The additional devices 408 may
simply be additional conductive elements, utilized to reduce the negative imaging
effects of eddy currents generated during operation of the MRI's gradient coils. Such
devices can be designed as described in U.S. Patent Application 13/801,680 to
Shvartsman et al. entitled "Systems And Methods For Radiotherapy With Magnetic
Resonance Imaging," which is incorporated herein by reference. Consistent with the
teachings of the incorporated application, embodiments of the system of this
disclosure may include, for example, additional conductive elements. In one
embodiment, a multi-leaf collimator occupies the space shown as 408 adjacent the
shield container 104 containing the linear accelerator, while five additional equally
spaced conductor elements are attached around the remaining circumference of gantry
106.
         [0052]      Additional shimming and shielding concepts disclosed in
Applications 13/801,680 and 12/837,309 are also applicable to the systems and
                                             15

methods disclosed herein, and are also fully incorporated by reference. For example,
additional shimming for magnetic field homogeneity can be provided by permanent
magnets, optionally made from Neodymium (NdFeB). The polar orientation of the
permanent magnets should be such that they counteract the MRI's main magnetic
field and the magnetic field induced in various ferromagnetic materials in the vicinity
of MRI 102. The canceling effect of the magnet design's strengths, field orientations,
and locations can be determined utilizing modeling software such as FARADAY,
available from Integrated Engineering Software, or any other appropriate software
such as VectorField, for example, and with further analysis of results potentially being
performed in a program such as MATLAB or any other appropriate software such as
FORTRAN, for example. As an alternative to permanent magnets, active windings
could also be used. Such active shimming concepts are disclosed in U.S. Application
13/324,850 to Shvartsman et al. entitled "Active Resistive Shimming For MRI
Devices," also incorporated herein by reference.
        [0053]      The subject matter described herein can be embodied in systems,
apparatus, methods, and/or articles depending on the desired configuration. The
implementations set forth in the foregoing description do not represent all
implementations consistent with the subject matter described herein. Instead, they are
merely some examples consistent with aspects related to the described subject matter.
Although a few variations have been described in detail above, other modifications or
additions are possible. In particular, further features and/or variations can be provided
in addition to those set forth herein. For example, the implementations described
above can be directed to various combinations and subcombinations of the disclosed
features and/or combinations and subcombinations of several further features
disclosed above. Thus, the breadth and scope of the invention(s) should not be
                                             16

limited by any of the above-described exemplary implementations, but should be
defined only in accordance with the claims and their equivalents issuing from this
disclosure. In addition, the logic flows depicted in the accompanying figures and/or
described herein do not necessarily require the particular order shown, or sequential
order, to achieve desirable results.
         [0054]     The present disclosure contemplates that the calculations disclosed
in the implementations herein may be performed in a number of ways, applying the
same concepts taught herein, and that such calculations are equivalent to the
implementations disclosed. Furthermore, the above described advantages are not
intended to limit the application of any issued claims to processes and structures
accomplishing any or all of the advantages. Other implementations may be within the
scope of the following claims.
         [0055]     Additionally, section headings shall not limit or characterize the
invention(s) set out in any claims that may issue from this disclosure. Specifically,
and by way of example, although the headings refer to a "Technical Field," such
claims should not be limited by the language chosen under this heading to describe
the so-called technical field. Further, the description of a technology in the
"Background" is not to be construed as an admission that technology is prior art to
any invention(s) in this disclosure. Neither is the "Summary" to be considered as a
characterization of the invention(s) set forth in issued claims. Furthermore, any
reference to this disclosure in general or use of the word "invention" in the singular is
not intended to imply any limitation on the scope of the claims set forth below.
Multiple inventions may be set forth according to the limitations of the multiple
claims issuing from this disclosure, and such claims accordingly define the
invention(s), and their equivalents, that are protected thereby.
                                             17

        [0056]      In the descriptions above and in the claims, phrases such as "at
least one of' or "one or more of' may occur followed by a conjunctive list of
elements or features. The term "and/or" may also occur in a list of two or more
elements or features. Unless otherwise implicitly or explicitly contradicted by the
context in which it used, such a phrase is intended to mean any of the listed elements
or features individually or any of the recited elements or features in combination with
any of the other recited elements or features. For example, the phrases "at least one of
A and B;" "one or more of A and B;" and "A and/or B" are each intended to mean "A
alone, B alone, or A and B together." A similar interpretation is also intended for lists
including three or more items. For example, the phrases "at least one of A, B, and C;"
"one or more of A, B, and C;" and "A, B, and/or C" are each intended to mean "A
alone, B alone, C alone, A and B together, A and C together, B and C together, or A
and B and C together."
        [0057]      Use of the term "based on," above and in the claims is intended to
mean, "based at least in part on," such that an unrecited feature or element is also
permissible.
                                             18

CLAIMS:
         1.     A system comprising:
        a magnetic resonance imaging system;
        a gantry rotatable to different positions around a couch of the magnetic
resonance imaging system;
        a plurality of shielding containers attached to the gantry, at least two of the
shielding containers containing components of a linear accelerator; and
        a radio frequency waveguide connecting components contained the at least
two shielding containers of the plurality of shielding containers.
        2.      The system of claim 1 wherein the radio-frequency waveguide is
oriented to be substantially perpendicular to magnetic field lines of a main magnet of
the magnetic resonance imaging system.
        3.      The system of any of claims 1 to 2, wherein the radiofrequency
waveguide comprises a magnetic shield.
        4.      The system of any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the plurality of shielding
containers   are spaced     substantially equidistant from     one another    around a
circumference of the gantry.
        5.      The system of claim 4, wherein the plurality of shielding containers
comprises an additional shielding container that does not contain components of the
linear accelerator.
        6.      The system of any of claims 1 to 5, further comprising a plurality of
additional radio frequency waveguides, the radio frequency waveguide and the
plurality of additional radio frequency waveguides extending substantially around an
entire circumference of the gantry.
        7.      The system of claim 6 wherein at least one of the plurality of
additional radio frequency waveguides does not transmit radiofrequency waves.
                                            19

         8.      The system of any of claims 1 to 7, wherein the plurality of shielding
containers comprises a first shielding container containing RF power source
components, a second shielding container containing circulator and AFC components,
and a third shielding container containing the linear accelerator components.
         9.      The system of any of claims 1 to 8, wherein the radio frequency
waveguide comprises RF shielding.
         10.     The system of claim 9, wherein the RF shielding comprises at least one
of an RF absorbing material, an RF reflecting material, and multiple layers of RF
reflecting and absorbing materials.
         11.     The system of any of claims 9 to 10, wherein the RF shielding
comprises at least one of copper, aluminum, alloys of copper and aluminum, oxides of
copper and aluminum, carbon fiber, and silicon carbide.
         12.     The system of any of claims 9 to 11, wherein the RF shielding
comprises at least one of water cooling and air cooling.
         13.     A method comprising:
         affixing a plurality of shielding containers to a gantry rotatable to different
positions around a couch of a magnetic resonance imaging system;
         placing components of a linear accelerator into at least two of the plurality of
shielding containers; and
         connecting components contained in the at least two of the plurality of
shielding containers with at least one radio frequency waveguide.
         14.     The method of claim 13, wherein the at least one radio-frequency
waveguide is oriented to be substantially perpendicular to magnetic field lines of a
main magnet of the magnetic resonance imaging system.
         15.     The method of any of claims 13 to 14, wherein the at least one
radiofrequency waveguide includes a magnetic shield.
                                            20

         16.    The method of any of claims 13 to 15, further comprising connecting a
plurality of additional radio frequency waveguides, the plurality of additional radio
frequency waveguides extending substantially around an entire circumference of the
gantry.
         17.    The method of any of claims 13 to 16, wherein the at least one radio
frequency waveguide comprises RF shielding.
         18.    The method of claim 17, wherein the RF shielding comprises at least
one of an RF absorbing material, an RF reflecting material, and multiple layers of RF
reflecting and absorbing materials.
         19.    The method of any of claims 17 to 18, wherein the RF shielding
comprises at least one of copper, aluminum, alloys of copper and aluminum, oxides of
copper and aluminum, carbon fiber, and silicon carbide.
         20.    The method of any of claims 17 to 19 wherein the RF shielding
includes at least one of air cooling and water cooling.
                                           21

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
