                     EXCHANGE SERVER METHOD AND SYSTEM
                                ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
         The present disclosure provides an online system comprising: a communication
network; a user device associated with a viewing user, the user device being coupled to the
communication network; an advertiser server associated with an advertiser, the advertiser
server being coupled to the communication network; a service provider server associated
with a service provider, the service provider server being coupled to the communication
network; and an exchange server coupled to the communication network. The exchange
server comprises: an ad database for storing advertisement information received from the
advertiser server, the advertisement information including advertisements, each
advertisement being associated with targeting criteria and targeting criteria bids; a user
database for storing user data received from the service provider server; and an ad module
for selecting an advertisement to display to the viewing user, based on identifying a set of
advertisements, from the stored advertisement information, that have at least one targeting
criteria matching the viewing user's data and selecting an advertisement from the set having
the highest bid, wherein a bid associated with an advertisement is a sum of the targeting
criteria bids associated with the targeting criteria that the viewing user satisfies. The system
further comprises a publisher for receiving the selected advertisement from the exchange
server and sending the selected advertisement to the user device for viewing by the viewing
user.

        1/4
             coc
     EU
la))            _
            CJ

                      EXCHANGE SERVER METHOD AND SYSTEM
                                     RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]       This application is related to US Provisional Patent Application No. 13/306,626
filed 29 November 2011, International Application No. PCT/US2012/063941 titled
"Advertisements with multiple targeting criteria bids" and filed 7 November 2012 in the
name of Facebook, Inc., and Australian Patent Application No. 2012346436 titled
"Advertisements with multiple targeting criteria bids" and filed 7 November 2012 in the
name of Facebook, Inc., the entire content of each of which is incorporated by reference as
if fully set forth herein.
                                      TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]       This application relates generally to an exchange server-based method and
system for use in relation to online advertising.
                                          BACKGROUND
[0003]       Some advertising systems use a bid-based model in which advertisers bid against
each other to advertise to groups of users. These advertising systems typically allow an
advertiser to provide a single bid with an advertisement, which also has associated targeting
criteria. This limits the advertiser's ability to target the advertisement differently to
different groups of users. For example, if an advertiser of an advertisement assigned a bid
to users who like basketball and/or football, the advertisement would not be targeted equally
to users who like basketball only, football only, or both football and basketball. But an
advertiser may value these groups of users differently. To target to these groups differently,
the advertiser would have to create three separate ad campaigns with different bid amounts
to advertise to users who like basketball, users who like football, and users who like both
basketball and football. As such, there is a need for an advertising system that enables
advertisers to associate multiple targeting criteria bids with an advertisement.
                                             SUMMARY
[0004]       A first aspect of the present disclosure provides an online system comprising:
             a communication network;
             a user device associated with a viewing user, said user device being coupled to
said communication network;
             an advertiser server associated with an advertiser, said advertiser server being
coupled to said communication network;
                                                - 1-

             a service provider server associated with a service provider, said service provider
server being coupled to said communication network;
             an exchange server coupled to said communication network, said exchange
server comprising:
                       an ad database for storing advertisement information received from said
             advertiser server, said advertisement information including advertisements, each
             advertisement being associated with targeting criteria and targeting criteria bids;
                       a user database for storing user data received from said service provider
             server;
                       an ad module for selecting an advertisement to display to said viewing
             user, based on identifying a set of advertisements, from said stored advertisement
             information, that have at least one targeting criteria matching the viewing user's
             data and selecting an advertisement from the set having the highest bid, wherein
             a bid associated with an advertisement is a sum of the targeting criteria bids
             associated with the targeting criteria that the viewing user satisfies; and
             a publisher for receiving said selected advertisement from said exchange server
and sending said selected advertisement to said user device for viewing by said viewing
user.
[0005]       A second aspect of the present disclosure provides a computer-implemented
method comprising:
         receiving at an exchange server an advertisement associated with an advertiser;
         receiving at an ad module associated with said exchange server a first targeting
criteria for the advertisement and a first bid associated with the first targeting criteria;
         receiving at said ad module a second targeting criteria for the advertisement and a
second bid associated with the second targeting criteria;
         identifying by said ad module a plurality of viewing users whose profiles satisfy at
least one of the first targeting criteria and the second targeting criteria;
         determining, by a computer processor associated with said exchange server, for each
of the identified plurality of viewing users whose profiles satisfy both the first targeting
criteria and the second targeting criteria, an aggregated bid for the advertisement that is the
sum of the first and second bids; and
applying, by said ad cost module, the determined aggregated bid for advertisement selection
for each of the identified plurality of viewing users.
                                                 -2-

[0006]       A third aspect of the present disclosure provides a non-transitory computer
readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs
comprising instructions for:
         receiving an advertisement associated with an advertiser;
         receiving a first targeting criteria for the advertisement and a first bid associated with
the first targeting criteria;
         receiving a second targeting criteria for the advertisement and a second bid
associated with the second targeting criteria;
         identifying a plurality of viewing users whose profiles satisfy at least one of the first
targeting criteria and the second targeting criteria;
         determining, for each of the identified plurality of viewing users whose profiles
satisfy both the first targeting criteria and the second targeting criteria an aggregate bid for
the advertisement that is the sum of the first and second bids; and
         applying the determined aggregated bid for advertisement selection for each of the
identified plurality of viewing users.
[0007]       A fourth aspect of the present disclosure provides a computer-implemented
method comprising:
         receiving at an exchange server an advertisement associated with an advertiser;
         receiving at an ad module associated with said exchange server a plurality of
targeting criteria bids for the advertisement, each targeting criteria bid comprising a bid
amount and a targeting criteria defining a group of users who may be delivered the
advertisement;
         identifying by said ad module a viewing user whose profile satisfies at least one of
the targeting criteria of at least one of the targeting criteria bids;
         determining, by a computer processor associated with said exchange server, an
aggregated bid for the advertisement for the viewing user, the aggregating bid comprising a
sum of the bid amounts of the targeting criteria bids whose targeting criteria was satisfied by
the viewing user; and
         applying, by said ad cost module, the determined aggregated bid in an advertisement
selection process for the viewing user.
[0008]       Systems and methods are disclosed herein for an advertising system that enables
advertisers to associate multiple targeting criteria bids with an advertisement. Each
targeting criteria bid is associated with a different targeting criteria, which defines a group
                                                  -3-

of users to whom the advertisement may be delivered. This allows an advertiser to target an
advertisement differently to multiple groups of users and gives an advertiser greater control
over how to spend the advertising budget.
[0009]       In one embodiment, multiple targeting criteria bids are received for an
advertisement. Each targeting criteria bid includes a bid amount and targeting criteria which
defines a group of users to whom the advertisement may be delivered. For example, the
advertiser may assign a first bid to a first targeting criteria and a second bid to a second
targeting criteria. Each targeting criteria corresponds to a group of users. For example, the
first targeting criteria may specify users who are in a certain age range (e.g., ages 30-40) and
the second targeting criteria may specify users in a geographic location (e.g., California).
The advertisement is displayed to a viewing user that satisfies at least one of the targeting
criteria of the advertisement. A cost for advertisement is determined, and the advertiser is
charged the cost. The cost of the advertisement is based on the sum of the targeting criteria
bids of the targeting criteria satisfied by the viewing user. For example, if a user satisfied
two targeting criteria of an advertisement, the cost for the advertisement is the sum of the
targeting criteria bids for the two targeting criteria.
[0010]       By associating multiple targeting criteria bids with an advertisement, the
advertisement can be targeting to multiple groups of users. Using the previous example, the
advertisement may be displayed to users who are 30-40 years old, users who live in
California, or users who both live in California and are 30-40 years old. Associating
multiple targeting bid amounts to an advertisement gives an advertiser greater control over
the advertisement's audience composition. Using the previous example, an advertiser may
assign a higher bid to users who live in California than to users who are 30-40 years old in
order to ensure that a majority of the users viewing the corresponding advertisement live in
California.
                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0011]       FIG. 1 is a high level block diagram illustrating a system environment suitable
for associating multiple targeting criteria bids with an advertisement, in accordance with one
embodiment of the invention.
[0012]        FIG. 2 is a high level block diagram illustrating a system environment suitable
for associating multiple targeting criteria bids with an advertisement, in accordance with one
embodiment of the invention.
                                                -4-

[0013]       FIG. 3A illustrates aspects of associating multiple positive targeting criteria bids
with an advertisement, in accordance with one embodiment of the invention.
[0014]       FIG. 3B illustrates aspects of associating negative targeting criteria bids with an
advertisement, in accordance with one embodiment of the invention.
[0015]       FIG. 4 is a flow chart illustrating a process for associating multiple targeting
criteria bids with an advertisement, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
[0016]       The figures depict various embodiments of the described methods and system
and are for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from
the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the methods and systems
illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the methods
and systems described herein.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
Overview
[0017]       The present disclosure provides a computer system and method based on an
improved exchange server having an associated ad module.
[0018]       FIG. 1 is a diagram of a process for associating multiple targeting criteria bids
with an advertisement, in accordance with one embodiment. In one embodiment, one or
more service providers 112 send user data 130 to an exchange server 106. An advertiser
110 sends advertisements 132 and associated advertisement information 134 to the
exchange server 106. The ad information 134 includes targeting criteria, targeting criteria
bids, budget information, pacing information, and duration information. An ad module 120
on the exchange server selects an advertisement ("ad") to display to a viewing user. In
order to select an advertisement, the ad module 120 identifies a set of advertisements that
have at least one targeting criteria matching the viewing user's user data and selects an
advertisement from the set having the highest bid. An advertisement's bid is a sum of the
targeting criteria bids associated with the targeting criteria that the viewing user satisfies.
For example, if the viewing user satisfies two targeting criteria of an advertisement, the
advertisement's bid for the viewing user is a sum of the targeting criteria bids associated
with the satisfied targeting criteria. The exchange server 106 sends the selected
advertisement 136 to the viewing user's device 100. The ad cost module 122 updates an
account associated with the advertiser with the cost for the selected advertisement 136.
[0019]       A service provider 112 includes any entity that provides data or an online service
to a user over a network, including but not limited to social networking systems, web
                                                 -5-

retailers, news providers, video content item providers, etc. The embodiments disclosed
herein may include one or more service providers 112. The exchange server 106 may be a
service provider, a social networking system, or another entity.
[0020]       The user data 130 provided by the service providers 130 may include biographic,
demographic and other types of descriptive information (birthday, age, work experience,
gender, educational history, hobbies or preferences, interests, geographic location, marital
status, household size, political party, and the like). The user data 130 may also include
profile information, browsing history, purchasing history, and content item viewing history.
The user data 130 may also include affinity scores for other users, types of actions, types of
objects, and content.
[0021]       An advertiser 110 is an entity that provides advertisements 132 and
advertisement information 134. In one embodiment, an advertisement is a web-based ad
that is displayed in the margins or other dedicated area of a website. The advertisements
may include banners ads, floating ads, expanding ads, wallpaper ads, pop-up ads, pop-under
ads, video ads, map ads, animations, email ads, and mobile ads. As discussed above, the
advertisement information 134 for an advertisement includes targeting criteria, targeting
criteria bids, budget information, pacing information, and duration information.
[0022]       The targeting criteria include characteristics of the intended audience of an
advertisement. The user characteristics may include any information associated with a user
described above, including declared information from the user's profile, historical
information based on the user's activity, or social information about other users with whom
the user is connected. An advertisement may be associated with multiple targeting criteria.
In some embodiments, targeting criteria is included with a targeting criteria bid.
[0023]       A targeting criteria bid is associated with targeting criteria and indicates the
amount of money an advertiser is willing to spend to advertise to the users corresponding to
the targeting criteria. In some embodiments, a targeting criteria bid includes a bid amount
and targeting criteria. Multiple targeting criteria bids may be associated with an
advertisement. For example, an advertisement targeting 25 year old users in California may
have a targeting criteria bid for 25 year old users and another targeting criteria bid for users
in California. A bid amount may be positive or negative. An advertiser may use a negative
bid in order to exclude certain groups of users. For example, an advertiser may assign a
positive bid (e.g., one dollar) to users living in California and a negative bid (e.g., negative
one dollar) to users living in San Francisco in order to advertise to users in California who
                                                 -6-

do not live in San Francisco. An advertiser may also assign a negative bid to targeting
criteria in order to prioritize certain groups of users or to decrease the probability of
advertising to certain users. For example, an advertiser may assign a bid of two dollars for
users living in California and a bid of negative one dollar for users living in San Francisco
in order to prioritize advertising to users in California who do not live in San Francisco or to
decrease the likelihood of advertising to users in San Francisco. In some embodiments, a
bid amount may be for a bid type. The bid type is per click or per impression.
[0024]       A targeting criteria bid may be associated with one or more targeting criteria.
For example, an advertiser may assign a bid of one dollar to a first targeting criteria and a
bid of two dollars to a second targeting criteria. In some embodiments, an advertiser may
assign a bid for users corresponding to both the first criteria and the second criteria, and a
bid of six dollars to users corresponding to both the first targeting criteria and the second
criteria.
[0025]       The duration information specifies a period of time an advertisement is available
for display to users. For example, the duration may specify a starting time and an ending
time. The budget information includes the amount of money an advertiser has allocated for
an advertisement. An advertiser may specify a budget amount for each targeting criteria of
an advertisement. The pacing information indicates a rate at a targeting criteria bid may be
used in determining an advertisement's bid. For example, the pacing information may
specify that a targeting criteria bid for users in California may be used once an hour.
[0026]       The ad module 120 identifies a viewing user, retrieves user data for the viewing
user, determines a set of candidate advertisements, ranks the advertisements, and selects an
advertisement for the viewing user. The viewing user may be identified by a user identifier
that correlates to the user profile for the viewing user. The user identifier may be received
when the user requests a page of the online system or opens a native application.
[0027]       The ad module 120 selects an advertisement from a ranked set of candidate
advertisements to display to a viewing user. The ad module 120 determines a set of
candidate advertisements that have at least one targeting criteria that matches the viewing
user's characteristics. In some embodiments, the ad module 120 determines advertising bids
for each of the set of advertisements. The advertising bid for an advertisement is also the
cost charged to the advertiser to display the advertisement. The advertising bid cannot be
smaller than zero in order for the advertisement corresponding to the advertising bid to be
selected or displayed.
                                                -7-

[0028]       In some embodiments, an advertisement's advertising bid for a viewing user is a
sum of the targeting criteria bids associated with the targeting criteria satisfied by the
viewing user. In some embodiments, an advertisement's advertising bid is a sum of a subset
of the targeting criteria bids associated with targeting criteria satisfied by the viewing user.
For example, if a viewing user satisfies three targeting criteria of an advertisement, one or
two of the targeting criteria bids associated with the satisfied targeting criteria may be used
to determine the advertisement's advertising bid. The subset of the targeting criteria bids
may be selected by a pacing algorithm stored with the ad module 120.
[0029]       The pacing algorithm evenly spreads out the number of times a targeting criteria
bid for an advertisement may be used. In some embodiments, the pacing algorithm selects a
targeting criteria bid based on pacing information associated with an advertisement. For
example, the pacing information may indicate that a respective targeting criteria bid may be
used once an hour. In some embodiments, the pacing algorithm selects a targeting criteria
bid based on the bid amount, remaining budget for the bid, and the time remaining for the
advertisement. The pacing algorithm divides the remaining budget by the bid amount to
determine a number of times the bid may be used. For example, if the remaining budget for
a bid is 20 dollars and the bid amount is 2 dollars, the number of times the bid may used is
10 (i.e., 20 divided by 2). The pacing algorithm then divides the remaining time by the
determined number of times the bid may be used. For example, when there is an hour
remaining for the advertisement and the remaining number of times the targeting criteria bid
can be used is 10, the pacing algorithm determines that the targeting criteria bid should be
used every six minutes (i.e., 60 minutes divided by 10). Using this example, the targeting
criteria bid may be used if six minutes or more have elapsed since the last time the targeting
criteria bid was used.
[0030]       In some embodiments, the ad module 120 determines a set of candidate
advertisements that include content that the viewing user has at least a threshold amount of
affinity for. For example, the set of candidate advertisements may include an advertisement
about action movies if the viewing user has a sufficient affinity for action movies. The
viewing user's affinity for the content of the information in an advertisement acts as a proxy
for the likelihood that the viewing user will click on the advertisement. In some
embodiments, the ad module 120 determines affinity scores for the set of candidate
advertisements that have at least one targeting criteria that matches the viewing user's
profile. The affinity score may be based on a weighted function that takes into account the
                                               -8-

set of affinities for the particular viewing user has for each type of data field that is in a
candidate advertisement. The member's affinities may be obtained from the viewing user's
express interests (whether provided directly or indirectly, for example, through
communications with other users) and/or impliedly based on the user's actions (e.g., a user's
checking of another user's page indicates an interest in that other user, or clicking on
particular types of links may indicate an interest in similar links).
[0031]       The ad module 120 ranks the set of candidates advertisements based on the
advertising bids for the advertisements and/or the viewing user's affinity for the
advertisements and selects the highest ranked advertisement.
[0032]       The ad cost module 122 updates the advertisement information for an
advertisement with the cost for an advertisement. In particular, after the advertisement is
displayed to a viewing user, the ad cost module 122 decreases the budgets for the targeting
criteria satisfied by a viewing user. An advertiser may be charged based on a cost per click
model or a cost per impression model.
[0033]       These embodiments described for associating multiple targeting criteria bids with
advertisements are merely meant to be exemplary and are not intended to be restrictive. In
other embodiments, there are more or fewer components performing the same or substantially
similar functions as the components of the embodiment of FIG. 1. In addition, as will be
discussed below, in some embodiments, the functionality of the ad module 120 may be
provided by the exchange server 106; in other embodiments, all or part of this functionality
may be provided external to the exchange server 106.
Advertising System Overview
[0034]       FIG. 2 is a high level block diagram of a distributed system 200 of an online
system according to one embodiment of the invention. The distributed system 200 includes
one or more user devices 202, an advertiser 110, one or more service providers 112, a
publisher 214 and an exchange server 106 connected by a network 204. In some
embodiments, the exchange server 106 is implemented as a single server, while in other
embodiments it is implemented as a distributed system of multiple servers. For convenience
of explanation, the exchange server 106 is described below as being implemented on a single
server system, but the exchange server 106 may be implemented on a plurality of server
computers. Additionally. the advertiser 110, service provider 112 and publisher 214 may
each be implemented on a plurality of server computers.
                                               -9-

[0035]      The communication network(s) 204 can be any wired or wireless local area
network (LAN) and/or wide area network (WAN), such as an intranet, an extranet, or the
Internet. It is sufficient that the communication network 204 provides communication
capability between the user devices 202 and the exchange server 106. In some embodiments,
the communication network 204 uses the HyperText Transport Protocol (HTTP) and the
Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP) to transmit information between
devices or systems. HTTP permits user device 202 to access various resources available via
the communication network 204. The various embodiments of the invention, however, are
not limited to the use of any particular protocol.
[0036]      A user interacts with the exchange server 106 using a user device 202, which may
be any suitable computer device that is capable of connecting to the exchange server 106 via
communication network 204, such as a computer, a desktop computer, a laptop computer, a
tablet device, a netbook, an internet kiosk, a personal digital assistants, a mobile phone and a
gaming device. The user device 202 may communicate with the server system 106 via an
application 228 such as a web browser or native application. Typical interactions between the
user device 202 and the server system 106 include operations such as viewing profiles of
other users of the exchange server 106, sending messages to other users, contributing and
interacting with media items, joining groups, listing and confirming attendance at events, and
performing other tasks that facilitate social interaction.
[0037]      The ad database 232 stores advertisements. In some embodiments, the ad
database 126 resides on the advertiser's server 110. The user database 230 stores the user
data described above.
[0038]      A publisher 214 is an entity that sends an advertisement to a user device for
display to a viewing user. A publisher 214 may include, for example, a service provider 112
such as a newspaper, a video content provider, a web retailer, an email service provider, or a
social networking system. In one embodiment, the publisher 214 receives an advertisement
provided by the exchange server 106 and sends the advertisement to a user device 202 for
display.
Examples
[0039]      FIG. 3A includes a diagram 300 illustrating aspects of associating positive bids
with an advertisement. Diagram 300 illustrates positive targeting criteria bids associated
with clusters (i.e., cluster 1 and cluster 2) of users targeting by an advertisement. Cluster 1
has a bid amount of one dollar and cluster 2 has a bid amount of two dollars. When a
                                                - 10 -

viewing user belongs to cluster 1 only, the advertisement's bid for the viewing user is one
dollar. When a viewing user belongs to cluster 2 only, the advertisement's bid for the
viewing user is two dollars. When the viewing user belongs to both cluster 1 and cluster 2,
the advertisement's bid for the viewing user is the sum of the bid amounts for cluster 1 and
cluster 2 (i.e., three dollars). In some embodiments, a bid amount may be associated with
the overlap of two clusters. For example, there may be a bid amount for the users belonging
to both cluster 1 and cluster 2 that is different bid than the sum of the bid amounts for
cluster 1 and cluster 2.
[0040]        FIG. 3B includes a diagram 302 illustrating aspects of associating negative
targeting criteria bids with an advertisement. In diagram 302, cluster 3 has a bid of three
dollars, cluster 5 has a bid of negative three dollars, and cluster 4 has a bid of negative one
dollar. When a viewing user belongs to cluster 3 only, the advertisement's bid for the
viewing user is three dollars. When the viewing user belongs to cluster 3 and cluster 5, the
advertisement's bid for the viewing user is zero dollars. Thus, in this case, the advertiser
has chosen not to advertise to viewing users belonging to both cluster 3 and cluster 5. When
a viewing user belongs to cluster 3 and cluster 4, the advertisement's bid for the viewing
user is two dollars. In this case, the advertiser has assigned a lower priority to a viewing
user belonging to both cluster 3 and cluster 5 than to a viewing user belonging to cluster 3
only. Stated in another way, the advertiser is willing to pay more to advertise to a viewing
user belonging to cluster 3 than to a viewing user belonging to both cluster 3 and cluster 4.
Advertisements with Multiple Targeting Criteria Bids
[0041]       FIG. 4 is a flow chart of a process 400 for associating multiple targeting criteria
bids with an advertisement, in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. The
process 400 is performed at a server system (e.g., server system 106) having one or more
processors and non-transitory memory. The non-transitory memory stores one or more
programs to be executed by the one or more processors. The one or more programs include
instructions for carrying out process 400.
[0042]       In this process 400, an advertisement associated with an advertiser is received
402. The ad module 120 may receive the advertisement from an advertiser 110 or retrieve
the advertisement from the ad database 232.
[0043]       Multiple targeting criteria bids are received 404 for the advertisement. For
example, the advertisement may receive a first targeting criteria bid and a second targeting
criteria bid. A targeting criteria bid includes a bid amount and targeting criteria defining a
                                               - 11 -

group of users who may be delivered the advertisement.         Using the previous example, the
first targeting criteria bid may include a first targeting criteria that specifies users in
California and a first bid amount of one dollar. Continuing with this example, the second
targeting criteria bid may include a second targeting criteria that specifies users interested in
movies and a second bid amount of negative one dollar. In some embodiments, the
targeting criteria include a plurality of user characteristics. The targeting criteria of an
advertisement may have at least one user characteristics in common or at least one
overlapping user characteristic. The user characteristics of one targeting criteria may be a
subset of the user characteristics of another targeting criteria. Using the previous example, a
third targeting criteria of a third targeting criteria bid may include both the first targeting
criteria and the second targeting criteria. The bid amounts may be positive or negative. As
discussed above, an advertiser may use negative bids in order to target certain audiences.
For example, the advertiser may ensure that the advertisement is displayed to users outside
of California that like movies by assigning a bid of one dollar to users interested in movies
and assigning a bid of negative one dollar to users in California. The ad module 120 may
receive the targeting criteria bids from the advertiser 110 or retrieve the targeting criteria
bids from the ad database 232.
[0044]       In some embodiments, budget amounts are received for the targeting criteria
bids. Using the previous example, a first budget amount for the first targeting criteria bid is
received and a second budget amount for the second targeting criteria bid is received. The
budget amount for a targeting criteria bid is the amount of money the advertiser is willing to
spend to advertise to users corresponding to the targeting criteria of the targeting criteria
bid. For example, an advertiser may allocate 100 dollars to advertise to users in California
and 200 dollars to advertise to users interested in movies.
[0045]       The advertisement is sent 408 to a plurality of viewing users. In particular, the
advertisement is sent to each of a plurality of viewing users whose profiles satisfy at least
one of the targeting criteria associated with the advertisement. In some embodiments, the
advertisement is sent to a viewing user when the advertisement's bid for the viewing user is
higher than bids from other advertisements, where an advertisement's bid for a user is the
sum of the bids associated with the advertisement whose associated targeting criteria is
satisfied by the viewing user.
[0046]       The cost for the advertisement is determined 410. The cost for the advertisement
is based on the cost for each viewing user. The cost for each viewing user is a sum of bid
                                                - 12  -

amounts whose associated targeting criteria was satisfied by the viewing user. Using the
previous example, the cost for the viewing user is the first bid amount if the viewing user
satisfies only the first targeting criteria, the second bid amount if the viewing user satisfies
only the second targeting criteria, and the sum of the first and second bid amounts if the
viewing user satisfies both the first and second targeting criteria.
[0047]       An account associated with the advertiser is updated 412 with the cost for the
advertisement. In some embodiments, each time the advertisement is displayed to a viewing
user, the budgets for the targeting criteria that the user's profile satisfied are decremented by
the associated targeting criteria bid amount. Using the previous example, if the viewing user
is interested in movies, the budget to advertise to users interested in movies is decremented
by the associated targeting criteria bid amount. In some embodiments, the advertiser is
charged the cost of the advertisement based on a cost per click model. In some embodiments,
the advertiser is charged the cost of the advertisement based on a cost per impression model.
Further Embodiments
[0048]       One embodiment provides a computer-implemented method comprising:
         receiving an advertisement associated with an advertiser;
         receiving a first targeting criteria for the advertisement and a first bid associated with
the first targeting criteria;
         receiving a second targeting criteria for the advertisement and a second bid
associated with the second targeting criteria;
         sending the advertisement for display to each of a plurality of viewing users whose
profiles satisfy at least one of the first targeting criteria and the second targeting criteria;
         determining, for each of the plurality of viewing users that satisfy at least one of the
first targeting criteria and the second targeting criteria, a cost for the advertisement, wherein
the cost for each viewing user is: the first bid if the viewing user satisfies only the first
targeting criteria, the second bid if the viewing user satisfies only the second targeting
criteria, and the sum of the first and second bids if the viewing user satisfies both the first
and second targeting criteria; and
         updating an account for the advertiser with the cost for the plurality of viewing users.
[0049]       In one arrangement, at least one of the first bid and the second bid is negative.
[0050]       In one arrangement, at least one of the first targeting criteria and the second
targeting criteria include a plurality of user characteristics.
                                                 - 13 -

[0051]        In one arrangement, the first targeting criteria and the second targeting criteria
include at least one common user characteristic.
[0052]        In one arrangement, the method further comprises: receiving a first budget amount
for the first targeting criteria; and receiving a second budget amount for the second targeting
criteria.
[0053]        In one arrangement, the updating includes decreasing a budget amount whose
associated targeting criteria was satisfied by the viewing user.
[0054]        In one arrangement, the advertiser is charged the cost based on a cost per click
model.
[0055]        In one arrangement, the advertiser is charged the cost based on a cost per
impression model.
[0056]        Another embodiment provides a non-transitory computer readable storage
medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions
for:
          receiving an advertisement associated with an advertiser;
          receiving a first targeting criteria for the advertisement and a first bid associated with
the first targeting criteria;
          receiving a second targeting criteria for the advertisement and a second bid
associated with the second targeting criteria;
          sending the advertisement for display to each of a plurality of viewing users whose
profiles satisfy at least one of the first targeting criteria and the second targeting criteria;
          determining, for each of the plurality of viewing users that satisfy at least one of the
first targeting criteria and the second targeting criteria, a cost for the advertisement, wherein
the cost for each viewing user is: the first bid if the viewing user satisfies only the first
targeting criteria, the second bid if the viewing user satisfies only the second targeting
criteria, and the sum of the first and second bids if the viewing user satisfies both the first
and second targeting criteria; and
          updating an account for the advertiser with the cost for the plurality of viewing users.
[0057]        A further embodiment provides a computer-implemented method comprising:
          receiving an advertisement associated with an advertiser;
          receiving a plurality of targeting criteria bids for the advertisement, each targeting
criteria bid comprising a bid amount and a targeting criteria defining a group of users who
may be delivered the advertisement;
                                                  - 14 -

        sending the advertisement for display to a viewing user based on whether the
viewing user satisfies the targeting criteria of at least one of the targeting criteria bids;
        determining a cost for the advertisement for the user, the cost comprising a sum of
the bid amounts of the targeting criteria bids whose targeting criteria was satisfied by the
viewing user; and
        charging the cost to advertiser for the advertisement.
[0058]      In one arrangement, a targeting criteria bid of the plurality of targeting criteria
bids includes a negative bid amount;
[0059]      In one arrangement, the targeting criteria include a plurality of user
characteristics.
[0060]      In one arrangement, at least two of the plurality of targeting criteria bids include
targeting criteria having at least one common user characteristic.
[0061]      In one arrangement, the method further comprises: receiving budget amounts for
the targeting criteria bids.
[0062]      In one arrangement, the method further comprises decreasing a budget amount
associated with the targeting criteria bids whose targeting criteria was satisfied by the
viewing user.
[0063]      In one arrangement, the advertiser is charged the cost based on a cost per click
model. In one arrangement, the advertiser is charged the cost based on a cost per impression
model.
Summary
[0064]      The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented
for the purpose of illustration; it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the systems and
methods to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that
many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.
[0065]      Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the systems and
methods in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information.
These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the
data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the
art. These operations, while described functionally, computationally, or logically, are
understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits,
microcode, or the like. Furthermore, it has also proven convenient at times, to refer to these
arrangements of operations as modules, without loss of generality. The described operations
                                                - 15 -

and their associated modules may be embodied in software, firmware, hardware, or any
combinations thereof.
[0066]      Any of the steps, operations, or processes described herein may be performed or
implemented with one or more hardware or software modules, alone or in combination with
other devices. In one embodiment, a software module is implemented with a computer
program product comprising a computer-readable medium containing computer program
code, which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps,
operations, or processes described.
[0067]      Embodiments of the systems and methods may also relate to an apparatus for
performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the
required purposes, and/or it may comprise a general-purpose computing device selectively
activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer
program may be stored in a non-transitory, tangible computer readable storage medium, or
any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions, which may be coupled to a
computer system bus. Furthermore, any computing systems referred to in the specification
may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor
designs for increased computing capability.
[0068]      Embodiments of the systems and methods may also relate to a product that is
produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise
information resulting from a computing process, where the information is stored on a
non-transitory, tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any
embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.
[0069]      In the context of this specification, the word "comprising" and its associated
grammatical constructions mean "including principally but not necessarily solely" or
"having" or "including", and not "consisting only of'. Variations of the word "comprising",
such as "comprise" and "comprises" have correspondingly varied meanings.
[0070]      Finally, the language used in the specification has been principally selected for
readability and instructional purposes, and it may not have been selected to delineate or
circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the
systems and methods systems and methods be limited not by this detailed description, but
rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly, the disclosure
of the embodiments of the systems and methods are intended to be illustrative, but not
limiting, of the scope of the invention, which is set forth in the following claims.
                                               - 16 -

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
        1.      An online system comprising:
            a communication network;
            a user device associated with a viewing user, said user device being coupled to
said communication network;
            an advertiser server associated with an advertiser, said advertiser server being
coupled to said communication network;
            a service provider server associated with a service provider, said service provider
server being coupled to said communication network;
            an exchange server coupled to said communication network, said exchange
server comprising:
                         an ad database for storing advertisement information received from
            said advertiser server, said advertisement information including advertisements,
            each advertisement being associated with targeting criteria and targeting criteria
            bids;
                         a user database for storing user data received from said service
            provider server;
                         an ad module for selecting an advertisement to display to said
            viewing user, based on identifying a set of advertisements, from said stored
            advertisement information, that have at least one targeting criteria matching the
            viewing user's data and selecting an advertisement from the set having the
            highest bid, wherein a bid associated with an advertisement is a sum of the
            targeting criteria bids associated with the targeting criteria that the viewing user
            satisfies; and
            a publisher for receiving said selected advertisement from said exchange server
and sending said selected advertisement to said user device for viewing by said viewing
user.
        2.      The online system according to claim 1, wherein said service provider is one
of a social networking system, a web retailer, a news provider, and a video content item
provider.
                                               - 17 -

         3.      The online system according to either one of claims 1 and 2, wherein the
exchange server is associated with either one of a service provider or a social networking
system.
         4.      A computer-implemented method comprising:
         receiving at an exchange server an advertisement associated with an advertiser;
         receiving at an ad module associated with said exchange server a first targeting
criteria for the advertisement and a first bid associated with the first targeting criteria;
         receiving at said ad module a second targeting criteria for the advertisement and a
second bid associated with the second targeting criteria;
         identifying by said ad module a plurality of viewing users whose profiles satisfy at
least one of the first targeting criteria and the second targeting criteria;
         determining, by a computer processor associated with said exchange server, for each
of the identified plurality of viewing users whose profiles satisfy both the first targeting
criteria and the second targeting criteria, an aggregated bid for the advertisement that is the
sum of the first and second bids; and
         applying, by said ad module, the determined aggregated bid for advertisement
selection for each of the identified plurality of viewing users.
         5.      The method of claim 4, wherein the identified plurality of viewing users
whose profiles satisfy both the first targeting criteria and the second targeting criteria
comprise a first cluster of users, and wherein the method further comprises receiving a third
bid that is a negative bid, the third bid associated with a third targeting criteria that defines a
second cluster of users that is a subset of the first cluster.
         6.      The method of claim 5, wherein the aggregated bid is a positive bid, and
wherein a viewing user, of the plurality of viewing users, who satisfies the targeting criteria
associated with the positive bid, but not the targeting criteria associated with the negative
bid, has a higher priority to the advertiser than one or more other viewing users, of the
plurality of viewing users, who satisfy the targeting criteria associated with the negative bid.
         7.      The method of claim 5, wherein the aggregated bid is a positive bid, and
wherein the sum of the negative bid and the positive bid is zero.
                                                - 18 -

         8.      The method of claim 5, wherein the aggregated bid is a positive bid and
wherein the negative bid allows the advertiser to exclude the second cluster of users from
receiving the advertisement.
         9.      The method of any one of claims I to 8, wherein at least one of the first
targeting criteria and the second targeting criteria include a plurality of user characteristics.
         10.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the first targeting criteria
and the second targeting criteria include at least one common user characteristic.
         11.     The method of any one of claims I to 10, further comprising:
         receiving a first budget amount for the first targeting criteria; and
         receiving a second budget amount for the second targeting criteria.
         12.     The method of claim 11, further comprising decreasing a budget amount
whose associated targeting criteria was satisfied by the viewing user.
         13,     The method of claim 4, wherein the advertisement is selected in the
advertisement selection process and the advertiser is charged an amount based on a cost per
click model.
          14.    The method of claim 4, wherein the advertisement is selected in the
advertisement selection process and the advertiser is charged an amount based on a cost per
impression model.
         15.     The method of claim 4, wherein the targeting criteria include a plurality of
user characteristics.
         16.     The method of claim 4, wherein at least two of the plurality of targeting
criteria bids include targeting criteria having at least one common user characteristic.
                                               - 19 -

         17.     The method of claim 4, wherein the advertisement is selected in the
advertisement selection process and the advertiser is charged an amount based on a cost per
click model.
         18.     The method of claim 4, wherein the advertisement is selected in the
advertisement selection process and the advertiser is charged an amount based on a cost per
impression model.
          19.    The method of claim 4, wherein the second bid is a negative bid.
         20.     A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing one or more
programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions for:
         receiving an advertisement associated with an advertiser;
         receiving a first targeting criteria for the advertisement and a first bid associated with
the first targeting criteria;
         receiving a second targeting criteria for the advertisement and a second bid
associated with the second targeting criteria;
         identifying a plurality of viewing users whose profiles satisfy at least one of the first
targeting criteria and the second targeting criteria;
         determining, for each of the identified plurality of viewing users whose profiles
satisfy both the first targeting criteria and the second targeting criteria an aggregate bid for
the advertisement that is the sum of the first and second bids; and
         applying the determined aggregated bid for advertisement selection for each of the
identified plurality of viewing users.
         21.     A computer-implemented method comprising:
         receiving at an exchange server an advertisement associated with an advertiser;
         receiving at an ad module associated with said exchange server a plurality of
targeting criteria bids for the advertisement, each targeting criteria bid comprising a bid
amount and a targeting criteria defining a group of users who may be delivered the
advertisement;
         identifying by said ad module a viewing user whose profile satisfies at least one of
the targeting criteria of at least one of the targeting criteria bids;
                                                 - 20 -

        determining, by a computer processor associated with said exchange server, an
aggregated bid for the advertisement for the viewing user, the aggregating bid comprising a
sum of the bid amounts of the targeting criteria bids whose targeting criteria was satisfied by
the viewing user; and
        applying, by said ad module, the determined aggregated bid in an advertisement
selection process for the viewing user.
        22.     The method of claim 21, wherein a targeting criteria bid of the plurality of
targeting criteria bids includes a negative bid amount.
        23.     The method of claim 22, wherein the targeting criteria bid that includes a
negative bid amount is satisfied by the viewing user.
        24.     The method of any one of claims 21 to 24, further comprising:
        receiving budget amounts for the targeting criteria bids.
        25.     The method of claim 24, further comprising decreasing a budget amount
associated with the targeting criteria bids whose targeting criteria was satisfied by the
viewing user.
                                      Facebook, Inc.
                              By Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                   @COTTERS
                                Patent & Trade Mark Attorneys
                                              - 21 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
