                                          ABSTRACT
Application Flow:
   1. User download application.
   2. Tutorial.
   3. Account registration.
   4. Create profile.
   5. Create user name.
   6. Create shared folder c/w folder name.
   7. Set shared folder password.
   8. Select photos/videos direct from device Phone Gallery or selectively capture new
      photos and videos using device camera.
   9. Add captions to media if required.
   1O.Upload media into newly created shared folder.
   11.Share folder
          a. User 1 sets folder access time limit and sends share request to another user via
             username.
          b. If the other person does not have the application, they can be sent the link to
             the app stores through external messaging pathways to download the
             application.
          c. User 2 will receive a notification stating "Username has shared a folder with
             you".
          d. User 2 will need to accept the request to have the shared folder be visible in
             the app.
          e. User 1 will send the password for the shared folder externally from app.
   12.User 2 (recipient) enters the password that is linked to the specific folder.
   13.User 2 (recipient) can now enter the shared folder and view content for the set
      "folder access time limit".
   14.Both parties can now upload videos and images to the folder.
   15.When new content is added to the shared folder by either party, notifications will be
      sent to the user stating "Username has added new content to your shared folder".
Active Folder Indicator (AFI)
   16.When User 2 is accessing and viewing the content of the shared folder, a green light
      (Active Folder Indicator) displays on the shared folder thumbnail on the sharing
      parties (User 1) device to give additional notice that User 2 is viewing folder content.
   17.When the recipient (User 2) exits the shared folder, a notification is sent to User 1
      stating "Username has exited your shared folder".
   18.Green "Active Folder Indicator" disappears.
   19.Shared folder locks down on recipients' device (User 2).
                                                1

Ephemeral Digital Key (EDK) Part 1
  20.User 2 may request access to the shared folder again by tapping on shared folder
     thumbnail.
  21.A "Send Password Request" popup notification displays on User 2 device screen
     stating "This folder has timed out. Request access?"
  22.User 2 is required to select "Yes" in order for User 1 to process this action.
  23.User 1 receives a notification stating "Username has requested a new password"
  24.User 1 is required to re-enter the current password or create a new one, and re-set
     folder access time limit.
Unlimited ControlledLicence (UCL)
  25.User 1 is required to set a "folder access time limit" for User 2.
  26.Time limit may be 1 - 5 minutes, or "no limit".
  27."No limit" initiates an Unlimited Controlled Licence.
  28.The UCL only gives User 2 temporary unlimited access.
  29.User 1 may remove access at any given time, even whilst User 2 is viewing folder
     content.
Ephemeral Digital Key (EDK) Part 2
  30.A notification is sent to User 2 when the above action has taken place, stating
     "Username has reset the password on your shared folder".
  31. User 2 can enter the password and gain temporary access to the shared folder.
  32.A notification will again be sent to User 1 upon User 2 exiting the shared folder
     stating, "Username has exited your shared folder".
  33.A screenshot notification will be sent to User 1 (Sharing Party and Owner of Shared
     Folder) if the recipient (User 2) takes a screenshot of any item within the folder
     content.
  34.This screenshot notification will navigate User 1 directly to the image/video that has
     been breached.
  35.Link and cycle between User 1 and User 2 is maintained and continued until User 1
     removes access to the shared folder, by either detaching the recipient username
     from the shared folder, or deleting the shared folder.
                                               2

                                    AUSTRALIA
                                  Patents Act 1990
                          COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                              INNOVATION PATENT
        SUPERIOR INTERACTIVE AND SECURE
 'HOTO/MEDIA VAULT APPLICATION SOFTWARE
             PROGRAM FOR MOBILE DEVICES
ie following statement is a full description of this invention,
cluding the best method of performing it
iown to me:

                                              1.
 SUPERIOR INTERACTIVE AND SECURE PHOTO/MEDIA VAULT APPLICATION
                   SOFTWARE PROGRAM FOR MOBILE DEVICES
 >r many years, varying software applications have become available for mobile devices
 ich as phones and tablets; thus allowing the sharing, and exchange, of personal
 iotographs and videos across the internet with little or no security. This invention has
 ?en specifically devised in order to generate a level of secure interaction and screening of
 iid media between two persons in a controlled setting, whereby the using parties are
  otected against the misuse of personal imagery.
 ie premise of this invention and creation is an interactive photo vault, which gives
 curring permission based access to a quantity of sensitive images whilst providing the
 caring user with a degree of control/ownership over the content of the vault.
 ioto vault application software in accordance with this invention comprises of specific
 )ding that allows the sharing of personal images and videos via in-app generated folders.
 ich individually generated folder is assigned a unique password/code by the originating
 Ider owner/sharing party (User 1) upon generation.
 nce this secure folder has been created, the software application allows the sharing party
 i browse photos and videos directly from within their mobile device Photo Gallery and
 )load selected media in to the secure folder, or the sharing party may selectively capture
 ?w images and videos by initiating the device camera through the software application.
 ie sharing party (User 1) may now share a privacy protected version of the images and
.deos contained with the secure folder with another user.
Ipon direction of User 1, the software application executes initiating interface prompting
:r a recipient username to be input and a time allocation for viewing the privacy protected
olderr content.
he software application method allows folder content (images and videos) to be accessed
y the recipient (User 2) on a scheduled automatic time expiry or an Unlimited Controlled
icence (UCL), determined by the sharing party (User 1).
 n Unlimited Controlled Licence (UCL) has been specifically designed/invented and written
:r the purpose of this software application. The UCL allows for the receiving party to be
ranted unlimited viewing access of folder content, under the folder ownership
management (Sharing Party - User 1).
e. Whilst the sharing party (User 1) may grant unlimited viewing access of the shared
olderr content, the recipient only gains temporary access under the administration of the
haring party (User 1). Recipient access to the shared folder can be removed at any time by

                                               2.
 ie owner of the folder (User 1) if the recipient (User 2) has been viewing the folder
 )ntent for a suspicious length of time.
  order for the recipient (User 2) to gain access to the shared folder content, the recipient
 ust enter the shared folders unique assigned password/code.
 nce the recipient (User 2) accesses the shared folder and is viewing shared folder content,
 le execution of an Active Folder Indicator (AFI) is implemented. The Active Folder
 dicator (AFI) visually displays a green light on the folder thumbnail, when another user is
 livelyy viewing the content of the permission based shared folder.
 ie specific coded commands which execute this unique operation have been exclusively
 ritten for this invention.
 nce the recipient (User 2) exits the shared folder, either by automatic time expiry, by
 -eference, or by access removal, the shared folder securely locks at the recipients end, and
 ierefore becomes inaccessible to User 2.
 server includes a module with coded commands executed by a processor to maintain a
 ik between the sharing party (User 1) and the recipient (User 2).
 ie server has a memory storing coded commands executed by the processor to maintain a
 illery of shared media between the sharing party (User 1) and the recipient (User 2).
 ie recipient (User 2) my gain further access to the shared folder by an in-app request to
 le sharing party (User 1) for entry.
  order for this action to take place, a behavioural design pattern entitled Ephemeral
 igital Key (EDK), exclusively invented/designed and written for this software application,
  used to encapsulate all data required to execute this request.
he Ephemeral Digital Key (EDK) is unique functionality which enables the sharing party
Jser 1 and Owner of the Shared Folder) to have full ownership and handling of specific
content within the interactive photo vault. Using this system aids in the protection against
he misuse of personal imagery; it brings to an end to the direct transfer of images from the
riginators device to the recipients device.

                                               3.
                                           CLAIMS
ie claims defining this application are as follows;
  1. A Superior Interactive Photo Vault Software Application written in native languages
     specifically for mobile devices comprising of specific, essential, security features to
     align with society's current social digital interactions/relationships, whereby
     specialised coded commands executed by a processor enable recurring permission
     based access to privacy protected images and videos through heightened security
     folders within the software application photo vault, providing control and ownership
     over the content of said vault folders, allowing sharing and viewing access, via the
     administration of the folder owner without physically transferring/sending said
     images between devices.
  2. The Superior Interactive Photo Vault software application as claimed in claim 1 is
     advanced by the Ephemeral Digital Key (EDK) behavioural design pattern, permitting
     the owner/creator of the shared vault folder and content to allow a recipient
     temporary access for viewing only purposes subsequently creating a security device
     feature which locks down the vault folder in the software application on the
     recipients device upon expiry of the Ephemeral Digital Key (EDK).
  3. The Superior Interactive Photo Vault software application as claimed in claim 2
     requires a scheduled automatic time expiry or an Unlimited Controlled Licence (UCL)
     to operate in conjunction with the Ephemeral Digital Key (EDK), with the Unlimited
     Controlled Licence (UCL) providing ongoing safety measures giving the
     owner/creator of the vault shared folder and content, a failsafe expulsion should
     they feel the recipient is breaching the shared folder access conditions.
  4. The Superior Interactive Photo Vault software application as claimed in claims 2 and
     3 provides temporary viewing only access to a shared vault folder through exclusive
     security features, once these exclusive security features have been executed and
     acted upon an Active Folder Indicator (AFI) ensues which provides a green visual
     marker on the shared folder thumbnail restricted to the owner/creators device only,
     as an instantaneous indication of the shared vault folder being "active" in that the
     recipient is actively viewing the vault folder content in real time.
  5. The Superior Interactive Photo Vault software application as claimed in claim 1 is
     innovative in the form of preventative steps, in that its heightened security features
     aid in the prevention of misuse of personal imagery providing the owner of the vault
     content with authority to consensually share without losing possession of said
     imagery.

