                                                 27
              SERVING A LIVE STREAM AS AN ADVERTISEMENT
                                           ABSTRACT
       A computer-implemented method for providing advertisements for live events, the
method comprising: receiving, by a content server system (120), a live stream; storing, by the
content server system (120), a portion of the live stream; receiving, by the content server
system (120) from a client (110) device a user request for a video content, the live stream not
including the video content; determining, by the content server system (120), that a live
stream advertisement is to be served to the client device (110), the live-stream advertisement
advertising the live stream and including the portion of the live stream; providing, by the
content server system (120) to the client device, the live-stream advertisement, the live
stream advertisement displayed by the client device (110) to a user without displaying the
video content; providing, by the content server system (120) to the client device (110),
instructions for the client device (110) to display with the portion of the live stream a first
control and a second control selectable by the user, the first control associated with
terminating the display of the portion of the live stream and initiating display of the video
content, and the second control associated with displaying the live stream instead of the video
content; and responsive to the user selecting the second control, providing, by the content
server system (120) to the client device (110), content of the live stream, the content of the
live stream displayed to the user instead of the video content, the content of the live stream
not included in the stored portion.
14172072 1

                                                  1
              SERVING A LIVE STREAM AS AN ADVERTISEMENT
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
No. 2015257343, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
FIELD
[0002] The disclosure generally relates to the field of distributing live media or digital
content, and in particular, to promoting the live media or digital content.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RELATED ART
[0003] Live streams of media are broadcast to people on a daily basis, thereby allowing
viewers to watch live events such as the sports, concerts, and speeches. Many platforms such
as YOUTUBETM stream live streams to users of the platform. However, a challenge faced by
a live stream creator or distributor today is reaching an audience for a live stream. Often live
stream creators or distributors must expend a huge budget marketing their event months prior
to the event occurring to make users aware of the event and encourage users to watch the live
stream of the event.
OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
[0004] It is an object of the present invention to overcome or at least ameliorate one or more
of the above disadvantages.
SUMMARY
[0005] In a first aspect, the present invention provides a computer-implemented method for
providing advertisements for live events, the method comprising: receiving, by a content
server system, a live stream; storing, by the content server system, a portion of the live
stream; receiving, by the content server system from a client device a user request for a video
content, the live stream not including the video content; determining, by the content server
system, that a live-stream advertisement is to be served to the client device, the live-stream
14172072 1

                                                  2
advertisement advertising the live stream and including the portion of the live stream;
providing, by the content server system to the client device, the live-stream advertisement,
the live stream advertisement displayed by the client device to a user without displaying the
video content; providing, by the content server system to the client device, instructions for the
client device to display with the portion of the live stream a first control and a second control
selectable by the user, the first control associated with terminating the display of the portion
of the live stream and initiating display of the video content, and the second control
associated with displaying the live stream instead of the video content; and responsive to the
user selecting the second control, providing, by the content server system to the client device,
content of the live stream, the content of the live stream displayed to the user instead of the
video content, the content of the live stream not included in the stored portion.
[0006] In a second aspect, the present invention provides a method comprising: receiving
from a content distributor a live stream; generating multiple versions of the live stream by
transcoding the live stream; generating a buffered live stream for each of the multiple
versions of the live stream by buffering each of the multiple versions of the live stream for a
threshold period of time; receiving a request for a video content from a client device, the
video content not included in the live stream; providing to the client device an advertisement
advertising the live stream, the advertisement including the buffered live stream generated for
a version from the multiple versions, the advertisement displayed by the client device to a
user without displaying the video content; providing to the client device instructions for the
client device to display with the buffered live stream a first control and a second control
selectable by the user, the first control associated with terminating the display of the buffered
live stream and initiating display of the video content, and the second control associated with
displaying the live stream instead of the video content; and responsive to the user selecting
the second control, providing to the client device content of the live stream from the version
associated with the buffered live stream of the advertisement, the content of the live stream
displayed to the user instead of the video content, the content of the live stream not included
in the buffered live stream of the advertisement.
[0007] In a third aspect, the present invention provides a content sharing system, comprising:
a content database storing a plurality of video content and metadata associated with the video
content; an advertisement database storing a plurality of live-stream advertisements; a content
server comprising: a processor; and a non-transitory computer readable storage medium
14172072 1

                                                  3
storing computer-executable instructions that when executed cause the processor to perform
steps including: receiving a live stream; storing a portion of the live stream; receiving from a
client device a user request for a video content from the plurality of video content, the live
stream not including the requested video content; determining, from metadata associated with
the requested video content, that a live-stream advertisement from the plurality of live-stream
advertisements is to be served to the client device, the live-stream advertisement advertising
the live stream and including the portion of the live stream; providing to the client device the
live-stream advertisement, the live-stream advertisement displayed by the client device to a
user without displaying the requested video content; providing to the client device
instructions for the client device to display with the portion of the live stream a first control
and a second control selectable by the user, the first control associated with terminating the
display of the portion of the live stream and initiating display of the requested video content,
and the second control associated with displaying the live stream instead of the requested
video content; and responsive to the user selecting the second control, providing to the client
device content of the live stream, the content of the live stream displayed to the user instead
of the requested video content, the content of the live stream not included in the stored
portion.
[0008] In a fourth aspect, the present invention provides A method for viewing video content,
the method comprising: requesting, by a client device, a video content from a server;
receiving, at the client device, an advertisement advertising a live stream, the advertisement
including a portion of the live stream; displaying, by the client device, the advertisement
advertising the live stream without displaying the requested video content; displaying, by the
client device, with the portion of the live stream a first control and second control based on
instructions received from the server; responsive to a user of the client device selecting the
first control while the portion of the live stream is being displayed, terminating, by the client
device, the display of the portion of the live stream and initiating display of the requested
video content; and responsive to the user of the client device selecting the second control
while the portion of the live stream is being displayed: requesting, by the client device from
the server, content of the live stream not included in the portion; and displaying, by the client
device, the content of the live stream in lieu of the requested video content based on receiving
the content of the live stream from the server.
14172072 1

                                                 4
[0009] A content server stores digital content including video, audio, image, animation, or
text content, which users of the content server may view and/or upload. For example, users
request to view videos via a webpage or mobile device and the content server on receiving a
request for a video from a user, provides the user with the video. In one embodiment, the
content server receives live media streams from content distributors, and distributes the live
streams to users of the content server. The live streams are digital content representing live
events, such as a sports match, and are captured in real time. The content server provides the
content distributor with the option of promoting live streams as advertisements to users of the
content server, thereby making users of the content server aware of a live event available to
the users of the content server to view live via the live stream.
[0010] Users of the content server often request to view one or more videos stored on, or
available via the content server. The content server to promote live streams of live events
may provide users with live-stream pre-roll ads along with the requested videos, to make
users of the content server aware of a live event captured by a live stream provided by the
content server. Users may interact with the live-stream pre-roll ad, pausing the live-stream ad
for example, or may choose to view the live stream provided by the content distributor via the
content server instead of the video initially requested by the user. Thus, by generating and
serving portions of a live stream as a pre-roll ad, the content server makes users of the content
server who may be interested in viewing the live stream of a live event aware of the live
stream and the current event being captured by the live stream.
[0011] To provide the user with a live-stream pre-roll ad, the content server receives and
prepares live streams to be served as live-stream pre-roll ads to users of the content server.
The content server transcodes the received live streams so a variety of client devices having
different video compatibilities may be served a version of the live stream. The content server
also buffers the versions of the live stream, thereby allowing the content server to transmit the
buffered live stream as an advertisement to the user, providing the user with a smooth,
uninterrupted viewing experience.
[0012] In one example, the content server provides content distributors with a user interface,
via which the content distributors may specify publishing information associated with the live
stream. In another example, the content server provides the users of the content server with a
14172072 1

                                                 5
user interface to interact with the live-stream ads as the live-stream ads are presented to the
users of the content server.
[0013] The content server receives a request for a video from a client device. The content
server identifies the video requested by the user and metadata associated with the identified
video. The content server, based on the metadata determines whether to serve the client
device with a live-stream ad, for example as a pre-roll ad, along with the video requested by
the user. The content server identifies a buffered live-stream ad to transmit to the client
device along with the requested video. In one example, the content server measures the
interactions of the user with the live-stream ad, and stores the interactions, for example
whether the user interacted with a pause control (served to the user via user interface along
with the live-stream ad), thereby pausing the live-stream ad. In another example, the live
stream ad is presented to the user for a period of time, after which the video requested by the
user is presented to the user.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0014] The disclosed embodiments have other advantages and features which will be more
readily apparent from the detailed description and the accompanying figures. A brief
introduction of the figures is below.
[0015] FIG. 1 illustrates a block diagram of a networked environment for sharing digital
content, in accordance with one embodiment.
[0016] FIG. 2 illustrates an example flow of a live stream from a content distributor to a user
of the content server in accordance with one embodiment.
[0017] FIG. 3 is a flowchart of an example process for receiving and buffering live streams,
in accordance with one embodiment.
[0018] FIG. 4 is a flowchart of an example process for serving a buffered live stream as an
advertisement, in accordance with one embodiment.
[0019] FIG. 5 illustrates example controls presented to a user via a user interface along with a
live-stream pre-roll ad, in accordance with one embodiment.
14172072 1

                                                 6
[0020] FIG. 6 is a block diagram illustrating an example computer usable to implement
entities of the content sharing environment, in accordance with one embodiment.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0021] The Figures and the following description relate to particular embodiments by way of
illustration only. It should be noted that from the following discussion, alternative
embodiments of the structures and methods disclosed herein will be readily recognized as
viable alternatives that may be employed without departing from the principles of what is
claimed.
[0022] Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments, examples of which are
illustrated in the accompanying figures. It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like
reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality.
The figures depict embodiments of the disclosed system (or method) for purposes of
illustration only. Alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein
may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.
[0023] FIG. 1 illustrates a block diagram of a networked environment for sharing digital
content, in accordance with one embodiment. The entities of the networked environment
include a client device 110, a content server 120, a content distributor 130, and a network
150. Although single instances of the entities are illustrated, multiple instances may be
present. For example, multiple client devices 110 associated with multiple users may retrieve
digital content, and present digital content. The functionalities of the entities may be
distributed among multiple instances. For example, a content distribution network of servers
at geographically dispersed locations implements the content server 120 to increase server
responsiveness and to reduce digital content loading times.
[0024] The client device 110 accesses digital content through the network 150 and presents
digital content to a user. Presenting digital content includes playing a video or audio file as
well as displaying an image or animation. In one embodiment, the client device 110 is a
computer, which is described further below with respect to FIG. 4. Example client devices
110 include a desktop, a laptop, a tablet, a mobile device, a smart television, and a wearable
device. Using the client device 110, a user may upload and manage digital content on the
14172072 1

                                                  7
content server 120, which also includes creating live streams and managing live streams
captured using the client device 110. The client device 110 may contain software such as a
web browser or other application for viewing digital content from the content server 120.
The client device 110 may include software such as a video player, an audio player, or an
animation player to support presentation of embedded digital content.
[0025] The content distributor 130 is a computer system that provides one or more live
streams to the content server 120. Example content distributors 130 include a desktop, a
laptop, a smartphone, a tablet, a mobile device, a camera or a video recording device. A
content distributor 130 may generate a live feed of media content and transmit the live feed to
the content server 120 as a live stream. A content distributor 130 may be operated, for
example, by a television network, a radio station, a concert producer, an individual user that
generates live media content, or any other entity that generates live media content. In one
example, a content distributor 130 may receive a live stream from another system and
forward the live stream to the content server 120 to be distributed to users of the content
server 120.
[0026] In one embodiment, for a live stream transmitted by a content distributor 130 to the
content server 120, the content distributor 130 also transmits to the content server 120
publishing information associated with the live stream. The publishing information includes
instructions related to the distribution of the live stream, such as whether portions of the live
stream may be used as an advertisement, or demographics to whom the content distributor
130 would like to promote the live stream. The content distributor 130 may transmit the
publishing information of a live stream prior to transmitting the live stream to the content
server 120. In one example, the content server 120 provides the content distributor 130 with
a user interface to select various instructions to include in the publishing information, as
described in greater detail in conjunction with the content server 120 below.
[0027] The network 150 enables communications among the entities connected to them
through one or more local-area networks and/or wide-area networks. In one embodiment, the
network 150 is the Internet and uses standard wired and/or wireless communications
technologies and/or protocols. The network 150 can include links using technologies such as
Ethernet, 802.11, worldwide interoperability for microwave access (WiMAX), long term
evolution (LTE), 3G, 4G, digital subscriber line (DSL), asynchronous transfer mode (ATM),
14172072 1

                                                      8
InfiniBand, and/or PCI Express Advanced Switching. Similarly, the networking protocols
used on the networks 170, 160 can include multiprotocol label switching (MPLS),
transmission control protocol/Internet protocol (TCP/IP), User Datagram Protocol (UDP),
hypertext transport protocol (HTTP), simple mail transfer protocol (SMTP), and/or file
transfer protocol (FTP).
[0028] The data exchanged over the network 150 can be represented using technologies
and/or formats including hypertext markup language (HTML), extensible markup language
(XML), and/or JavaScript Object Notation (JSON). In addition, all or some of the
transmitted data can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as the
secure sockets layer (SSL), transport layer security (TLS), virtual private networks (VPNs),
and/or Internet Protocol security (IPsec). In another embodiment, the entities use custom
and/or dedicated data communications technologies instead of, or in addition to, the ones
described above.
[0029] The content server 120 stores digital content uploaded by users of client devices 110
and serves this digital content to viewing users of client devices 110. The content server 120
may also acquire digital content from content owners (e.g., production companies, record
labels, publishers). The content server 120 also receives live streams of events from a
content distributor 130 and transmits, publishes or makes available the live stream to users of
the content server 120. In one embodiment, the content server 120 includes a video serving
module 122, a live stream module 123, a video search module 124, a content interface 125, a
server 126, an advertisement (ad) store 127, and a content store 128. The functionality of the
illustrated components may be duplicated or redistributed among a different configuration of
modules.
[0030] The content server 120 stores uploaded digital content in the content store 128. The
content store 128 may include the digital content itself (e.g., the audio or video file) or a
pointer thereto. The content store 128 also houses metadata associated with the digital
content. Metadata are properties of the digital content that indicate the digital content's
source (e.g., an uploader name, an uploader user identifier) and/or attributes (e.g., a video
identifier, a title, a description, a file size, a file type, a frame rate, a resolution, an upload
date).
14172072 1

                                                  9
[0031] In one example, the metadata associated with the digital content includes an ad
identifier identifying a type of ad that may be displayed during, before or after playback of
the digital content. These types of ads are referred to as a pre-roll ad (played prior to
playback of the digital content), a mid-roll ad (played during the playback of the digital
content, where the playback of the digital content is stopped for the mid-roll ad to be played),
a post-roll ad (played after the play back of the media content), and an overlay ad (played
during playback of the media content, however the ad is an animation or text laid over a
portion of the digital content during playback of the digital content). In another example, the
ad identifier associated with the digital content specifies whether a live stream may be played
as a pre-roll ad displayed to the user prior to playback of the digital content.
[0032] The client device 110 requests digital content by accessing a uniform resource
identifier (URI), typically a uniform resource locater (URL), corresponding to the digital
content. In one embodiment, the URI includes a domain associated with the content server
120 and a content identifier, identifying the digital content requested by the client device 110.
Based on the content identifier, the video serving module 122 retrieves videos from the
content store 128 and makes them available to the client device 110, via the content interface
125 for example.
[0033] The content interface 125 presents the digital content to users of the client device 110
via an application or browser executing on the client device 110. In one embodiment, the
content interface 125 presents the user with an interface via which the user may interact with
a live stream presented to the user as a pre-roll ad. In one embodiment, the interface includes
a set of controls allowing the user to manipulate the playback of the live stream, as well as
allowing the user to redirect to the live stream or skip and continue to a video requested by
the user. For example, the user interface includes controls for pausing, rewinding or fast
forwarding through a live stream presented to the user as an ad or as a pre-roll ad. In another
example, the user interface may include a control for skipping over the live-stream pre-roll ad
to the video requested by the user. In one instance the control for skipping over the live
stream pre-roll ad may be available to the user after the buffered live stream has been viewed
by the user for a threshold period of time. For example, the user may have to view the live
stream ad for 5 seconds prior to being able to interact with the control to skip over the
remaining portion of the live-stream pre-roll ad to the video requested by the user. The user
14172072 1

                                                 10
interface may also include a control for redirecting the user to the live stream of the live event
being captured by the content distributor 130.
[0034] In one embodiment, the content interface 125 provides a user interface to content
distributors 130, using which a content distributor 130 may select publishing information to
include with the live stream created by or recorded by the content distributor 130. The user
interface provided to the content distributor 130 may include a set of filters, input fields or
options that the content distributor may enter or select to specify information to include in the
publishing information. Examples of information that may be included in the publishing
information include, information specifying the time period during which the live stream may
be promoted, the demographic of users to whom the content distributor would like to provide
the live stream, or whether or not the live stream may be served as an ad or a pre-roll ad to
users of the content server 120. The user interface may be provided to the content distributor
130 as the content distributor creates the live stream, or any time during which the live stream
is transmitted to the content server 120. This allows the content distributor to modify the
restrictions or limitations associated with the live stream, before or during the transmission of
the live stream to the content server 120.
[0035] The video search module 124 enables a user to search for videos meeting one or more
specified criteria, or which are related to other videos the user has viewed, promoted by the
video hosting site, and the like.
[0036] The live stream module 123 receives a live stream from a content distributor 130 via a
media capturing device and prepares the live stream to be served to users of the content
server 120 or to be promoted and served as an ad to users of the content server 120, as
described in greater detail in conjunction with FIG. 2, FIG. 3 and FIG. 4 below. In one
embodiment the live stream module 123 transcodes the live stream into multiple transcoded
versions of the live stream, thereby allowing the content server 120 to transmit or serve the
live stream to users with client devices 110 having different decoding capabilities and
different video player compatibilities. The live stream module 120 may buffer the live
stream for a threshold period of time to be served to a user. For example, the buffered live
stream may be served to the user as an advertisement, or the buffered live stream may be
served to users interested in watching the live event. The buffered live stream may be stored
in either the ad store 127 or the content store 128. In one embodiment, the live stream
14172072 1

                                                 11
module 123 stores the live stream in the content store 128. This allows users who were not
able to view the live stream at the time of the live event to retrieve and view the live stream
after the completion of the live event.
[0037] In one example, the live stream module 123 generates a live-stream ad based on the
publishing information received from the content distributor 130. In another example, the
live stream module 123 serves live streams as a pre-roll ad prior to displaying a video
requested by a user. Serving a live stream as a pre-roll ad is an effective way of making users
of the content server 120 aware of a live event the user may be interested in viewing,
occurring at the time the user is displayed the live-stream pre-roll ad. Furthermore, users
may interact with the live-stream ad to redirect to the live stream for example. In one
embodiment, the live-stream ad generator 123 determines whether to serve a live stream as a
pre-roll ad based on metadata associated with the requested video. For example, the content
server 120 receives a request for a video from a client device 110. The live stream module
123 retrieves metadata associated with the requested video and identifies from the metadata
that a live-stream ad is to be served to the user along with the requested video. The live
stream module 123 then retrieves a buffered live stream stored in the ad store 127 and
provides the video serving module 122 with the buffered live stream to be served as a live
stream ad along with the requested video to the client device 110. In the following examples
live streams are discussed as being served as pre-roll ads, however live streams or portions of
live streams may also be served as mid-roll, post-roll or overlay ads in other embodiments.
[0038] The live stream module 123 may store buffered portions of a live stream in the ad
store 127. Buffering the stream allows the content server 120 to provide the user viewing the
live stream as a pre-roll ad a smooth and desirable viewing experience. Buffering refers to
storing a portion of the live stream for a time interval. The live stream module 123 may
retrieve a buffered live stream or a portion of a buffered live stream from the ad store 127 to
be served to a user as a live-stream ad. The ad store 127 stores ads of different kinds as well
as advertising creatives. Ad store 127 also stores information related to each advertiser, such
as account information and credentials, and campaign preferences for any advertising
campaigns in which the advertiser is involved. In one embodiment, the ad store 127 stores
metadata associated with each ad identifying whether the ad is one or more of a pre-roll, mid
roll, post-roll or overlay ad. The ad store 127 may also store metadata associated with live
stream ads including the publication information associated with the live stream ad.
14172072 1

                                                  12
[0039] The server 126 links the content server 120 via the network 150 to the client devices
110 as well as to the content distributor 130. The server 126 serves web pages, application
content or instructions, as well as other content, such as JAVA®, FLASH®, XML and so
forth. The server 126 may receive uploaded content items from the one or more client
devices 110. Additionally, the server 126 communicates instructions from the content
interface 125 for viewing digital content and for processing received input from a user of a
client device 110 to the respective component of the content server 120 for processing.
Additionally, the server 126 may provide application programming interface (API)
functionality to send data directly to native client device operating systems, such as IOS@,
ANDROID TM, WEBOS@ or BlackberiyOS. In the examples that follow the server 126 is
described as providing the client device 110 with web pages for display to the user, however
the server 126 may also provide an application installed on the client device 110 with content
to display to the user.
[0040] FIG. 2 illustrates an example flow of a live stream from a content distributor to a user
of the content server, according to one embodiment. The content distributor 130 captures and
transmits 205 a live stream to content server 120. In one embodiment, the media captured by
the content distributor is a live feed that is being generated as it is being streamed within the
network 150. The content server 120 receives the live stream from the content distributor
130 as it is being captured. The content server 120 transcodes 210 the live stream creating
multiple versions of the live stream. The transcoded 210 live stream may buffered or stored
in a variety of ways.
[0041] In one example, live stream module 123 buffers the live stream in live-stream ad
buffer 215. The portion of the live stream stored in live-stream ad buffer 215 is dependent on
the needs of the implementer, and may vary for example based on the amount of storage
available to be dedicated to buffer storage. The buffered live stream is presented 230 to a user
of content server 120 as a live-stream ad. In one embodiment, live stream module 123 stores
an indicator in ad store 127 indicating that a portion of the live stream is buffered in live
stream ad buffer 215, and is available for presentation to a user as a live-stream ad. In
another example, live stream module 123 also buffers the live stream in live stream content
buffer 220, which in various embodiments may be the same or a different buffer than live
stream ad buffer 215, and may be of larger or smaller size. The portion of the live stream
stored in live stream content buffer 220 is then presented 235 to users interested in viewing
14172072 1

                                                 13
the live stream as the live event is being captured by the content distributor 205. In some
embodiments, users interested in viewing different portions of the live stream, such as
portions of the live event that may have already occurred may view or seek back to those
portions stored in the live stream content buffer 220 via a user interface provided to the users.
For example, a user being shown a live-stream ad may be redirected to the content in the live
stream content buffer 220 to seek back two minutes by using controls displayed as part of the
player displaying the live-stream ad. In a third example, the transcoded 210 live stream may
be stored 225 in the content store 128, and presented 240 to users interested in viewing the
live stream at a time after the live event has occurred or has been completed.
[0042] FIG. 3 and FIG. 4 illustrate flowcharts of an example process for preparing and
serving live-stream ads, in accordance with one embodiment. FIG. 3 illustrates an example
process for receiving a live stream from a content distributor and generating a live-stream ad
to be served to a user of content server 120. FIG. 4 illustrates an example process for serving
a live-stream ad along with a video requested by a user of the content server 120. In the
illustrated embodiment, the digital content item is a video and the content identifier is a video
identifier; however, the process described herein is fully applicable to other digital content
such as audio files, images, animations, or text. Further, the functionality described in
conjunction with FIG. 3 and FIG. 4 is performed by the live stream module 123; however, in
other embodiments, any suitable component or combination of components may perform the
functionality described in conjunction with FIG.3 and FIG. 4. Additionally, in some
embodiments, different and/or additional steps than those identified in FIG. 2 and FIG. 3 may
be performed or the steps identified in FIG. 3 and FIG. 4 may be performed in different
orders.
[0043] FIG. 3 illustrates an example process for receiving a live stream from a content
distributor and generating a live-stream ad to be served to a user of the content server 120.
The content server 120 receives 305 a live input stream from a content distributor 130. The
live input stream captured by the content distributor 130 is a live feed that is being generated
as it is being streamed within the network 150.. In one embodiment, the content server 120
also receives 305 publishing information pertaining to the distribution and promotion of the
live stream. For example, the publishing information includes information specifying the
time period during which the live stream may be promoted, the demographic of users to
whom the content distributor would like to provide the live stream, or whether or not the live
14172072 1

                                                 14
stream may be served as a pre-roll ad to users of the content server 120. The publishing
information may be received concurrently with, or prior to the live stream. For example, as
the content server 120 receives the live stream the content server 120 may also receive
publishing information indicating whether the received portions of the live stream should be
included in a pre-roll ad to be served to users. This is beneficial to the content distributor as
it allows the content distributor to promote the live streaming of a live event during the active
periods of the live event, as users may not be interested in viewing the down times during a
live event, such as when music bands change during a concert or when there is an interval
between periods in a hockey game.
[0044] As the live stream is received by the content server 120, the content server 120 in one
embodiment transcodes 310 the live stream, to create multiple versions of the live stream.
Transcoding refers to the conversion of one encoding to another. Transcoding the live stream
into multiple transcoded versions of the live stream allows the content server 120 to transmit
or serve the live stream to users with client devices 110 having different encoding capabilities
and different video player compatibilities. Apart from creating versions of different formats
or encoding, the content server 120 may create different transcoded version of the live stream
each having a different resolution quality. For example, for a received live stream, the
content server 120 creates different versions of the live stream, each version with one of the
following resolutions qualities: 144p, 240p, 360p, 480p, 720p, and 1080p. Depending on the
viewing capabilities of client device 110, content server 120 can then select the most
appropriate version of the content to stream to the device from among the various transcoded
streams.
[0045] Content server 120 buffers 315 the transcoded live input stream. Buffering the stream
allows the content server 120 to provide the user viewing the live stream as a pre-roll ad a
smooth and desirable viewing experience. Buffering refers to storing a portion of the live
stream for a time interval. Buffering the live input stream allows the content server 120 to
account for the difference between the rate at which the data is received by the content server
120 and the rate at which the transcoded live input stream is served to a client device 110,
thereby allowing a user to view the live input stream as a pre-roll ad for example, without any
interruptions as the input stream is transmitted to the client device 110. In on embodiment,
the content server 120 buffers each transcoded version of the live stream by storing video
frames or portions of the live stream over a threshold time interval (e.g., 2 minutes) in the ad
14172072 1

                                                 15
store 127. In another embodiment, the content server 120 removes the oldest buffered live
stream frame from the buffer on receiving a new frame or portion of the live input stream
from the content distributor.
[0046] In another embodiment, the content server 120 begins buffering content from the
content distributor 130 based on the time information present included in the publishing
information provided by the content distributor 130. For example, the content distributor 130
may indicate that a live stream be buffered or published from 10:00 am to 11:00 am. The
content distributor 130 may begin buffering the live stream received from the content
distributor at 10:00 am and may stop buffering the live stream at 11:00 am. Further, the
entire live stream or buffered portions of the live stream may be stored in the ad store 127 or
the content store 128 for later use by the content server 120. For example, on receiving an
interaction from the user with respect to a control presented to the user via a user interface (as
the user views a live-stream ad), to go back prior to the time period at which the content
server 120 began buffering the live stream, the content server 120 retrieves either a buffered
version or a stored version of the live stream associated with a time interval prior to the time
period at which the content server 120 began buffering the live stream to present to the user.
The content server 120 may also redirect the user away from the live-stream ad presented to
the user, to an interface displaying the retrieved stored version of the live stream for the user
to view.
[0047] FIG. 4 illustrates the example process for serving a live-stream ad along with a video
requested by a user of the content server 120. The content server 120 may receive 405 a
request for a video from the client device 110. In one embodiment, the content server
receives 405 the requested URI indicating a video a user is interested in viewing through the
server 126. From the received URI, the content server 120 may extract a video identifier
identifying the video the user is interested in viewing. The video identifier may be embedded
as parameters in the URI.
[0048] Based on the video identifier the content server 120 identifies the requested video in
the content store 128 and identifies 410 metadata associated with the requested video. In one
embodiment, the content server 120 identifies metadata specifying whether a pre-roll ad is to
be served to the user prior to playback of the requested video, and whether the pre-roll ad
may be a live-stream ad. In addition to identifying the type of ad to be served to the user
14172072 1

                                                 16
along with the requested video the content server 120 may also identify other metadata
associated with the video such as the frame rate at which the video should be served.
[0049] Based on the metadata associated with the type of ad to be served with the video the
content server 120 identifies 415 a buffered live stream to present to the user as a pre-roll ad.
For example, the content server 120 identifies a buffered live stream to serve the user based
on characteristics associated with the user, such as the demographic of the user or previous
videos in which the user has expressed interest or viewed. In another example, the content
server 120 identifies a live stream to serve the user based on the type or characteristics of the
video requested by the user. For instance, the content server 120 may serve the user a
buffered live stream of a live event including a band of the same genre as that of a music
video requested by the user. The buffered live stream portion served to the user as an
advertisement may represent the most recent content of the live event captured by the content
distributor 130 or may represent content of the live event previously captured by the content
distributor 130 and provided to the content server 120. In a third example, the content server
120 identifies a buffered live stream to serve to the requesting user based on the location of
the user. The content server 120 may select a buffered live stream of a live event occurring at
a location within a threshold distance of the user, to serve to the user as a pre-roll ad. The
content server 120 may select a buffered live stream to serve to the user based on the user's
geographic location as indicated by the metadata associated with the requested video, or the
publishing information associated with the live stream. In one example, the content server
120 selects a buffered live stream to serve to a user as a pre-roll ad if the user is located in the
United States of America, and selects a pre-roll ad which is not a live stream to serve to a
user located in Brazil.
[0050] In a fourth example, the content server 120 identifies a buffered live stream to serve to
the user based on the publishing information associated with the live stream. For example,
the publishing information specifies a time interval within which the buffered live stream
may be served as an ad to a user. The content server 120 only serves the buffered live stream
to the requesting user, if the request for a video is made by the user during the time interval
included in the publishing information. In one embodiment, the content server 120 identifies
a set of buffered live streams generated within a time interval of receiving the request for a
video from the client device 110. The content server 120 may select one of the buffered live
streams from the set of buffered live streams to present to the user as a pre-roll ad.
14172072 1

                                                 17
[0051] The content server 120 serves the buffered live stream to the requesting client device
110 or user, in one example to be viewed as a pre-roll ad prior to playback of the video
requested by the user. In one example, the content server 120 serves the buffered live stream
via a content interface 125 or a web page generated by the server 126. In one example, in
addition to serving the user the buffered live stream as a pre-roll ad, the content server 120
provides the client device 110 with a user interface to present to the user. In one
embodiment, the user interface includes a variety of functions which when interacted with by
the user, may affect the playback of the buffered live stream or triggers events that may occur
during or after playback of the buffered live stream or a portion of the buffered live stream.
For example, as shown in FIG. 5, the user interface includes controls 510 for pausing,
rewinding or fast forwarding through the buffered live stream. In another example, the user
interface may include a control, such as a control labelled "Skip Ad" 525 for skipping the
live-stream pre-roll ad to the video requested by the user. In one instance the control for
skipping the live-stream pre-roll ad may be available to the user after the buffered live stream
has been viewed by the user for a threshold period of time. The user interface may also
include a control, such as a control labelled "Watch Live Stream" 520 for redirecting the user
to the live stream of the live event being captured by the content distributor 130. The user
interface may also include an indicator 515, labelled "Live" in this example, for identifying
whether the current portion of the live stream being viewed by the user is live. In the above
examples live streams are discussed as being served as pre-roll ads, however live streams or
portions of live streams may also be served as mid-roll, post-roll or overlay ads in other
embodiments.
[0052] In one embodiment, the content server 120 measures 425 the user's interactions with
the live-stream pre-roll ad or the user interface presented to the user along with the live
stream pre-roll ad. For example, in addition to providing the user with controls to interact
with the live-stream ad, the user interface may measure and record the interactions made by
the user with respect to the live-stream ad. For example, the content server 120 determines if
the user interacted with a control presented by the user interface, such as the control to skip
the live-stream pre-roll ad, and stores the information identifying the interaction as metadata
associated with the buffered live stream ad in the ad store 127. The content server 120 may
then at a later time use the measured interactions to perform a variety of functions. For
example, the content server 120, based on the interactions of the user with one or more live
stream ads, determines if the user prefers viewing live-stream ads over conventional ads, or
14172072 1

                                                 18
whether the user is responsive to live-stream ads. For example, if a user has previously
interacted with a variety of controls associated with live-stream pre-roll ads, the content
server 120 may actively serve the user with live-stream pre-roll ads on receiving requests
from the user to view videos hosted by the content server 120.
[0053] The content server 120, after displaying the live-stream pre-roll ad to the user, shows
430 or displays the video requested by the user. In one embodiment, the server 126 is
configured to provide the user with a web page including the live-stream pre-roll ad followed
by the video requested by the client device. In another embodiment, the video requested by
the user is immediately played back to the user on receiving an interaction with a control
associated with the user interface of the live-stream ad causing the user interface to skip
playing the live-stream ad and proceed with displaying the requested video to the user. In
another embodiment, the content server 120 displays the requested video to the user after the
live-stream pre-roll ad has played for a threshold time. For example, the live-stream pre-roll
ad plays for 30 seconds, after which the video requested by the user is showed to the user. In
one example, on receiving a user interaction with the ad, such as if the user clicks on the live
stream ad, the user may be redirected to the live stream or a web page displaying the live
stream.
[0054] The client device 110, the content server 120, and the content distributor 130 may be
implemented using one or more computers. FIG. 6 is block diagram illustrating an example
computer 600 usable to implement entities of the content sharing environment, in accordance
with one embodiment.
[0055] The computer 600 includes at least one processor 602 (e.g., a central processing unit,
a graphics processing unit) coupled to a chipset 604. The chipset 604 includes a memory
controller hub 620 and an input/output (I/O) controller hub 622. A memory 606 and a
graphics adapter 612 are coupled to the memory controller hub 620, and a display 618 is
coupled to the graphics adapter 612. A storage device 608, keyboard 610, pointing device
614, and network adapter 616 are coupled to the I/O controller hub 622. Other embodiments
of the computer 600 have different architectures.
[0056] The storage device 608 is a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium such as
a hard drive, compact disk read-only memory (CD-ROM), DVD, or a solid-state memory
14172072 1

                                                 19
device. The memory 606 holds instructions and data used by the processor 602. The
processor 602 may include one or more processors 602 having one or more cores that execute
instructions. The pointing device 614 is a mouse, track ball, or other type of pointing device,
and is used in combination with the keyboard 610 to input data into the computer 600. The
graphics adapter 612 displays digital content and other images and information on the display
618. The network adapter 616 couples the computer 600 to one or more computer networks
(e.g., network 150).
[0057] The computer 600 is adapted to execute computer program modules for providing
functionality described herein including presenting digital content, playlist lookup, and/or
metadata generation. As used herein, the term "module" refers to computer program logic
used to provide the specified functionality. Thus, a module can be implemented in hardware,
firmware, and/or software.
[0058] The types of computers 600 used by the entities of the content sharing environment
can vary depending upon the embodiment and the processing power required by the entity.
For example, the content server 120 might comprise multiple blade servers working together
to provide the functionality described herein. The computers 600 may contain duplicates of
some components or may lack some of the components described above (e.g., a keyboard
610, a graphics adapter 612, a pointing device 614, a display 618). For example, the content
server 120 run in a single computer 600 or multiple computers 600 communicating with each
other through a network such as in a server farm.
[0059] Although the foregoing description has focused primarily on videos for purposes of
providing a concrete illustration, various embodiments may incorporate different types of
digital content in different forms of playlists. In one embodiment, the content server 120
contains audio files in playlists, which may be presented through an audio player instead of a
video player. It should be noted that videos may contain audio files as well. As another
embodiment, the content server 120 contains images and/or animations organized in albums
instead of playlists. Rather than using a video or an audio player, these images and/or
animations may be presented in a slideshow, which may contain auto-play functionality (e.g.,
the slideshow retrieves a next image or animation after a period of time). In yet another
embodiment, the digital content includes text, which may be organized into textual
collections (e.g., chapters in a book, installments in a short story series, poems in an
14172072 1

                                                20
anthology). Digital content may include combinations of video, audio, images, animations,
and/or text.
[0060] Some portions of above description describe the embodiments in terms of algorithms
and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions
and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey
the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations, while
described functionally, computationally, or logically, are understood to be implemented by
computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits, microcode, or the like. To implement
these operations, the content server 120 may use a non-transitory computer-readable medium
that stores the operations as instructions executable by one or more processors. Any of the
operations, processes, or steps described herein may be performed using one or more
processors. Furthermore, it has also proven convenient at times, to refer to these
arrangements of operations as modules, without loss of generality. The described operations
and their associated modules may be embodied in software, firmware, hardware, or any
combinations thereof.
[0061] As used herein any reference to "one embodiment" or "an embodiment" means that a
particular element, feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the
embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase "in one
embodiment" in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the
same embodiment.
[0062] Some embodiments may be described using the expression "coupled" and
"connected" along with their derivatives. It should be understood that these terms are not
intended as synonyms for each other. For example, some embodiments may be described
using the term "connected" to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or
electrical contact with each other. In another example, some embodiments may be described
using the term "coupled" to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or
electrical contact. The term "coupled," however, may also mean that two or more elements
are not in direct contact with each other, but yet still co-operate or interact with each other.
The embodiments are not limited in this context.
14172072 1

                                                 21
[0063] As used herein, the terms "comprises," "comprising," "includes," "including," "has,"
"having" or any other variation thereof, are intended to cover a non-exclusive inclusion. For
example, a process, method, article, or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not
necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed
or inherent to such process, method, article, or apparatus. Further, unless expressly stated to
the contrary, "or" refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example, a
condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following: A is true (or present) and B is false
(or not present), A is false (or not present) and B is true (or present), and both A and B are
true (or present).
[0064] In addition, use of the "a" or "an" are employed to describe elements and components
of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense
of the embodiments. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the
singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.
[0065] Additional alternative structural and functional designs may be implemented for a
system and a process for a content sharing environment. Thus, while particular embodiments
and applications have been illustrated and described, it is to be understood that the disclosed
embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein.
Various modifications, changes and variations may be made in the arrangement, operation
and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and
scope defined in the appended claims.
14172072 1

                                                 22
CLAIMS
1.       A computer-implemented method for providing advertisements for live events, the
method comprising:
         receiving, by a content server system, a live stream;
         storing, by the content server system, a portion of the live stream;
receiving, by the content server system from a client device a user request for a video content,
the live stream not including the video content;
         determining, by the content server system, that a live-stream advertisement is to be
served to the client device, the live-stream advertisement advertising the live stream and
including the portion of the live stream;
         providing, by the content server system to the client device, the live-stream
advertisement, the live stream advertisement displayed by the client device to a user without
displaying the video content;
         providing, by the content server system to the client device, instructions for the client
device to display with the portion of the live stream a first control and a second control
selectable by the user, the first control associated with terminating the display of the portion
of the live stream and initiating display of the video content, and the second control
associated with displaying the live stream instead of the video content; and
         responsive to the user selecting the second control, providing, by the content server
system to the client device, content of the live stream, the content of the live stream displayed
to the user instead of the video content, the content of the live stream not included in the
stored portion.
2.       The method of claim 1 wherein the determination that a live-stream advertisement is
to be served is based on metadata associated with the video content.
3.       The method of claim 1 further comprising:
         providing to the client device the requested video content following the display of the
portion of the live stream on the client device.
4.       The method of claim 1, wherein the portion of the live stream is identified from
among a plurality of transcoded versions of an original live stream received from a content
distributor.
14172072 1

                                                 23
5.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
        providing to the client device, along with the portion of the live stream, a user
interface, the user interface configured to include additional controls which when interacted
with by the user, manipulate the playback of the live stream.
6.      The method of claim 5, wherein manipulating the playback of the portion of the live
stream includes at least one of pausing the display of the portion of the live stream, rewinding
through the portion of the live stream, replaying the portion of the live stream or fast
forwarding through the portion of the live stream.
7.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
        providing, to the client device along with the portion of the live stream, a user
interface, the user interface configured to include additional controls the user may interact
with;
        measuring the interactions of the user with the additional controls; and
        storing the measured interactions.
8.      A method comprising:
        receiving from a content distributor a live stream;
        generating multiple versions of the live stream by transcoding the live stream;
        generating a buffered live stream for each of the multiple versions of the live stream
by buffering each of the multiple versions of the live stream for a threshold period of time;
        receiving a request for a video content from a client device, the video content not
included in the live stream;
        providing to the client device an advertisement advertising the live stream, the
advertisement including the buffered live stream generated for a version from the multiple
versions, the advertisement displayed by the client device to a user without displaying the
video content;
        providing to the client device instructions for the client device to display with the
buffered live stream a first control and a second control selectable by the user, the first
control associated with terminating the display of the buffered live stream and initiating
display of the video content, and the second control associated with displaying the live stream
instead of the video content; and
14172072 1

                                                24
        responsive to the user selecting the second control, providing to the client device
content of the live stream from the version associated with the buffered live stream of the
advertisement, the content of the live stream displayed to the user instead of the video
content, the content of the live stream not included in the buffered live stream of the
advertisement.
9.      The method of claim 8, further comprising:
        providing to the content distributor a user interface configured to receive publishing
information associated with the live stream.
10.     The method of claim 9, wherein the publishing information comprises information
specifying a time interval during which the live stream may be presented to users,
information specifying whether the live stream may be promoted as an advertisement or
information specifying a demographic to target while promoting the live stream as an
advertisement.
11.     The method of claim 10, further comprising:
        selecting the buffered live stream to present based on the publishing information
associated with the live stream.
12.     The method of claim 8, further comprising:
selecting the buffered live stream to present based on metadata associated with the requested
video content, the metadata specifying a type of advertisement that may be presented with the
video content.
13.     A content sharing system, comprising:
        a content database storing a plurality of video content and metadata associated with
the video content;
        an advertisement database storing a plurality of live-stream advertisements;
a content server comprising:
                a processor; and
                a non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing computer
executable instructions that when executed cause the processor to perform steps including:
                receiving a live stream;
14172072 1

                                                   25
                 storing a portion of the live stream;
                 receiving from a client device a user request for a video content from the
plurality of video content, the live stream not including the requested video content;
                 determining, from metadata associated with the requested video content, that a
live-stream advertisement from the plurality of live-stream advertisements is to be served to
the client device, the live-stream advertisement advertising the live stream and including the
portion of the live stream;
                 providing to the client device the live-stream advertisement, the live-stream
advertisement displayed by the client device to a user without displaying the requested video
content;
                 providing to the client device instructions for the client device to display with
the portion of the live stream a first control and a second control selectable by the user, the
first control associated with terminating the display of the portion of the live stream and
initiating display of the requested video content, and the second control associated with
displaying the live stream instead of the requested video content; and
                 responsive to the user selecting the second control, providing to the client
device content of the live stream, the content of the live stream displayed to the user instead
of the requested video content, the content of the live stream not included in the stored
portion.
14.      The content sharing system of claim 13, further comprising:
         providing to the client device the requested video content following the display of the
portion of the live stream on the client device.
15.      The content sharing system of claim 13, further comprising:
         providing, to the client device along with the portion of the live stream, a user
interface, the user interface configured to include additional controls the user may interact
with;
         measuring the interactions of the user with the additional controls; and
storing the measured interactions.
16.      A method for viewing video content, the method comprising:
         requesting, by a client device, a video content from a server;
14172072 1

                                                 26
         receiving, at the client device, an advertisement advertising a live stream, the
advertisement including a portion of the live stream;
         displaying, by the client device, the advertisement advertising the live stream without
displaying the requested video content;
         displaying, by the client device, with the portion of the live stream a first control and
second control based on instructions received from the server;
         responsive to a user of the client device selecting the first control while the portion of
the live stream is being displayed, terminating, by the client device, the display of the portion
of the live stream and initiating display of the requested video content; and
         responsive to the user of the client device selecting the second control while the
portion of the live stream is being displayed:
                  requesting, by the client device from the server, content of the live stream not
included in the portion; and
                 displaying, by the client device, the content of the live stream in lieu of the
requested video content based on receiving the content of the live stream from the server.
17.      The method of claim 16, wherein the live stream is a transcoded version of an original
live stream received from a content distributor.
                                            Google Inc.
                   Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON
14172072 1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
