ARCHITECTURE FOR A NODE-BASED GATE-ORIENTED MICRO-BEHAVIOUR FOCUSED LEARNING
MANAGEMENT, SKILL TRACKING AND ANALYTICS PLATFORM SYSTEM
ABSTRACT
The disclosed invention is a node based system for storing and representing information about the
progressive acquisition of learnable skills as they are learned by a user over time. These nodes can
be arranged in a hierarchy of increasing complexity and dependency on one another, allowing users
to represent requirements and relationships between individual skills or components of skills.
The constructed nodes may be populated with information about the current status of the user's
skill acquisition progress using software modules which can be inserted into other real time or event
driven software systems in order to detect actions representative of the skill acquisition by the user,
either through actions that the user has performed within simulation software, through actions
detected by interaction with electronic hardware systems designed for simulation or training
purposes, or through recording of an observed party's progress by another party through a separate
software based user interface.
Node structures defined by users may be used to survey and detect the skill acquisition progress of
multiple end users of the system, allowing users to query the properties of the skill acquisition of the
aggregate group as well as an individual's performance over time. The stored structured information
may be exported to learning management systems allowing for automated progress reporting of skill
acquisition. Additionally, the node based structure may be used as an input to the layers of a neural
network, as well as machine learning, cloud computing, data warehousing or other data driven
computer systems.

                                           rg. .L); m eXclMple
                                           implementation of a skill or
                                          skill component node
  Title of Skill Component node
  User-defined information and
  attributes of skill component
                 node
     Automatically generated
   statements describing how
information may be exported to
   other learning management                                                            Fg. 2): An example
               systems                                                                  arrangement of several
                                                                                        related nodes
                               Cutting an assembled sandwich
                                               in 2
                                 Completed by the user when
                                 they have successfully used a
                                knife to separate an assembled
                                     sandwich in two parts
                                   "User successfully cut an
                                 assembled sandwich intwo".
                                Assembling a bread and butter
                                            sandwich
                                Marked as complete when the
                               user joins the buttered pieces of
                                     bread onto each other
                                 "User assembled a bread and
                                        butter sandwich"
  Cutting two slices from a loaf of                             Buttering bread
                  bread
  Marked as complete when the                          Marked as complete when the
    user has successfully used a                         user has successfully applied
   knife to cut two slices from a                      butter to one surface of a piece
             loaf of bread.                                        of bread
  "User cut two slices from a loaf                      "User successfully buttered a
                of bread"                                       piece of bread"

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

ARCHITECTURE FOR A NODE-BASED GATE-ORIENTED MICRO-BEHAVIOUR FOCUSED LEARNING
MANAGEMENT, SKILL TRACKING AND ANALYTICS PLATFORM SYSTEM
DESCRIPTION
This innovation describes a node-graph based learning management and skill tracking system that
combines an ability to accept and provide a range of human and machine readable learning and skill
data with support for a novel training and skill tracking model called gate-oriented micro-behaviour
tracking.
For many years previous learning management and skill tracking systems have had no easy form of
human readable output. This invention is specifically designed to be an easy to use and easy to read
representation of a person's skills as they are learning them in real time. The use of a node based
system allows the individual skills to be broken down into and analysed and stored with regard to
gated micro-behaviours. The visualisation component of this invention then allows these nodes to
be represented in real time as the user is learning them. As a part of this visualiser the nodes can be
arranged in a hierarchical sense so that users can understand the natural flow of skills from simple to
advanced, which skillsets are dependent on other skillsets on a per-user basis, and can develop
skillsets that are comprised of sub-skills.
This node-based visualisation system allows for easier visualisation of skill acquisition of tracked
users as compared to earlier methods, by allowing for an easy representation of the structure of a
particular skill as well as the level of progression through the parts and whole of the skill intended to
be taught.
The node-based nature of the data structure definition means that users who do not possess coding
ability may use graphical user interfaces in order to define and organise their own skill acquisition
tracking and analysis systems, opening up the field of computer defined flexible human performance
analytics to many more people than previously possible.
This system is designed to permit the ingestion of data from a range of real-time and event driven
systems and hardware, permitting user-defined skills to be mirrored to trigger events, actions or
states in training software and monitoring hardware.
By allowing for the flexible definition of skills through their component parts, users can assemble
and track information in a way which is meaningful to their own context, and then send the resulting
structured data into other learning management systems through the conversion of structured skill
atoms into data formats relevant to other skill tracking or LMS systems, e.g. systems which
implement SCORM or xAPI, or can ingest XML data related to skill acquisition.
This structured data system can also be used as a straightforward data ingestion tool for artificial
intelligence and machine learning systems, allowing for an easy method to define relevant and
meaningful data structures without the requirement to define these in computer code.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

ARCHITECTURE FOR A NODE-BASED GATE-ORIENTED MICRO-BEHAVIOUR FOCUSED LEARNING
MANAGEMENT, SKILL TRACKING AND ANALYTICS PLATFORM SYSTEM
CLAIMS
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
    1. A graphical user interface and software based data storage system where learnable skills or
        components of learnable skills comprising a graph of interconnected 'nodes', are defined in a
        customizable structure by users in order to represent the progressive acquisition of a skill or
        set of skills by an individual or group of individuals, and where each node contains data
        representative of the level of acquisition achieved by a given user over time
    2. Computer software interfaces and structures which allows for the definition and population
        of the system described in section 1 with data describing the progressive acquisition of a skill
        by a user or group of users from within event-driven or real-time software
    3. A system which allows for the automatic processing and marshalling of skill acquisition data
        into a format which can be accepted by systems compatible with the XAPI, SCORM and
        Extensible Markup Language standards
    4. The above claims (1 & 2), where the data used to store and deliver the node based skill
        description is deployable on all common platforms, and is capable of receiving ingestion data
        relating to micro-behaviours and skill
    5. A system which allows the structured information created using claim #1 to be used as an
        input for a neural network or machine learning system

                                                     Fg. 1): An example
                                                     implementation of a skill or
                                                     skill component node
<removed-date>
               Title of Skill Component node
               User-defined information and
               attributes of skill component
                           node
                  Automatically generated
                 statements describing how
              information may be exported to
                                                                                                     Fg. 2): An example
<removed-apn>
                other learning management
                          systems                                                                    arrangement of several
                                                                                                     related nodes
                                            Cutting an assembled sandwich
                                                          in 2
                                             Completed by the user when
                                             they have successfully used a
                                            knife to separate an assembled
                                                 sandwich in two parts
                                               <U+2701>User successfully cut an
                                             assembled sandwich in two <U+2702><U+260E>
                                            Assembling a bread and butter
                                                     sandwich
                                            Marked as complete when the
                                           user joins the buttered pieces of
                                                bread onto each other
                                             <U+2704>User assembled a bread and
                                                   butter sandwich
               Cutting two slices from a loaf of
                                                                            Buttering bread
                            bread
               Marked as complete when the                        Marked as complete when the
                user has successfully used a                       user has successfully applied
               knife to cut two slices from a                     butter to one surface of a piece
                       loaf of bread.                                        of bread
               <U+2704>User cut two slices from a loaf                      <U+2704>User successfully buttered a
                          of bread                                          piece of bread

<removed-date>                                                         Fg. 3): A demonstration of event propagation
                                                                    from a real-time simulation system to AIVA
<removed-apn>
              External real time
                                                                                         AIVA                  5. New data is stored in the
              simulation system                                                                               relevant skill node for future
                    1. The simulation       2. When the event is                                                  analysis or comparison
                 program is modified to     detected, a software
                   fire an event when         module or plugin                                                 Skill node database
                  relevant user action      compatible with AIVA
                                            sends information on                    4. Event information is
                 detected in simulation                                             parsed and new data is
                                            which node should be
                                            updated and the skill                   routed to the relevant
                                                                    3. This data    skill node according to    User-defined skill node
                                            progression achieved
                                                                          is          the provided name
                      Skill detection           for that node
                                                                    transmitted
                                                                      via local                                  User-defined skill node
                                                                                                                  User-defined skill node
                                                                    network or
                                                                                                                      User-defined skill node
                                                                      internet
                                               AIVA-compatible                       Event parser and
                                               software plugin                            router
                                                                                                                        6. Node information is
                                                                                                                        automatically compiled
                 7. The node graph is
                                                                                                  Automated event           into relevant file
               presented in a graphical
                                                                                                statement generation    formats for export into
               format for users to view
                                                                                                                         external systems, e.g.
                user progress, perform
                                                                                                                           the XAPI standard
              comparisons against other
               users and the aggregate
              performance of all users of
                      the group
                AIVA GUI User                   SCORM                         XAPI compatible                   XML compatible
                   Queries                  compatible system                     system                           system

