  ABSTRACT
         A remote isolation system (10) for a plant comprising equipment (20,21)
  energisable by an energy source (30) and a control system (50,260) enabling
  automated isolation of the equipment (20,21) from said energy source (30) to an
5 isolated state when authorised by the control system (50,260), wherein said
  control system (50,260) enables remote isolation of the equipment (20,21) by one
  or more mobile isolation device(s) (120) provided as part of the remote isolation
  system (10) and configured to request the control system (50,260) to authorise
  equipment (20,21) isolation.

                                   2/7
                                                    719              720       120
12
                                     BATTERTES       SIGNAL STRENGTH
                                           f   =       El      El790
                                                                         124
   121
                 EXCLUSIVE
              CONTROL -ACTIVE      725
                                   724          722
                                                                         770
                FIS AVAILABLE    FIG      LABLE      ISO         TUS
                                                                           122
                                                        allGCHECKNG
                oIREST
               T SOLATE       >    JUREQUESTED
                                       PROV ED
                                        @AP                  PRO ED
                                (5
       740                                                                760
                                                          41ISOLATE
            -                       5TRY STEP
        750                        576                      NORMAL50
                                                600
                           127
                                          Fig 2

                                               1
      A REMOTE ISOLATION SYSTEM AND MOBILE DEVICE FOR USE IN THE
                               REMOTE ISOLATION SYSTEM
            This invention relates to a remote isolation system for isolating equipment
   and a mobile device for use in the remote isolation system. More specifically, the
 5 invention relates to a remote isolation system where equipment isolations are
   facilitated by the mobile device.
            Various types of equipment must be isolated from a range of energy
   sources including electrical energy (the most common) and mechanical energy
   including pressure and potential energy to enable safe maintenance and other
10 work to be carried out. Conveyor belt systems used in the mining industry for
   transporting iron ore or other bulk materials which can span significant distances
   are one such example of equipment which may require to be isolated from time to
   time.
            The distances can be in the range of many kilometres. Such conveyors
15 are typically powered by electric drive motors: three phase electrical power is
   supplied wherein the voltage may range from low voltage ranges (from below
   600V to 1000V AC), to medium and high voltage ranges (in the multiple kV range
   and extending to above 10kV AC and even 33kV AC). Such conveyors typically
   include corresponding brake systems which are also electrically operated.
20          Although different mine procedures and relevant safety standards may
   apply, a typical pre-requisite before permitting mechanical maintenance or other
   activity involving access to the conveyor belt system involves the electrical
   isolation of the conveyor belt system.        This isolation ensures that the energy
   source powering the conveyor belts and associated equipment, i.e. electrical
25 power, is removed from systems or components that - if energised - could cause
   a safety hazard. It will however be understood that equipment items other than
   conveyor systems and other mining industry equipment also require isolation for
   maintenance and other purposes.
            The isolation process is invariably safety critical and has, in the past, been
30 time consuming, as described for example in the introduction to the Applicant's
   granted Australian Patent No. 2010310881 and International Publication No.

                                              2
   W02012/142674, the contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by way of
   reference.
           The     remote   isolation system    described   in  Australian    Patent No.
   2010310881 enables equipment isolation to be requested at a fixed position
 5 remote isolation station associated with the equipment and subsequently
   approved through a plant control system, without mandatory visitation to the
   equipment by authorised isolation personnel. This remote isolation system
   significantly reduces the time required to achieve safe isolation, and more
   specifically the production downtime that would normally be involved with such an
10 isolation which can be very costly.
           Plants involving such remote isolation systems, as well as other remote
   isolation systems, may extend over very large areas.               Accordingly, costs
   associated with connecting components of the remote isolation system to each
   other and the control system (including master controller(s)), by dedicated cable
15 connections may become significant. For example, the installation of fibre optic
   cable for a material handling plant in the field (which may be subject to extreme
   environmental conditions) is typically costly due to the requirement of needing to
   use elevated work platforms and scaffolding (to reach higher elevations in
   conveyor belt system(s) for example). Such difficulties are further compounded
20 by the long and arduous task of removing cable ladder covers and then replacing
   them after the cable has been installed. Other tasks with similar difficulty, hazard
   or inconvenience include installing cables where cable drums need to be placed
   into position with a crane, and where road closures and traffic management and
   other ancillary tasks are also involved in the cable installation process.
25         Further, such challenges may be particularly acute where equipment to be
   isolated is located in a changing terrain or landscape, such change occurring - for
   example - due to mining or construction activity. Seasonal changes, such as
   through     flooding   in wet seasons, may also        cause     landscape changes.
   Installation costs for adapting the power grid to the changing terrain or landscape
30 over time may adversely affect project economics and a solution to this problem
   is required.
           Still further, the Applicant has found that for certain installations, using
   fixed position remote isolation stations, an operator may spend significant time

                                              3
   moving between remote isolation stations and areas where maintenance or other
   work needs to be performed. Such time translates into lost production time for a
   plant and this is sought to be minimised as much as possible without
   compromising safety.
 5          It is an object of the present invention to further develop its remote
   isolation system to provide economic solutions to the communications and power
   supply requirements of a remote isolation system, whereby such isolation
   systems are not limited to those systems developed by the Applicant.
           With this object in view, the present invention provides a remote isolation
10 system for a plant comprising:
           equipment energisable by an energy source; and
           a control system enabling automated isolation of the equipment from said
   energy source to an isolated state when authorised by the control system,
           wherein said control system enables remote isolation of the equipment by
15 one or more mobile isolation device(s) provided as part of the remote isolation
   system and configured to request the control system to authorise equipment
   isolation.
            Preferably, the control system enables isolation through a wireless
   communications network, preferably using an open communications protocol,
20 which includes the one or more mobile isolation devices configured to request the
   control system to authorise equipment isolation.
           Such mobile isolation devices conveniently enable wireless communication
   with the remote isolation control system to enable equipment isolation on
   authorisation of a permissible request from an operator.        The mobile isolation
25 device desirably comprises a console having a display for displaying information
   about the remote isolation system and equipment; an input means for requesting
   a control system of the remote isolation system to enable automatic equipment
   isolation through the above described wireless communications network; and an
   isolation switch for isolating said equipment when a permissible isolation request
30 is authorised by the control system. The mobile isolation device also provides an
   isolation lockout point in such circumstances, for example as described below.
           Conveniently, the mobile isolation device includes stop and start controls
   for facilitating equipment isolation on authorisation of the permissible request from

                                               4
   the operator. Preferably, the mobile isolation device is configured to engage with
   a fixed remote isolation station arranged to house a corresponding mobile
   isolation device. The mobile isolation device is ideally designed to dock with a
   docking station provided within the fixed remote isolation station or at other
 5 convenient locations. Furthermore, the mobile isolation device may also include
   locating means so that the whereabouts of the mobile isolation device can be
   easily determined, for example when it is away from the docking station provided
   within the fixed remote isolation station.      Docking station function is described
   further below.
10         The use of such a mobile isolation device enables operator mobility to be
   significantly increased since the portability of the isolation device makes it
   unnecessary for the operator to travel to and fro between a fixed remote isolation
   station (typical of conventional remote isolation systems) and the required work or
   maintenance area. This can help reduce downtime and ultimately improve plant
15 productivity, particularly in      plants where equipment items extend over a
   substantial distance and have fixed remote isolation stations also spaced a
   substantial distance apart. Mobile isolation devices enable operator(s) to bridge
   the physical distance gap between the remote isolation stations.           In this way,
   when an operator notices an issue requiring attention on the equipment item or
20 tasks relating to it, return to a fixed remote isolation station is not necessary. The
   mobile isolation device enables an isolation request to be logged and approved
   by the control system as soon as the issue is noticed.             The mobile isolation
   device may also enable isolation switch isolation and lockout as described below.
   That said, the remote isolation system may include one or more fixed isolation
25 stations.
           The control system of the remote isolation system is desirably configured
   to effect a standalone isolation of the equipment.           The control system may
   however be configured with a plurality of equipment isolation modes, as
   described in the Applicant's Australian          Provisional Patent Application No.
30 2015902558 filed on 30 June 2015, the contents of which are hereby included
   herein by way of reference. In such case, the input means of the mobile isolation
   device may allow an operator to select one of a number of different equipment
   isolation modes.      Where a plurality of mobile isolation devices are comprised

                                              5
   within the remote isolation system, each input means may allow each operator to
   select the same or a different plurality of equipment isolation modes dependent
   on the operator's authority in accordance with data and rules governing an
   isolation process. The latter situation is more typical because operators are likely
 5 to have different tasks and authorities during an isolation process.      The term
   "isolation process" comprehends both isolation and de-isolation operations.
            The mobile isolation device of the present invention is particularly useful
   where the control system is configured to isolate an equipment item whilst leaving
   other associated equipment items either operating or in an operational state. That
10 is, the isolation could "exclude" certain equipment items in a specific isolation
   mode.      Such an exclusive isolation mode may be used where maintenance or
   other tasks on a particular equipment item require associated equipment to
   remain energised. Accordingly, the isolated and operational equipment items will
   typically form part of a particular system or sub-system of a plant which may be
15 provided with a number of fixed remote isolation stations. One example of such a
   system is a conveyor belt system in a material handling plant with a plurality of
   fixed remote isolation stations arranged, potentially a substantial distance apart,
   along the length of a conveyor belt     A conveyor belt drive motor may require to
   be isolated for maintenance purposes, but the brakes associated with the belt
20 system require to remain energised to enable safe working on the conveyor belt.
   With the mobile isolation device, required equipment (for example a conveyor
   brake system) can be stopped or started with the operator in the most convenient
   position available and importantly not tied to the position of a fixed remote
   isolation station resulting in savings in time and money spent on potentially
25 complex maintenance tasks.
            The mobile isolation device may be rendered inoperative if the remote
   isolation system is bypassed or over-ridden in the event of a system fault.       In
   such a case, the isolation switch must be locked in a normal operating position.
            The mobile isolation device may also include means for engaging a
30 personal isolation lock if required as part of an isolation procedure.         More
   specifically, the mobile isolation device may include an isolation switch for
   facilitating an isolation of certain equipment.   The isolation switch may be as
   described in the Applicant's Australian       Provisional Patent Application No.

                                              6
   <removed-apn> filed on 30 June 2015, the contents of which are hereby
   incorporated herein by way of reference. The engaging means may be presented
   to an operator by the mobile isolation device when the isolation switch is in an
   isolated position.   The engaging means could be a sliding element concealed
 5 within a socket of the console of the mobile isolation device when equipment is
   energised but which slides into position when the equipment is isolated in similar
   manner to a lock bolt.     The sliding element may be provided with attachment
   means, such as an aperture, for attaching a personal isolation lock.          On de
   isolation, the engaging means can again be concealed, for example by retraction
10 of the sliding element into the socket of the console of the mobile isolation device.
           The mobile isolation device may also be configured for use to perform
   plant tasks, other than isolation, including equipment monitoring and interrogation
   of plant status. The       mobile    device  may also     be used for authorised
   communications with other site personnel.
15         The mobile isolation device is preferably provided with its own power
   supply which may comprise a re-chargeable battery arrangement. As alluded to
   hereinbefore,    the  mobile    isolation  device  is   conveniently dockable      for
   configuration to desired equipment and may be engaged at a fixed remote
   isolation station. A mobile isolation device may be docked - when not used for
20 isolation - at a docking station conveniently formed as part of a related or specific
   fixed remote isolation station for re-configuration to the same or different
   equipment. Such docking, as understood in the computer art, may facilitate at
   least one purpose selected from the group consisting of re-charging of the mobile
   isolation device, communication with and programming by the control system and
25 plugging in to other peripherals of the remote isolation system.
           Preferably, the mobile isolation device can only be withdrawn               or
   'undocked' on approval by the control system, particularly when an exclusive
   control or maintenance mode is activated at the docking station.         The mobile
   isolation device can also serve as a normal fixed place remote isolation device
30 when docked. However, the mobile isolation device cannot be undocked when
   the aforementioned isolation lockout switch is in the isolated position.
           In terms of the mobile isolation device plugging in to other peripherals of
   the remote isolation system, such peripherals may include printers and other

                                             7
   devices enabling downloading of data from the mobile isolation device. Remote
   isolation software updating may also be something that is preferred when the
   mobile isolation device is in a docked position.
           The docking station also facilitates security when it is placed in a known
 5 secure location, possibly being made unavailable for use until approved by the
   control system.    Removal of a mobile isolation device from the docking station
   may require authorisation and possibly unlocking through a keyed operation
   which may involve a key exchange unit as described in the Applicant's Australian
   Provisional Patent application No. 2015902557 filed on 30 June 2015, the
10 contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by way of reference. The
   docking station may include other security features for example triggering an
   alarm if removal from an authorised location is attempted. The mobile isolation
   device could be configured, in another embodiment, to only be operated following
   operator identity verification    using operator identification devices such as
15 described in the Applicant's Australian Provisional Patent Application Nos.
   2015902559 and 2015902564 each filed on 30 June 2015, the contents of which
   are hereby incorporated herein by way of reference. Such operator identification
   device for receiving operator identification data from an operator identification
   means would be provided for each mobile isolation device. A range of operator
20 identification devices and operator identification means could be used, the latter
   conveniently being a smart device. A smart card identification system could be
   implemented using a card reader included within the mobile isolation device.
           Operator identification data would be stored in the operator identification
   means, for example a smart card, following a conventional process and such data
25 could include, or be tied to, isolation permits to work on relevant equipment.
   Smart card validity could be checked in the field. Other smart devices could be
   used to similar effect.     This option identifies the operator using the mobile
   isolation device (when not in docked position) and reduces the risk of accidental
   or deliberate misuse of the remote isolation system, as well as risk of error in
30 issuing isolation permits through manual documentation systems which can also
   be time consuming to use and check. Such benefits can contribute to increasing
   safety and reducing lost production time for maintenance purposes.

                                              8
           Further, a smart device or smart card may be used for lock out of an
   isolation lockout switch, preferably when provided as part of the mobile isolation
   device.
           In addition, mobile isolation devices, especially when operator borne and
 5 compact, may readily be moved to cover multiple isolation configurations (such as
   in railyards) and/or as the terrain around them and plant equipment changes, for
   example due to mining, construction activity and/or seasonal changes (such as
   flooding rains) changing a landscape, for example a mine pit, or as equipment
   with which they are associated is moved to a new location. Installation costs and
10 time are therefore reduced over prior systems or even avoided for practical
   purposes.
           The wireless communications network of the remote isolation system may
   be one that is similar to that which is described in the Applicant's Australian
   Provisional Patent Application No. 2015902561 filed on 30 June 2015, the
15 contents of which are hereby included herein by way of reference.            Such a
   wireless communications        network desirably uses an      open communication
   protocol rather than a proprietary system developed by unrelated third parties to
   the plant operator/owner. Use of an open communication protocol allows greater
   interoperability between the remote isolation system and the plant control system.
20 Plant personnel may also troubleshoot communication issues and manage the
   wireless communications network more easily by way of the mobile isolation
   device.     An Ethernet or other industry robust and accepted protocol may
   conveniently be use for the wireless communications network.              In certain
   circumstances, this would be difficult, if possible, with a closed third party
25 communication protocol. In addition, such third party communications networks
   tend to have stability issues avoided by using a communications protocol, such as
   the Ethernet protocol, established for industrial use.
           Where wireless technology is used, the same safety protocol is used over
   this medium, as it would be for a physical connection.       Thus the same safety
30 related standards regarding protection from communication errors, such as
   repetition, loss, incorrect sequence, delay and corruption are maintained.         In
   addition to this, industry standard wireless encryption protocols are used, typically
   WPA2-PSK.

                                             9
           The equipment remote isolation system may be retro-fitted to existing
   equipment and plant in a range of industries, for example the materials handling
   and mining industries. The remote isolation system may also advantageously be
   used for isolating rail system components in railway infrastructure as described in
 5 the Applicant's Provisional Patent Application No. 2015902560, the contents of
   which are hereby incorporated herein by way of reference.
           The term "isolation" as used in this specification is to be understood in its
   maintenance engineering and legal sense as not simply turning off a supply of
   energy to equipment, whatever the nature of that energy, but removing and/or
10 dissipating energy to provide a safe work environment as required by applicable
   occupational health and safety regulations. In the case of electricity, as just one
   example, isolation is not achieved simply by turning off a power supply to the
   equipment.     In such cases, the equipment could accidentally re-start or be
   restarted and cause injury to personnel, or worse.        Isolation instead prevents
15 such accidental re-starting and typically will also involve processes to dissipate
   any hazardous stored energy, in whatever form that energy may take (e.g.
   potential energy), from the equipment. For example, such an additional energy
   dissipation step could be effected in respect of a conveyor belt system by way of
   the braking cycle procedure as described in the Applicant's Australian Provisional
20 Patent Application No. 2015902565, the contents of which are incorporated
   herein by way of reference.
           The remote isolation system and mobile isolation device of the present
   invention may be more fully understood from the following description of preferred
   embodiments thereof made with reference to the accompanying drawings in
25 which:
           FIG 1 shows a schematic layout of a remote isolation system as applied to
   a conveyor belt system and configured in accordance with one embodiment of the
   present invention.
           FIG 2 shows a front view of a mobile isolation device for use in the remote
30 isolation system schematised in FIG 1, the mobile isolation device being in an
   isolated condition.
           FIG 3 shows a first side perspective view of the mobile isolation device of
   FIG 2 in normal or "resting" position.

                                              10
           FIG 4 shows a second side perspective view of the mobile isolation device
   of FIGS 2 and 3.
           FIG 5 shows a side perspective view of the mobile isolation device of FIGS
   2 to 4 with isolation switch turned to the ISOLATE position prior to lockout.
 5         FIG 6 shows a side perspective view of the mobile isolation device with
   isolation lockout point provided on completion of an isolation procedure.
           FIG 7 shows a side perspective view of the mobile isolation device in
   isolated and locked out condition.
           Referring to FIG 1, there is shown a schematic layout of a remote isolation
10 system 10, as retrofitted to an existing conveyor belt system 20, for example a
   long range conveyor system for conveying iron ore from a mine site to a port for
   shipment. The conveyor belt system 20 comprises a troughed conveyor belt 21
   having a head pulley motor 22 driven by an electrical energy supply emanating
   from electrical contacts 31, whether provided as contactors or circuit breakers.
15 One contact is a standard contactor for "ON"/"OFF" operation of the motor 22.
   The head pulley motor 22 is powered through a variable speed drive (VSD) which
   is electrically powered from a three phase AC power supply line 23 providing
   voltages of less than 1000V AC.         Conveyor belt 21 is also provided with an
   electrically powered braking system 21A and tramp metal detector (TMD) 21B
20 which detects tramp metal and indicates a fault if such tramp metal is present.
   Isolation of the conveyor belt system 20 is then required to address the fault and
   re-set the conveyor belt system 20 for continued use.
           Electrical power for the conveyor belt system 20 is supplied from a source
   in the form of sub-station 30. The sub-station 30 houses the electrical contacts
25 31.  Activation of the contacts 31 (i.e. placing them in the "off" or "break" state),
   de-energises all three phases of the electrical supply to the conveyor head pulley
   drive motor 22. Activation of contacts 31 also de-energises all three phases of
   the electrical supply to the conveyor braking system 21A. Such de-energisation
   is continuously monitored by a voltage monitor relay (not shown) located
30 downstream of contacts 31, i.e. on the conveyor belt system 20 side of the
   contacts 31.
           The conveyor belt system 20 and sub-station 30 are under the control and
   supervision of a plant control system 260 having a central control room (CCR) 40,

                                               11
   via a DCS (Distributed Control System), PLC (Programmable Logic Controller)
   and SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System) as are commonly
   used and would be well understood by the skilled person.          Item 41 in FIG 1 is
   representative of a communication and control network between the CCR 40 and
 5 the various other plant systems and components.            A Control Room Operator
   (CRO) 42 is located within the CCR 40 and has various input/output devices (1/O)
   and displays available (not shown) for the proper supervision and control of the
   conveyor belt system 20. Except for the remote isolation system 10, the above
   description represents what may be considered a conventional system as would
10 be known within the materials handling and mining industries.
           The remote isolation system 10 comprises operator borne mobile isolation
   devices 120 described in further detail below. Fixed remote isolation stations 12
   and 14 also available for use if required.      Remote isolation stations 12 and 14
   may include a control panel 700 as described, for example, in the Applicant's
15 Australian Provisional Patent Application No. 2015902561, the contents of which
   are hereby incorporated herein by way of reference.
           Mobile isolation devices 120, unlike fixed remote isolation stations also
   effectively used in systems such as described in Australian                Patent No.
   2010310881, can be used anywhere around conveyor belt system 20 providing
20 significant flexibility and reducing the need to spend time travelling to and fro
   between fixed remote isolation stations 12,14 for communications tasks and
   maintenance tasks in a work area of the conveyor belt system 20.            This ability
   should help reduce downtime and increase productivity without compromising
   safety.   That is, the mobile device 120 enables time savings to be realised
25 through the control of the plant, namely isolation, being made available to an
   operator at any point near or at the plant without having to locate the nearest
   isolation point that is inevitably remote from the location of the required job.
           The remote isolation system 10 also includes a master controller 50
   incorporating a human/machine interface (HMI) in the form of a touch sensitive
30 screen 51 which displays human interpretable information. The master controller
   50 is also located within sub-station 30.
           Remote isolation stations 12, 14 and mobile isolation devices 120, two of
   which are shown and carried by operators a distance D apart, communicate with

                                               12
   the master controller 50 via wireless communication channels 11 and 13. The
   communication      channels 11       and  13 may also form part of a wireless
   communications network for controlling the conveyor belt system 20 so saving
   costs and difficulty involved with installing fibre-optic or other cable as described
 5 above.
           The wireless communications network used in the control of conveyor belt
   system 20 requires a communication protocol to work effectively.                 This
   communication protocol is selected for ready interoperability with other plant
   components making maintenance and trouble shooting requirements easier. That
10 is, the communication protocol is open, not closed. Plant personnel are not
   precluded from refining the communication protocol or left susceptible to system
   failures that only a third party to the plant operator/owner can address.
           In this case, the communication protocol involves an open industrial
   communication protocol such as Ethernet. This is particularly preferred to enable
15 flexible system updating.     Ethernet software is widely accepted and established
   for use in industrial plants and so further detailed description of such software is
   unnecessary here.
           Communications relating to remote isolation must be via safety rated
   communications protocol and software            noting that these may be varied
20 depending on the PLC platform used.              For example, the Interbus Safety,
   Ethernet/IP or PROFIsafe software solutions provide an indication of existing
   systems which are well known within the mining and materials handling
   industries. This will ensure that the communication channels are monitored and
   diagnostic tools are available for fault control and rectification when required,
25 hence maintaining the required safety integrity level (SIL) of the plant.
           Further description of the electrical layout and operation of the remote
   isolation system 10 is provided in the Applicant's granted Australian Patent No.
   2010310881, the contents of which have been incorporated herein by reference.
           Referring now to FIGS 2 to 7, each mobile isolation device 120 comprises
30 a console 122 having a control panel 124. It should be noted that for certain
   specific applications, the mobile isolation device could take the form of a re
   configured smart phone in which telephonic function (or Voice Over Internal
   Protocol (VOIP)) is integrated for communications with CRO 42. Control panel

                                              13
   124 is used for implementing the Applicant's remote isolation system 10 and
   includes an antenna 126 for implementing wireless communications, in the above
   described manner, with plant control system 260 and master controller 50.
   Wireless communications are line of sight with additional repeaters used if
 5 necessary to maintain satisfactory communications integrity.             Plant transport
   vehicles may also include such repeaters.
          Mobile device 120 is powered by a rechargeable battery (not shown). The
   mobile isolation device 120 is manually portable having dimensions (provided as
   an example only) of 230mm x 370 mm.              Such portability may be particularly
10 convenient, for example, for teams of operators inspecting the conveyor belt
   system 20 for failed or failing bearings in idler rollers.      In such a scenario, a
   conveyor roller change out team would walk or drive slowly alongside the
   conveyor belt 21 listening for failed or failing bearings in the rollers. When a roller
   for replacement is located, the operators could use the mobile device 120 to stop
15 the conveyor, isolate the system at the job location, and then manually lockout as
   required, whereafter it would be safe to replace the roller. In addition, inclusion of
   a locator device (for determining GPS location) within the mobile isolation device
   120 allows the isolation to be recorded by the plant control system 260 by date,
   time and location. This information          can usefully be used to plan future
20 maintenance.
          As can be seen in Figure 2, the control panel 124 includes:
       e  Battery storage indicator light block 719;
       e  Wireless signal strength indicator light block 720;
       e  Lamp test request button 721;
25     e   Indicator lights 722 and 724 showing whether or not the mobile isolation
          device 120 is available for isolation;
       e  Exclusive control selection button 725 for selecting exclusive control and
          illuminable to indicate whether or not exclusive control is active (exclusive
          control where conveyor belt system 20 isolation is controlled exclusively
30        from mobile isolation device 120 is described below);
       e   Request to isolate button 740 which is activated by an operator (and which
          illuminates when pressed) to request isolation;

                                               14
       e   Request approved indicator light 750 which illuminates to provide status
           information to said operator;
       e   Indicator light block 760 for indicating checking of the isolation procedure;
       e   Indicator light block 770 for showing whether or not the isolation process is
 5         complete following control system checking;
       e   Try step button 780 for requesting a try start step in which a restart of
           conveyor belt system 20 is attempted (and which illuminates when
           pressed); and
       e   Graphics (in the form of arrows and text) illustrating the sequence of steps
10         to be followed in the required isolation procedure.
           It will be understood that the mobile isolation device 120 could be provided
   with a touch screen for issuing commands and providing plant status information.
   A convenient location for such a touch screen would be in block 790 of the
   isolation device control panel 124. Any such touch screen for the mobile device
15 120 could conveniently be provided as a low power consumption LCD screen.
   However, where the isolation device is likely to be subjected to demanding
   service where wear and damage is almost inevitable, the touch screen may be
   omitted.
           Mobile isolation device 120 may also be provided with alarms in the form
20 of an audible alarm and/or alarm lights as required.
           Control panel 124 also includes an equipment isolation switch block 765
   which prevents completion of the isolation process (i.e. by locking with an
   operator's padlock or hasp at a specific lockout point) until the correct remote
   isolation request procedure, for example as described in Australian Patent No.
25 2010310881, has been completed.             In particular, a correct remote isolation
   request procedure requires a try start step to be completed by an operator by
   activation of the try step button 780 before any manual lock out is possible.
           Equipment isolation switch 400 co-operates with a switch actuating device
   here in the form of key 500 whenever remote isolation system 10 is operative, i.e.
30 available to achieve remote isolation. Isolation switch 400 and key 500 have no
   duplicate     but together    form   a   replaceable    module   (with   different lock
   arrangement) in the event of loss of key 500.

                                             15
           With the try start step successfully completed (i.e. confirming that the
   isolation is effective), equipment isolation switch 400 is now operable by turning
   the key 500 between a first "NORMAL" position in which the drive motor 22 for
   the conveyor 21 is electrically energised (i.e. not isolated) and a second
 5 "ISOLATE" position in which the drive motor 22 is electrically isolated and thus
   without power thereby facilitating any maintenance works which may be required.
   This condition is shown in FIG 5.
           However, whilst turning the key 500 from the NORMAL to the ISOLATE
   position is a necessary step in establishing an isolation state when authorised by
10 master controller 50, this alone does not provide a sufficient condition for the
   remote isolation system to properly isolate the conveyor belt 21 and its drive
   motor 22. Importantly, the equipment isolation switch 400 must be locked out, in
   this case, by a manual lockout procedure. Authorisation of manual lockout by the
   master controller 50 requires the correct remote isolation procedure sequence to
15 have been be completed as summarised above and as described in detail for
   example in the Applicant's Australian Patent No. 2010310881.
           By following the correct remote isolation procedure, an engaging means in
   the form of an isolation lockout point is provided for the operator at which they
   can apply a hasp 600 and personal lock. The isolation lockout point is provided
20 by an electrically driven extension of sliding retractable pin 128 (as shown in FIG
   6)- normally located within, and so concealed (though protected) by, a socket
   127 of mobile isolation device console 122 - at the conclusion of the isolation
   procedure. A small electric motor (not shown) is provided for this purpose. The
   isolation lockout point is formed by an aperture 129 extending through a diameter
25 of pin 128 and hasp 600 may readily be applied to this lockout point as shown in
   FIGS 2 and 7.       Other operators may also need to apply personal locks to the
   hasp 600 and apertures 600A allow for this. Lockout by an operator at the lockout
   point provided by pin 128 ensures the isolation switch 400 is unable to returned to
   a NORMAL condition without certain pre-defined steps as prescribed for the
30 isolation process being followed.
           The equipment isolation switch 400 is only operable when the key 500 is
   engaged with it. Equally, the key 500 must be removed from the isolation switch
   400 when deactivation of the equipment isolation switch 400 is required. Control

                                            16
   system or authorised personnel approval would be required prior to any such
   removal which, even then, is only permitted when the isolation switch 400 is in the
   NORMAL condition. Importantly, key removal is not permitted without additional
   validation steps if the key switch 400 is in the ISOLATE condition. Deactivation
 5 would typically require other tasks to be completed before a remote isolation
   system is safely and completely removed from service and the equipment item in
   question can be re-energised for normal operation.         Completion of such tasks
   may involve the use of other keys, preferably rendered operable using the key
   exchange unit described       in the Applicant's Australian      Provisional  Patent
10 Application No. 2015902557, the contents of which are incorporated herein by
   way of reference.
           It will be understood that communications between the mobile isolation
   device 120 and plant control system 260 are sent through the wireless
   communications network and antenna 126 to mobile isolation device 120 other
15 than when the mobile isolation device is docked at the docking station. Hence
   the operator request is sent wirelessly, as is the control system approval.
           A standard isolation mode has been described above. It will however be
   understood that the control system may provide for selection of one of a plurality
   of available isolation modes as described in the Applicant's Australian Provisional
20 Patent Application No. 2015902558, the contents of which were incorporated
   herein by reference above.
           Mobile isolation device 120 is particularly useful for use during an
   exclusive isolation mode in which the conveyor belt 21 is intended to be isolated
   by de-energising the head pulley drive motor 22 whilst the braking system 21A
25 may be left energised for use during maintenance work. In such case, the mobile
   isolation device is advantageously configured for use specifically to isolate
   conveyor belt 20 or braking system 21A.      Such configuration may be done when
   at least one of the mobile isolation devices 120 is stored at, typically docked at, a
   permitted docking station, conveniently located at the related and specific fixed
30 remote isolation station 12 or the CCR 40, where software updates and battery
   re-charging can be done using communications and power port 121.            However,
   mobile isolation device 120 may be configured to select different isolation
   operations and modes from a menu of options and modes if required (e.g. such

                                             17
   as the range of isolation modes as described in the Applicant's Australian
   Provisional Patent Application No. 2015902558 , the contents of which are
   incorporated herein by way of reference.       Different mobile isolation devices 120
   may be configured with rules and data governing different isolation operations
 5 and modes so presenting different operators with different menus of options and
   modes as this may be required in an isolation process involving multiple
   operators and multiple tasks.
           Docking stations may also be provided elsewhere, for example in vehicles
   for transporting operators around the plant. Vehicle accessory ports may be used
10 for charging the battery of the mobile isolation device and extending the wireless
   communication link range.
           As noted above, conveyor belt system 20 is a long range conveyor system
   extending over a substantial distance.        Accordingly, the closest fixed remote
   isolation station 12,14 may be some distance away from where a fault or problem
15 is diagnosed. Mobile isolation devices 120 enable operator(s) to bridge both the
   physical distance gap between fixed remote isolation stations and operator
   location. For example, one operator may carry a mobile isolation device 120 a
   substantial distance E (as indicated in Figure 1) from fixed remote isolation
   station 12. So, when that operator notices an issue requiring attention in their
20 sector of the conveyor belt system 20, return to fixed remote isolation station 12
   to deal with that issue is not necessary. The mobile isolation device 120 enables
   the operator's isolation request to be logged and approved by the control system
   as soon as the issue is noticed, and at the point where the issue or fault exists.
   The mobile isolation device 120 may also enable the operator to stop and start
25 conveyor belt system 20 equipment, such as braking systems when required and
   authorised as in an exclusive mode, and enable isolation switch 400 to be locked
   out as described above.
           The mobile isolation device 120 is also used during de-isolation following a
   process similar to that described in Australian Patent No. 2010310881.      It may be
30 noted that isolation lockout pin 128 would retract into its socket 127 during the de
   isolation process subsequent to removal of any personal locks and hasp 600.
   Following de-isolation, the mobile isolation device may be re-configured for
   another isolation application, even for different equipment.

                                             18
           The mobile    isolation device 120 could be configured, in           another
   embodiment, to only be operated following operator identity verification using
   operator identification devices as described in the Applicant's Australian
   Provisional Patent Application Nos. 2015902559 and 2015902564, the contents
 5 of which are incorporated herein by way of reference. A smart card identification
   system could be implemented using a card reader included within the isolation
   device console 122.      Operator identification data would be stored following a
   conventional process and such data could include isolation permits to enable
   work on relevant equipment such as the conveyor braking system 21A and other
10 conveyor belt system 20 components. Smart card validity could be checked in
   the field. This option identifies the operator using the mobile isolation device 120
   and reduces the risk of accidental or deliberate misuse of the remote isolation
   system 10, as well as risk of error in issuing isolation permits through manual
   documentation systems which can also be time consuming to use and check.
15 Such benefits can contribute to increasing safety and reducing lost production
   time for maintenance purposes.
           Modifications and variations to the remote isolation system described in
   this specification may be apparent to the skilled reader of this disclosure. Such
   modifications and variations are deemed within the scope of the present
20 invention. For example, and as described above, the mobile isolation device is
   one which is configured to dock with            a docking station    provided at a
   corresponding fixed remote isolation station. It is however to be appreciated that
   the mobile isolation device could alternatively be provided as a standalone mobile
   device that resides in the office or mine site vehicle of an operator of the remote
25 isolation system when it is not is use.
           In a further embodiment, the mobile isolation device 120 may be
   constructed to Ex-rating standards being effectively explosion proof and hence
   available for use in explosion hazard areas. Still further, the mobile device 120
   could be configured to be easily locatable by the control system whereby its
30 location can be determined via wireless triangulation and displayed on the
   SCADA and HMI screens.
           Further, whilst the remote isolation system has been described with
   reference to a materials handling plant for a mining application, it may be used in

                                         19
a range of industrial and other applications including isolating rail system
components in railway infrastructure as described in the Applicant's Australian
Provisional Patent Application No. 2015902560, the contents of which have been
previously included herein by reference.

                                            20
   CLAIMS:
   1.      A remote isolation system for a plant comprising:
           equipment energisable by an energy source; and
           a control system enabling automated isolation of the equipment from said
 5 energy source to an isolated state when authorised by the control system,
           wherein said control system enables remote isolation of the equipment by
   one or more mobile isolation device(s) provided as part of the remote isolation
   system and configured to request the control system to authorise equipment
   isolation.
10 2.      A remote isolation system of claim 1 wherein said control system enables
   isolation through a wireless communications network which includes the one or
   more mobile isolation devices configured to request the control system to
   authorise equipment isolation.
   3.      A remote isolation system as claimed in claim 2 wherein said wireless
15 communications network uses an open communications protocol.
   4.      A remote isolation system of any one of the preceding claims wherein each
   mobile isolation device enables wireless communication with said control system
   to enable equipment isolation on authorisation of a permissible request from an
   operator.
20 5.      A remote isolation system of any one of the preceding claims wherein each
   mobile isolation device comprises a console having a display for displaying
   information about the remote isolation system and equipment; an input means for
   requesting a control system of the remote isolation system to enable automated
   equipment isolation through the above described wireless communications
25 network; an isolation switch for isolating said equipment when an isolation
   request is authorised by the control system; and an isolation lockout point.
   6.      A remote isolation system as claimed in claim 5 wherein said isolation
   lockout point includes means for engaging a personal isolation lock.

                                              21
   7.      A remote isolation system as claimed in claim 6 wherein said engaging
   means is presented to an operator by the mobile isolation device when the
   isolation switch is in an isolated position.
   8.      A remote isolation system as claimed in claim 7 wherein said engaging
 5 means is a sliding element concealed within the console of the mobile isolation
   device when equipment is energised but which slides into position when the
   equipment is isolated, said sliding element being provided with attachment
   means, such as an aperture, for attaching a personal isolation lock.
   9.      A remote isolation system as claimed in claim 8 wherein said sliding
10 element is retractable into said console of said mobile isolation device on de
   isolation.
   10.     A remote isolation system of any one of the preceding claims including at
   least one fixed remote isolation station for logging isolation requests for the
   equipment wherein said mobile isolation device enables logging of isolation
15 requests, approved isolation and isolation lockout without using said fixed remote
   isolation station.
   11.     A remote isolation system of any one of claims 5 to 10 wherein each
   mobile isolation device includes stop and start controls for facilitating equipment
   isolation on authorisation of the permissible request from the operator.
20 12.     A remote isolation system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
   comprising at least one fixed remote isolation station wherein each mobile
   isolation device is configured to engage with a specific fixed remote isolation
   station.
   13.     A remote isolation system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
25 wherein said mobile isolation device is designed to dock with a docking station for
   a purpose selected from the group consisting of re-charging of the mobile
   isolation device, communication with and programming by the control system and
   plugging in to other peripherals of the remote isolation system.

                                              22
   14.     A remote isolation system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
   wherein each mobile isolation device includes locating means so that the location
   of the mobile isolation device can be easily determined.
   15.     A remote isolation system as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 14 wherein
 5 said control system is configured with a plurality of equipment isolation modes;
   and the input means of the mobile isolation device allows an operator to select
   one of said equipment isolation modes.
   16.     A remote isolation system as claimed in claim 15 comprising a plurality of
   mobile isolation devices each having input means configured to enable each
10 operator to select the same plurality of equipment isolation modes.
   17.     A remote isolation system as claimed in claim 15 comprising a plurality of
   mobile isolation devices having input means configured to enable each operator
   to select a different plurality of equipment isolation modes.
   18.     A remote isolation system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
15 wherein the control system is configured to isolate an equipment item whilst
   leaving other associated equipment items either operating or in an operational
   state.
   19.     A remote isolation system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
   wherein said mobile isolation device is rendered inoperative if the remote isolation
20 system is bypassed or over-ridden in the event of a system fault.
   20.     A remote isolation system as claimed in claim 13 wherein said mobile
   isolation device can only be withdrawn or 'undocked' from a docking station on
   approval by said control system.
   21.     A remote isolation system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
25 wherein said mobile isolation device is provided with an operator identification
   device for receiving operator identification data from an operator identification
   means and configured to only be operated following operator identity verification.

                                              23
   22.     A remote isolation system as claimed in claim 21 wherein said operator
   identification means is a smart device or smart card.
   23.     A remote isolation system as claimed in claim 22 wherein said smart
   device or smart card is used for lock out of an isolation lockout switch when
 5 provided as part of the mobile isolation device.
   24.     A remote isolation system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
   used to isolate equipment in an application selected from the group consisting of
   mining, materials handling and railway infrastructure operation.
   25.     A mobile isolation device for a remote isolation system comprising a
10 console having a display for displaying information about the remote isolation
   system and equipment; an input means for requesting a control system of the
   remote isolation system to enable automated equipment isolation through a
   wireless communications network; an isolation switch for isolating said equipment
   when an isolation request is authorised by the control system; and an isolation
15 lockout point.
   26.     A mobile isolation device as claimed in claim 25 wherein said isolation
   lockout point includes means for engaging a personal isolation lock.
   27.     A mobile isolation device as claimed in claim 26 wherein said engaging
   means is presented to an operator by the mobile isolation device when the
20 isolation switch is in an isolated position.
   28.     A mobile isolation device as claimed in claim 27 wherein said engaging
   means is a sliding element concealed within the console of the mobile isolation
   device when equipment is energised but which slides into position when the
   equipment is isolated, said sliding element being provided with attachment
25 means, such as an aperture, for attaching the personal isolation lock.
   29.     A mobile isolation device as claimed in claim 28 wherein said sliding
   element is retractable into said console of said mobile isolation device on de
   isolation.

                                             24
   30.     A mobile isolation device as claimed in any one of claims 25 to 29 being
   provided with an operator identification device for receiving operator identification
   data from an operator identification means and configured to only be operated
   following operator identity verification.
 5 31.     A mobile isolation device as claimed in claim 30 wherein said operator
   identification means is a smart device or smart card programmed with operator
   identification data.
   32.     A mobile isolation device as claimed in claim 31 wherein said smart device
   or smart card is used for lock out of said isolation switch.
10 33.     A remote isolation system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 24 or a
   mobile isolation device as claimed in any one of claims 25 to 32 wherein said
   equipment is located in a terrain or landscape subject to change.
   34.     A mobile isolation device when used in a remote isolation system as
   claimed in any one of claims 1 to 24.

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      700                 700
                                                 1/7
      120
                120
            D
            E
260                                 21A

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
121
                           2/7
      790

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/7

