                                     ABSTRACT
          In accordance with the principles of the present invention, a non
 biased, centrally-cleared financial instrument, and method of electronic clearing
 and settling such a financial instrument is provided. The non-biased, centrally
 cleared financial instrument of the present invention is to be centrally cleared
 and can be traded or transacted either on or off an exchange or trading
 platform, whether traded as a future or other type of financial instrument. The
 non-biased, centrally-cleared financial instrument of the present invention has a
terminal value such that the terminal value offsets co-movement of variation
margin and investment return on the variation margin during the life of the
financial instrument.

                                          1/3
    SETTLEMENT PRICE         OVERNIGHT                                    REFERENCE
             P,                RATE R,                                   VALUE, IF ANY
       DALY                          DALYM          DAILYEACH                        PAYMENT
                                                                   STORE EACH FLOATING and
                                                                       FIXED PAYMENT :IjCj
ACCUMULATED RETURN ON
    VARIATION MARGIN
                                    ACCUMULATED MONEY
Ar = Ar-(3 + R. 1) + Pr,LRr-          MARKET ACCOUNT
                                   B(0, t)=B(0,t  - 1)(1+ R,'
                                                      EXPIRY
                                       TERMINAL VALUE
                              Ei 2 CB(te, T) - f, 48(2u)      - Ar
                                              where
                                          s(t. r) =
         Figure 1

                                        AUSTRALIA
                                     Patents Act, 1990
                                         ORIGINAL
                              COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
 APPLICANT/S:                         Eris Innovations, LLC
  INVENTORS:                          WILSON Jr., Donald, R.
                                      YU, Yuhua
 ADDRESS FOR SERVICE:                  Peter Maxwell and Associates
                                       Level 6
                                       60 Pitt Street
                                       SYDNEY NSW 2000
 INVENTION TITLE:                      NON-BIASED, CENTRALLY-CLEARED
                                       FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT AND METHOD
                                       OF CLEARING AND SETTLING
   DIVISIONAL OF                       AU - 2017 201 734- 14 March 2017
                                       which is a divisional of
                                       AU - 2015 264 931 - 7 December 2015
                                       which is a divisional of
                                       AU - 2011 293 897 - 17 August 2011
The following statement is a full description of this invention including the best method
of performing it known to us:
                                              1
m:\docs\201 11 220\505206.doc

                NON-BIASED, CENTRALLY-CLEARED FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT
                           AND METHOD OF CLEARING AND SETTLING
                                        PRIORITY INFORMATION
       toooi    The present application is being filed as a PCT International Patent Application in the
       name of ERis EXCHANGE LLC, and claims the benefit of priority of US Application Number
       12/806860 filed August 23, 2010 entitled Non-Biased, Centrally Cleared Financial
      Instrument and Method of Clearing and Settling, the contents of which is hereby incorporated
      by reference in its entirety.
                                      FIELD OF THE INVENTION
     (0002]    The present invention relates to financial instruments, and to the electronic clearing
     and settling of such financial instruments.
                                 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
      0031    A variety of different types of financial instruments are traded throughout the world.
    Examples include cash contracts and derivatives. A cash contract is an agreement for either
    immediate or deferred delivery of the specified asset. A derivative is a financial instrument
    whose value is linked to the price of an underlying commodity, asset, rate, index, currency or
   the occurrence or magnitude of an event. Typical examples of derivatives include futures,
   forwards, options, and swaps.
   (oo4       Most commonly, a swap is an agreement between two parties to exchange sequences
   of cash flows for a set period of time. Usually, at the time the swap is initiated, at least one of
  these series of cash flows is benchmarked to an asset or an index that is variable, such as an
  interest rate, foreign exchange rate, equity price or commodity price. A swap may also be
  used to exchange one security for another to change the maturity (bonds), quality of issues
  (stocks or bonds) or to facilitate a change in investment objectives.
 [ooos       A nomenclature has developed to describe the characteristics of certain swaps. A
 "plain-vanilla" swap is one that only has the simplest and most common terms. A "spot"
starting swap is one where the economics of the swap start almost immediately upon two
parties entering into the swap. A "seasoned" swap is one that has been in existence for some
time. A "forward-starting" swap is one where the first calculation date of the swap does not
commence until a designated point in the future. The parties to a forward-starting swap are

         still responsible for performing their obligations, but these obligations do not start for a
         period of time after the parties have agreed to enter into the swap. An "off-market" swap is
         one that has a value other than zero at initiation.
        tooosj    The first swap occurred between IBM and the World Bank in 1981. Although swaps
        have only been trading since the early 1980's, they have exploded in popularity. In 1987, the
        swaps market had a total notional value of $865.6 billion; by mid-2006, this figure exceeded
       $250 trillion. That is more than 15 times the size of the U.S. public equities market.
       [0007]    The most common type of swap is an interest-rate swap. In a plain-vanilla, interest
      rate swap, two parties agree to exchange periodic interest payments, typically when one
      payment is at a fixed rate and the other varies according to the performance of an underlying
      reference rate.     Interest-rate swaps are generally quoted in yield terms. Conceptually, an
     interest-rate swap can be viewed as either a portfolio of forwards, or as a long (short) position
     in a fixed-rate bond coupled with a short (long) position in a floating-rate bond. Commonly,
     for U.S. dollar denominated interest-rate swaps, the rate quoted is the fixed rate that the
    market expects will offset future 3-month London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR) (or
    whatever underlying reference rate is specified in the swap).          (LIBOR refers to a daily
    reference rate based on the interest rates at which banks borrow unsecured funds from other
    banks in the London wholesale interbank market.)           Cash then flows on a periodic basis
   between the buyer and the seller depending on the difference between the fixed rate and the
   floating rate. For example, one party (Party A) agrees to pay another party (Party B) a
   predetermined, fixed rate of interest on a notional amount on specific dates for a specified
  period of time; concurrently, Party B agrees to pay Party A a floating interest rate on that
  same notional amount on the same specified dates for the same specified time period.
  Interest payments may be made annually, quarterly, monthly or at any other interval
  determined by the parties.
 [oo8         Standardized derivatives have traditionally been exchange-traded and centrally
 cleared financial instruments; swaps, on the other hand, have traditionally been customized
 financial instruments that are traded in the over-the-counter (OTC) market.             (The OTC
market most commonly refers to privately negotiated trades between two parties that are not
centrally cleared (i.e. uncleared)). Each party looks solely to the other party for performance
and is thus exposed to the credit risk of the other party (often referred to as counterparty risk).
Unlike financial instruments that are centrally cleared, there is no independent guarantor of
                                                      I

        performance.     Uncleared swaps are often transacted pursuant to International Swaps and
        Derivatives Association (ISDA) master documentation. The ISDA, 360 Madison Avenue,
        16th Floor, New York, New York 10017 is an association formed by the privately negotiated
        derivatives market that represents participating parties.
       (00091   It is common for collateral to change hands as the value of an uncleared position
       changes.     The party that has an unrealized loss on an open, uncleared position will post
       collateral with the party that has the unrealized gain in order to secure its liability. A
      common form of collateral is obligations of the United States Treasury (i.e. Treasury Bonds,
      Notes, and Bills). When a Treasury obligation is posted as collateral, price changes in that
      financial instrument and coupon payments accrue to the owner of the collateral, that being the
     party posting the financial instrument. Cash may also be posted as collateral, in which case
     the party receiving the cash as collateral is obligated to pay interest to the party posting the
     cash collateral at a rate set by agreement between the parties. When the trade is unwound or
     expires, the party holding the collateral returns it to the other party, and the trade is ultimately
     settled.
    1000W]3   Financial instruments traded on exchanges are distinctly different from uncleared
    financial instruments. While the economics of the two may be similar, futures and options on
   futures (futures options) are traded on and pursuant to the rules of an exchange.               Unlike
   uncleared financial instruments where the parties set the terms of the trade, exchange-listed
   futures and futures options are standardized.         Such terms include notional amount, price
  change per increment, expiration date, and how the financial instrument is settled (either cash
  settlement or physical delivery) at expiration. The only matters for parties to negotiate in
  futures, other than which party is the buyer and which party is the seller, is the number of
 financial instruments to be traded and the price.
 100011]     All futures and futures options are centrally cleared.      This is quite different from
 uncleared financial       instruments    discussed above.        Central clearing means       that the
counterparty risk is removed. The parties to a trade cease to be counterparties to each other;
rather, each party faces a clearinghouse and looks solely to the clearinghouse for
performance. (A clearinghouse is an agency of an exchange or separate entity responsible for
settling trading accounts, clearing trades, collecting and maintaining margin, regulating
delivery and reporting trading data.)

         foooinj Recently, there has been a trend for OTC financial instruments to be centrally cleared.
        In certain circumstances, parties to an OTC financial instrument can submit the financial
        instruments to a clearinghouse for central clearing.        Once the trade is accepted by a
       clearinghouse, the counterparty risk is eliminated, and each party then faces the
       clearinghouse. For example, on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange Group's (CME), ClearPort
       facility, 20 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606, OTC trades in certain financial
      instruments may be converted into futures or futures options, as the case may be, upon
      acceptance by CME's clearinghouse.           In effect, these "OTC" financial instruments go
      through a transformation into futures or futures options. Other financial instruments may be
      accepted by a clearinghouse for central clearing, but do not convert into futures and remain
     customized. In these cases, like all centrally-cleared financial instruments, the counterparty
     risk is still eliminated.
     [ooo03     The method by which clearinghouses treat margin on cleared financial instruments
    (including futures and non-standardized financial instruments accepted for central clearing) is
    considerably different from the uncleared norm. For both cleared and uncleared financial
    instruments there are two forms of margin: initial margin and variation margin. For a cleared
   financial instrument, both parties must post initial margin in an amount set by the
   clearinghouse upon initiation of a position and maintain that initial margin as long as the
   position is held. For an uncleared financial instrument, only one party (but not both as in
   cleared financial instruments) may be required to post initial margin (known as collateral for
  uncleared financial instruments). In the case of cleared and uncleared financial instruments, a
  party posting this collateral generally continues to earn interest on cash posted or, if a
  Treasury instrument is posted, continues to have the right to the coupons generated by the
  Treasury instrument and accrues the gains or losses from any change in the value of the
 Treasury instrument.
 (00014]     For variation margin, there is a dramatic difference between the treatment depending
 on whether the trade is cleared and uncleared. In both cases, margin moves as the marked-to
market value of the position changes. (Marked-to-market value reflects the current value of a
financial instrument rather than its book value.) This movement of margin generally occurs
on a daily basis. If a party receives variation margin by virtue of a profitable position in a
cleared financial instrument, that party is the owner of the margin and may do whatever it
chooses with such margin. On the other hand, in uncleared financial instruments, the party

        posting cash or Treasury instruments as collateral receives the interest on the cash posted or
        the coupon from the Treasury instrument and accrues the gains or losses from any change in
       the value of the Treasury instrument (if such a Treasury instrument is posted in lieu of cash).
       rooomi  There are two important effects that result from the difference in the treatment of
       variation margin between cleared and uncleared positions: the first effect is commonly known
       as the "convexity bias", and the second effect will be referred to herein as the "NPV effect".
       With respect to the convexity bias, assume a party establishes a short position in a Eurodollar
      future listed on the CME. Eurodollar futures are based on the 3-month LIBOR interest rate.
      The final settlement value for Eurodollar futures is equal to 100 minus the 3-month LIBOR
      rate.   As interest rates rise, the price of Eurodollar futures decline.   Further assume that
     shortly after establishing the position, the trade becomes profitable on a marked-to-market
     basis due to an increase in interest rates. As a result, the party receives variation margin in
     the form of cash equal to the profit.       The party could now use the variation margin to
    purchase a zero-coupon Treasury bond.
    tocoisj Now assume that interest rates subsequently decline to where they were initially. This
    results in a payment of variation margin being due - equal to the initial amount received. The
    party is now in the same position as before the change in interest rates with respect to the
   futures profit and loss; however, because interest rates are now lower than they were when
   the zero-coupon bond was purchased, the party will realize a profit on the bond when
   liquidating it. Hence, there is a clear benefit to being short Eurodollar futures because of the
  positive correlation between the underlying futures and fixed-income instruments in general.
  As a result, Eurodollar futures trade at higher yields (lower prices) than related uncleared
  financial instruments, including interest-rate swaps.
 toooinr      If the underlying asset for the future was natural gas (rather than 3-month LIBOR),
 then the different treatment of cleared as compared to uncleared collateral schemes would not
 result in any significant benefit to being short (or long) futures as a result of the convexity
 bias. This is because there is generally little correlation between the price of a zero coupon
bond and the price of natural gas, and the convexity bias only takes effect when such
correlation is high.
[ooms] In the example of Eurodollar futures, the benchmark underlying the future is 3-month
LIBOR.        There is a very high positive correlation between a zero coupon bond and a

        Eurodollar future.    As first recognized in the early 1990's, this results in a fundamental
        benefit from being short exchange-traded, interest-rate futures relative to uncleared OTC
        interest-rate swaps, introducing what is known as a convexity bias in the pricing of interest
       rate futures. See Burghardt and Hoskins, "The Convexity Bias in Eurodollar Futures: Part 1",
       I Derivatives Quarterly 47 (Spring 1995); Burghardt and Hoskins, "The Convexity Bias in
       Eurodollar Futures: Part 2", 59 Derivatives Quarterly 72 (Summer 1995). Unless addressed,
      the convexity bias exists for any financial instrument that is cleared where there is a
      correlation between the value of the financial instrument and interest rates.
      (oo191   In more detail, as noted by Burghardt and Hoskins: "There is a systematic advantage
      to being short Eurodollar futures relative to deposits, swaps, or FRAs [Forward Rate
     Agreements].       Because of this advantage, which we characterize as a convexity bias,
     Eurodollar futures prices should be lower than their so-called fair or proper values. Put
     differently, the 3-month interest rates implied by Eurodollar futures prices should be higher
     than the 3-month forward rates to which they are tied."
    [00020J Because there is a high correlation between the yield of an interest-rate swap and
    interest rates, the convexity bias is highly relevant in determining the value of cleared
    interest-rate swaps and interest-rate swap futures.       The value of the convexity bias is
   dependent on a number of factors, including the correlation and the volatility of the relevant
   asset.     Under current market conditions, for a convexity biased cleared 10 year dollar
   denominated vanilla interest-rate swap, the bias is worth approximately 25 basis points
   (0.25%). It is important to note that when Burghardt and Hoskins first wrote about the
  convexity bias, interest-rate swaps were not cleared financial instruments.
  (00021j      The second effect that results from the difference between variation margin on a
 cleared financial instrument and collateral posted in an uncleared financial instrument will be
 referred to herein as the "NPV effect". While the NPV effect and the convexity bias are
 intertwined, cleared financial instruments that have no correlation to interest rates still will be
 subject to the NPV effect, although they will not subject to a convexity bias.
(000221       The following example illustrates the NPV effect. Assume that a party to a 10-year,
natural-gas swap makes fixed monthly payments of $4 (the buyer of the swap), and receives
floating payments equal to the spot price of natural gas from a counter party (the seller).
Because this is a 10-year swap, these payments continue for 120 consecutive months.

       Assume further that on the date the swap was created, the 10-year, natural-gas forward curve
       is flat at $4. Therefore, the swap requires no upfront payments. On the day after the parties
       enter into the swap, the 10-year, natural-gas forward curve moves to a flat $5. At that point,
      the buyer expects to receive $1 every month for the next 10 years, or $120 over the next 10
      years. The net present value of these cash flows, assuming a 6.0% annual interest rate, is
      approximately $90. Because of the assumed lack of correlation between the price of natural
      gas and interest rates in general, the convexity bias does not exist.
     [000231     In the case of an uncleared natural-gas swap, the buyer receives $90, the net present
     value of the future cash flows, as collateral from the seller. If the buyer unwinds the trade by
     selling the swap to a third party for fair value, an upfront payment of $90 will be made to the
     original buyer, and the $90 collateral will be transferred to the third party. The original buyer
    has thus realized a profit of $90 and has liquidated its position.
    [000241     Now consider a cleared natural-gas swap without any adjustments for the NPV
    effect. When the natural-gas forward curve moves to $5, the fair value settlement price of the
    cleared swap is $120, the sum of future cash flows. This is because futures by arbitrage-fee
   principle trade at their future value. Therefore the buyer receives $120 of variation margin
   today, as opposed to $90 in the uncleared case. The buyer could now exit or hedge off the
  position, and would be materially better off than had an uncleared swap been traded. This
  difference is caused by what is referred to herein as the NPV effect. Note that as interest
  rates approach zero, the NPV effect is eliminated.
  [000261      Some exchanges and clearinghouses attempt to address this issue by requiring the
 swap to settle as if it were economically equivalent to an uncleared swap. In this case, the
 daily settlement price is defined as the net present value of the future cash flows. While this
 gives the impression that it solves the NPV effect, it does not: this creates a swap that is
 neither equivalent to a cleared nor an uncleared swap. Continuing with the example, if the
 swap is required to settle at $90 after the move of the natural-gas forward curve to $5, the
 buyer receives $90 of variation margin. Now assume that the buyer sells the position to a
third party. If the buyer sells the position for the new settlement price, and keeps the $90 of
variation margin, then it would be in the same place as if it had traded an uncleared swap.
But the new buyer will receive a windfall profit. The new buyer could hedge off the natural
gas price risk by entering into an offsetting, 10-year, $5 natural-gas swap, and receive $30
over the next 10 years. Clearly the existence of this risk-free profit demonstrates that the

         cleared swap traded at the settlement price of $90 was transacted at something other than fair
         value. In fact, to consummate the trade at fair value the third party must pay the original
         buyer the present value of this $30, or approximately $22 under our 6.0% assumed interest
        rate.
        [00026]   The above example demonstrates that the cleared swap, without an appropriate
       adjustment, generates a different profit and loss from the uncleared swap when the underlying
       asset value, the price of natural gas in the example, changes.       Furthennore, the example
       uncovers a potential risk to the clearinghouse that, when the settlement methodologies are not
       properly delineated, the marked'to-market price may not reflect the actual fair value of the
      financial instrument. Because central clearing of swaps is relatively new, this effect is not
      widely known or understood.
      [oomn      The NPV effect also exists with respect to cleared credit default swaps (CDS). In a
      CDS, the protection buyer makes a series of payments to the protection seller, and in
     exchange the protection buyer receives a payment if the "reference entity", usually a
     corporation or government, defaults.       A default includes such events as failure to pay,
     restructuring, and bankruptcy.       In addition to the NPV effect, because of a correlation
    between the interest rate in general and the default rate a centrally-cleared CDS may have a
    convexity bias relative to an uncleared CDS. This convexity bias tends to be much smaller
    than in the case of interest-rate swaps.      See, for example, Kaplin, Qu, Wang, Wang, and
   Zhang, "The Relationship Between Default Risk and Interest Rates: An Empirical Study",
   Moody's             Analytics         (2         October        2009)         (available       at
   http://www.moodyskmv.com/research/files/Default and Interest Rates.pdf             (accessed   18
  August 2010); Chen, Cheng, Fabozzi, and Liu, "An Explicit, Multi-Factor Credit Default
  Swap Pricing Model with Correlated Factors", 43 Journal of Financial & Quantitative
  Analysis 123 (March 2008) (available at http://www.bnet.fordham.edu/rchen/jfqa-final.pdf)
  (accessed 18 August 2010).
 (00028]     One attempt to simultaneously address the convexity bias and the NPV effect was the
 introduction of the "Price Alignment Interest" (PAI) in 2008 on the SwapClear Facility of
 LCH.Clearnet, Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, London EC3N lEA U.K.
(LCH.Clearnet is an independent clearinghouse serving exchanges and trading platforms, as
well as a range of OTC markets.            SwapClear is a service for the central clearing of OTC
interest-rate swaps.)      Counterparties initially enter into a bilateral interest-rate swap and

        subsequently submit the swap for clearing through LCH.Clearnet. Upon acceptance of the
        swap by LCH.Clearnet, the parties to the trade cease to be counterparties to each other and
        each faces LCH.Clearmet and looks solely to LCH.Clearnet for performance.
       [000293 LCH.Clearnet introduced PAI to eliminate the convexity bias and the NPV effect. As
       noted in the LCH.Clearnet rules, "The payment of variation margin, or change in NPV [net
       present value], on a daily basis without adjustment would distort the pricing for swaps
       cleared through the Clearing House." LCH.Clearnet Rule 2C.6.4. To attempt to address this
      distortion, LCH.Clearnet charges interest on cumulative variation margin received and pays
      interest on cumulative variation margin paid.
     [00030] However, PAI is not a viable solution for systems that process cleared financial
     instruments, including futures.    As noted above, variation margin on a cleared position is
    currently calculated by marking a position to market. This calculation is undertaken on the
    basis of then-existing market prices, without regard to any convexity bias or NPV effect. The
    addition of PAI would require the calculation and processing of a separate and distinct form
    of variation margin.       Unfortunately, the systems currently used by traditional futures
    clearinghouses, exchanges, brokers, and other market participants for calculating variation
    margin are not equipped to incorporate this additional calculation. Significant changes would
   be required across the industry to include PAI in the calculation of variation margin for
   cleared swaps, and it would be very difficult for the industry to adapt to such a methodology
   in a reasonable time frame.
  [00031]    While swaps have traditionally been uncleared, recently there has been pressure to
 migrate swaps to central clearing, including mandates set forth in the Dodd-Frank Wall
 Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") (Pub.L. 111-203,
 H.R. 4173) signed into law by President Obama on 21 July 2010. As a result of political
 pressure for greater transparency of uncleared financial instruments, the Dodd-Frank Act was
passed into law in the wake of the 2008/2009 financial crisis. During the 2008/2009 financial
crisis, many participants in uncleared financial instruments faced counterparties that were
unable to meet their obligations.
 (00032]    One such effort to migrate swaps to an exchange and central clearing is the formation
of Eris Exchange, an exempt board of trade.          As reported by the Financial Times, Eris
Exchange "will offer trading in interest-rate swap derivatives closely modeled on current

        over-the-counter (OTC) rate swaps". Grant, Weitzman, and Mackenzie, "Chicago Traders
        Launch New Derivatives Exchange" Financial Times (13 July 2010).                The CME's
       clearinghouse will be the central clearer of interest-rate swap derivatives traded on Eris
       Exchange. "After the details of the swap, like notional value, coupon, and maturity are
       agreed to, the Exchange passes the new trade to the Clearing House where it is
       processed like a traditional futures contract." http://www.erisweb.com (accessed 17
       August 2010).
      [00033   Unless addressed, the convexity bias and the NPV effect will in most cases result in
      significant pricing discrepancies between centrally-cleared interest-rate swaps and interest
      rate swap futures on the one hand and uncleared interest-rate swaps on the other hand. As a
     result, the cleared swaps will trade at significantly different yields than the uncleared
     equivalent. At the very least, the convexity bias and the NPV effect could create a serious
     impediment to the migration of interest-rate swaps to Eris Exchange, or to any other
    exchange or to central clearing, including, for example, interest-rate swaps cleared through
    the International Derivatives Clearing Group, LLC (IDCG), 150 East 52nd Street, 5th Floor,
    New York, New York 10022 or the CME.
   [00034]    Take the example of an exchange-cleared, $1 OOM, 10-year, interest-rate swap traded
   at par (i.e. the coupon is set equal to the expected future LIBOR rates over the term of the
   interest-rate swap). Because this swap is cleared, without an adjustment for the convexity
   bias, it would it have to be traded at a significantly different yield than an uncleared swap
   with similar terms or arbitrage opportunities would exist. Assuming that the convexity bias
  of a 10-year swap is 25 basis points, when the exchange-traded swap trades at a yield of 2.31,
  the equivalent yield of a traditional, uncleared, interest-rate swap with similar characteristics
  and terms would be 2.56. In this example, the 25 basis point difference in yields is worth
  approximately $2,000,000.         Furthermore, the NPV effect will create an additional
 discrepancy between the cleared and uncleared interest-rate swap when the interest-rate yield
 curve changes such that the fair value of the swap changes. If not addressed properly, these
 discrepancies resulting from the convexity bias and the NPV effect will create significant
 confusion and serious impediment to the migration of interest-rate swaps to central clearing
 and exchange-traded environments.
[co3s      It would therefore be desirable to offer tools that adequately address the convexity
bias and the NPV effect.        It would be further desirable to help enable the migration of

       uncleared swaps and other uncleared financial instruments that are subject to the convexity
       bias and the NPV effect to exchanges and central clearing to eliminate counterparty risk,
       whereby the parties to a trade can look solely to a clearinghouse for performance, and to
      provide for greater transparency.
                                    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
      [00036    The present invention provides financial tools that address the convexity bias and the
      NPV effect. The present invention facilitates the migration of uncleared swaps and other
     uncleared financial instruments that are subject to the convexity bias and/or the NPV effect to
     exchanges and central clearing to eliminate counterparty risk, whereby the parties to a trade
     look solely to a clearinghouse for performance, and for greater transparency.
    too[7]     In accordance with the principles of the present invention, a non-biased, centrally
    cleared financial instrument, and method of electronic clearing and settling of such financial
    instrument, is provided. A non-biased, centrally-cleared financial instrument in accordance
    with the principles of the present invention is to be centrally cleared and can be traded either
   on or off an exchange or trading platform, whether traded as a future or other type of
   financial instrument.       The financial instruments to which the present invention applies
   include, but are not limited to, interest-rate swaps, interest-rate swap futures, credit default
   swaps, credit default swap futures, other interest-rate futures, FRAs, commodity swaps, and
  foreign-exchange swaps, regardless of the currency in which the financial instrument is
  denominated.
  (00038]    In accordance with the principles of the present invention, the non-biased, centrally
  cleared financial instrument defines its terminal value in a way that offsets the co-movement
 of variation margin and investment return on the variation margin during the life of the
 financial instrument. For example, in the case of an interest-rate swap in accordance with the
 present invention, the terminal value of such interest-rate swap comprises an accumulated
value of payments made pursuant to the terms of the interest-rate swap, minus the
accumulated value of interest earned on variation margin over the life of the interest-rate
swap. By addressing the convexity bias and the NPV effect, the non-biased, centrally-cleared
interest-rate swap is functionally equivalent in economic terms to an uncleared interest-rate
swap.

                                    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING
         (000391   Figure 1 is a flow-chart setting forth an example for determining the net accumulated
        value of cash flows for a terminal value of a non-biased, centrally-cleared financial
        instrument of the present invention.
        roo.0a4    Figure 2 is a flow-chart setting forth an alternative example for determining the
       terminal value of a non-biased, centrally-cleared financial instrument of the present
       invention.
      [0004il Figure 3 is a non-limiting example of a hardware infrastructure that can be used to run
      a system that implements electronic clearing and settling of the non-biased, centrally-cleared
      financial instrument of the present invention.
                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF A PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
     1=o0421     While an exemplary embodiment of the invention illustrated and described has been
     built to trade on Eris Exchange, it will be appreciated that the present invention is not so
    limited and can be cleared on any clearinghouse, traded on other exchanges or trading
    platforms, regardless of whether located in the United States or abroad, traded through a
    private negotiation, traded in currencies other than United States dollars or traded as a future
    or as a cleared swap or other type of financial instrument. When used herein, the terms
   exchange and trading platform refer broadly to a marketplace in which securities,
   commodities, derivatives and other financial instruments are traded, and includes but is not
   necessarily limited to designated contract markets, exempt boards of trade, designated
   clearing        organizations,   securities   exchanges,    swap  execution   facilities, electronic
  communications networks, and the like.
  [00043)       As previously detailed, given the differences in the manner in which collateral is
 treated in uncleared financial instruments on the one hand and centrally-cleared financial
 instruments on the other hand, a centrally-cleared swap that is subject to the convexity bias
 and/or the NPV effect, whether traded as a future or otherwise, will, unless addressed, trade
 at a different value than the same swap that is uncleared. This could significantly impair the
 migration of swaps and other financial instruments that have traditionally not been cleared,
particularly interest-rate swaps, to central clearing. The present invention provides a
financial instrument that is economically equivalent to uncleared financial instruments,

         including swaps, thus facilitating the migration of uncleared financial instruments to
         centralized exchanges and/or to central clearing.
        [00044]  In accordance with the principles of the present invention, a centrally-cleared
        financial instrument is provided that addresses the convexity bias and the NPV effect. The
        non-biased, centrally-cleared financial instrument of the present invention is to be centrally
        cleared and can be traded either on or off an exchange or trading platform, whether traded as
       a future or other type of financial instrument.       When used herein, non-biased refers to
       addressing the convexity bias or the NPV effect or both. The financial instruments to which
       the present invention applies include, but are not limited to, interest-rate swaps, interest-rate
       swap futures, credit default swaps, credit default swap futures, other interest-rate futures,
      FAs, commodity swaps, and foreign-exchange swaps, regardless of the currency in which
      the financial instrument is denominated.
     [00048]    As the convexity bias arises from the correlation between the value of the cleared
     financial instrument and fixed-income instruments in general, a non-biased, centrally-cleared
     financial instrument of the present invention defines its terminal value (i.e. the final
    settlement value of the financial instrument upon its stated expiration) in a way that offsets
    the co-movement of variation margin and the investment return on the variation margin
    during the life of the financial instrument.        In one embodiment in accordance with the
   principles of the present invention, the non-biased, centrally-cleared financial instrument is a
   swap that defines its terminal value to be the net accumulated value of the payments of the
   swap, minus the accumulated value of interest on variation margin over the life of the swap.
   The accumulated value of payments includes coupon payments and compounded interest
  earned on coupon payments. When used herein, the term swap is used in a broad, functional
  sense, and is not meant to be limited to any particular regulatory or legal definition thereof
  [00046]    In the example of an interest-rate swap, if interest rates increase, all else being
 constant, the yield on the interest-rate swap will go up, or, in the alternative, if the interest
 rate swap is traded in price terms, the price of the interest-rate swap will go down. Assuming
 this interest-rate swap is centrally cleared and traded in price terms, a short position will have
a positive cash flow from the variation margin when interest rates increase.              Unless the
convexity bias is addressed, the party holding the short position will be able to invest the
variation margin for a higher return as a result of the correlation between the interest-rate
swap and interest rates in general.        In this case, a non-biased, centrally-cleared financial

       instrument of the present invention will adjust the final payment of the financial instrument to
       account for the convexity bias and make the cleared financial instrument of the present
      invention equivalent in economic terms to an uncleared interest-rate swap.
      [ooo4    Subtracting the accumulated value of interest on variation margin from the terminal
     value of a financial instrument of the present invention addresses the NPV effect. Assume
     the expected net cash flow of a swap increases due to a change in the value of the underlying
     asset, rate, commodity or index. Without the adjustment, the proper marked-to-market value
    of a cleared swap will increase by an amount equal to the sum of the expected change inthe
    future cash flows. In the case of a cleared swap, this amount is paid to the buyer at the end of
   the day through variation margin. A non-biased, centrally-cleared financial instrument of the
   present invention decreases the terminal value of the financial instrument by an amount equal
   to the total interest earned on the accumulated variation margin over the life of the financial
   instrument, negating the NPV effect. Furthermore, setting the convexity bias aside, a non
  biased, centrally-cleared financial instrument of the present invention will have a change in
  its fair value equal to the change in the sum of the present value of the expected future cash
  flows, which coincides with the profit (loss) of an uncleared swap position.
 (000483     When a swap is traded, regardless of whether it is an exchange-traded swap future, a
 cleared swap or a traditional, uncleared swap, all of the terms of the fixed and floating
 payments are agreed upon at the time the trade is consummated.                 When the financial
instrument is an exchange-traded swap future or a centrally-cleared swap, the position is
marked to market periodically, most commonly daily, and variation margin flows based on
the marked-to-market settlement. In one embodiment, the terminal value of a non-biased,
centrally-cleared financial instrument of the present invention can be determined as follows:
            terminal value = net accumulated value of cash flows - total return on variation
                   margin;
            where,
                   net accumulated value of cash flows is the accumulated value that a buyer
                          (seller) of a financial instrument receives minus the payments the
                          buyer (seller) makes, reinvested at the overnight rate from the date that
                          the cash flow occurs to expiration of the financial instrument;

                         total return on variation margin is the sum of the interest earned on the
                                 cumulative variation margin for each day reinvested at the overnight
                                 rate to expiration of the financial instrument; and
                        the overnight rate is the rate specified by the exchange or clearinghouse to
                                reflect the short-term financing rate of market participants.
        [000491  The net accumulation of cash flows reinvested at the overnight rate over the life of the
       non-biased, centrally-cleared financial instrument of the present invention is necessary to
       make the financial instrument of the present invention equivalent to an uncleared financial
       instrument with similar terms. A party who enters into an uncleared interest-rate swap is able
      to invest cash received from the coupon payments daily at the overnight rate. When the party
      is obligated to make coupon payments under such a swap, the party will pay interest on any
      funds borrowed to make such payments or forego earning interest. The inclusion of the net
     accumulated value of cash flows in the definition of terminal value of the non-biased,
     centrally-cleared financial instrument of the present invention replicates the cash flows
     associated with the uncleared financial instrument.
      ooosoj The other component of the definition of the terminal value of the non-biased,
    centrally-cleared financial instrument of the present invention is the total return on variation
    margin. This adjustment addresses both the convexity bias and the NPV effect in a cleared
    financial instrument. While the adjustment achieves the same effect as LCH.Clearmet's Price
   Alignment Interest (PAI) by building the value into the final settlement price without
   managing the PAI cash flow on a daily basis, the current systems used to process traditional
   futures and cleared financial instruments will not need to change in order to handle a
  financial instrument created under the principles of the present invention. The PAI requires
  daily cash adjustments that the current systems for processing futures cannot handle. The
  present invention is superior in that regard and will facilitate the migration of uncleared
  swaps and other uncleared financial instruments to central clearing and to centralized
 marketplaces.
 [00081]     In another embodiment in accordance with the present invention, a constant can be
added or subtracted to the above terminal value definition. Adding or subtracting a constant
to the above terminal value definition may sometimes be preferable in order to be consistent
with certain market conventions.             Generally the profit and loss of a cleared financial

      instrument comes only from the price change, and, thus, modifying the price process by a
      constant does not change the nature of the financial instrument.
     t000521  Referring to Figure 1, a flow-chart of an example embodiment for determining the net
     accumulated value of cash flows for the tenninal value of a non-biased, centrally-cleared
     financial instrument of the present invention is seen. In the case of an interest-rate swap, the
    non-biased, centrally-cleared financial instrument of the present invention would have the
    fixed rate as its coupon, and the term of the swap defines its expiration. Taking into account
    these factors, the net accumulated value of cash flows can specifically be determined as
    follows:
             net accumulated value of cash flows =          CJB(t, T) -    L,B(t, 1 ,T)
             where,
                     Error! Objects cannot be created from editing field codes.is the amount of
                               fixed leg payment payable at time  t  ;
                     L, is the amount of the floating leg payment payable at time t,,;
                     T is the expiration of the financial instrument; and
                     B( , T) is the value of the money market account at time T with an initial
                              deposit of I at time t and accumulated at overnight rate.
  rooossi And total return on variation margin can be determined as:
           total return on variation margin =     >    R,B( + 1,T),
           where
                    P is the settlement price of the financial instrument on day t, and
                    R, is the overnight interest rate on day t.
Here we assume, without loss of generality, the initial trading price is zero.
 0oos4    Referring to Figure 2, a flow-chart of an alternative example embodiment for
determining the terminal value of a non-biased, centrally-cleared financial instrument of the
present invention is seen. In this alternative determination of the terminal value, which is
equivalent to the embodiments above, the terminal value can be determined as follows:

                 terminal value = net summation of cash flows - total return on modified variation
                          margin,
                 where, using the previous notations,
                         net summation of cash flows         =      C, -        L, ;and
                         total return on modified variation margin =
                                          (P,-(     C, -      L, ))R,B(t +1,T)
     tooossi By rearranging the terms of the second terminal value definition, the equivalence of
     the two alternative definitions discussed above can be seen:
             N         M           T-l
                Ci -      L -          (P,-(P-    C  -   EL,))R,B(t+1,T)
                 N         T                              m         T                           T
                =(   jC+2              CR,B(t +1, T))- (Y Li +LZ              LR,B(t+1,T))-:PRB(t+l,T)
                1=        :=1  i:{t,'a)                  is!      ,=I I:(t,,<r)                P=|
               N             T                    M          T                         T
              = C(I+ Z R,B( + 1,T))                  L,(1 + Z RB(t +1,T)) --             P,B(t +1,T)
               N                        M              T
           = >3 C,B           T),T - 3LB(tJ, T )- -      P R,B(t + l,T)
   [00056    The following are non-limiting examples of non-biased, centrally-cleared financial
   instruments created by adjusting the terminal value for the interest on variation margin in
  accordance with the principles of the present invention. In each example, the overnight rate
  is assumed to be equal to the yield on the applicable day. The discussion and the Tables set
  forth below are from the perspective of the buyer of the financial instrument unless otherwise
  noted.
 Example 1
 [0ocs7    This example shows that a non-biased, centrally-cleared financial instrument in
 accordance with the present invention can replicate the profit and loss of a spot-starting,
uncleared interest-rate swap each day. Consider a 10-year OTC swap with $100M notional
value with a par coupon of 2.0%. The buyer will receive 2.0% semi-annual interest payments
on the notional amount and pay 3-month LIBOR interest payments on the notional amount
quarterly.

      1oo0ss8   A non-biased, centrally-cleared financial instrument in accordance with the present
      invention can be created to replicate such a swap. This non-biased, centrally-cleared swap
     has a 2.0% coupon, 10 years to maturity. Suppose the yield changes to 2.1% on day 2. The
     following Table I compares the performance of an uncleared, interest-rate swap and a non
     biased, centrally-cleared swap position for the first few days:
                                Uncleared Swap                     Non-Biased,
                                                             Centrally-Cleared Swap
                 Date   Yield    Total P&L to       Value**       Return on       Total P&L to
                                     Date                          Variation         Date***
                                                                 Margin****
                  1       2.0          0               0               0                0
                  2      2.1       -906,497        -906,497            0            -906,497
                  3      2.1       -906,550        -906,497          -53            .906,550
                 4    , 2.1        -906,603        -906,497          -53            -906,603
      Table I - Performance      of an Uncleared Swap and a Non-Biased Swap
      *  The total profit and loss to date is computed as the net present value of the remaining cash
         flows; therefore, the value may change each day as the expiration date approaches even as
        the yield does not change.
      ** Value refers to a proper settlement value of the non-biased, centrally cleared swap.
     *** The total profit and loss to date for a cleared swap is the change in the settlement
        value of that day plus the accumulated variation margin and compounded interest earned
        on the accumulated variation margin.
     ****The return on the variation margin is computed as the one day financing cost on the
       accumulated variation margin from the previous settlement.
  Table I shows that the total profit and loss to date of an uncleared swap and that of a non
  biased, centrally-cleared swap created pursuant to the principles of the present invention are
  identical each day.
  Example 2
 [oos)      This example shows that a non-biased, centrally-cleared financial instrument in
 accordance with the present invention can replicate the profit and loss of a seasoned,
 uncleared interest-rate swap. The coupon of a seasoned interest-rate swap is usually different
 from the par swap rate when the seasoned swap is traded; to compensate for this, an upfront
 payment is often made with the amount equal to the present value of the seasoned swap. As
seen in Example 1, the buyer of the 2.0% coupon, spot-starting swap has a marked-to-market
loss of $906,603 on day 4 after the yield changed to 2.1%. If the buyer decides to sell the
swap on day 4, a loss of $906,603 is incurred, whether the trade is an uncleared swap or a

     non-biased, centrally-c feared swap future of the present invention. The following Table 2
     shows the cash flow and profit and loss of the buyer of this seasoned swap:
     [000601
                                          Uncleared Swap                              Non-Biased, Centrally-Cleared
        I        I
               _Swap                                                                                 Future
          Date       Yield     Marked-to       Cash      Return         Total          Value       Return on    Total
                                Market        Flow'     on Cash        P&L to                      Variation    P&L
                                 Value                   Flow'          Date                        Margin        to
                                                 I    I    I        IDate
           4         2.]       -906,603      906,603
                                                0
                                             9663           000-6,9
                                                           53             00         -906,497-065053096,7
                                                                                     -906,497          0
                                                                                                       0-2        0
           5         2.1        9663
                               -906,655
             6T62.1            -906,708         0          53             0          -906,497          0          0
      Table 2 - Cash Flow and Profit And Loss of Buyer of Seasoned Swap
      *  Since the present value of the seasoned swap is negative on day 4, the buyer receives a
        payment equal to the present value, $906,603.
      ** The initial payment generates interest income for the buyer each day.
    Table 2 shows that the total profit and loss to date of a seasoned, uncleared swap can be
   replicated by a non-biased, centrally-cleared swap future created pursuant to the principles of
   the present invention, if the non-biased, centrally-cleared swap is initiated on the same day as
   the uncleared swap.
  Example 3
  looosi] This example shows that a non-biased, centrally-cleared financial instrument in
 accordance with the present invention can replicate the profit and loss of an uncleared
 forward-starting interest-rate swap. Consider the same swap as specified in Example 1 - a
 10-year swap with $IOOM notional value with the par coupon 2.0%. In this example, the
swap starting date is one year from the date it is traded. A non-biased, centrally-cleared swap
future of the present invention is traded on the same day. Suppose after 6 months, the yield
changes to 2.1.          The following Table 3 shows the cash flow and profit and loss before and
after the yield changes:
                                   Uncleared Swap              Non-Biased, Centrally-Cleared Swap
             Date        Yield       Total P&L to            Value           Return on     Total P&L to Date
                                         Date                                Variation
                                                                              Margin
              180          2.0             0                   0                 0                 0
              181          2.1         -897,081          -897,082                0             -897081
              182          2.1         -897,133          -897,081              -52             -897,133
      Table 3 - Cash Flow and P&L Before and After Yield Change

        Table 3 shows that the total profit and loss to date of a forward-starting, uncleared swap can
        be replicated by a non-biased, centrally-cleared swap future created pursuant to the principles
        of the present invention each day.
       Example 4
       (000621  This example compares the economics of a centrally-cleared, interest-rate swap
      without adjustments for the convexity bias and the NPV Effect (referred to as an unadjusted
      cleared swap), with a non-biased, centrally-cleared swap in accordance with the present
      invention. The unadjusted cleared swap is assumed to be settled at the proper value each day.
      Continuing the example set forth in Example 1, when an uncleared swap trades at a yield of
     2.0%, a convexity-biased, interest-rate swap future would trade at a higher yield. Assuming
     the convexity bias for a 10-year swap is 25 basis points, the equivalent par coupon of the
     interest-rate swap future without adjustment for the convexity bias is 2.25%.                  Table 4
    compares the profit and loss of a non-biased, centrally-cleared swap future of the present
    invention and an unadjusted cleared swap:
                           Non-Biased, Centrally-Cleared              Unadjusted Cleared Swap
                                   Swap Future
                                    Coupon =2                             Coupon = 2.25
         Date    Yield     Value      Return        Total     Value         Return     Total P&L to Date
                                        on        P&L to                      on
                                     variation      Date                   variation
                                      margin                                marin
           1     2.0         0           0           0          0              0               0
          2      2.1     -906,497        0       -906,497 -1,000,000*          0          -1,000,000
          3      2.1     -906,497 ,    -53       -906,550  -1,000,000        -54          -1,000,054
          Table 4 - Profit and Loss after a Yield Change
          *The fair settlement value is equal to the sum of the future cash flows.
  Table 4 shows that the total profit and loss to date of a non-biased, centrally-cleared swap
  future created pursuant to the principles of the present invention is different from that of an
 unadjusted cleared swap due to the NPV effect. Furthermore, an unadjusted cleared swap is
 traded at a different par coupon from the uncleared swap due to the convexity bias.
Example 5
[ooo63]     This example shows non-biased swap future in accordance with the present invention
can replicate the profit and loss of an off-market swap. An off-market swap is a swap that
has a value other than zero at initiation. When an off-market swap is traded, the coupon is

         usually set to be higher or lower than the par swap rate, and an upfront payment is made
         between the parties.
        [=6&41  Assume a $1 0OM notional value, 10-year, uncleared spot-starting swap is traded when
        the par yield is 2.0% and the coupon is set to be 3.0%. The present value of this swap is
       $8,927,737.     The corresponding non-biased, centrally-cleared swap future of the present
       invention is traded with the same terms. Table 5 shows that the non-biased, centrally-cleared
       swap future of the present invention replicates the profit and loss of this off-market,
       uncleared swap when the yield changes to 2.1%:
                                      Uncleared Swap               Non-Biased, Centrally-Cleared Swap
                                                                                  Future
          Date   Yield    Marked-   Cash flow     Return   Total    Value      Return on    Total P&L
                         to-Market               on Cash  P&L to               Variation      to Date
                           Value                  Flow     Date             I   Margin
            1    2.0     8,927,737 -8,927,740        0       0        0            0             0
           2     2.1    8,001,468                  -496  -926,765 -926,765         0        -926,765
           3     2.1    8,001,935                 -521   -926,819 -926,765       -54        -926,819
            Table 5 - Cash Flow and Profit and Loss of an Off-Market Swap
     Table 5 shows that the total profit and loss to date of an off-market, uncleared swap can be
     replicated by a non-biased, centrally-cleared swap future created pursuant to the principles of
     the present invention each day.
    Example 6
    looous    An embodiment of a non-biased, centrally-cleared financial instrument in accordance
    with the principles of the present invention can trade as an interest-rate swap future and
   defines its terminal value according to the foregoing definition with a constant of 100 added
   to the futures price to be consistent with market convention.              In this example, this
  embodiment will be referred to as the "total-return swap future". The initial price of a swap
  future with a par coupon is 100.
  [00066] In this example, the total-return swap future is compared with an interest-rate swap
 cleared through IDCG. Two points are highlighted through this comparison. First, as a main
 feature of the IDCG interest-rate swap, fixed and floating coupon payments, as defined by the
 terms of the swap, are exchanged bilaterally when they become due. The total-return swap
future replicates the economic effect of the coupon payments without requiring bilateral
payments by having the definition of terminal value include the net accumulation of cash
flows. Second, since the IDCG swap generates daily variation margin, without appropriate

       adjustment, the total profit and loss on the IDCG swap is not equivalent to an uncleared swap
       as a result of both the convexity bias and the NPV effect.
      [oo07     Assume two different 10-year spot starting par swaps with a notional value of $100M
      as in Example 1 are traded as a total-return swap future and on IDCG simultaneously. Both
      are centrally cleared. The par coupon of the total-return swap future is 2.0%, equal to the
     prevailing yield. For the purpose of comparison, assume the IDCG cleared swap is traded at
     the same coupon.
    [coos6     To show that the total-return swap future replicates the economic effect of the coupon
    payments without requiring bilateral payments, Table 6a compares the cash flow and the
    profit and loss of the total-return swap future with the IDCG cleared swap before and after a
    payment is due pursuant to the terms of the swap. Assuming the yield does not change from
    day I to day 90, a floating payment of $500,000 is payable from the buyer to the seller.
                                     IDCG Cleared Swap                           Total-Return Swap Future
                                        Coupon =2                                       Coupon =2
  Date     Yiel     Marked     Coupon     Accum.       Accum.      Total     Settle- Return on          Total
             d        to       Payment Variation       Interest   P&L to     ment       Variation     P&L to
                    Market                Margin          on       Date      Price       Margin         Date
                    Value                             Coupon
                                                      Payment
   90      2.0     500,000    -500,000       0            0          0        100           0            0
   91      2.0     500,028  ,               28      ,    -28       0          100           0            0
  TABLE 6a - Comparison of IDCG Cleared 'Swap and Total-Return Swap Future
  Table 6a shows that the total profit and loss to date of a total-return swap future is the same
  as that of an IDCG cleared swap without requiring bilateral coupon payments.
 [00069]       To demonstrate that the IDCG cleared swap without appropriate adjustment isnot
 equivalent to an uncleared swap, assume the yield changes to 2.1% on day 92. Table 6b
 compares the cash flows and profit and loss of the IDCG cleared swap and the total return
 swap future:
                                      [DCG Cleared Swap                               Total-Return Swap Future
                                         Coupon =2                                            Coupon =2
Date     Yield    Marked to     Coupon     Accum.        AccuIn.       Total       Settle-      Return        Total
                   Market       Payment   Variation      Interest    P&L to         ment          on         P&L to
                    Value                  Margin           on         Date         Price     Variation       Date
                                                        Coupon                                 Margin
                                                        Payment I              I            I                       I
92       2.1      -417,744                -917,744         -57      -917,800      99.0822         0        -917,800
93       2.1     -417,768                 -917,822         -86      -917,908      99.0822        -54       -917,854
TABLE 6b - Comparison of IDCG Cleared Swap and Total Return Swap Future after
Yield Change

        Table 6b shows that the total profit and loss to date on the IDCG cleared swap is different
        from that of the total return swap future. As already seen from previous examples, the non
       biased, centrally-cleared swap future created in accordance to the principles of the present
       invention is economically equivalent to an uncleared swap. Therefore the IDCG cleared
       swap, without proper adjustments, does not generate the same profit and loss as an uncleared
       swap. The reason for this discrepancy in the total profit and loss to date is because all of the
      changes in net present value of the IDCG swap flow to and from the buyer through variation
      margin, causing the NPV effect to be present.           And further, because the accumulated
      variation margin accrues interest at a rate that is correlated with the marked-to-market value
      of the IDCG swap, the convexity bias is also partly responsible for the discrepancy in the
     profit and loss.
     EXAMPLE 7
     [oooroj The following example illustrates the NPV effect in the case of a cleared credit
    default swap (CDS) without adjustment. Consider two counterparties enter into a $LOM
    notional value, 5-year CDS with XYZ Corp as the reference entity, at a premium of 500 basis
    points of the notional amount per annum (known as the spread). This obligates the buyer to
    pay $125,000 ($IOM*5.0%/4) to the seller every quarter for 5 years, or until the default of
   XYZ Corp if the default occurs before the maturity of the CDS. In return, the buyer will
   receive $10M if XYZ Corp defaults within the 5-year period of the CDS. To simplify this
   example, the default risk of XYZ Corp is assumed to be uncorrelated with interest rates; that
   being the case, a cleared CDS would have traded at the same spread (i.e. 500 basis points) in
  the absence of convexity bias. Assume that immediately after the trade is consummated, the
  market assessment of the default risk of XYZ Corp changes, and the spread of a 5-year XYZ
  Corp CDS is now 300 basis points. The following will compare the profit and loss between
  an uncleared CDS, a cleared CDS without adjustment for the NPV effect, and a non-biased,
 centrally-cleared financial instrument created in accordance with the principles of the current
 invention.
 looorl    In the case of an uncleared CDS, the marked-to-market value of the original CDS
with 500 basis point spread is equal to the sum of the present value of a stream of -$50,000
($lOM*(-5.0%+3.0%)/4) quarterly payments until the maturity of the CDS or the default of
XYZ Corp, whichever comes first, or approximately -$758,432 assuming an interest rate of

        6.0% and a certain probability of default. If the buyer unwinds the position at that time, a
        loss of -$758,432 is realized.
        [00072] Consider a cleared CDS without adjustment where the exchange or the clearinghouse
       requires the daily settlement to be equal to the net present value of an uncleared CDS. Since
       the net present value of the CDS at the end of day one is                   -$758,432, a loss of
       the same amount occurs to the buyer through the variation margin. However, even after the
      variation margin flows, the buyer needs to pay a certain amount to unwind the position. To
      see this, consider a third party "buys" this CDS from the original buyer with no payment.
      The credit risk can be hedged by selling a new CDS at the spread of 300 basis points with the
      same notional value and maturity. The net marked-to-market value of long a CDS at 500
      basis points and short a CDS at 300 basis points will decrease from -$758,432 to -$1,000,000
     (-$50,000*4* 10), if the default does not occur before the maturity, and otherwise to a value
     between -$758,432 and -$1,000,000. The present value of this stream of negative cash flow
     is approximately -$153,334, which is the fair price that the original buyer has to pay to the
    third party to unwind its position. The total loss from trading this cleared CDS is thus
    significantly more than that from trading the uncleared CDS. This is caused by the NPV
    effect.
    ooon      Now consider the non-biased, centrally-cleared financial instrument created in
   accordance with the principles of the present invention. On day one, after the CDS spread
   changes to 300 basis points, the fair settlement value will be equal to the net present value of
   the uncleared CDS, i.e., -$758,432. The buyer can unwind its position by entering a short
  position in a new CDS with the spread of 300 basis points and the same notional value and
  maturity. The terminal value of these long and short positions, in accordance with the present
  invention, is equal to the accumulated value of a stream of -$50,000 paid quarterly until the
 maturity of the CDS or the default of XYZ Corp, whichever comes first, minus the
 accumulated value of all the interest paid for this stream of negative cash flows. Therefore,
 the terminal value is equal to the present value of this stream of negative cash flows, or
$758,432. The buyer will have no additional profit or loss, and the loss of $758,432 is locked
in on day one. Thus, the centrally-cleared financial instrument has the same economic effect
as the uncleared CDS when the CDS spread changes.

        (000741     This concludes the Examples of non-biased, centrally-cleared financial instruments
        created by adjusting the terminal value for the interest on variation margin in accordance with
        the principles of the present invention.
       [00075]     A non-biased, centrally-cleared financial instrument in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention may be transacted by a variety of means, including but are
      not limited to a trading floor, telephone or electronically. After the trade has been agreed to
      by the buyer and seller, whether it is in a private communication or a publicly accessible
      medium, a financial instrument of the present invention will then be submitted to a
     clearinghouse for central clearing. A further aspect of the present invention relates to the
     electronic clearing and settling of such non-biased, centrally-cleared financial instruments.
     [00076]    In accordance with the principles of the present invention, on a periodic, generally
    daily basis, the exchange or clearinghouse may determine and publish a settlement price for a
    non-biased, centrally-cleared financial instrument. The settlement price of the non-biased,
    centrally-cleared financial instrument is determined by the market price at which the non
    biased, centrally-cleared financial instrument is quoted or traded on each day. In the case
    where a market price is not directly observed, the non-biased, centrally-cleared financial
   instrument should be settled at a value that is consistent with other related financial
   instruments whose market prices are observable. In such case, the financial instrument can
   be settled at a value equal to a sum of present value of remaining asset flows, plus
   accumulated value of past asset flows, minus accumulated return on variation margin.
   00077]    Take a non-biased, centrally-cleared, interest-rate swap as an example; if a non
  biased, centrally-cleared swap created according to the present invention does not have a
  market price on a particular day, the exchange or clearinghouse will settle the interest-rate
  swap to a value equal to the sum of the present value of remaining cash flows, plus the
  accumulated value of past cash flows, minus the accumulated total return on variation margin
 to date. The evaluation of cash flows utilizes a yield curve constructed using other liquid,
 interest-rate swaps or interest-rate financial instruments; therefore, consistency with the value
 of a liquid, non-biased, centrally-cleared, interest-rate swap is guaranteed.
[00078]       The following is a non-limiting example of a daily settlement methodology
implemented for a centrally-cleared interest-rate swap in accordance with the principles of
the current invention.

          Example 8
         [00079    Consider the 10-year interest-rate swap set forth in Example 1. On the day the trade
         is consummated, the non-biased, centrally-cleared swap is settled to its present value
        according to the following standard practice of valuing interest-rate swaps: First, a yield
        curve is built from the current cash deposit rates, LIBOR, Eurodollar futures, and swap rates
        for a list of key maturities: 3 year, 4 year, 5 year, 10 year, 15 year, 20 year, and 30 year.
        Using a "bootstrapping" method, the yield curve is constructed from those rates or
       instruments.
       [oosol     Second, the present value of the fixed leg is computed as:
                  PV,,,d =C x Px            x df,),
                                      11 T
      where P is the notional amount, C is the fixed coupon of the swap, M is the number of the
      fixed payments, i is the number of days in period i, T is the basis according to the day
     count convention, and df, is the discount factor derived from the yield curve constructed as
     above for the i'      fixed coupon payment.      Third, the present value of the floating leg is
     computed as:
                PV ,=Px       (f~x       xdf1 ),
                                jaj
    where Nis the number of the floating payments andf, is the forward rate for the time
   period j. Finally, the present value of the swap is computed as PV,        - PV    .
   [000811       A non-biased, centrally-cleared, interest-rate swap with the par coupon of 2.0% as
   in Example I is settled at 0 on day 1.
  [00082]       On day 2, assume the yield curve shifts upwards by 10 basis points. The settlement
 value of this non-biased, centrally-cleared interest-rate swap is computed as the present value
 of remaining cash flows of the swap, plus the accumulated value of past cash flows, minus
 the accumulated total return on variation margin to date. The present value of remaining cash
 flows is equal to PVfe,,,d -     Vf,     = $9,093,503 - $10,000,000 = -$906,497. The accumulated
value of past cash flow is 0 as no coupon payment has been made, and the accumulated total
return on variation margin is 0 since no variation margin has been generated since the initial

         trading day. Therefore the settlement value of the non-biased, centrally-cleared interest rate
        swap is equal to -$906,497 on day 2.
        (ooos3     On day 3, assume there has been no change in the yield curve since day 2. The
       present value of remaining cash flows is equal to PV,,d -PV                ,,, = $9,093,507
       $10,000,057 = -$906,550. The accumulated value of past cash flows is still 0. The
       accumulated total return on variation margin, currently -$906,497, is equal to the -$53       (
       $906,497*2.1/365). Therefore, the settlement value on day 3 is equal to $-906,497            (
      $906,550-(-$53)).
          0ooo4]  The non-biased, centrally-cleared financial instrument may be marked to market,
      generally daily, using its settlement price. On the same time scale that a settlement value is
     published, generally daily, the clearinghouse can compute the variation margin requirement
     for each non-biased, centrally-cleared financial instrument. Cash flow payments reflecting
     the variation margins will flow between the clearinghouse and parties holding open positions
     in non-biased, centrally-cleared financial instruments on a periodic, generally daily basis.
     oooss The clearinghouse must store and maintain the historical data series of daily
    settlement values for each financial instrument, as well as the overnight interest rate. These,
    in addition to the initial trade price, are required for determining the terminal value and may
    be stored in a database and can be published to the marketplace.
    ooosl On the last day of the existence of the non-biased, centrally-cleared financial
   instrument, generally known as expiration, the clearing house will compute and settle the
  non-biased, centrally-cleared financial instrument to the terminal value as defined according
  to the principles of the present invention. As previously described, in one example a non
  biased, centrally-cleared financial instrument of the present invention can be cleared and
  settled utilizing a terminal value determined in accordance with the previously detailed
 alternative embodiments.
 [ooos7j      According to the principles of this invention, in order to publish daily and terminal
settlement values, a clearinghouse, exchange, futures commission merchant or other market
participant may use computers with software specifically designed for this purpose. The
computation of the terminal value in accordance with the present invention is iterative and
complex, and special software is required for this purpose. This software may be linked to a

      centralized marketplace via data lines, networks or the Internet, so that the prices are
      published in a seamless manner. The clearing house may store the daily prices for each
      financial instrument in existence at any given moment in a database and can be electronically
      published to the marketplace.
       aoossi Referring to Figure 3, a non-limiting example of a high level hardware
     implementation can used to run a system of the present invention is seen. The infrastructure
     should include but not be limited to: wide area network connectivity, local area network
     connectivity, appropriate network switches and routers, electrical power (backup power),
    storage area network hardware, server-class computing hardware, and an operating system
    such as for example Redhat Linux Enterprise AS Operating System available from Red Hat,
    Inc, 1801 Varsity Drive, Raleigh, North Carolina.
    ooassj     The clearing and settling and administrative applications software server can run for
   example on an HP ProLiant DL 360 G6 server with multiple Intel Xeon 5600 series
   processors with a processor base frequency of 3.33 GHz, up to 192 GB of RAM, 2 PCIE
   expansion slots, 1GB or 10GB network controllers, hot plug SFF SATA drives, and
  redundant power supplies, available from Hewlett-Packard, Inc, located at 3000 Hanover
  Street, Palo Alto, California. The database server can be run for example on a HP ProLiant
  DL 380 G6 server with multiple Intel Xeon 5600 series processors with a processor base
  frequency of 3.33 GHZ, up to 192 GB of RAM, 6 PCIE expansion slots, 16 SFF SATA drive
 bays, an integrated P41 Oi integrated storage controller, and redundant power supply, available
 from Hewlett-Packard
  00090]      While the invention has been described with specific embodiments, other
alternatives, modifications, and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art.
Accordingly, it will be intended to include all such alternatives, modifications and variations
set forth within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

                                           29
  THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
  1.     A computer implemented method of cleared futures instruments
  electronic trading, said method comprising:
         electronically defining, at an application server, a first futures instrument
 data structure representing a first futures instrument, wherein said first futures
 instrument data structure includes first futures instrument identification data and
 the data elements:
         Ct representing the accumulated fixed leg payment amounts as of t,
         Lt representing the accumulated floating leg payment amounts as of t;
 and
         T representing an expiration date of said first futures instrument; and
         storing at a futures instrument database first futures instrument current
 data including data representing fixed leg payments accumulated by said first
futures instrument, data representing floating leg payments accumulated by
said first futures instrument, and the daily overnight interest rate,
         wherein said application server determines settlement pricing data for
said first futures instrument based on automatically electronically calculating
net accumulated value of cash flow minus the total return on variation margin of
said first futures instrument plus the anticipated discounted fixed leg and
floating leg cash flows until said expiration date of said first futures instrument,
        where the net accumulated value of cash flows is determined in
accordance with:
04/12/17

                                                   30
                                     YC  B (tcl tt) - YL iB (ti, t)
                                   1=1                i=1
           where
                    C; is the amount of fixed leg payment payable at time to.;
                    Li is the amount of the floating leg payment payable at time t(A;
                    t. is the date for which said settlement pricing data is being
 determined, wherein          t. is prior to T, said expiration date of said first futures
 instrument; and
                   B(to, ,tt) is the value of a money market account at time t4 with an
 initial deposit of 1 at time to,; and accumulated at the overnight rate;
                   B(tui,tt) is the value of a money market at time t with an initial
 deposit of 1 at time ti, and accumulated at the overnight rate;
          total return on variation margin of said first futures instrument is the
                   sum of the interest earned on the cumulative variation margin for
 each day
                   reinvested at the overnight rate of said first futures
                   instrument, as of time tt; and
         anticipated discounted fixed leg and floating leg cash flows is equal to
the sum of
                  the present value of all remaining fixed leg and floating leg cash
flows
                  until expiration of said first futures instrument
         automatically electronically publishing at said application server, said
settlement pricing data for said first futures instrument,

                                           31
         wherein said publication includes electronically transmitting said
 settlement pricing data to a first party computerized system and a second party
 computerized system;
         receiving at said application server from said first party computerized
 system first party data including first party identity data and first party futures
 instrument identification data that identifies a futures instrument and is
 electronically associated with a first party futures instrument buy/sell data;
         receiving, at said application server, from said second party
 computerized system second party data including second party identity data
 and second party futures instrument identification data that identifies a futures
 instrument and is electronically associated with second party futures instrument
buy/sell data;
        automatically initiating computerized trading of said first futures
instrument at said application server when said first party futures instrument
identification data and said second party futures instrument identification data
are automatically electronically determined to match said first futures
instrument and said first party futures instrument buy/sell data is automatically
electronically determined to indicate an inverse direction than that indicated by
said second party futures instrument buy/sell data;
        electronically clearing said computerized trading by automatically
electronically associating said first futures instrument identification data and
said first futures instrument buy/sell data with a computerized trading account
associated with said first party identity data, and

                                         32
        automatically electronically associating said first futures instrument
identification data and said second futures instrument buy/sell data with a
computerized trading account associated with said second party identity data.
Dated this 4 th day of December 2017
Eris Innovations, LLC
Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
PETER MAXWELL AND ASSOCIATES

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
