1002205523
                                                ABSTRACT
      A core sample holder assembly for performing a laboratory magnetic resonance measurement
      of a core sample taken from a hydrocarbon containing formation is provided. The assembly
      comprises a pressure chamber provided by a hull and one or more flanges are sealingly
      coupled with the hull. A flexible core sample holder sleeve is arranged within the pressure
      chamber and is sealingly coupled with at least one of the flanges. An overburden fluid
      injection port is in fluid communication with an annular space between the hull and the
      flexible sleeve and is configured to inject overburden fluid into an annular space between the
      hull and the flexible sleeve. A pressure regulator is configured to maintain the overburden
      fluid in the annular space at an elevated pressure. A radio-frequency antenna, within the
      pressure chamber and wrapped around the sample holder sleeve, is configured to receive an
      electromagnetic-signal from the core sample. In use, the core sample is arranged substantially
      within the sleeve.

1002205523
         FORMATION CORE SAMPLE HOLDER ASSEMBLY AND TESTING METHOD
                  FOR NUCLEAR MAGNETIC RESONANCE MEASUREMENTS
                      This application is a divisional of Australian application no 2014265793 filed
      on 2 May 2014 and claiming priority from US 13/894,150. Australian application no
      2014265793 is the national phase entry of PCT application PCT/US2014/036600 which was
      published as WO 2014/186154. The entire contents of each of these publications is hereby
      incorporated by reference.
                                             TECHNICAL FIELD
       [0001]          The disclosed embodiments relate generally to a formation core sample holder
      assembly and a core testing method. The disclosed embodiments relate specifically to a
      formation core holder for performing a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) experiment on a
      core sample at elevated temperature and pressure.
                                               BACKGROUND
       [0002]          In the oil and gas production industry, it is common practice to perform one or
      more "in-situ" tests of a hydrocarbon containing or other formation using a logging probe
      operating within an exploration or production well. In some circumstances, these in-situ tests
      include one or more NMR measurements of the formation, including the rock and the fluid
      contained therein. Such measurements are useful in determining a Ti value (the so-called
      "longitudinal relaxation time") and a T2 value (the so-called "transverse relaxation time")
      associated with the formation (e.g., the rock and fluids within the rock) and a diffusion
      coefficient From TI, T2 and the diffusion coefficient, a wealth of information can be obtained
      about physical properties of the formation.
       [0003]          It is also common practice to take, while the exploration or production well is
      being drilled, one or more cylindrical core samples of the formation and to subsequently
      perform one or more laboratory tests with a core sample in a laboratory. In some
      circumstances, these laboratory tests include NMR measurements of the core sample.
      Measurements in the laboratory need to be representative of the in-situ measurements.
      Correct (i.e., representative) data are used to optimize and establish a recovery factor for the
      field. In particular, greater optimization of the recovery factor for certain enhanced oil
      recovery (EOR) processes is possible if representative laboratory data are available.
       [0004]          However, a gap exists between laboratory NMR measurements and in-situ
      NMR measurements because experimental apparatus for performing laboratory NMR
                                                      _1 _

1002205523
      measurements on a core sample are unable to reproduce reservoir conditions experienced by
      the in-situ logging probe during in-situ NMR measurements. In particular, a problem with
      core sample holder assemblies (e.g., laboratory assemblies) for NMR measurements is that
      they are not able to maintain the core sample at elevated temperature and pressure while
      NMR measurements are being taken.

[00051          Therefore, it is an objective of the present disclosure to provide a core holder
assembly and core testing method, which provide a solution to these problems.
                                           SUMMARY
[00061          One aspect of the present disclosure provides a core sample holder assembly
for performing a laboratory nuclear magnetic resonance measurement of a core sample taken
from a hydrocarbon containing formation is provided. The assembly comprises a pressure
chamber provided by a hull and one or more flanges sealingly coupled to the hull. A flexible
core sample holder sleeve is arranged within the pressure chamber and is sealingly coupled
with at least one of the flanges. An overburden fluid injection port is in fluid communication
with an annular space between the hull and the flexible sleeve and is configured to inject
overburden fluid into an annular space between the hull and the flexible sleeve. A pressure
regulator is configured to maintain the overburden fluid in the annular space at an elevated
pressure. A radio-frequency antenna, within the pressure chamber and wrapped around the
sample holder sleeve, is configured to receive an electromagnetic-signal from the core
sample. In use, the core sample is arranged substantially within the sleeve.
[0007]          Another aspect provides a core sample holder assembly for performing a
laboratory magnetic resonance measurement of a core sample taken from a hydrocarbon
containing formation. The core sample holder assembly comprises a pressure chamber
provided by a hull and a pair of flanges arranged at opposite sides of the hull. A flexible core
sample holder sleeve is arranged within the pressure chamber and is sealingly coupled with
the pair of flanges. An overburden fluid injection port feeds through one of the flanges of the
pair of flanges and is configured to inject overburden fluid into an annular space between the
hull and the flexible sleeve. A pressure regulator is configured to maintain the overburden
fluid in the annular space at a predetermined gauge pressure. A radio-frequency (RF) antenna
is within the pressure chamber and is wrapped around the sample holder sleeve. The RF
antenna is configured to receive an electromagnetic-signal from the core sample. In use, the
core sample is arranged substantially within the sleeve.
[00081          In some embodiments, the apparatus further includes a heating element
disposed on an outer surface of the pressure chamber. In some embodiments, the heating
element is configured to heat the core sample to an elevated temperature in the range of about
200 degrees Fahrenheit to about 500 degrees Fahrenheit. In some embodiments, the heating
element is configured to heat the core sample to an elevated temperature in the range of about
room temperature to about 350 degrees Fahrenheit. In some embodiments, the apparatus
                                               -2-

further includes a thermocouple that is configured to monitor the elevated temperature of the
core sample.
[0009]           In some embodiments, the apparatus further includes a flooding fluid injection
port fed through one of the flanges of the pair of flanges. This flooding fluid injection port is
configured to inject a flooding fluid into the core sample. Further, a fluid outlet port feeds
through the other flange of the pair of flanges. The fluid outlet port is configured for
discharge of pore and/or injected fluid from the core sample.
[0010]           In some embodiments, the apparatus further includes one or more electrical
feedthroughs configured to electrically couple a first terminal and a second terminal of the RF
antenna to external circuitry. In some embodiments, the applied gauge pressure that the outer
sleeve is capable of withstanding is a pressure in a range between atmosphere to 7,500 psig.
In some embodiments, the hull comprises stainless steel or titanium. In some embodiments,
the flexible core sample holder sleeve comprises a non-magnetic plastic polymer, for
example, one that is substantially free of hydrogen such as polytetrafluoroethylene.
[0011]           Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a method of performing a
laboratory nuclear magnetic resonance measurement of a core sample. The method comprises
saturating the core sample with one or more fluids, the one or more fluids comprising at least
one of a hydrocarbon-based fluid and a brine. While the core sample is saturated with the one
or more fluids, a first pressure is applied to an exterior surface of a core sample, the core
sample is heated to a first elevated temperature, and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) data
is generated of the core sample and the one or more fluids at the first applied pressure and
first elevated temperature. A value of one or more physical characteristics of the core sample
is and the one or more fluids is determined as a function of the first applied pressure and the
first elevated temperature. In some embodiments, the first elevated temperature is in a
temperature range of about 200 degrees Fahrenheit to about 500 degrees Fahrenheit. In some
embodiments, the first elevated temperature is in a temperature range of about room
temperature to 350 Fahrenheit. In some embodiments, the first applied pressure is in a range
between 0 psig to 7,500 psig.
[0012]           In some embodiments, applying the pressure further comprises positioning the
core sample substantially within a sleeve, where the sleeve comprises a respective material
and where the sleeve is capable of transmitting, from an exterior surface of the sleeve to an
interior surface of the sleeve, an applied pressure. The sleeve is surrounded with an
overburden fluid and the overburden fluid is pressurized, thereby applying a pressure to the
exterior surface of the sleeve. In some embodiments, the heating the core sample to the first
                                              -3-

elevated temperature further comprises heating the overburden fluid, thereby indirectly
heating the core sample by using the overburden fluid as a heat-transfer medium. In some
embodiments, the respective material comprises polytetrafluoroethylene or more generally is
substantially free of hydrogen. In some embodiments, the overburden fluid is also
substantially free of hydrogen, is electrically insulating, is a fluorocarbon-based fluid, and/or
comprises a fluid having a chemical formula CxFy.
[0013]          In some embodiments, the step of determining one or more physical
characteristics of the core sample includes performing at least one of (i) typing hydrocarbons
in the one or more fluids, (ii) estimating pore-size distributions of the core sample, (iii)
evaluating a viscosity of the one or more fluids, (iv) determining a permeability of the core
sample, and (vi) determining a wettability of the core sample.
[0014]          In some embodiment the at least one characteristic of the core sample is
determined under static conditions and is further determined under flooding conditions (e.g.,
while performing the generating operation, pumping at least one flooding fluid into the core
sample). In some such embodiments, the at least one flooding fluid includes oil, water, brine,
surfactant solution or a mixture thereof In some such embodiments, the at least one flooding
fluid includes a gas. In some embodiments, the gas includes carbon dioxide, nitrogen,
methane, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, or a mixture thereof
[0015]          In some embodiments, the method further includes generating a forward
model for one or more wettability indices of the core sample.
[0016]          In some embodiments, the method further comprises, while the core sample is
saturated with the one or more fluids, applying a second pressure, distinct from the first
applied pressure, to the exterior surface of a core sample, heating the core sample to an
second elevated temperature distinct from the first elevated temperature, and generating
NMR data of the core sample and the one or more fluids at the second applied pressure and
second elevated temperature. In so doing, a second value for the one or more physical
characteristics of the core sample and the one or more fluids is determined as a function of
the second applied pressure and second elevated temperature. Such information can then be
used to optimize an enhanced oil recovery process.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0017]          Figure IA is a schematic longitudinal sectional view of a core holder assembly
in accordance with some embodiments.
                                               -4-

[00181           Figure lB is a schematic longitudinal sectional view of a core holder assembly
showing an exemplary flow pattern in accordance with some embodiments.
[0019]           Figures 2A-2C are flow charts illustrating a method of performing a laboratory
nuclear magnetic resonance measurements of a core sample, in accordance with some
embodiments.
[0020]           Figures 3A-3E are graphical representations of exemplary data illustrating
wettability variation with temperature of a particular hydrocarbon containing or other
formation using 2D NMR, in accordance with some embodiments.
[0021]           Like reference numerals refer to corresponding parts throughout the drawings.
                             DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0022]           It will be understood that, although the terms "first," "second," etc. are
optionally used herein to describe various elements, these elements should not be limited by
these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example,
a first element could be termed a second element, and, similarly, a second element could be
termed a first element, without changing the meaning of the description, so long as all
occurrences of the "first element" are renamed consistently and all occurrences of the second
element are renamed consistently. The first element and the second element are both
elements, but they are not the same element.
[0023]           The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular
embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the claims. As used in the description
of the embodiments and the appended claims, the singular forms "a", "an" and "the" are
intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It
will also be understood that the term "and/or" as used herein refers to and encompasses any
and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be further
understood that the terms "comprises" and/or "comprising," when used in this specification,
specify the presence of stated features, integers, operations, operations, elements, and/or
components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features,
integers, operations, operations, elements, components, and/or groups thereof.
[0024]           As used herein, the term "if' may be construed to mean "when" or "upon" or
"in response to determining" or "in accordance with a determination" or "in response to
detecting," that a stated condition precedent is true, depending on the context. Similarly, the
phrase "if it is determined (that a stated condition precedent is true)" or "if (a stated condition
precedent is true)" or "when (a stated condition precedent is true)" may be construed to mean
                                               -5-

"upon determining" or "in response to determining" or "in accordance with a determination"
or "upon detecting" or "in response to detecting" that the stated condition precedent is true,
depending on the context.
[0025]          As used herein, the term "brine" may be construed to mean a fluid that
includes various salts and salt mixtures dissolved in an aqueous solution, any saline fluid
used in completion operations or pay zone penetrating operations, and/or any fluid used in an
enhanced oil recovery processes. In some circumstances, brines have higher densities than
fresh water but lack solid particles that might damage producible formations. Particular
classes of brines include chloride brines (calcium and sodium), bromides and formates.
[00261          Reference will now be made in detail to various embodiments, examples of
which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following detailed description,
numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the
present disclosure and the described embodiments herein. However, embodiments described
herein may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known
methods, procedures, components, and mechanical apparatus have not been described in
detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the embodiments.
[0027]          Figure 1 depicts a core holder assembly 100, in accordance with some
embodiments. During use, a core sample 102 taken from a hydrocarbon containing formation
resides within the core holder assembly 100. In typical embodiments, core sample 102
generally is cylindrical. However, in other embodiments core sample 102 is any shape and
size.
[00281          In some embodiments, the core holder assembly 100 includes a pressure
chamber provided by a hull 104 and a pair of disk-shaped flanges 106-a and 106-b that are
arranged at opposite sides of the hull 104. In some embodiments, the hull 104 is a tubular hull
(e.g., is substantially cylindrical in cross-section). In some embodiments, the hull 104
comprises stainless steel, titanium, or some other metal, metal alloy, or combination thereof.
In some embodiments, the disk-shaped flanges 106-a and 106-b comprise substantially the
same material as the hull 104. In other embodiments, the disk-shaped flanges comprise a
material distinct from the hull. In some embodiments, one of the disk-shaped flanges 106 is
permanently affixed to the hull (e.g., by welding).
[0029]          The core holder assembly 100 further includes a flexible core holder sleeve
 108, which is arranged within the hull 104 and is sealingly coupled with the disk-shaped
flanges 106. In some embodiments, the hull 104 is coupled to at least one of the disk-shape
flanges 106-a and 106-b via threads 113-a and 113-b, respectively. In some embodiments, the
                                               -6-

disk-shaped flanges are sealingly coupled to the flexible core holder sleeve 108 by means of a
gasket upon which pressure is applied using threads 113-a and 113-b. In some embodiments,
the flexible core sample holder sleeve 108 comprises a non-magnetic plastic polymer. In
some embodiments, the non-magnetic plastic is substantially free of hydrogen. In some
embodiments,      the   flexible   core   sample    holder    sleeve   108 material    comprises
polytetrafluoroethylene.     In some embodiments, a tubular supporter 109 surrounds the
flexible core sample holder sleeve. In some embodiments, the tubular supporter comprises
polyether ether ketone (PEEK).
[00301           The core holder assembly 100 further includes an overburden fluid injection
port 110 fed through one of the disk-shaped flanges 106. In some circumstances, the
overburden fluid injection port 110 is used for injecting overburden fluid into an annular
space 111 between the hull 104 and the flexible core sample holder sleeve 108, thereby
applying a pressure to the flexible core sample holder sleeve 108. In some embodiments, the
tubular supporter 109 is disposed around the flexible core sample holder sleeve 108 in such a
manner as to allow the flexible core holder sleeve 108 to remain immersed in the overburden
fluid. In some embodiments, the flexible core sample holder sleeve 108 is designed to
substantially transfer the applied pressure from an exterior surface of the flexible core sample
holder sleeve 108 to an interior surface of flexible core sample holder sleeve 108, thereby
applying a pressure to a core sample residing in the flexible core sample holder sleeve 108
during use.
[0031]           The core holder assembly 100 further includes a pressure regulator 112 for
maintaining the overburden fluid in the annular space at a predetermined gauge pressure (e.g.,
a pressure differential between the annular space and the ambient, atmospheric pressure of
the laboratory). In some embodiments, the applied gauge pressure that the outer sleeve is
capable of withstanding is a pressure in a range between 0 psig --10,000 psi, 0 psig --8,000
psi, 0 psig --7,500 psi, 0 psig --10,000 psi, or 0 psig to 7,500 psig.
[0032]           The core holder assembly 100 further includes a radio-frequency (RF) antenna
 114 within the pressure chamber. The radio-frequency (RF) antenna 114 is wrapped around
the flexible core sample holder sleeve 108 (e.g., helically, or solenoidally). Alternatively, in
some embodiments, the RF antenna 114 is wrapped around the tubular supporter. The RF
antenna 114 is configured to receive an electromagnetic-signal, such as a NMR signal, from
the core sample. In use, the core sample 102 is arranged substantially within the sleeve. In
some embodiments, the core holder assembly 100 further includes one or more electrical
                                                -7-

feedthroughs configured to electrically couple a first terminal and a second terminal of the RF
antenna to external circuitry.
[00331           In some embodiments, the core holder assembly 100 further includes one or
more heating elements 116. In some embodiments, the one or more heating elements 116 are
disposed on an outer surface of the pressure chamber. In Figure 1, a single heating element
 116 (e.g., a resistive heating element) is shown wrapped around an outer surface of hull (and
thus is also disposed on the outer surface of the pressure chamber). In some embodiments,
however, one or more heating elements are incorporated into the interior of the pressure
chamber, for example, on an inside surface of the hull. The heating element 116 is configured
to heat the overburden fluid, which acts as heat transfer medium thereby heating the core
sample to an elevated temperature. In some embodiments, the elevated temperature is
maintained by a temperature controller. In some embodiments, the heating element 116 is
isolated from an outside environment by thermally insulating material to prevent heat
generated by the heating element 116 from transferring to the outside environment. In some
embodiments, the temperature controller is provided with one or more thermocouples 118
that are, optionally, fed through one of the disk-shaped flanges 106 and configured to be
pierced into a tail end of the core sample. In other embodiments, a sensor end of a particular
thermocouple 118 is disposed within the annular space such that it is immersed in overburden
fluid. A suitable calibration scheme is then used so that the temperature regulator accurately
maintains the temperature of the core sample. In some embodiments, the heating element is
capable of heating the core sample to an elevated temperature in the range of about 200
degrees Fahrenheit to about 500 degrees Fahrenheit. In some embodiments, the heating
element is capable of heating the core sample to an elevated temperature in the range of about
room temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit.
[0034]           In some embodiments, the core holder assembly 100 further includes a
flooding fluid injection port 120-a fed through one of the flanges of the pair of flanges for
injecting a flooding fluid into the core sample, and a fluid outlet port fed 120-b through the
other flange for discharge of pore and/or injected fluid from the core sample. In some
circumstances, the flooding fluid injection port 120-a and outlet port 120-b are for use in
flooding experiments, which are described in more detail below with reference to method 200
and Figures 2A-2C.
[0035]           An exemplary fluid flow pattern (e.g., of the flooding fluid injected into the
core sample) is shown in FIG. LB. FIG. lB is otherwise analogous to FIG. LA, with the
exception that FIG. 1B includes flow lines 115 illustrating the exemplary flow pattern
                                               -8-

between fluid injection port 120-a and outlet portl20-b. In some circumstances, the flow
pattern is non-uniform, depending upon the specifics of injection of the fluid through fluid
injection port 120-a, outlet through outlet port 120-b, the nature of the rock (e.g., spatial
variations in permeability, etc). In some embodiments, a flow rate of the flow pattern is
approximately constant. Alternatively, various flow rates are used. In some embodiments, an
alternating flow gradient is employed during flooding. It should be understood that the range
of flow range can be wide as long as the pressure caused by the flooding process is within the
designed pressure limit of the core holder assembly 100.
[00361          Accordingly, the core holder assembly 100 allows flooding experiments to be
performed under realistic high-pressure, high temperature (HPHT) well (e.g., logging)
conditions while using the RF antenna 114 to measure NMR signals.
[0037]          The core holder assembly 100 may be used for static or core flooding
experiments for the experimental study of process parameters for enhanced oil recovery
(EOR) processes, described with reference to method 200 and Figures 2A-2C, below. For
example, these process parameters may play a role during steam injection processes for
thermal EOR of heavy oil (HVO) fields. In such a circumstance, one objective is to shed light
on the fundamentals of heat transfer and oil mobilization prevailing during steam flooding
and cyclic steam stimulation, and to optimize the process parameters for EOR.
[0038]          Accordingly, Figures 2A-2C are flowcharts illustrating a method 200 of
performing laboratory nuclear magnetic resonance measurements of a core sample, in
accordance with some embodiments using core holder assembly 100.
[00391          The method 200 includes saturating (202) a core sample with one or more
fluids. The one or more fluids include at least one of a hydrocarbon-based fluid (e.g., oil) and
a brine. For example, when the core sample is positioned within the flexible core sample
holder sleeve 108 (Figure 1), the one or more fluids can be pumped into flooding fluid
injection port 120-a at a suitable pressure and for a suitable duration of time to saturate the
core sample with the one or more fluids.
[0040]          The method 200 further includes, while the core sample is (204) saturated with
the one or more fluids, applying (206) a first pressure to an exterior surface of a core sample.
In some embodiments, applying the first pressure to the sleeve includes positioning (208) the
core sample substantially within a sleeve (e.g., the flexible core sample holder sleeve 108,
Figure 1). The sleeve comprises a respective material and is capable of transmitting, from an
exterior surface of the sleeve to an interior surface of the sleeve, an applied pressure. Thus,
when a pressure is applied to the exterior surface of the sleeve, the pressure is substantially
                                              -9-

transmitted to the core sample substantially within the sleeve. In some embodiments, the
respective material is (210) substantially free of hydrogen. Using a material that is
substantially free of hydrogen for the sleeve allows for the use of hydrogen-based NMR
experiments, which would otherwise be hindered by a detrimental hydrogen NMR signal of
the sleeve. In some embodiments, the respective material comprises polytetrafluoroethylene
(212), which is known by the trade name TEFLON®, produced the DuPont Corporation.
Polytetrafluoroethylene is capable of withstanding a variety of temperatures and pressures of
interest when performing laboratory NMR experiments of core samples under conditions
representative of in-situ conditions.
[0041]          In some embodiments, applying the first pressure further includes surrounding
(214) the sleeve with an overburden fluid (e.g., by injecting the overburden fluid into the
annular space via overburden fluid injection port 110, Figure 1). In some embodiments, the
overburden fluid is substantially free of hydrogen. In some embodiments, the overburden
fluid is electrically insulating. In some embodiments, the overburden fluid comprises a
fluorocarbon-based fluid. In some embodiments, the overburden fluid comprises a fluid
having a chemical formula CFy, where x and y are the same or different positive integers. In
some embodiments, the overburden fluid comprises one or more FLUORINERTTM fluids
(e.g., FC-70, FC-75) produced by the 3M Corporation.
[0042]          In some embodiments, applying the first pressure further includes pressurizing
(216) the overburden fluid (e.g., using pressure regulator 112, Figure 1), thereby applying a
pressure to the exterior surface of the sleeve. In some embodiments, the first applied pressure
is (218) in a range between 0 psig to 7,500 psig.
[00431          The method 200 further includes, while the core sample is saturated with the
one or more fluids, heating (220) the core sample to a first elevated temperature. In some
embodiments, heating the core sample includes heating (222) the overburden fluid, thereby
indirectly heating the core sample by using the overburden fluid as a heat-transfer medium.
For example, a heating element (e.g., heating element 116, Figure 1) can be disposed inside
or outside of a pressure chamber containing the overburden fluid. Heat from the heating
element is transferred to the overburden fluid, and subsequently to the core sample. In some
embodiments, the first elevated temperature is (224) in a temperature range of about 200
degrees Fahrenheit to about 500 degrees Fahrenheit. In some embodiments, the temperature
is monitored by a thermocouple disposed either in the core sample, on the exterior surface of
pressure chamber or in the overburden fluid, as described with reference to Figure 1.
                                               - 10-

[00441          The method 200 further includes, while the core sample is saturated with the
one or more fluids, generating (226) NMR data of the core sample and the one or more fluids
at the first applied pressure and first elevated temperature (e.g., using RF antenna 114 to
receive an NMR signal from the core sample). In some embodiments, the NMR data is low
field NMR data taken while the core sample is subject to a uniform low magnetic field (e.g.,
in the range of mT, pT, or nT). In some embodiments, the low magnetic field is the Earth's
magnetic field.
[0045]          The method 200 further includes determining (228) a value of one or more
physical characteristics of the core sample and the one or more fluids as a function of the first
applied pressure and the first elevated temperature. In some embodiments, determining the
value of the one or more physical characteristics of includes performing (230) at least one of:
typing hydrocarbons in the one or more fluids, estimating pore-size distributions of the core
sample, evaluating a viscosity of the one or more fluids, determining a permeability of the
core sample, and determining a wettability of the core sample. It is envisioned that the
operation of determining the one or more physical characteristics could take place in real
time (e.g., while the core sample is saturated with the one or more fluids), or during off-line
analysis, or a combination thereof.
[0046]          In some embodiments, the method 200 further includes determining (232) the
at least one characteristic of the core sample under static conditions and further determining
the at least one characteristic under flooding conditions. In some embodiments, determining
the at least one characteristic under flooding conditions includes, while performing the
generating operation, pumping (234) at least one flooding fluid into the core sample. In some
embodiments, the at least one flooding fluid is pumped into the core sample at a substantially
constant rate. In some embodiments, the at least one flooding fluid includes oil, water, brine,
or a mixture thereof. In some embodiments, the at least one flooding fluid includes a gas. In
some embodiments, the gas includes carbon dioxide, nitrogen, methane, sulfur dioxide,
nitrogen dioxide, or a mixture thereof.
[0047]          In some embodiments, the method 200 further includes, while the core sample
is saturated with the one or more fluids, applying (236) a second pressure, distinct from the
first applied pressure, to the exterior surface of a core sample, heating (238) the core sample
to a second elevated temperature distinct from the first elevated temperature, and generating
(240) NMR data of the core sample and the one or more fluids at the second applied pressure
and second elevated temperature.
                                               -11 -

[00481           In some embodiments, the method 200 further includes determining (242) a
second value for the one or more physical characteristics of the core sample and the one or
more fluids as a function of the second applied pressure and second elevated temperature. It
is further envisioned that the first and second values could each be determined under each of
static and flooding conditionings using the procedure described above.
[0049]           In some embodiments, the method 200 further includes optimizing (244) an
enhanced oil recovery process using at least the first and seconds values (e.g., under static
conditions, flooding conditions, or a combination thereof) of the one or more physical
characteristics.
[0050]           Figures 3A-3E are graphical representations of exemplary data illustrating
wettability variation with temperature of a particular hydrocarbon containing or other
formation using 2D NMR, in accordance with some embodiments. Data presented in Figures
3A-3E are obtained, for example, by practicing aspects of method 200 described with
reference to Figure 2A-2C.
[0051]           Figure 3A includes plot 300, which is a 2D NMR contour plot illustrating
NMR signal strength (represented by contours) versus a T2 relaxation time in milliseconds
(labeled "Relaxation Time (ms)") along the horizontal axis and a diffusion coefficient in
micrometers per millisecond along the vertical axis. Plot 300 corresponds to a respective
hydrocarbon containing or other formation (e.g., data is obtained using a core-sample taken
therefrom) at a pressure of about 2,000 psig and a temperature of 77 degrees Fahrenheit.
Figure 3A also includes plot 302, which is a one-dimensional plot of NMR signal strength
versus diffusion coefficient (i.e., averaged over the T2 relaxation time) and plot 304, which is
a one-dimensional plot of NMR signal strength versus T2 relaxation time (i.e., averaged over
the diffusion coefficient). Plot 300 shows a peak in the NMR signal due water at a location
designated by 306-a, indicating an apparent T2 relaxation time of water (T 2 a,,).
[0052]           Figure 3B is analogous to Figure 3A with the difference being that data shown
in Figure 3B is taken at a pressure of about 2,000 psig and an elevated temperature of 175
degrees Fahrenheit. Plot 300-b again shows the water peak in the NMR signal, however, in
plot 300-b, the location of the water peak has moved slightly to the right along the horizontal
axis to a location designated by 306-b. The movement of the location of the water peak to
the right in plot 300 signifies a water wet condition of the core-sample's water peak, which
represents a condition of the core-sample in which a thin film of water coats a surface of a
matrix of the core-sample and thus the formation rock preferentially imbibes water. Such a
                                              - 12 -

water wet condition is desirable for efficient oil transport and is thus desirable for enhanced
oil recovery.
[00531          Figure 3C is analogous to Figure 3B with the difference that data shown in
Figure 3C is taken at a pressure of about 2,000 psig and an elevated temperature of 212
degrees Fahrenheit. Plot 300-c again shows the water peak in the NMR signal, however, in
plot 300-c, the location of the water peak has moved further to the right of 306-b along the
horizontal axis to a location designated by 306-c. As described below, in this exemplary
data, temperatures higher than 212 degrees cause the water peak to transition to an oil wet
condition (e.g., the water peak is characterized by a "kink-point" at 212 degrees), which is
not desirable for enhanced oil recovery. An optimum (e.g., highest) diffusion coefficient
under water wet conditions is also observed when the temperature is 212 degrees.
[0054]          Figure 3D is analogous to Figure 3C with the difference being that data shown
in Figure 3D is taken at a pressure of about 2,000 psig and an elevated temperature of 248
degrees Fahrenheit. Plot 300-d again shows the water peak in the NMR signal, however, in
plot 300-d, the location of the water peak has moved to the left of 306-c along the horizontal
axis to a location designated by 306-d. The movement of the location of the water peak to
the left in plot 300-d signifies an oil wet condition of the core-sample's water peak, which
represents a condition of the core-sample in which a thin film of oil coats the surface matrix
of the core-sample and thus the formation rock preferentially imbibes oil. Such an oil wet
condition is detrimental for efficient oil transport and recovery and is thus not desirable for
enhanced oil recovery.
[0055]          Figure 3E is analogous to Figure 3D with the difference being that data shown
in Figure 3E is taken at a pressure of about 2,000 psig and an elevated temperature of 284
degrees Fahrenheit. Plot 300-c again shows the water peak in the NMR signal, however, in
plot 300-e, the location of the water peak has moved further to the left of 306-d along the
horizontal axis to a location designated by 306-d, signifying that the water peak remains in
the oil wet condition.
[0056]          In some embodiments, the peak locations 306 are used to generate a forward
model of one or more wettability indices of the core sample (e.g., a water index and an oil
index), as described below. In some embodiments, because the core sample is taken from a
respective hydrocarbon or other containing formation, the forward model for the one or more
indices of the core sample is also a forward model for the one or more indices of the
respective hydrocarbon or other containing formation.
                                               - 13 -

[00571            The apparent T 2 relaxation time of water (T2a,)          at a given temperature is
related to the water wettability index via the equation:
                                   1          IwA+1          1        1                        (1)
                                   =       +          (
                             T2 ,    T2b,w     2 Sw     T2a,(S,=1)
                                                                   T
                                                                     2b,w
where T2bw is a bulk T 2 relaxation time of water, IA is a water wettability index (e.g., an
Amott water wettability index), S, is a water saturation of pore spaces within the core sample
(typically obtained through separate testing of a core sample from the same hydrocarbon or
other containing formation), and T2a,w,(sw=1) is an apparent       T2 relaxation time of water at S,=1
when the pores spaces are strong water wet.
[0058]            In general, T2aw, T2bw, and IvA are each a function of temperature. Thus, Eq.
(1) is an implicit function of temperature. In some embodiments, the apparent T2 relaxation
time of water (T2a,w) is measured at a variety of temperatures in a manner consistent with the
method 200 and FIGS. 3A-3D,                as described above, thereby providing an empirical
relationship for T2a,w to use in conjunction with Eq. (1). In some embodiments, a relationship
for a Tj value of bulk water ( T o,w ) as a function of temperature is obtained by fitting
empirical data with a function of the form:
                                       T    =-
                                             =    ' +Bt2 +Ct+D                                   (2)
where t is the temperature of the bulk water. Such empirical data is provided, for example, in
"Kleinberg, R.L., Vinegar, H.J., (1996) NMR properties of reservoir fluids. The Log Analyst
37(6), page 20-32," which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. A constant ratio
    T
of    o,w /T2a,   (e.g., constant as a function of temperature) is used to convert the T, values
obtained from Eq. (2) into T2 values. In some embodiments, the constant ratio is a fitting
parameter. In some embodiments, the constant ratio is 2.5. Substituting the T2a,w obtained in
this manner from Eq. (2) into Eq. (1), while using experimental data for S, and using the
emperical relationship for T2a,w as a function of temperature yields an empirical relationship
for IwA as a function of temperature. The empirical relationship is then converted to a forward
model by fitting the empirical data to the equation:
                                                  b, -b
                                                                                                 (3)
                                        I=               2
                                               i+(/t            2
where b1    = 0, b2 =  1, and te and f are fitting parameters for the forward model.
[0059]            The foregoing description, for purpose of explanation, has been described with
reference to specific embodiments. However, the illustrative discussions above are not
                                                    -14-

intended to be exhaustive or to limit the embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. Many
modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments
were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the disclosure and its
practical applications, to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the various
embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.
                                             - 15 -

1002205523
      What is claimed:
       1.     A core sample holder assembly for performing a laboratory nuclear magnetic
      resonance measurement of a core sample taken from a hydrocarbon containing formation,
      comprising:
              a pressure chamber provided by a hull, and one or more flanges are sealingly coupled
                      with the hull;
              a flexible core sample holder sleeve, the sleeve being disposed within the pressure
                      chamber and sealingly coupled with at least one of the flanges;
              an overburden fluid injection port for injecting overburden fluid, the overburden fluid
                      injection port in fluid communication with an annular space between the hull
                      and the flexible sleeve;
              a pressure regulator for maintaining the overburden fluid in the annular space at a
                      predetermined gauge pressure;
              a radio-frequency (RF) antenna within the pressure chamber and wrapped around the
                      sample holder sleeve, wherein the RF antenna is configured to receive an
                      electromagnetic-signal from the core sample, which in use is arranged
                      substantially within the sleeve.
      2.      The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one flange sealingly coupled at
      each end of the hull.
      3.      The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a heating element disposed on an outer
      surface of the pressure chamber.
      4.      The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the heating element is configured to heat the core
      sample to an elevated temperature in the range of about 200 degrees Fahrenheit to about 500
      degrees Fahrenheit.
      5.      The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising a thermocouple that is configured to
      monitor the elevated temperature of the core sample.
      6.      The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising:
                                                     - 16 -

1002205523
              a flooding fluid injection port fed through one of the flanges of the pair of flanges, the
                      flooding fluid injection port being configured to inject a flooding fluid into the
                      core sample; and
              a fluid outlet port fed through the other flange of the pair of flanges, the fluid outlet
                      port being configured for discharge of pore and/or injected fluid from the core
                      sample.
      7.      The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising one or more electrical feedthroughs
      configured to electrically couple a first terminal and a second terminal of the RF antenna to
      external circuitry.
       8.     The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the applied gauge pressure that the outer sleeve is
      capable of withstanding is a pressure in a range between 0 psig to 7,500 psig.
      9.      The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the hull comprises stainless steel or titanium.
       10.    The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the flexible core sample holder sleeve comprises a
      non-magnetic plastic polymer.
       11.    The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the non-magnetic plastic is substantially free of
      hydrogen.
       12.    The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the flexible core sample holder sleeve comprises
      polytetrafluoroethylene.
       13.    The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the overburden fluid injection port for injecting
      overburden fluid is fed through one of the flanges into the annular space between the hull and
      the flexible sleeve.
                                                     - 17 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
