                                      ABSTRACT
   There is provided a filter for a smoking article. The filter comprises a filter
 5 segment comprising filter material, and the filter segment has a cross
   sectional area measured perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the
   filter. The filter further comprises a flavour delivery member embedded in
   the filter segment and surrounded on all sides by the filter material. The
   flavour delivery member comprises structural material enclosing liquid
10 flavourant for flavouring smoke during smoking of a smoking article provided
   with the filter, and the flavour delivery member releases at least a portion of
   the liquid flavourant when the filter is subjected to external force. The cross
   sectional area of the flavour delivery member measured perpendicular to the
   longitudinal direction of the filter is about 30% of the cross sectional area of
15 the filter segment or greater.
                                                                           3522303v1

                          1/1
                                  100
        117
    113                 10910
    103                               101
              115             105
                        Fig. 1
      201
                                               103
203                                         x~
                  Ill -205
                       Fig. 2
                         303              103
                         301
            201
            205
                        Fig. 3

                                                        1
                     SMOKING ARTICLE INCLUDING A FLAVOUR DELIVERY MEMBER
                The present invention relates to a filter for a smoking article, and a smoking article
      comprising a filter.
  5             Combustible smoking articles, such as cigarettes, generally comprise shredded
      tobacco (usually in cut filler form) surrounded by a paper wrapper forming a tobacco rod. A
      cigarette is employed by a consumer by lighting one end thereof and burning the shredded
      tobacco rod. The consumer then receives mainstream smoke by drawing on the opposite end
      (mouth end or filter end) of the cigarette. The shredded tobacco can be a single type of tobacco
 10   or a blend of two or more types of tobacco.
               A number of smoking articles in which an aerosol forming substrate, such as tobacco,
      is heated rather than combusted have also been proposed in the art. In heated smoking articles,
     the aerosol is generated by heating the aerosol forming substrate. Known heated smoking
     articles include, for example, smoking articles in which an aerosol is generated by electrical
 15  heating or by the transfer of heat from a combustible fuel element or heat source to an aerosol
     forming substrate. During smoking, volatile compounds are released from the aerosol forming
     substrate by heat transfer from the heat source and entrained in air drawn through the smoking
     article. As the released compounds cool they condense to form an aerosol that is inhaled by the
     consumer. Also known are smoking articles in which a nicotine-containing aerosol is generated
20   from a tobacco material, tobacco extract, or other nicotine source, without combustion, and in
     some cases without heating, for example through a chemical reaction.
               Smoking articles, particularly cigarettes, generally comprise a filter aligned in end-to
     end relationship with a tobacco rod or another aerosol forming substrate. Typically, the filter
     includes a plug of cellulose acetate tow attached to the tobacco rod or aerosol forming substrate
25   by tipping paper. Ventilation of mainstream smoke can be achieved with a row or rows of
     perforations in the tipping paper about a location along the filter.
               Flavourants can be added to cigarettes and smoking articles. Some consumers may
     prefer a cigarette that is capable of selectively providing one or more flavours, depending upon
    the consumer's immediate desire, either in the short term or in the long term. However, certain
30  flavourants are volatile and have the propensity to evaporate or migrate over time, which
    lessens the effects of those flavourants.
               Accordingly, it would be desirable to provide a smoking article and a filter for a smoking
    article that enhance the transfer of flavour into the smoke and minimize the migration of the
    flavour while still maintaining other desirable characteristics of the smoking article.
35             According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a filter for a smoking
    article, the filter comprising: a filter segment comprising filter material, the filter segment having
    a cross sectional area measured perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the filter; and a

                                                         2
     flavour delivery member embedded in the filter segment and surrounded on all sides by the filter
     material, the flavour delivery member comprising structural material enclosing liquid flavourant
     for flavouring smoke during smoking, wherein the flavour delivery member releases at least a
     portion of the liquid flavourant when the filter is subjected to external force; wherein a cross
  5  sectional area of the flavour delivery member measured perpendicular to the longitudinal
     direction of the filter is about 30%, or greater, of the cross sectional area of the filter segment,
     and wherein the filter material of the filter segment comprises fibres of between about 5.0 and
     about 12.0 denier per filament and between about 10000 and about 35000 total denier.
                The external force may be exerted in any direction, but is preferably exerted in a
 10  direction perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the filter. One preferable method of
     applying the external force would be for a user to squeeze or exert an external force on the filter
     containing the flavour delivery member, prior to or during the smoking of the smoking article
     containing the filter. The squeezing or compression action or application of external force
     preferably breaks the flavour delivery member, which in turn, causes at least a portion of the
 15  liquid flavourant to be released into the filter. Alternatively, the squeezing or compression action
    may provide a sustained release of liquid flavourant over a range of compression forces. The
    liquid flavourant may then flavour the smoke passing through the filter. An external device, such
    as a pinching device, a tube squeezing device, tweezers or any other device for applying
    compression forces, may also be used to concentrate the force at a prescribed filter location.
20             The cross sectional area of the flavour delivery member is higher, relative to the cross
    sectional area of the filter segment, than in filters of the prior art. Because the cross sectional
    area of the flavour delivery member is about 30% or greater of the cross sectional area of the
    filter segment, less than about 70% of the cross sectional area of the filter segment remains
    permeable to air and smoke. Thus, in the filter of the invention, the flavour delivery member has
25  a higher blocking effect than in filters of the prior art. This leads to several effects which are
    different from those found in prior art filters and may be advantageous. Firstly, the filter can
    have a higher resistance to draw (RTD), before the flavour delivery member releases the liquid
    flavourant, than prior art filters. This is because air and smoke flowing through the filter segment
    are forced through a relatively small area of filter material around the flavour delivery member.
30  Such a high RTD may create a new and unusual sensory experience for the consumer.
    Secondly, once the filter is subjected to external force and the flavour delivery member releases
    the liquid flavourant (for example, when the flavour delivery member breaks), the increased
    cross-sectional area of the filter segment that is permeable to the flow of gas results in a sudden
    flow of air and smoke through the filter. That is, there is a drop in RTD (from a relatively high
35  starting RTD) and there is also a noticeable change in flavour due to the liquid flavourant.
    Again, this creates an exciting and stimulating sensory experience for the consumer.

                                                            3
                Thirdly, because the dimensions of the flavour delivery member are high relative to the
      dimensions of the filter segment, there may be a risk that the flavour delivery member will be
      damaged during manufacture or handling (because the flavour delivery member is closer to the
      outer side of the filter). However, the present inventor has appreciated that, by embedding the
  5  flavour delivery member within the filter material, the flavour delivery member is more protected
     during manufacture and handling. The flavour delivery member is supported in the filter
     material. However, it is still possible for a consumer to locate the flavour delivery member in the
     filter and apply the necessary external force for the liquid flavourant to be released. This allows
     the filter of the invention to use larger flavour delivery members (relative to the dimensions of
 10  the filter) than could be used in a cavity in the filter, for example in a plug-space-plug filter.
     Embedding the flavour delivery member in the filter material of the filter segment may have the
     added advantage that manufacturing can be more straightforward, since the flavour delivery
     member may be incorporated amongst the fibres of the filter material tow. Thus, conventional
     manufacturing techniques may be used in which continuous tow material, with embedded
 15  flavour delivery members, is cut into filter segments. No separate step of inserting the flavour
     delivery member is required.
               According to the present invention, the filter material of the filter segment is selected
     appropriately in order to achieve the desired balance of RTD (including the RTD before and
     after the liquid flavourant is released), an appropriate amount of material to support the flavour
 20  delivery member adequately within the filter segment, and an appropriate amount of material to
     avoid deformation of the filter material around the flavour delivery member.
               In particular, the filter material of the filter segment comprises fibres of between about
    5.0 and about 12.0 denier per filament and between about 10000 and about 35000 total denier.
    Such filter material has a lower total density than filter materials in which flavour delivery
25  members are embedded in the prior art. This can provide the desired RTD, whilst providing an
    appropriate amount of material to support the flavour delivery member but avoid a bulge in the
    filter material around the flavour delivery member.
               Preferably, the filter segment comprises fibres having about 6.0 denier per filament
    (dpf) or greater. In a preferred embodiment, the filter segment comprises large diameter fibres
30  of about 8.0 dpf. Preferably, the filter segment has a total denier of less than about 30000, more
    preferably less than about 25000. Additionally, or alternatively, the filter segment preferably has
    a total denier of greater than about 12000. In a preferred embodiment, the filter segment
    comprises large diameter fibres of about 15000 total denier. The number of fibres present in the
    filter segment (the total denier divided by the dpf) may be less than about 6,000, preferably less
35  than about 5,000. Such filter materials have been found to provide a good balance, when the
    flavour delivery member is embedded in the filter material, between RTD and flavour delivery
    member support, whilst avoiding deformation of the filter material.

                                                           4
                  An additional advantage provided by using a filter material according to the present
        invention is that it facilitates embedding the flavour delivery member in the filter material. The
        inventors have appreciated that by embedding the flavour delivery member within a filter
        material having a lower relative total density, the flavour delivery member is protected during
   5   manufacture and handling, even though the flavour delivery member may be closer to the outer
       surfaces of the filter. Using a filter material with a lower total density allows the flavour delivery
       member to be embedded, without producing deformation (for example, a bulge) in the filter. The
       lower density material effectively provides space for the flavour delivery member to be
       incorporated into the filter material. At the same time, the filter material still provides the fibres at
 10    the outer extremity of the filter to wick away the flavour and facilitate the smoke to pick up the
       flavor.
                 Another additional advantage provided by using a filter material according to the
       present invention is that, in the case of slim cigarettes having a diameter of about 6.0 mm or
       less, the lower density filter material allows standard tar delivery levels to be achieved and
 15   flavour to be maximised, even though such smoking articles may contain a relatively small
      amount of tobacco.
                 As already discussed, according to the filter of the invention, the cross sectional area of
      the filter which is blocked by the flavour delivery member is greater than in prior art
      arrangements. Thus, a smoking article utilizing such a filter may have a higher RTD, before the
20    liquid flavourant is released, than prior art smoking articles. Such a high RTD may create a new
      and unusual sensory experience for the consumer. The smoking article RTD, before the liquid
      flavourant is released, may be greater than about 130 mm H2 0, more preferably greater than
      about 150 mm H20. Additionally, or alternatively, the smoking article RTD may be less than
      about 210 mm H20. Preferably, the smoking article RTD is between about 130 mm H2 0 and
25    about 210 mm H20, more preferably between about 150 mm H2 0 and about 210 mm H2 0.
                 In addition, when the flavour delivery member is crushed, there is a drop in RTD, which
      may also create a new and unusual sensory experience for the consumer. The drop in RTD
      may result from the flavour delivery member being reduced in size when it is crushed. The
      smoking article RTD, after the flavour delivery member is crushed, may decrease at least about
30    10 mm H20, preferably decrease at least about 20 mm H20, and more preferably decrease at
      least about 30 mm H2 0.
                In this specification, the terms "upstream" and "downstream" are used to describe
     relative positions between elements of the filter or smoking article in relation to the direction of
     mainstream smoke as it is drawn from a lit end of the smoking article through the filter.
35              In this specification, the expression "surrounded on all sides" is used to mean that the
     flavour delivery member is directly adjacent filter material of the filter segment in the upstream
     and downstream (longitudinal) directions and also in the transverse direction. That is, the

                                                         5
     flavour delivery member is completely embedded within the filter material, and is not in a
     separate cavity. Preferably, flavour delivery members are incorporated into the filter material
     during manufacture of the filter material. For example, the flavour delivery members may be
     incorporated amongst the fibres of a continuous rod of filter material, which may then be cut into
  5  filter segments.
               The cross sectional area of the flavour delivery member, measured perpendicular to
     the longitudinal direction of the filter, is about 30% or greater of the cross sectional area of the
     filter segment, also measured perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the filter. Or, to put
     this another way, the proportion of the cross sectional area of the filter segment which remains
 10  permeable to air and smoke once the flavour delivery member is embedded in the filter material
     is less than about 70%. (If the filter includes a wrapper such as plug wrap or tipping paper, the
     cross sectional area of the filter segment is generally measured inside the wrapper.) Preferably,
    the cross sectional area of the flavour delivery member is greater than about 30%, and may
     also be less than about 80%, of the cross sectional area of the filter segment. Or, to put this
 15 another way, the proportion of the cross sectional area of the filter segment which remains
     permeable to air and smoke once the flavour delivery member is embedded in the filter material
    is preferably greater than about 20% and less than about 70%.
               More preferably, the cross sectional area of the flavour delivery member measured
    perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the filter is about 45%, or greater, of the cross
20  sectional area of the filter segment. Or, to put this another way, the proportion of the cross
    sectional area of the filter segment which remains permeable to air and smoke once the flavour
    delivery member is embedded in the filter material is less than about 55%. Preferably, the cross
    sectional area of the flavour delivery member is greater than about 45%, and may also be less
    than about 80%, of the cross sectional area of the filter segment. Or, to put this another way,
25  the proportion of the cross sectional area of the filter segment which remains permeable to air
    and smoke once the flavour delivery member is embedded in the filter material is preferably
    greater than about 20% and less than about 55%.
               Even more preferably, the cross sectional area of the flavour delivery member
    measured perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the filter is about 55%, or greater, of the
30  cross sectional area of the filter segment. Or, to put this another way, the proportion of the cross
    sectional area of the filter segment which remains permeable to air and smoke once the flavour
    delivery member is embedded in the filter material is less than about 45%. Preferably, the cross
    sectional area of the flavour delivery member is greater than about 55%, and may also be less
    than about 80%, of the cross sectional area of the filter segment. Or, to put this another way,
35  the proportion of the cross sectional area of the filter segment which remains permeable to air
    and smoke once the flavour delivery member is embedded in the filter material is preferably
    greater than about 20% and less than about 45%.

                                                            6
                    Preferably, the filter has a diameter of less than about 6.5 mm. More preferably, the
         diameter of the filter is between about 3.6 mm and about 6.5 mm. (The diameter of the filter is
         generally measured inside any wrapper materials such as plug wraps or tipping papers, unless
         otherwise indicated in the specification.) More preferably, the diameter of the filter is between
    5    about 3.6 mm and about 5.5 mm. Even more preferably, the diameter of the filter is between
         about 3.6 mm and about 4.5 mm.
                    The filter may have a length of about 27 mm and the centre of the flavour delivery
         member may be located about 13.5 mm from the downstream end of the filter. In that case, if
        the filter segment is the only component of the filter, the centre of the flavour delivery member is
  10    located about 13.5 mm from the downstream end of the filter segment or, if the filter includes
        additional filter elements, the centre of the flavour delivery member is located about 13.5 mm
        from the downstream end of the filter, which may or may not be the downstream end of the filter
        segment. Or the filter may have a length of about 32 mm and the centre of the flavour delivery
        member may be located about 16 mm from the downstream end of the filter. In that case, if the
  15    filter segment is the only component of the filter, the centre of the flavour delivery member is
        located about 16 mm from the downstream end of the filter segment or, if the filter includes
        additional filter elements, the centre of the flavour delivery member is located about 16 mm from
        the downstream end of the filter, which may or may not be the downstream end of the filter
        segment. In this specification, the "centre" of the flavour delivery member refers to the mid-point
 20     between the furthest downstream and furthest upstream portions of the flavour delivery
       member.
                   The flavour delivery member may be located symmetrically or asymmetrically within the
       filter. If the flavour delivery member is located symmetrically within the filter, the centre of the
       flavour delivery member is equidistant between the upstream and downstream ends of the filter.
 25    The filter may include one or more additional filter elements upstream of the filter segment,
       downstream of the filter segment or both upstream and downstream of the filter segment. If the
       filter includes additional elements and the flavour delivery member placement is symmetric with
       respect to the whole filter, the flavour delivery member placement may be either symmetric or
       asymmetric with respect to the filter segment, depending on the position and length of the
30     additional filter elements. If the flavour delivery member is located asymmetrically within the
      filter, the centre of the flavour delivery member is not equidistant between the upstream and
      downstream ends of the filter. For example, the flavour delivery member may be located in the
      upstream third of the filter or in the downstream third of the filter. If the filter includes additional
      elements and the flavour delivery member placement is asymmetric with respect to the whole
35    filter, the flavour delivery member placement may either symmetric or asymmetric with respect
      to the filter segment, depending on the position and length of the additional filter elements.

                                                          7
                 In one preferred embodiment, the filter segment and the flavour delivery member are
       circular in cross section, the diameter of the filter segment is between about 3.6 mm and about
       6.5 mm and the diameter of the flavour delivery member, measured perpendicular to the
       longitudinal direction of the filter, is between about 2.5 mm and about 4.5 mm. For example, the
  5   diameter of the filter segment (inside any filter wrapper) may be about 6.1 mm. For example, the
      diameter of the flavour delivery member may be about 3.5 mm. In this embodiment, the cross
      sectional area of the flavour delivery member measured perpendicular to the longitudinal
      direction of the filter is about 33% of the cross sectional area of the filter segment. Or, to put this
      another way, the proportion of the cross sectional area of the filter segment which remains
 10   permeable to air and smoke once the flavour delivery member is embedded in the filter material
      is about 67%. A filter having a diameter of about 6.1 mm may be used in a "slim cigarette"
      having an overall diameter of about 7.0 mm.
                 In another preferred embodiment, the filter segment and the flavour delivery member
     are circular in cross section, the diameter of the filter segment is between about 3.6 mm and
 15  about 5.5 mm and the diameter of the flavour delivery member, measured perpendicular to the
     longitudinal direction of the filter, is between about 3.0 mm and about 3.5 mm. For example, the
     diameter of the filter segment (inside any filter wrapper) may be about 4.5 mm. For example, the
     diameter of the flavour delivery member may be about 3.2 mm. In this embodiment, the cross
     sectional area of the flavour delivery member measured perpendicular to the longitudinal
 20  direction of the filter is about 51% of the cross sectional area of the filter segment. Or, to put this
     another way, the proportion of the cross sectional area of the filter segment which remains
     permeable to air and smoke once the flavour delivery member is embedded in the filter material
     is about 49%. A filter having a diameter of less than about 4.5 mm may be used in a "super slim
    cigarette" having an overall diameter of less than about 5.4 mm.
25              In another preferred embodiment, the filter segment and the flavour delivery member
    are circular in cross section, the diameter of the filter segment is between about 3.6 mm and
    about 4.5 mm and the diameter of the flavour delivery member, measured perpendicular to the
    longitudinal direction of the filter, is between about 3.0 mm and about 3.5 mm. For example, the
    diameter of the filter segment (inside any filter wrapper) may be about 3.8 mm. For example, the
30  diameter of the flavour delivery member may be about 3.2 mm. In this embodiment, the cross
    sectional area of the flavour delivery member measured perpendicular to the longitudinal
    direction of the filter is about 71% of the cross sectional area of the filter segment. Or, to put this
    another way, the proportion of the cross sectional area of the filter segment which remains
    permeable to air and smoke once the flavour delivery member is embedded in the filter material
35  is less than about 29%. A filter having a diameter of about 3.8 mm may be used in a "micro slim
    cigarette" having an overall diameter of about 4.7 mm.

                                                      8
               The term "flavour delivery member" refers to any delivery system for delivering a
    flavour, in this case comprising structural material enclosing liquid flavourant. Provision of a
    flavour delivery member which releases the liquid flavourant when the filter is subjected to an
     external force allows the liquid flavourant to be controllably released by the consumer. The
  5  external force may be applied, and hence the liquid flavourant released, prior to or during use of
    the smoking article. The external force on the flavour delivery member allows the liquid
    flavourant to escape from the flavour delivery member and interact with and modify the
    characteristics of the smoking article and thus the smoke derived therefrom. Because the liquid
    flavourant is only released when an external force is applied to the filter, this reduces the
10  chance of the liquid flavourant migrating or disintegrating, for example, during storage.
               The flavour delivery member may have any desired size, as long as a cross sectional
    area of the flavour delivery member measured perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the
    filter is about 30% of the cross sectional area of the filter segment or greater. For example, the
    flavour delivery member may be spherical with a diameter between about 2.5 mm and about 4.5
15  mm, preferably between about 3.0 mm and about 3.5 mm. Or, the flavour delivery member may
    be spherical with a diameter less than about 3.4 mm, preferably about 3.2 mm.
               Small flavour delivery members may present a number of manufacturing challenges.
    By using a flavour delivery member having a cross sectional area about 30% of the cross
    sectional area of the filter segment or greater, such manufacturing challenges may be avoided
20  in some embodiments. A larger flavour delivery member, relative to the filter segment,
    maximises the amount of liquid flavourant enclosed within the flavour delivery member and may
    achieve a desired flavour level for a consumer. In the case of a flavour delivery member
    comprising an outer shell and an inner core, a larger flavour delivery member also includes a
    proportionately thicker outer shell. Such a shell is relatively straightforward to manufacture
25  consistently and with the desired burst strength.
               The flavour delivery member may have any suitable structure in which a structural
    material encloses the liquid flavourant. The flavour delivery member may comprise a matrix
    structure defining a plurality of domains, the liquid flavourant being trapped within the domains
    until released when the filter is subjected to external force. More preferably, however, the
30  flavour delivery member comprises a capsule. Preferably, the capsule comprises an outer shell
    and an inner core containing the liquid flavourant. Preferably, the outer shell is substantially
    continuous. Preferably, the outer shell is sealed before the application of the external force, but
    is frangible or breakable to allow liquid flavourant to be released when the external force is
    applied. The capsule may be formed in a variety of physical formations including, but not limited
35  to, a single-part capsule, a multi-part capsule, a single-walled capsule, a multi-walled capsule, a
    large capsule, and a small capsule.

                                                          9
                 If the flavour delivery member comprises a matrix structure defining a plurality of
        domains enclosing the liquid flavourant, the flavour delivery member may release the liquid
       flavourant when the filter is subjected to external force over a range of force of at least 5 N. The
       flavour delivery member's force versus compression curve may have a peak between about 5 N
   5   and about 24 N. Alternatively, if the flavour delivery member is a capsule arranged to rupture or
       burst to release the liquid flavourant when the filter is subjected to external force (for example,
       but not limited to, if the capsule comprises an outer shell and an inner core), the capsule may
       have any desired burst strength. The burst strength is the force (exerted on the capsule from
       the outside of the filter) at which the capsule will burst. The burst strength may be a peak in the
  10   capsule's force versus compression curve. Preferably, the capsule has a burst strength of
       between about 5 N (0.5 kgf) and about 24 N (2.4 kgf). More preferably, the capsule has a burst
       strength of between about 8 N (0.8 kgf) and about 20 N (2.0 kgf). Even more preferably, the
       capsule has a burst strength of between about 12 N (1.2 kgf) and about 16 N (1.6 kgf).
                The flavour delivery member may have any suitable shape, for example, spherical,
  15   spheroid, or ellipsoid. Preferably, however, the flavour delivery member is generally spherical.
      This may include flavour delivery members having a sphericity value of at least about 0.9, and
      preferably a sphericity value of approximately 1. Sphericity is a measure of how spherical an
      object is, with a perfect sphere having a sphericity value of 1. Sphericity values may be derived
      by determining the average of the largest diameter and the smallest diameter, deducting the
 20   difference between the largest diameter and the smallest diameter from the average, then
      dividing the result by that average. Preferably, the generally spherical flavour delivery member
      comprises a generally spherical outer shell.
                The flavour delivery member may be manufactured according to any suitable method
      (for example, by co-extrusion), as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art.
 25             Preferably, only a single flavour delivery member is embedded in the filter. However,
      additional flavour delivery members may be provided in the longitudinal direction of the filter.
     The additional flavour delivery members may be provided in the same filter segment or in
     additional filter segments. If additional flavour delivery members are provided in the filter, they
     may have the same or different properties as one another.
30             The flavour delivery member may comprise any suitable material or combination of
     materials, for example those used in capsules for drug delivery, liquid encapsulated capsules,
     or other encapsulated materials. By way of example, a flavour delivery member typically utilized
     in the pharmaceutical industry may be used. Such flavour delivery members may be gelatin
     based, for example, or may be formed from a polymeric material, such as modified cellulose.
35   One type of modified cellulose which may be used is hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose. In addition
     to gelatin or modified cellulose, or in addition to both gelatin and modified cellulose, the outer
     shell may comprise polysaccharide.

                                                      10
             The liquid flavourant may comprise any flavour compound or tobacco extract suitable
   for being releasably disposed in liquid form within the flavour delivery member to enhance the
   taste of mainstream smoke produced during smoking of a smoking article containing the filter.
   Suitable flavours or flavourings include, but are not limited to, menthol, mint, such as
 5 peppermint and spearmint, chocolate, liquorice, citrus and other fruit flavours, gamma
   octalactone, vanillin, ethyl vanillin, breath freshener flavours, spice flavours such as cinnamon,
   methyl salicylate, linalool, bergamot oil, geranium oil, lemon oil, ginger oil, and tobacco flavour.
   Other suitable flavours may include flavour compounds selected from the group consisting of an
   acid, an alcohol, an ester, an aldehyde, a ketone, a pyrazine, combinations or blends thereof
1o and the like.
             The filter material (of the filter segment or any additional filter elements) may comprise
   any suitable material or materials. Examples of suitable materials include, but are not limited to,
   cellulose acetate, cellulose, reconstituted cellulose, polylactic acid, polyvinyl alcohol, nylon,
   polyhydroxybutyrate, polypropylene, paper, thermoplastic material, such as starch, non-woven
15 materials, and combinations thereof. One or more of the materials may be formed into an open
   cell structure. Preferably, the filter material comprises cellulose acetate tow.
             The filter may include additional material, either in the filter segment or in one or more
   additional elements incorporated in the filter. For example, the additional material may be
   incorporated into fibrous filter tow of the filter segment or an additional filter element. For
20 example, the filter may include a sorbent material. The term "sorbent" refers to either an
   adsorbent, an absorbent, or a substance that may perform both of these functions. The sorbent
   material may comprise activated carbon. The sorbent may be incorporated into the filter
   segment in which the flavour delivery member is embedded. More preferably, however, the
   sorbent is incorporated into an additional filter element upstream of the filter segment.
25 Alternatively or additionally, the filter may include an adhesive, a plasticiser or flavour release
   agent, or a combination thereof.
             If a sorbent material, such as activated carbon, is provided in the filter, either in the
   filter segment in which the flavour delivery member is embedded or in an additional filter
   element, preferably the flavour delivery member is downstream of the sorbent material. Such an
30 arrangement allows for the filtration of the smoking article to be effected by the sorbent, and for
   the liquid flavourant to be released into the filter without the effectiveness of the liquid flavourant
   being affected by absorption or adsorption by the sorbent.
             The filter may contain flavour release agents, such as flavoured cellulose thread,
   sepiolite, molecular sieves or activated carbon impregnated with flavours.
35           The filter may include one or more additional filter elements upstream, downstream or
   both upstream and downstream, of the filter segment. If the filter includes additional elements,
   the filter segment with embedded flavour delivery member is only a filter component of the

                                                             11
     smoking article filter, rather than the whole smoking article filter. The additional filter elements
     may be axially aligned with the filter segment. For example, the filter may further include a plug
     or plugs or disc or discs of filter material downstream of the filter segment, a plug or plugs or
     disc or discs of filter material upstream of the filter segment, or plugs or discs of filter material
  5  downstream and upstream of the filter segment. Alternatively or additionally, the filter may
     further include a hollow tube or tubes downstream of the filter segment, a hollow tube or tubes
     upstream of the filter segment, or hollow tubes downstream and upstream of the filter segment.
     If more than one hollow tube is provided, the hollow tubes may have the same or different
     dimensions. Alternatively, or additionally, the filter may further include a space or cavity
 10  downstream or upstream or both downstream and upstream of the filter segment. Such a space
     or cavity may be defined by a filter wrapper circumscribing the filter material. The space or
     cavity may be empty or may be filled with any suitable material.
               Various filter constructions may be used, in which one or more flavour delivery
     members may be incorporated. Exemplary filter structures that may be used include, but are not
15   limited to, a mono filter, a dual filter, a triple filter, a single or multi cavity filter, a recessed filter, a
    free-flow filter, and combinations thereof. Mono filters typically contain cellulose acetate tow or
    cellulose paper materials. Dual filters typically comprise a cellulose acetate mouth end and a
     pure cellulose or cellulose acetate segment. The length and pressure drop of the segments in a
    dual filter may be adjusted to provide optimal sorption, while maintaining acceptable RTD.
20  Cavity filters include at least two segments, for example, acetate-acetate, acetate-paper or
    paper-paper, separated by at least one cavity. Recessed filters include an open cavity at the
    mouth end.
               The filter may include a filter wrapper circumscribing at least the filter material. A filter
    wrapper provides strength and structural rigidity for the filter, including the filter segment.
25  Preferably, where the filter includes one or more additional filter elements, the filter segment
    and the one or more additional filter elements are overwrapped with a filter wrapper. The filter
    wrapper may comprise any suitable material. The filter wrapper may prevent deformation on the
    outside of the filter segment at the location where the flavour delivery member is embedded in
    the filter material. The filter wrapper may include a seam including one or more lines of
30  adhesive. Preferably, the seam includes two lines of adhesive. One line of adhesive may
    comprise a hot melt adhesive. One line of adhesive may comprise polyvinyl alcohol.
               Filters according to the present invention may advantageously be used in filter
    cigarettes and other smoking articles in which tobacco material is combusted to form smoke.
    Filters according to the present invention may alternatively be used in smoking articles in which
35  tobacco material is heated, rather than combusted, to form an aerosol. Filters according to the
    present invention may also be used in smoking articles in which a nicotine-containing aerosol is

                                                             12
       generated from a tobacco material, tobacco extract, or other nicotine source, without
       combustion or heating.
                According to a second aspect of the invention, there is provided a smoking article
       comprising: an aerosol forming substrate; and a filter according to the first aspect of the
   5   invention. According to the second aspect of the invention, there is provided a smoking article
       comprising: a tobacco substrate; and a filter according to the first aspect of the invention.
       According to the second aspect of the invention, there is also provided a smoking article
       comprising: a tobacco rod; and a filter according to the first aspect of the invention.
                In the case of a conventional cigarette, the aerosol forming substrate may comprise a
  10   tobacco-containing portion, sometimes referred to as a tobacco rod or cigarette rod. The
       cigarette therefore typically contains two sections: the tobacco-containing portion and the filter.
       Tipping paper typically surrounds the filter, which forms the mouth end of the cigarette. The
      tipping paper overlaps with the tobacco rod in order to hold the filter and tobacco rod together.
      The tobacco rod typically includes the paper wrapper in which the tobacco is wrapped and the
  15  adhesive holding the seams of the paper wrapper together. The tobacco rod has a first end
      which is attached to the filter and a second end which is lit or heated for smoking the tobacco.
      When the tobacco rod is lit or heated for smoking, the smoke travels from the lit end
      downstream to the filter end of the tobacco rod and further downstream through the filter.
                Examples of suitable types of tobacco materials that may be used include, but are not
 20   limited to, flue-cured tobacco, Burley tobacco, Maryland tobacco, Oriental tobacco, rare
      tobacco, specialty tobacco, blends thereof and the like. The tobacco material may be provided
      in any suitable form, including, but not limited to, tobacco lamina, processed tobacco materials,
      such as volume expanded or puffed tobacco, processed tobacco stems, such as cut-rolled or
      cut-puffed stems, reconstituted tobacco materials, blends thereof, and the like. Tobacco
 25   substitutes may also be used. In traditional cigarette manufacture, the tobacco is normally used
      in the form of cut filler, that is, in the form of shreds or strands cut into widths ranging from about
     2.5 mm to about 1.2 mm or even about 0.6 mm. The lengths of the strands range from between
     about 6 mm to about 75 mm. Slim cigarettes (having a diameter of about 6.0 mm or less) may
     not require expanded tobacco. Preferably, in a slim cigarette, less than about 20% of the total
30   tobacco in the cigarette is expanded tobacco.
                Preferably, the tobacco packing density in the smoking article is equal to or larger than
     about 200 mgcm- 3. More preferably, the tobacco packing density in the smoking article is equal
     to or larger than about 220 mgcm-3. Even more preferably, the tobacco packing density in the
     smoking article is equal to or larger than about 240 mgcm- 3. Slim cigarettes (having a diameter
35   of about 6.0 mm or less) may allow relatively high packing or filling densities of about 200
     mgcm-3

                                                         13
               Preferably, the smoking article further comprises tipping material attaching the tobacco
      rod or other aerosol forming substrate and the filter. The tipping material may provide additional
      strength and structural rigidity for the filter segment and reduce the chance of deformation on
      the outer surface of the filter segment at the location where the flavour delivery member is
  5   embedded in the filter material.
               The tipping material may include a ventilation zone comprising perforations through the
     tipping material. The degree of ventilation is preferably above about 60%, more preferably
     above about 70%, even more preferably above about 80%. The degree of ventilation is
     preferably less than about 95%, more preferably less than about 90%, even more preferably
 10  less than about 85%. The degree of ventilation is preferably between about 60% and about
     95%, more preferably between about 70% and about 90%, even more preferably between
     about 80% and about 85%. Ventilation may reduce both the particulate phase and the gas
     phase constituents of the mainstream smoke. However, smoking articles having high levels of
     ventilation may have RTD levels which are too low to be considered acceptable to a consumer.
 15  However, with the addition of the embedded flavour delivery member in the filter which,
     because of its relatively high cross sectional area results in a larger RTD, the filter may have the
     desired RTD level. If used with high ventilation, the flavour delivery member can increase RTD
     while both the particulate phase and the gas phase constituents of the mainstream smoke are
     reduced.
 20            The tipping material may include at least one row of perforations to provide ventilation
     of the mainstream smoke. If the filter includes a filter wrapper, preferably, the perforations
     extend through the filter wrapper. Alternatively, the filter wrapper may be permeable. The tipping
     material may be standard pre-perforated tipping material. Alternatively, the tipping material may
     be perforated (for example, using a laser) during the manufacturing process according to the
25  desired number, size and position of the perforations. The number, size and position of the
     perforations may be selected to provide the desired level of ventilation. The ventilation, in
    conjunction with the flavour delivery member and the filter material, produces the desired level
    of RTD. The RTD of the smoking article, before the liquid flavourant is released (for example,
    before the flavour delivery member is crushed), may be greater than about 130 mm H2 0.
30             Preferably, the ventilation zone is provided upstream of the flavour delivery member.
    This is to reduce the chance of liquid flavourant leaking out of the perforations after the liquid
    flavourant is released. In one embodiment, the filter has a length of about 27 mm, the centre of
    the flavour delivery member is located about 13.5 mm from the downstream end of the filter,
    and a row of perforations is provided about 18 mm from the downstream end of the filter. In that
35  case, if the filter segment is the only component of the filter, the row of perforations is located
    about 18 mm from the downstream end of the filter segment or, if the filter includes additional
    filter elements, the row of perforations is located about 18 mm from the downstream end of the

                                                         14
     filter, which may or may not be the downstream end of the filter segment. In another
     embodiment, the filter has a length of about 32 mm. The row of perforations may be provided at
     least about 11 mm from the downstream end of the filter.
               According to one embodiment, the smoking article further comprises tipping material
  5  attaching the tobacco substrate and the filter, the tipping material including a ventilation zone
     comprising perforations through the tipping material, the perforations being located upstream of
     the flavour delivery member.
               Preferably, the tipping material is substantially impermeable to the liquid flavourant of
     the flavour delivery member. Low permeability tipping material prevents the liquid flavourant
 10  permeating the tipping material and causing unsightly staining on the outside of the tipping
     material. Any suitable material may be used, for example, but not limited to, cellophane and
     polyvinylidene chloride.
               A third aspect of the invention is directed to the use of a flavour delivery member in a
    filter for a smoking article, the filter comprising a filter segment comprising filter material,
 15 wherein the filter segment has a cross sectional area measured perpendicular to the
     longitudinal direction of the filter, the flavour delivery member is embedded in the filter segment
    and surrounded on all sides by the filter material, the flavour delivery member comprises
    structural material enclosing liquid flavourant for flavouring smoke during smoking , wherein the
    flavour delivery member releases at least a portion of the liquid flavourant when the filter is
20  subjected to external force, and wherein a cross sectional area of the flavour delivery member
    measured perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the filter is about 30% or greater of the
    cross sectional area of the filter segment.
               According to a fourth aspect of the invention, there is provided a method for
    manufacturing filters for smoking articles, the method comprising the steps of: providing a
25  continuous rod of filter material having flavour delivery members embedded in the filter material
    and spaced apart in the longitudinal direction of the rod, wherein each flavour delivery member
    comprises structural material enclosing liquid flavourant, and wherein a cross sectional area of
    each flavour delivery member measured perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the rod is
    about 30% or greater of the cross sectional area of the rod; and cutting the continuous rod of
30  filter material at longitudinally spaced cut lines, to produce filter segments of filter material, each
    filter segment including a flavour delivery member embedded in the filter segment and
    surrounded on all sides by the filter material.
              The method of the fourth aspect of the invention is straightforward since the flavour
    delivery members are incorporated directly into the filter material. For example, the flavour
35  delivery members may be incorporated with fibres of filter material as they are bundled to form
    filter material tow. No separate step of inserting the flavour delivery member is required.

                                                         15
                 Features described in relation to one aspect of the invention may also be applicable to
       another aspect of the invention.
                 The invention will be further described, by way of example only, with reference to the
       accompanying drawings in which:
   5             Figure 1 is a perspective view of a smoking article according to an embodiment of the
       invention;
                 Figure 2 is a cross sectional view of a filter according to an embodiment of the
      invention; and
                Figure 3 is a cross sectional view along line Ill-Ill of Figure 2.
  10            Figure 1 is a perspective view of a smoking article 100 according to one embodiment of
      the invention. The smoking article 100 includes a generally cylindrical tobacco rod 101 and a
      generally cylindrical filter 103. The tobacco rod 101 and filter 103 are axially aligned in an end
      to-end relationship, preferably abutting one another. The tobacco rod includes an outer wrapper
      105 circumscribing the smoking material. The outer wrapper 105 may be a porous wrapping
  15  material or paper wrapper. The tobacco is preferably a shredded tobacco or tobacco cut filler.
      The tobacco rod 101 has an upstream, lit end 107 and a downstream end 109. The filter 103
      has an upstream end 111 and a downstream, mouth end 113. The upstream end 111 of the
     filter 103 is adjacent the downstream end 109 of the tobacco rod 101. The filter material of the
     filter 103 is wrapped in a filter wrapper (not shown). Although not visible in Figure 1, a flavour
 20  delivery member in the form of a capsule is embedded in the filter 103.
                The filter 103 is attached to the tobacco rod 101 by tipping material 115 which
     circumscribes the entire length of the filter 103 and an adjacent region of the tobacco rod 101.
     The tipping material 115 is shown partially removed from the smoking article in Figure 1, for
     clarity. The tipping material 115 is typically a paper like product. However, any suitable material
25   can be used. Preferably, the tipping material comprises a material which is substantially
     impermeable to the liquid flavourant in the capsule. In this embodiment, the tipping material 115
     includes a circumferential row of perforations 117 aligned with the filter 103. The perforations
     are provided for ventilation of the mainstream smoke, and are located upstream of the capsule
     (not shown) embedded in the filter 103.
30             In this specification, the "upstream" and "downstream" relative positions between
     smoking article components are described in relation to the direction of mainstream smoke as it
     is drawn from the tobacco rod 101 and through the filter 103.
               Figure 2 is a cross sectional view of filter 103 of Figure 1 according to an embodiment
     of the invention. Figure 3 is a cross sectional view along line 111-I11 of Figure 2. In Figures 2 and
35   3, the filter 103 comprises a filter segment 201 of filter material 203. The filter 103 further
     comprises a flavour delivery member in the form of spherical capsule 205.

                                                     16
               In the embodiment of Figures 2 and 3, the capsule 205 is embedded in the filter
   segment 201 and is surrounded on all sides by the filter material 203. In this embodiment, the
   capsule comprises an outer shell and an inner core, and the inner core contains a liquid
   flavourant. The liquid flavourant is for flavouring smoke during smoking of a smoking article
 5 provided with the filter. The capsule 205 releases at least a portion of the liquid flavourant when
   the filter is subjected to external force, for example by squeezing by a consumer. In the
   embodiment shown in Figures 2 and 3, the capsule is generally spherical, with a substantially
   continuous outer shell containing the liquid flavourant.
               As shown in Figure 3, capsule 205 has a diameter 301, and filter segment 201 has a
10 diameter 303 (inside the filter wrapper). The cross sectional area of capsule 205 measured in a
   direction perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the filter is therefore circular area
    )r (301 )2  Similarly, the cross sectional area of filter segment 201 measured in a direction
   perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the filter is circular area w (303)2 . Therefore, the
   cross sectional area of the capsule 205 as a percentage of the cross sectional area of the filter
                       w(301) 2    301 2
15 segment 201 is              2(      )~.
                       7(303)      303
   Example 1
               According to a first example of the invention, the diameter 301 of the capsule 205 is
   about 3.5 mm, the diameter 303 of the filter segment 201 inside the filter wrapper is about 6.41
20 mm and the diameter of the filter segment 201 outside the filter wrapper is about 7.21 mm. The
   diameter of the cigarette (which may be referred to as a slim cigarette) containing the filter is
   about 7.35 mm. In this embodiment, the cross sectional area of the capsule is about 30% of the
   cross sectional area of the filter segment. In this embodiment, the cigarette may have a length
   of about 97 mm or about 83 mm. In this embodiment, the filter may have a length of about 27
25 mm or about 32 mm, and the tipping paper may have a length of about 32 mm or about 36 mm.
   A circumferential row of perforations may be provided at least about 11 mm, preferably about 18
   mm, from the mouth end, and the centre of the capsule may be about 13.5 mm from the mouth
   end.
30 Example 2
               According to a second example of the invention, the diameter 301 of the capsule 205 is
   about 3.5 mm, the diameter 303 of the filter segment 201 inside the filter wrapper is about 6.19
   mm and the diameter of the filter segment 201 outside the filter wrapper is about 6.99 mm. The
   diameter of the cigarette (which may be referred to as a slim cigarette) containing the filter is
35 about 7.10 mm. In this embodiment, the cross sectional area of the capsule is about 32% of the
   cross sectional area of the filter segment. In this embodiment, the cigarette may have a length

                                                     17
     of about 97 mm or about 83 mm. In this embodiment, the filter may have a length of about 27
     mm or about 32 mm, and the tipping paper may have a length of about 32 mm or about 36 mm.
    A circumferential row of perforations may be provided at least about 11 mm, preferably about 18
     mm, from the mouth end, and the centre of the capsule may be about 13.5 mm from the mouth
  5  end.
     Example 3
               According to a third example of the invention, the diameter 301 of the capsule 205 is
    about 3.5 mm, the diameter 303 of the filter segment 201 inside the filter wrapper is about 6.09
 10  mm and the diameter of the filter segment 201 outside the filter wrapper is about 6.89 mm. The
    diameter of the cigarette (which may be referred to as a slim cigarette) containing the filter is
    about 7.00 mm. In this embodiment, the cross sectional area of the capsule is about 33% of the
    cross sectional area of the filter segment. In this embodiment, the cigarette may have a length
    of about 97 mm or about 83 mm. In this embodiment, the filter may have a length of about 27
15  mm or about 32 mm, and the tipping paper may have a length of about 32 mm or about 36 mm.
    A circumferential row of perforations may be provided at least about 11 mm, preferably about 18
    mm, from the mouth end, and the centre of the capsule may be about 13.5 mm from the mouth
    end.
20  Example 4
               According to a fourth example of the invention, the diameter 301 of the capsule 205 is
    about 3.2 mm, the diameter 303 of the filter segment 201 inside the filter wrapper is about 4.55
    mm and the diameter of the filter segment 201 outside the filter wrapper is about 5.35 mm. The
    diameter of the cigarette (which may be referred to as a super slim cigarette) containing the
25  filter is about 5.41 mm. In this embodiment, the cross sectional area of the capsule is about
    49% of the cross sectional area of the filter segment. In this embodiment, the cigarette may
    have a length of about 97 mm or about 83 mm. In this embodiment, the filter may have a length
    of about 27 mm or about 32 mm, and the tipping paper may have a length of about 32 mm or
    about 36 mm. A circumferential row of perforations may be provided at least about 11 mm,
30  preferably about 18 mm, from the mouth end, and the centre of the capsule may be about 13.5
    mm from the mouth end.
    Example 5
               According to a fifth example of the invention, the diameter 301 of the capsule 205 is
35  about 3.0 mm, the diameter 303 of the filter segment 201 inside the filter wrapper is about 3.84
    mm and the diameter of the filter segment 201 outside the filter wrapper is about 4.64 mm. The
    diameter of the cigarette (which may be referred to as a micro slim cigarette) containing the filter

                                                   18
is about 4.70 mm. In this embodiment, the cross sectional area of the capsule is about 61% of
the cross sectional area of the filter segment. In this embodiment, the cigarette may have a
length of about 97 mm or about 83 mm. In this embodiment, the filter may have a length of
about 27 mm or about 32 mm, and the tipping paper may have a length of about 32 mm or
about 36 mm. A circumferential row of perforations may be provided at least about 11 mm,
preferably about 18 mm, from the mouth end, and the centre of the capsule may be about 13.5
mm from the mouth end.
Example 6
          According to a sixth example of the invention, the diameter 301 of the capsule 205 is
about 3.2 mm, the diameter 303 of the filter segment 201 inside the filter wrapper is about 3.84
mm and the diameter of the filter segment 201 outside the filter wrapper is about 4.64 mm. The
diameter of the cigarette (which may be referred to as a micro slim cigarette) containing the filter
is about 4.70 mm. In this embodiment, the cross sectional area of the capsule is about 69% of
the cross sectional area of the filter segment. In this embodiment, the cigarette may have a
length of about 97 mm or about 83 mm. In this embodiment, the filter may have a length of
about 27 mm or about 32 mm, and the tipping paper may have a length of about 32 mm or
about 36 mm. A circumferential row of perforations may be provided at least about 11 mm,
preferably about 18 mm, from the mouth end, and the centre of the capsule may be about 13.5
mm from the mouth end.
           In this specification, the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprising" or similar terms
are intended to mean a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a system, method or apparatus that
comprises a list of elements does not include those elements solely, but may well include other
elements not listed.
           The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common general
knowledge.
         This application is a divisional application from Australian Application 2014242898. The
full disclosure of AU 2014242898 is incorporated herein by reference.
3522201v

                                                         19
   Claims
   1.       A filter for a smoking article, the filter comprising:
            a filter segment comprising filter material, the filter segment having a cross sectional
 5 area measured perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the filter; and
            a flavour delivery member embedded in the filter segment and surrounded on all sides
   by the filter material, the flavour delivery member comprising structural material enclosing liquid
   flavourant for flavouring smoke during smoking, wherein the flavour delivery member releases
   at least a portion of the liquid flavourant when the filter is subjected to external force;
10          wherein a cross sectional area of the flavour delivery member measured perpendicular
   to the longitudinal direction of the filter is about 30%, or greater, of the cross sectional area of
   the filter segment, and
            wherein the filter material of the filter segment comprises fibres of between about 5.0
   and about 12.0 denier per filament and between about 10000 and about 35000 total denier.
15
   2.       A filter according to claim 1, wherein the filter has a diameter of less than about 6.5 mm.
   3.       A filter according to any preceding claim, wherein the cross sectional area of the flavour
   delivery member measured perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the filter is about 45%,
20 or greater, of the cross sectional area of the filter segment.
   4.       A filter according to any preceding claim,, wherein the cross sectional area of the flavour
   delivery member measured perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the filter is about 55%,
   or greater, of the cross sectional area of the filter segment.
25
   5.       A filter according to any preceding claim, wherein the flavour delivery member comprises
   a capsule.
   6.       A filter according to claim 5, wherein the capsule has a burst strength of between about
30 5 N and about 24 N.
   7.       A filter according to any preceding claim, wherein the filter material comprises fibres of
   between about 5.0 and about 12.0 denier per filament and between about 12000 and about
   30000 total denier.
35
   8.       A filter according to any preceding claim, wherein the filter segment and the flavour
   delivery member are circular in cross section, the diameter of the filter segment is between

                                                       20
   about 3.6 mm and about 6.5 mm and the diameter of the flavour delivery member is between
   about 2.5 mm and about 4.5 mm.
   9.       A filter according to any preceding claim, wherein the filter segment and the flavour
 5 delivery member are circular in cross section, the diameter of the filter segment is between
   about 3.6 mm and about 5.5 mm and the diameter of the flavour delivery member is between
   about 3.0 mm and about 3.5 mm.
   10.      A filter according to claim 8, wherein the filter segment and the flavour delivery member
10 are circular in cross section, the diameter of the filter segment is between about 3.6 mm and
   about 4.5 mm and the diameter of the flavour delivery member is between about 3.0 mm and
   about 3.5 mm.
   11.      A smoking article comprising:
15          a tobacco substrate; and
            a filter according to any preceding claim.
   12.      A smoking article according to claim 11, wherein the tobacco substrate is a tobacco rod.
20 13.      A smoking article according to claim 11 or claim 12, further comprising tipping material
   attaching the tobacco substrate and the filter, the tipping material including a ventilation zone
   comprising perforations through the tipping material, the perforations being located upstream of
   the flavour delivery member.
25 14.      A smoking article according to claim 13, wherein the tipping material is substantially
   impermeable to the liquid flavourant of the flavour delivery member.
   15.      A smoking article according to any of claims 11 to 14, wherein the RTD of the smoking
   article, before the liquid flavourant is released, is greater than about 130 mm H20.
30

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
