                                                    26
                                              ABSTRACT
          The invention relates to the construction of a sealed connection between an elastomeric or
synthetic polymer flexible pipe or hose and a metallic coupling member (13).            The coupling
member surrounds an armour layer (9) at a free end of the flexible pipe or hose. A sealing area (3)
is defined by a recessed portion of the pipe coupling 13 into which a sealing material (15, 23) is
introduced. An inner liner layer (1) of the flexible pipe or hose may extend into the sealing area (3)
where it is bonded to the sealing material. The sealing material (15) and the inner liner layer (1)
may each be comprised of a semi-crystalline thermoplastic material. Furthermore, a reinforcement
material (2) be provided in the inner liner layer (1). In one embodiment (Figs. 1 to 5) the sealing
material (15) is injected into the sealing area (3). In an alternative embodiment (Figs. 6 to 12b) the
sealing material (23) is provided in the form of meltable ring which fits into the sealing area (3)
prior to the fitting of the coupling member (13'), and is then activated by an induction heater to
effect the sealed connection.

    8/13
                r-j
 U7
       -T]
r"D
           X mm
           X mm

                                                     1
                              FLEXIBLE PIPE AND COUPLING THEREFOR
  Technical Field
  The present invention relates to a flexible pipe or hose for high pressure or high pressure/high
  temperature applications and particularly, though not exclusively, to the construction of a sealed
  connection between the pipe or hose and a metallic coupling member. In one embodiment of the
  invention, a reinforcement means is incorporated into an inner liner of the flexible pipe or hose.
  The flexible pipe or hose of the present invention is primarily intended to be suitable for the
  transportation of hydrocarbon liquids or gases and/or water. Also disclosed are methods for
  manufacturing a flexible pipe or hose having the aforementioned characteristics. Whilst the terms
  "pipe"and "hose" are generally used synonymously throughout the present disclosure, a pipe may
  be understood as being relatively less flexible than a hose where the context so allows.
  Background of the Invention
  Flexible pipes or hoses are used in both onshore and offshore applications in the field of oil and gas
  exploration primarily for the transportation of fluids and gases.       The term 'flexible" is to be
  understood to exclude substantially rigid constructions, such as steel pipes. Flexible pipes or hoses
  are typically used to transport pressurised, high temperature crude oil and gas from a seabed based
  wellhead to a floating platform or processing facility.      However, they are equally suitable for
  carrying a wide range of injection or service fluids aimed at enhancing or maintaining production
  output. Consequently, flexible pipes hoses are exposed to wide variations in both internal and
  external pressure and temperature.
  Typical pipe or hose pressure and temperature ratings are disclosed in, e.g., American Petroleum
  Institute (API) standard 7K-5th Edition-June 2010, tiled 'Drilling and Well Servicing Equipment'
  (see paragraphs 9.6.1, 9.6.3.1 and Table 9). Further guidance on the pressure and/or temperature
  conditions experienced in flexible pipes or hoses (typically of diameter of 3" and above) can be
  found in API standards, 16C (see Tables 3.4.1, 3.4.2, 3.4.3 and 3.5.2.1), OCIMF, 17J and 17K. In
  moderate diameter hoses the pressure rating will typically be several hundred bar (e.g. of the order
  of 10 to over 100 MPa.), and will decrease with increasing hose diameter. Flexible pipes or hoses
  must be able to withstand typical temperature conditions of approximately -40oC to +132oC
  depending upon the application.
0 Flexible pipes can be divided into two categories bonded and unbonded. Unbonded flexible pipes
  typically comprise a number of metallic armour layers and polymeric anti-wear/anti-friction layers
  whereby a degree of relative slippage between at least two adjacent layers is possible. Even where
  one layer is embedded within another, the non-bonded characteristics can be demonstrated by a

                                                      2
  simple pull out test of, for example, a steel cord reinforcement layer out of its surrounding polymer
  matrix. This test is based on an adapted version of the 'Standard Test Method for Rubber
  Property-Adhesion to Steel Cord' (ASTMD 2229-85)'.
  Bonded pipes which are commonly used for a range of similar applications as non-bonded
  pipes-preclude any slippage between adjacent layers.         Bonded pipes employ either an inner
  elastomeric or thermoplastic liner pipe that is sometimes extruded on or bonded to an underlying
  metal carcass and surrounded by an armour layer. The entire pipe can be considered to be a
  composite of bonded metal cable or wire (either brass-coated or galvanised) and elastomeric
  layers, with the possible inclusion of a thermoplastic inner liner layer as noted below. Bonded
  pipes are tested to ensure that they are capable of withstanding rapid gas decompression events
  which can cause a blistering phenomenon in their innermost layers. Bonded flexible pipe types can
  be used as flexible risers, loading hoses or hoses for exploration (rotary hoses, choke and kill hoses,
  mud and cement hoses).
  In order to avoid liquid and gas permeation losses, a thermoplastic pipe - or a pipe having a
  thermoplastic inner liner - is often employed so as to enhance its overall sealing ability. However,
  some fluids or gases can be very aggressive and cause rapid degradation of certain polymers or
  plastics liners, especially at higher temperatures. To address this problem, it is known to employ
  more chemically inert polymer types within the pipe and/or its inner liner (if present) such as
  cross-linked polyethylene (PEX), polyamide 11/12 (PAl1/PA12), ethylene tetrafluoroethylene
  (ETFE), polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) or polyether ether ketone (PEEK). Whilst these engineered
  polymers offer many advantages in terms of temperature resistance, sour corrosion resistance,
  anti-cracking behaviour, low gas/liquid permeability etc., they are known to be less effective in
  ensuring a good quality seal with a hose coupling (i.e. either a pipe-to-pipe or pipe-to-end-fitting
  connection). Often these liners are reinforced with an inner (stainless steel) carcass.
5 To ensure a reliable seal between a pipe, or an inner liner thereof, and a coupling (i.e. either a
  pipe-to-pipe or pipe-to-end-fitting connection) all 'leakage paths' must be eliminated. A leakage
  path is any path allowing pressurized fluid or gas to equalise with a lower pressure state. Fabrics,
  air pockets, armouring cables or any continuous bonding failure between adjacent layers or
  materials within the pipe construction can all give rise to such a 'leakage path' causing localised
0 gas/liquid accumulations leading to blistering and, ultimately, failure of the flexible pipe. A secure
  and effective seal is a fundamental safety requirement for high pressure, high temperature bonded
  pipes. To the best knowledge of the inventor, all manufacturers of bonded hoses have to date
  employed an elastomer-based sealing compound, e.g. such as that disclosed in GB2329439B (Antal
  et al).

                                                     3
  Elastomers constitute the most flexible, deformable and elastic of the three classes of the
  non-metallic polymer materials. A behavioural characteristic of all elastomers is that they are
  inherently permeable to gases and vapours.            When used within a flexible pipe for high
  temperature/high pressure applications, transmission of dissolved gases into microvoids within
  the elastomeric structure make the pipe more prone to rupture during a rapid depressurisation
  event, i.e. whereby bubbles form within the microvoids when pressure externally of the pipe is lost.
  This type of pipe failure is known as 'explosive decompression' and results in a catastrophic failure
  of the pipe seal and/or lining.
  In an effort to minimise instances of 'explosive decompression',             flexible pipes for high
  temperature/high pressure applications typically employ an inner thermoplastic liner to reduce the
  likelihood of liquid/gas permeation; and an inner strip-wound steel carcass located radially inside
  the thermoplastic liner to reduce the likelihood of blistering. Whilst such preventative measures
  are generally effective along the length of a pipe, the sealed connection between a pipe and its
  coupling (i.e. either a pipe-to-pipe or pipe-to-end-fitting connection) is an area which remains the
  subject of sealing stresses.    Such stresses arise from mechanically applied compression and/or
  compression arising from the hydrostatic pressure of the fluid being sealed.
  In terms of their functional properties, elastomers are soft, substantially elastic, and substantially
  incompressible.    Such characteristics make elastomers suitable for use as primary seals at the
  interface of a pipe and its coupling. The inherent incompressibility of elastomers means that high
  stresses can be resisted, and high pressures can be accommodated, when the elastomer material is
  highly constrained. Elastomeric seals are therefore an automatic choice for high temperature/high
  pressure applications. Nevertheless, several modes of elastomeric failure or deterioration are well
  documented, as summarised in Tables 1 and 2 in the Health & Safety Executive Report No. 320
  (2005) titled 'Elastomersfor fluid containment in offshore oil and gas production: Guidelines and
5 review' (ISBN 0 7176 2969 4). In Table 1, a failure mode of "Rapid gas decompression or explosive
  decompression (ED)" is described as follows "Gas dissolved in the elastomer under high pressure
  conditions comes out of solution and forms bubbles in the material when the external pressure is lost.
  The bubbles may grow sufficiently to cause fracture of the material (e.g. seals) or of an interface
  (e.g. between the liner and adjacentlayer in a hose)".
0 In view of the known modes of elastomeric failure or deterioration, only one of which is described
  above, the present inventor has concluded that there is a requirement for alternative flexible pipe
  arrangements providing a recognisable improvement over current sealing performance whilst
  simplifying overall pipe construction and methods of manufacture.               In particular, further
  improvements in terms of the ability of a flexible pipe or hose and any associated coupling to
5 withstand hostile conditions, over a longer period, would be highly desirable.

                                                       4
  Summary of the Invention
  According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a synthetic polymer flexible
  pipe comprising:
            an armour layer surrounding an end of the flexible pipe;
            a pipe coupling disposed at the end of the pipe and surrounding the armour layer;
            a sealing area defined by a recessed portion of the pipe coupling; and
            a sealing material disposed in the sealing area;
            wherein said pipe end extends into the sealing area and is bonded to the sealing material,
  and characterised in that the sealing material is non-elastomeric and both the sealing material and
  the flexible pipe comprise the same class of synthetic polymer selected from the group comprising
  thermoplastics and thermosets.
  Optionally, the flexible pipe and the sealing material each comprise a semi-crystalline thermoplastic
  material.
  In one embodiment, the sealing material is provided as an injectable fluid or molten synthetic
  polymer.
  In an alternative embodiment, the sealing material is provided as a solid meltable seal.
  Optionally, the solid meltable seal comprises metallic particles selected from one or more the group
  comprising fibres, coarse grains, chips, or fine powder.
  Optionally, different sizes of metallic particles are distributed throughout the solid meltable seal.
  Optionally, only an inner liner layer of the flexible pipe comprises a semi-crystalline thermoplastic
  material which extends into the sealing area.
  Optionally, a reinforcement material is provided within the inner liner layer but is not bonded to its
  semi-crystalline thermoplastic material.
  Alternatively, a reinforcement material is provided within the inner liner layer which is fully
5 bonded to its semi-crystalline thermoplastic material by means of an adhesive tie layer.
  Optionally, the reinforcement material comprises helically wound steel cord and/or steel wires.
  Optionally, two or more separate helically wound steel cord and/or steel wires are arranged in an
  interlocking fashion.

                                                      S
  Optionally, the reinforcement material is arranged within the inner liner layer in a wound fashion
  at an angle of between 25 degrees and 85 degrees relative to the longitudinal axis of the flexible
  pipe.
  Optionally, the reinforcement material comprises one or more fibre strands and/or rovings
  selected from the list comprising glass fibres, carbon fibres, UHmwPE (ultra-high molecular weight
  polyethylene) fibres and aramid fibres.
  Optionally, an electrical heating element is provided within the inner liner layer.
  Optionally, the electrical heating element comprises one or more materials selected from the list
  comprising conductive wires, conductive cables, conductive fabrics or conductive composites.
  Optionally, the semi-crystalline thermoplastic material of the inner liner layer is directly bonded to
  the semi-crystalline thermoplastic material of the sealing material by a polymer-to-polymer bond.
  Optionally, the semi-crystalline thermoplastic material of the sealing material is directly bonded to
  the pipe coupling by a polymer-to-metal bond.
  Alternatively, the semi-crystalline thermoplastic material of the sealing material is indirectly
  bonded to the inner liner layer and/or the pipe coupling via an intermediate adhesive tie layer.
  Optionally, the adhesive tie layer also comprises a semi-crystalline thermoplastic material.
  Optionally, the semi-crystalline thermoplastic material of the inner liner layer and/or sealing
  material is a polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) material.
  Alternatively, the semi-crystalline thermoplastic material of the inner liner layer and/or sealing
0 material is a cross-linked polyethylene (PEX) material.
  Alternatively, the semi-crystalline thermoplastic material of the inner liner layer and/or sealing
  material is a perfluoroalkoxy (PFA) material.
  Optionally, the pipe coupling is formed from a metal or a metal alloy.
  Optionally, a cylindrical sleeve member is disposed beneath the inner liner at the end of the flexible
5 pipe and cooperates with the pipe coupling proximate the sealing area to support a portion of the
  inner liner layer extending into the sealing area.
  Optionally, an outer surface of the cylindrical sleeve member is inclined at an acute angle relative to
  the central longitudinal axis of the pipe.
  Optionally, the inner liner layer is coupled to the pipe coupling by a crimped or swaged connection.

                                                       6
  According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of manufacturing
  a synthetic polymer flexible pipe, comprising the steps of:
            providing a pipe coupling comprising a recessed portion defining a sealing area;
            providing a flexible pipe and an armour layer surrounding the pipe;
            providing a sealing material for introduction into the sealing area;
            fitting the pipe coupling to the end of the hose; and
            establishing a permanent polymer-to-polymer and polymer-to-metal               chemical bond
  within the sealing area between said pipe end and the sealing material; and the pipe coupling and
  the sealing material respectively;
            wherein the sealing material is non-elastomeric and both the sealing material and at least
  a portion of the flexible pipe are composed of the same class of synthetic polymer selected from the
  group comprising thermoplastics and thermosets.
  Optionally, the method includes the further step of providing a reinforcement means within the
  flexible pipe.
  Optionally, a supporting member is introduced beneath an inner surface of said pipe end before or
  after the step of fitting the pipe coupling to the pipe end.
  In one embodiment, the supporting member is introduced prior to fitting the pipe coupling so as to
  expand the diameter of the pipe end, the expanded portion being supported proximate the sealing
  area once the pipe coupling is fitted.
  Optionally, the step of establishing a permanent chemical bond within the sealing area involves
  introducing the sealing material into the sealing area by injection through a passage linking the
  sealing area to the exterior of the pipe coupling.
  In an alternative embodiment, the step of establishing a permanent chemical bond within the
  sealing area involves introducing the sealing material into the sealing area by mounting a solid
  meltable seal onto the pipe, proximate the pipe end, before fitting the pipe coupling to the pipe end.
  Optionally, the step of fitting the pipe coupling to the pipe end is followed by the step of introducing
  the supporting member beneath an inner surface of said pipe end, the supporting member
  incorporating a heater which melts the solid meltable seal within the sealing area.
  Optionally, the step of introducing the supporting member involves employing an inflatable
0 supporting member which is temporarily inflated against the inner surface of said pipe end whilst
  the permanent chemical bond is established.

                                                     7
  Alternatively, the step of introducing the supporting member is followed by permanently swaging it
  against the inner surface of said pipe end.
  Optionally, the step of melting the solid meltable seal within the sealing area is accompanied by the
  step of applying a vacuum to remove substantially all air from the sealing area.
  Optionally, the steps of providing a flexible pipe and providing a sealing material each include
  providing a pipe and sealing material comprising a semi-crystalline thermoplastic material.
  Optionally, the step of establishing a permanent chemical bond involves cooling the sealing
  material.
  According to a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided an elastomeric flexible hose
  comprising:
            a semi-crystalline thermoplastic inner liner layer;
            an armour layer surrounding the inner liner layer at an end of the flexible hose;
            a hose coupling disposed at the end of the hose and surrounding the armour layer;
            a sealing area defined by a recessed portion of the hose coupling; and
            a semi-crystalline thermoplastic sealing material, or a cross-linked elastomeric sealing
  material, disposed in the sealing area;
            wherein a portion of the inner liner layer at said hose end extends into the sealing area
  and is bonded to the sealing material, and characterised in that a reinforcement material is
  provided within the inner liner layer.
  Optionally, the reinforcement material is not bonded to the semi-crystalline thermoplastic material.
  Optionally, the reinforcement material comprises helically wound steel cord and/or steel wires.
  Optionally, two or more separate helically wound steel cord and/or steel wires are arranged in an
  interlocking fashion.
  Optionally, the reinforcement material is arranged within the inner liner layer in a wound fashion
5 at an angle of between 25 degrees and 85 degrees relative to the longitudinal axis of the flexible
  hose.
  Optionally, the reinforcement material comprises one or more fibre strands and/or rovings
  selected from the list comprising glass fibres, carbon fibres, UHmwPE (ultra-high molecular weight
  polyethylene) fibres and aramid fibres.
0 Optionally, an electrical heating element is provided within the inner liner layer.

                                                       8
  Optionally, a cylindrical sleeve member is disposed beneath the inner liner at the end of the flexible
  hose and cooperates with the hose coupling proximate the sealing area to support a portion of the
  inner liner layer which extends into the sealing area.
  In one embodiment, the sealing material is provided as an injectable fluid or molten synthetic
  polymer.
  In an alternative embodiment, the sealing material is provided as a solid meltable seal.
  Optionally, the solid meltable seal comprises metallic particles selected from one or more the group
  comprising fibres, coarse grains, chips, or fine powder.
  Optionally, different sizes of metallic particles are distributed throughout the solid meltable seal.
  Optionally, the inner liner layer is coupled to the hose coupling by a crimped or swaged connection.
  Optionally, all adjacent layers of the flexible hose are partially or fully bonded in a permanent
  connection.
  Optionally, an outer cover layer surrounds the armour layer and comprises a semi-crystalline
  thermoplastic material.
  Optionally, a reinforcement material is provided within the outer cover layer.
  Optionally, the reinforcement material comprises one or more materials selected from the list
  comprising steel cord, steel strands, fibre strands and fibre rovings.
  Optionally, the fibre strands or rovings comprise one or more fibres selected from the list
  comprising glass fibres, carbon fibres, UHmwPE (ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene) fibres
0 and aramid fibres.
  Optionally, the reinforcement material within the outer cover is aligned in a unidirectional,
  bi-directional or multi-directional manner.
  Optionally, the reinforcement material within the outer cover layer is provided within a fabric or a
  plied tape.
5 Optionally, a stainless steel interlock cover layer surrounds the exterior of the flexible hose.
  According to a fourth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of manufacturing
  an elastomeric flexible hose, comprising the steps of:
            providing a hose coupling comprising a recessed portion defining a sealing area;

                                                        9
             providing a hose comprising a semi-crystalline thermoplastic inner liner layer, and an
  armour layer surrounding the inner liner layer at an end of the flexible hose;
             providing a semi-crystalline thermoplastic sealing material, or a cross-linked elastomeric
  sealing material, for introduction into the sealing area;
             providing a reinforcement material within the inner liner layer;
             fitting the pipe coupling to the end of the hose; and
             establishing a permanent chemical bond within the sealing area between the hose end and
  the sealing material; and the hose coupling and the sealing material respectively.
  Optionally, the step of establishing a permanent chemical bond within the sealing area involves
  introducing the sealing material into the sealing area by mounting a solid meltable seal proximate
  the hose end before fitting the hose coupling to the hose end.
  Optionally, the step of fitting the hose coupling to the hose end is followed by the step of
  introducing a supporting member beneath an inner surface of said hose end, the supporting
  member incorporating a heater which melts the solid meltable seal within the sealing area.
  Optionally, the step of introducing the supporting member involves employing an inflatable
  supporting member which is temporarily inflated against the inner surface of said hose end whilst
  the permanent chemical bond is established.
  Alternatively, the step of introducing a supporting member is followed by permanently swaging it
  against the inner surface of said hose end.
  Optionally, the step of melting the solid meltable seal within the sealing area is accompanied by the
  step of applying a vacuum to remove substantially all air from the sealing area.
  Use of the words "precededby", 'followed by", "before", "after"are not necessarily intended to mean
  immediately "precededby" etc., unless the context so demands.
  Embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of example only, with
5 reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
  Fig. 1 is a cross-sectional schematic view showing a pipe or hose coupling fitted over the end of a
  flexible pipe or hose;
  Fig. 2a is a cross-sectional schematic view showing the sealing area of Fig. 1 in more detail;
  Fig. 2b is a cross-sectional schematic view showing the sealing area of Fig. 2a filled with a
0 non-elastomeric sealing material;

                                                   10
  Fig. 3a is a cross-sectional schematic view showing an alternative sealing area allowing for more
  mechanical grip;
  Fig. 3b is a cross-sectional schematic view showing the alternative sealing area of Fig. 3a filled with
  a non-elastomeric sealing material;
  Fig. 4a is a cross-sectional schematic view showing the lay angle of reinforcement within the inner
  liner;
  Fig. 4b is a cross-sectional schematic view showing an alternative lay angle and a heating means
  within the inner liner;
  Fig. 5 is a cross-sectional schematic view showing a hose coupling fitted over the end of a flexible
  pipe or hose having an alternative outer reinforcement structure;
  Fig. 6 is a cross-sectional schematic view showing a pipe or hose build-up whereby the constituent
  layers have been progressively stripped back towards the pipe/hose end in preparation for fitting a
  pipe/hose coupling thereto;
  Fig. 7 is a cross-sectional schematic view showing a pipe or hose build-up of Fig. 6 with a meltable
  sealing ring mounted to its free end;
  Fig. 8a is a cross-sectional schematic view showing a pipe or hose coupling fitted over the end of the
  meltable sealing ring of Fig. 7;
  Fig. 8b is a cross-sectional schematic view showing a pipe or hose coupling fitted over the end of an
  alternative L-shaped meltable sealing ring;
0 Fig. 9 is a cross-sectional schematic view corresponding to Fig. 8a showing a supporting member
  incorporating an induction heater;
  Fig. 10 is a cross-sectional schematic view corresponding to Fig. 8a showing the establishment of
  chemical bond in the sealing area after removal of the supporting member shown in Fig. 9;
  Fig. 11a is a cross-sectional schematic view showing the sealing area of Fig. 8a in more detail;
S Fig. 11b is a cross-sectional schematic view showing the sealing area of Fig. 10 in more detail;
  Fig. 12a is a cross-sectional schematic view showing the sealing area of Fig. 8b in more detail prior
  to activation of an induction heater; and
  Fig. 12b is a cross-sectional schematic view showing the sealing area of Fig. 8b in more detail after
  activation of an induction heater.

                                                       11
  Fig. 1 shows a schematic cross-sectional view of an end of a flexible hose surrounded by an annular
  hose coupling 13. The innermost layer of the flexible hose is a semi-crystalline polymer inner liner
  1 within which is embedded a reinforcement material 2.             In some embodiments (not shown) a
  flexible stainless steel interlock or carcass may be disposed radially within (i.e. beneath) the inner
  liner 1 and chemically bonded or crimped thereto to form the innermost layer.
  The inner liner 1 may be formed from any suitable type of semi crystalline thermoplastic,
  e.g. polymers derived from polyolefins. Possible options include, but are not necessarily limited to
  polypropylene;      fully    or   partially    cross-linked     polyethylene;   polyamides    such  as
  polyamide-polyimide;       polyimide (PI)    (PA6, PA11 or PA12); polyurethanes (PU); polyureas;
  polyesters; polyacetals; polyethers such as polyethersulphone (PES); polyoxides; polysulfides such
  as polyphenylene sulphide (PPS); polysulphones such as polyarylsulphone (PAS); polyacrylates;
  polyethylene     terephtalate (PET); polyether-ether-ketones (PEEK); polyvinyls; polyacrylonitrils;
  polyeterketoneketone (PEKK).         Further options include co-polymers of the foregoing such as
  fluorous polymers; homo-polymers or copolymers of, for example, trifluorethylene (VF3) or
  tetrafluoroethylene; coplolymers or terpolymers comprising two or more different members
  selected   from VF2,      VF3,   chlorotrifluorethylene,   tetrafluoroethylene,  hexafluoropropene  or
  hexafluoroethylene; polymer blends comprising one or more of the above mentioned polymers and
  composite materials, such as an abovementioned polymer compounded with reinforcement fibres
  such as glass fibers and/or carbon fibers and/or aramid fibers. The choice of semi crystalline
  thermoplastic for a given application will depend on the specific expected service conditions of the
  flexible pipe and perhaps other considerations such as ease of manufacture and cost.
  The inner liner 1 is surrounded by a consolidating fabric layer 8. The fabric layer 8 which may
  include rubber is surrounded by a steel sleeve 7 which increases in thickness towards the end of
  the flexible hose. The steel sleeve 7 is surrounded by one or more armour layers 9 comprising of,
5 for example, one or more helically wound layers of steel cord, steel wires or glass/carbon/aramid
  fibre strands or rovings embedded within a rubber cushioning layer 10. The armour layers 9 and
  cushioning layers 10 may be provided in the form of tape which is wound around the inner liner 1
  in one or more plies. Different plies may be wound at different winding angles.
  If present, the reinforcement material 2 within the inner liner 1 may take the form of helically
0 wound steel cord, steel wires or fibre strands or rovings with a winding angle of between
  25 degrees and 85 degrees relative to the longitudinal axis 100 of the flexible hose (see Fig. 4a).
  Preferably, the winding angle will be as close as possible to the neutral angle of 54-55 degrees. The
  winding angle may be adjusted depending on particular requirements. However, the winding angle
  will normally not be less than 25 degrees or more than 85 degrees to ensure controlled bending
5 behaviour. Exceptionally, the winding angle may be less than 25 degrees if the application requires

                                                     12
  the inner liner 1 to be collapsible (see Fig. 4b). In that specific case the embedded reinforcement
  layers act as a stiffener for the inner liner 1 limiting the elongation to a value of less than the
  elongation threshold of the inner liner's thermoplastic material. In one embodiment, one or more
  additional layers of the same reinforcement material 2 may be would at different angles with
  compatible thermoplastic materials over-extruded to fully embed the respective additional
  reinforcement layers.
  The steel cord and/or steel wires may be wound such that adjacent windings are interlocked. The
  reinforcement material 2 may also comprise fibre strands and/or rovings selected from the list
  comprising glass fibres, carbon fibres, UHmwPE (ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene) fibres
  (Dyneema) and aramid fibres.          It will be understood that this list is non-exclusive.      The
  reinforcement material may be a textile weave or fabric made up of one or more of the
  aforementioned materials. The reinforcement material 2 may be provided in the form of a tape
  containing one or more of the abovementioned materials. The reinforcement material 2 may be
  over-extruded with the same semi-crystalline thermoplastic material from which the inner liner 1
  is made. It is preferable that the reinforcement material 2 may accommodate shear deformation
  caused by the application of loads, e.g. during bending. Accordingly, the reinforcement material 2 is
  optionally not bonded to the thermoplastic material of the inner liner 1 within which it is
  embedded.
  A source of heat may be incorporated into the inner liner 1, for example by adding an electric heat
  tracing layer above and/or below and/or amongst the reinforcement material 2 (also shown in
  Fig. 4b). It is essential that the generated heat is maintained well below the melting point of the
  thermoplastic material of the inner liner 1. The heat tracing elements may comprise separate
  conductive wires or utilise the steel cables or steel based fabrics or composite materials of the
  reinforcement material 2 itself.
5 The internal diameter of the annular hose coupling 13 increases in a generally stepwise fashion
  from left to right as viewed in Fig. 1. A recessed portion 3 is provided at one end of the body of the
  hose coupling 13 nearest its narrowest internal diameter. The term "recessed portion" is to be
  understood in this context as defining the inner enlarged diameter space bounded by the hose
  coupling body, the cylindrical sleeve 6, and the innermost layers 1, 8 of the flexible hose, i.e. as
0 indicated with the closely spaced diagonal shading in Figs. 1 and 5.
  The end portion of the flexible hose is prepared to receive the hose coupling in a conventional
  manner, for example by curing and stripping back to progressively expose its underlying layers. A
  cylindrical inner sleeve 6 is disposed within the end portion of the flexible hose.       The internal
  diameter defined by the inner sleeve 6 is selected so as to be substantially equal to the internal
5 diameter of the flexible hose defined by its inner liner 1. The outer surface of the inner sleeve 6

                                                      13
  tapers towards the longitudinal axis 100. As the inner sleeve 6 is inserted into the end of the
  flexible hose its tapered portion(s) engage the innermost surface of the inner liner 1. Progressive
  insertion of the inner sleeve 6 into the flexible hose causes the internal diameter of the inner liner 1
  to expand as it is forced up the tapered surface(s) of the inner sleeve 6.
  The recessed portion 3 of the hose coupling 13 is partially closed by the inner sleeve 6 when the
  hose coupling is fitted over the expanded end of the flexible hose. Once positioned over its end, the
  hose coupling may optionally be crimped onto the flexible hose from the outside. An epoxy resin 11
  is introduced - via end caps 12 - into the area between the inner surface of the hose coupling body
  13 and the stripped back layers of the flexible hose.
  Once the hose coupling is in place, the inner sleeve 6 therefore supports the expanded end portion
  of the inner liner 1 within the recessed portion 3 of the hose coupling body 13 together with an end
  of the surrounding fabric layer 8 and steel sleeve 7. All three layers are compressed - for example
  by crimping or swaging from the inside - between the outer surface of the inner sleeve 6 and an
  opposing surface of the hose coupling body 13 in a manner which closes off the path between the
  recessed portion 3 and the internal cylindrical volumes of the flexible hose and the coupling body
  13.
  The internal volume of the recessed portion 3 hereinafter "the sealing area"is bounded by the inner
  wall of the coupling body 13 and in a preferred embodiment the radial outer surface of the inner
  sleeve 6. One surface portion of the inner wall of the coupling body 13 is inclined at an acute angle
  relative to the longitudinal axis 100 of the flexible hose. The acute angle may be approximately
  45 degrees. An end portion of the flexible hose i.e. its inner liner 1 and fabric layer 8 extends into
  the sealing area 3 as shown in greater detail in Fig. 2a.
  Figs. 3a and 3b show an alternative sealing area 3 whereby the inner wall of the coupling body 13
  and the radial outer surface of the inner sleeve 6 are provided with a serrated surface profile 16.
5 The serrations 16 provide an enhanced mechanical connection between the surfaces within the
  sealing area 3 and the sealing material 15. As shown in Fig. 3b, the presence of the serrations 16
  may mean that the tie layer 14 need only be applied to any non-serrated surfaces within the sealing
  area 3. One surface portion of the inner wall of the coupling body 13 within the sealing area 3 is
  inclined at an obtuse angle relative to the longitudinal axis 100 of the flexible hose. The obtuse
0 angle may be approximately 135 degrees. This serves to increase the surface area of the sealing
  bond between the sealing material 15 and the coupling body 13 and hence further strengthens the
  bond.
  A passage is provided through an exterior surface of the hose coupling body 13 to provide access to
  the sealing area 3 via a removable end cap 5.          In one embodiment, a non-elastomeric sealing

                                                       14
  material can be introduced into the sealing area 3 through the passage using a built-in nipple
  connector 4. As shown in Fig. 2b, the sealing material 15 completely fills the sealing area 3 and may
  be cured to establish a permanent polymer-to-polymer and polymer-to-metal chemical bond
  between the end portion of the inner liner 1 and the sealing material 15; and the surfaces of the
  hose coupling body 13 and the sealing material 15 respectively. As best shown in Figs. 2a and 3a, a
  steel or synthetic polymer ring 25 carrying an elastomeric sealing surface 22 is provided between
  an inner surface of the hose coupling body 13 and the inner layer 1 of the flexible hose. This
  performs the dual functions of:
  (i)       preventing epoxy resin, introduced via the end caps 12, from entering the sealing area;
            and
  (ii)      providing a compressive force to the layers between it and the inner sleeve 6 (i.e. via the
            inner liner 1 and the reinforcement material 2, if present).
  For some types of sealing material 15, complete bonding between the respective surfaces within
  the sealing area 3 necessitates coating them with a tie layer 14 before introducing the sealing
  material 15.   The tie layer may be applied using conventional electrostatic coating techniques.
  Application of a tie layer may also add thermal insulation and mechanical strength to the
  connection within the sealing area 3.
  In one embodiment, the sealing material            15 comprises a non-elastomeric semi-crystalline
  thermoplastic material such as an injection grade polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF), perfluoroalkoxy
  (PFA) or a cross-linked polyethylene (PEX). In one embodiment, the sealing material 15, the inner
  liner 1 and the tie layer 14 each comprise a non-elastomeric semi-crystalline thermoplastic
  material. Ideally, the inner liner 1, the tie layer 14, and the sealing material 15 are formed from the
  same non-elastomeric semi-crystalline thermoplastic material so as to create a single homogeneous
  polymer structure providing the best possible chemical bond between the hose coupling body 13
5 and the inner liner 1 within the sealing area 15.
  The homogeneous polymer structure, e.g. based on the PVDF, PFA or PEX materials discussed
  above, will be substantially liquid impervious at a pressure difference of the order of 5-10 bar.
  Consequently, any reinforcement material 2 embedded within the inner liner 1 is protected from
  corrosion. If the selected polymer structure is formed from a more liquid permeable thermoplastic
0 material then a fibre-based reinforcement material 2 (as described above) may be utilised as an
  alternative to steel. Where fibre-based material is undesirable, galvanised steel wire or cable may
  be employed as a means of protecting against corrosion.

                                                    15
  All adjacent layers of the flexible hose are permanently chemically bonded to each other in a
  manner known in the art. However, in a preferred embodiment it is important that the bonding
  process employed does not affect the non-bonded character of the reinforcement material 2 within
  the flexible hose's inner liner 1.  For example, the thermoplastic material, e.g. PEX, may become
  cross-linked upon adding the reinforcement material 2.
  The thermoplastic material of the inner liner 1 is permanently and fully chemically bonded to the
  surrounding rubber encased armour layers 9, 10. Consequently, shear deformation of the
  thermoplastic material of the inner liner 1 during bending and the application of combined loads
  may be minimised. The PVDF, PFA or PEX materials discussed above have sufficient bonding and
  mechanical properties for high pressure applications.      If more inert and temperature resistant
  materials like partially or fully fluorinated thermoplastics are employed, additional production
  steps may be required to obtain full bonding. The term full bonding is to be understood as meaning
  that either the mechanical strength limit of the elastomer rubber or that of the thermoplastic layer
  is exceeded before the bond is broken.       Since deformation and compound loadings on a fully
  bonded pipe are taken up by both the inner liner 1 and the surrounding rubber encased armour
  layers 9, 10, this helps to avoid known failure mechanisms and provides a significant performance
  improvement in flexible hoses.
  The external layers of the flexible hose surrounding the rubber encased armour layers 9, 10
  comprise an anti-wear layer 17 and an outer cover 18. These layers may be applied in the form of
  tapes and may comprise unidirectional, bi-directional or multi-directional reinforcement material
  selected from one or more of the types already described above. The external layers may be
  over-extruded with a final thermoplastic layer. For example, an impact resistant layer 19 in the
  form of an UHmwPE (ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene) tape may be applied to provide
  extra impact resistance and anti-wear characteristics.       An alternative arrangement (shown in
5 Fig. 8b) may employ fibre reinforced or hybrid steel/fibre fabric layers 26 in addition to, or instead
  of, tapes as an impact resistant layer. The external layers extend over the coupling body 13 of the
  attached hose coupling.
  An alternative arrangement for the external layer of the flexible hose is shown in Fig. 5 whereby
  stainless steel interlock 21 is employed over an intermediate rubber cushion layer 20.            This
0 arrangement may be more susceptible to damage within the moon pool area of a drillship or
  platform than the alternative arrangement shown in Fig. 1.
  An alternative manner of effecting a sealed connection between a hose and a metallic coupling
  member will now be described with reference to Figs. 6 to 12b. Fig. 6 is a cross-sectional schematic
  view showing the constituent layers of a hose which is substantially similar to that illustrated in
5 Figs. 1 and S. The constituent layers have been progressively stripped back towards the free end of

                                                       16
  the hose (i.e. at the left hand side of Fig. 6) in preparation for fitting a hose coupling thereto in the
  manner described below.
  The innermost layer of the flexible hose is a semi-crystalline polymer inner liner 1' within which is
  embedded a reinforcement material 2'. The inner liner 1' is exposed at the free end of the hose and
  formed with an angled chamfer at its distal end which is complimentary in shape to an annular seat
  formed in the hose coupling 13' (see the left hand side of the recess in Figs. 11a to 12b). The inner
  liner 1' may be formed from any suitable type of semi crystalline thermoplastic, e.g. polymers
  derived from polyolefins as already described above with reference to the embodiment of Fig. 1.
  The various layers which surround the inner liner 1' are also described above with reference to the
  embodiment of Fig. 1 and so need not be replicated here. However, as shown in Fig. 6 to 12b, it is
  possible to remove the fabric layer 8 (shown in the embodiment of Figs. 1 to 5) because the inner
  reinforcement 2' can be designed to take up its structural function.
  Fig. 7 shows a meltable sealing ring 23 which is slidably mounted on the exposed portion of the
  inner liner 1' at the free end of the hose. The meltable sealing ring 23 is a hybrid of semi-crystalline
  thermoplastic material (preferably the same type as the inner liner) and metallic particles selected
  from one or more the group comprising fibres, coarse grains, chips, or fine powder. The particles
  may be provided as a mixture of different sizes to ensure an even distribution throughout the solid
  meltable seal.
  Fig. 8a shows an annular hose coupling 13' which has been push-fitted over the free end of the hose
  and properly aligned with the central longitudinal axis 100'. The hose coupling 13' may be bonded
  to the stripped back layers of the flexible hose. This is achieved in a known manner by first heating
  the hose coupling 13' (e.g. by means of an induction coil) and introducing an epoxy resin through
  the end caps 12'. In order to prevent epoxy resin from entering into the sealing area, a metal or
  polymer ring 25' carrying an elastomer sealing surface 22' is mounted above the inner liner 1'
5 adjacent to the steel sleeve 7'. The internal diameter of the annular hose coupling 13' increases in a
  generally stepwise fashion from left to right as viewed in Fig. 8a. A recessed portion 3' is provided
  at one end of the body of the hose coupling 13' nearest its narrowest internal diameter and defines
  a sealing area.
  The term "recessed portion" is to be understood in this context as defining the inner enlarged
0 diameter space bounded by the hose coupling body and the inner liner 1' of the flexible hose,
  i.e. including the volume within which the solid meltable sealing ring 23 is seated. The radial
  passage closed by the end cap 5' is initially empty as shown more clearly in Fig. 11a. A nipple
  connector 4' is provided inside this passage to allow connection of a vacuum hose. The recessed
  portion may be provided with an annular seat within which an end portion of the solid meltable
5 sealing ring 23 may be received (see the left hand side of the recessed portion 23' in Figs 8 to 12b).

                                                       17
  This ensures a secure mechanical lock between the annular hose coupling 13' and the meltable
  sealing ring 23 prior to it being heated as described below.
  Fig. 8b is similar to Fig. 8a but shows an alternative arrangement whereby the meltable sealing ring
  23' is L-shaped in cross-section so as to extend over both the outer surface and the distal end of the
  inner liner 1' at the free end of the hose. This arrangement is shown in more detail in Figs 12a and
  12b prior to, and after, activation of the induction heater respectively.
  Fig. 9 shows the same arrangement as Fig. 8a whereby a supporting member - in the form of a
  sealed silicone rubber hose incorporating a heatable induction coil - has been introduced beneath
  the inner liner 1'. In use, the sealed silicone rubber hose is inflated using an air supply line 29 so as
  to apply a radial supporting pressure against the cylindrical inner wall of the inner liner 1'. Before
  and/or during activation of the heatable induction coil via electrical connections 28, substantially
  all air is removed from the recessed portion 3'. By maintaining vacuum conditions through the
  nipple connector 4' within the recessed portion 3' when the heatable induction coil is activated, all
  air bubbles are removed. The heating process continues until the solid meltable sealing ring 23
  becomes molten and increases in volume to fill the recessed portion 3' to a predetermined level as
  shown more clearly in Fig. 11b. This can be visually verified by checking the level of the sealing
  material through the end cap 5'. The duration and temperature of heating will vary depending
  upon hose design and material choices. During this process, the inflated rubber hose ensures that
  the cured seal is correctly aligned.
  A tie layer 14' may be applied to the inner surface of the hose coupling 13' to provide a more
  reliable cohesive bond between the sealing material and the metallic (e.g. steel) hose coupling. The
  choice of tie layer 14' will vary depending upon the chemical make-up of the thermoplastic material
  used in the sealing material. The cohesive bond, between the sealing material and the surface of the
  hose coupling 13' within the sealing area, must be able to withstand the tendency for the inner liner
5 1' to creep under high temperatures and/or pressures.
  Fig. 10 is a cross-sectional schematic view corresponding to Fig. 8b now showing the establishment
  of chemical bond in the sealing area after removal of the sealed silicone rubber hose incorporating
  a heatable induction coil as shown in Fig. 9.
  It will be appreciated that the various embodiments of the present invention provide a number of
0 advantages over existing arrangements for connecting a flexible hose to a hose coupling. Most
  significantly, by providing a non-elastomeric semi crystalline sealing material within the sealing
  area which is the same (or chemically similar) as that of the inner liner of the flexible hose, a
  homogeneous polymer structure extends from the flexible hose all the way into the hose coupling,
  i.e. the liner becomes the seal and the seal is the liner. This structure provides a moisture-proof and

                                                      18
gas-tight barrier more capable of withstanding harsh production environments than known prior
art products.
Also, by embedding reinforcement material within the inner liner layer of the flexible hose, its
connection with a hose coupling can be further strengthened and improved. The integration of a
reinforcement material into the inner liner layer closer to the core of the flexible hose makes the
bonded hose stronger and thus enables downscaling, if desired, of the outer armour layers. For
example, the number of rubber outer reinforcement plies or the size thereof may be reduced.
Consequently, it becomes possible to achieve a more lightweight and/or flexible hose system. A
properly designed reinforced inner layer can also replace the need for an inner carcass because the
supporting function is now incorporated within the inner liner layer itself.
The embodiment of Figs. 6 to 1lb provides the further advantage of eliminating all air pockets from
the sealing area.    This arrangement also obviates the need for inserting the inner cylindrical
supporting sleeve 6 shown in Figs. 1 to 3 and 5. The process of expanding the sleeve to swage the
overlying sealing area is also eliminated. Instead, the inner liner 1' of the flexible hose becomes
part of the seal and so the process steps are significantly simplified and shortened.
The various embodiments of the present invention provide a sealing arrangement that overcomes,
or at least ameliorates, one or more of the following problems associated with elastomeric seals.
Firstly, high temperatures cause softening of elastomers which results in an increased rate of
liquid/gas diffusion, thus accelerating chemical degradation. This temperature-related issue can
arise independently of high pressure considerations, although of course high pressures will further
exacerbate the problem.
Modifications and improvements may be made to the foregoing without departing from the scope
of the invention as defined by the accompanying claims. For example, a possible alternative to the
aforementioned meltable seal is a susceptor tape which could be wound around the outer surface of
the flexible hose and its liner prior to fitting of the hose coupling.

                                                     19
  CLAIMS
  1.        A synthetic polymer flexible pipe for the transportation          of high pressure and/or
  temperature hydrocarbon liquids or gases comprising:
            an inner liner layer;
            an armour layer surrounding an end of the flexible pipe;
            a pipe coupling disposed at the end of the pipe and surrounding the armour layer;
            a sealing area defined by a recessed portion of the pipe coupling; and
            a sealing material disposed in the sealing area;
            wherein the inner liner layer of said pipe end extends into the sealing area and is bonded
  to the sealing material, and characterised in that the sealing material is non-elastomeric and both
  the sealing material and the inner liner layer of the flexible pipe comprise the same class of
  synthetic polymer selected from the group comprising thermoplastics and thermosets.
  2.        A flexible pipe according to Claim 1, wherein the flexible pipe and the sealing material
  each comprise a semi-crystalline thermoplastic material.
  3.        A flexible pipe according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein the sealing material is provided as
  an injectable fluid or molten synthetic polymer.
  4.        A flexible pipe according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein the sealing material is provided as
  a solid meltable seal.
  5.        A flexible pipe according to Claim 4, wherein the solid meltable seal comprises metallic
  particles selected from one or more the group comprising fibres, coarse grains, chips, or fine
  powder.
  6.        A flexible pipe according to Claim 5, wherein different sizes of metallic particles are
  distributed throughout the solid meltable seal.
  7.        A flexible pipe according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein only the inner liner
5 layer of the flexible pipe comprises a semi-crystalline thermoplastic material which extends into
  the sealing area.
  8.        A flexible pipe according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein a reinforcement
  material is provided wholly within the inner liner layer but is not bonded to its semi-crystalline
  thermoplastic material.

                                                     20
  9.       A flexible pipe according to any one of Claims 1 to 7, wherein a reinforcement material is
  provided wholly within the inner liner layer which is fully bonded to its semi-crystalline
  thermoplastic material by means of an adhesive tie layer.
  10.      A flexible pipe according to Claim 8 or Claim 9, wherein the reinforcement material
  comprises helically wound steel cord and/or steel wires.
  11.      A flexible pipe according to Claim 10, wherein two or more separate helically wound steel
  cord and/or steel wires are arranged in an interlocking fashion.
  12.      A flexible pipe according to any one of Claims 8 to 11, wherein the reinforcement material
  is arranged within the inner liner layer in a wound fashion at an angle of between 25 degrees and
  85 degrees relative to the longitudinal axis of the flexible pipe.
  13.      A flexible pipe according to any one of Claims 8 to 12, wherein the reinforcement material
  comprises one or more fibre strands and/or rovings selected from the list comprising glass fibres,
  carbon fibres, UHmwPE (ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene) fibres and aramid fibres.
  14.      A flexible pipe according to any one of Claims 7 to 13, wherein an electrical heating
  element is provided within the inner liner layer.
  15.      A flexible pipe according to Claim 14, wherein the electrical heating element comprises
  one or more materials selected from the list comprising conductive wires, conductive cables,
  conductive fabrics or conductive composites.
  16.      A flexible pipe according to any one of Claims 7 to 15, wherein the semi-crystalline
0 thermoplastic material of the inner liner layer is directly bonded to the semi-crystalline
  thermoplastic material of the sealing material by a polymer-to-polymer bond.
  17.      A flexible pipe according to any one of Claims 7 to 16, wherein the semi-crystalline
  thermoplastic material of the sealing material is directly bonded to the pipe coupling by a
  polymer-to-metal bond.
5 18.      A flexible pipe according to any one of Claims 7 to 16, wherein the semi-crystalline
  thermoplastic material of the sealing material is indirectly bonded to the inner liner layer and/or
  the pipe coupling via an intermediate adhesive tie layer.
  19.      A flexible pipe according to Claim 18, wherein the adhesive tie layer also comprises a
  semi-crystalline thermoplastic material.

                                                       21
   20.       A flexible pipe according to any one of Claims 2 to 19, wherein the semi-crystalline
   thermoplastic material of the inner liner layer and/or sealing material is a polyvinylidene fluoride
   (PVDF) material.
   21.       A flexible pipe according to any one of Claims 2 to 19, wherein the semi-crystalline
   thermoplastic material      of the inner liner layer and/or sealing material is a cross-linked
   polyethylene (PEX) material.
   22.       A flexible pipe according to any one of Claims 2 to 19, wherein the semi-crystalline
   thermoplastic material of the inner liner layer and/or sealing material is a perfluoroalkoxy (PFA)
   material.
   23.       A flexible pipe according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the pipe coupling is
   formed from a metal or a metal alloy.
   24.       A flexible pipe according to any one of Claims 2 to 23, wherein a cylindrical sleeve member
   is disposed beneath the inner liner at the end of the flexible pipe and cooperates with the pipe
   coupling proximate the sealing area to support a portion of the inner liner layer extending into the
   sealing area.
   25.       A flexible pipe according to Claim 24, wherein an outer surface of the cylindrical sleeve
   member is inclined at an acute angle relative to the central longitudinal axis of the pipe.
   26.       A flexible pipe according to any one of Claims 2 to 25, wherein the inner liner layer is
   coupled to the pipe coupling by a crimped or swaged connection.
 ) 27.       A method of manufacturing a synthetic polymer flexible pipe for the transportation of high
   pressure and/or temperature hydrocarbon liquids or gases, comprising the steps of:
             providing a pipe coupling comprising a recessed portion defining a sealing area;
             providing a flexible pipe having an inner liner layer and an armour layer surrounding the
   pipe;
5            providing a sealing material for introduction into the sealing area;
             fitting the pipe coupling to the end of the hose; and
             establishing a permanent polymer-to-polymer and polymer-to-metal              chemical bond
   within the sealing area between said pipe end and the sealing material; and the pipe coupling and
   the sealing material respectively;
0            wherein the sealing material is non-elastomeric and both the sealing material and at least
   a portion of the flexible pipe are composed of the same class of synthetic polymer selected from the
   group comprising thermoplastics and thermosets.

                                                   22
  28.       A method according to Claim 27, including the further step of providing a reinforcement
  means wholly within the flexible pipe.
  29.       A method according to Claim 27 or Claim 28, wherein a supporting member is introduced
  beneath an inner surface of said pipe end before or after the step of fitting the pipe coupling to the
  pipe end.
  30.       A method according to Claim 29, wherein the supporting member is introduced prior to
  fitting the pipe coupling so as to expand the diameter of the pipe end, the expanded portion being
  supported proximate the sealing area once the pipe coupling is fitted.
  31.       A method according to any one of Claims 27 to 30, wherein the step of establishing a
  permanent chemical bond within the sealing area involves introducing the sealing material into the
  sealing area by injection through a passage linking the sealing area to the exterior of the pipe
  coupling.
  32.       A method according to any one of Claim 29 or 30, wherein the step of establishing a
  permanent chemical bond within the sealing area involves introducing the sealing material into the
  sealing area by mounting a solid meltable seal onto the pipe, proximate the pipe end, before fitting
  the pipe coupling to the pipe end.
  33.       A method according to Claim 32, wherein the step of fitting the pipe coupling to the pipe
  end is followed by the step of introducing the supporting member beneath an inner surface of said
  pipe end, the supporting member incorporating a heater which melts the solid meltable seal within
  the sealing area.
  34.       A method according to Claim 33, wherein the step of introducing the supporting member
  involves employing an inflatable supporting member which is temporarily inflated against the
  inner surface of said pipe end whilst the permanent chemical bond is established.
  35.       A method according to Claim 33, wherein the step of introducing the supporting member
5 is followed by permanently swaging it against the inner surface of said pipe end.
  36.       A method according to any one of Claims 33 to 35, wherein the step of melting the solid
  meltable seal within the sealing area is accompanied by the step of applying a vacuum to remove
  substantially all air from the sealing area.
  37.       A method according to any one of Claims 27 to 36, wherein the steps of providing a flexible
0 pipe and providing a sealing material each include providing a pipe and sealing material comprising
  a semi-crystalline thermoplastic material.

                                                    23
  38.       A method according to any one of Claims 27 to 37, wherein the step of establishing a
  permanent chemical bond involves cooling the sealing material.
  39.       An elastomeric flexible hose for the transportation of high pressure and/or temperature
  hydrocarbon liquids or gases comprising:
            a semi-crystalline thermoplastic inner liner layer;
            an armour layer surrounding the inner liner layer at an end of the flexible hose;
            a hose coupling disposed at the end of the hose and surrounding the armour layer;
            a sealing area defined by a recessed portion of the hose coupling; and
            a semi-crystalline thermoplastic sealing material disposed in the sealing area;
            wherein a portion of the inner liner layer at said hose end extends into the sealing area
  and is bonded to the sealing material, and characterised in that a reinforcement material is
  provided wholly within the inner liner layer.
  40.       A flexible hose according to Claim 39, wherein the reinforcement material is not bonded to
  the semi-crystalline thermoplastic material.
  41.       A flexible hose according to Claim 39 or Claim 40, wherein the reinforcement material
  comprises helically wound steel cord and/or steel wires.
  42.       A flexible hose according to Claim 41, wherein two or more separate helically wound steel
  cord and/or steel wires are arranged in an interlocking fashion.
  43.       A flexible hose according to any one of Claims 39 to 42, wherein the reinforcement
  material is arranged within the inner liner layer in a wound fashion at an angle of between
  25 degrees and 85 degrees relative to the longitudinal axis of the flexible hose.
  44.       A flexible hose according to any one of Claims 39 to 43, wherein the reinforcement
  material comprises one or more fibre strands and/or rovings selected from the list comprising
  glass fibres, carbon fibres, UHmwPE (ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene) fibres and aramid
5 fibres.
  45.       A flexible hose according to any one of Claims 39 to 44, wherein an electrical heating
  element is provided within the inner liner layer.
  46.       A flexible hose according to any one of Claims 39 to 45, wherein a cylindrical sleeve
  member is disposed beneath the inner liner at the end of the flexible hose and cooperates with the
0 hose coupling proximate the sealing area to support a portion of the inner liner layer which extends
  into the sealing area.

                                                     24
  47.       A flexible hose according to any one of Claims 39 to 46, wherein the sealing material is
  provided as an injectable fluid or molten synthetic polymer.
  48.       A flexible hose according to any one of Claims 39 to 45, wherein the sealing material is
  provided as a solid meltable seal.
  49.       A flexible hose according to Claim 48, wherein the solid meltable seal comprises metallic
  particles selected from one or more the group comprising fibres, coarse grains, chips, or fine
  powder.
  50.       A flexible hose according to Claim 49, wherein different sizes of metallic particles are
  distributed throughout the solid meltable seal.
  51.       A flexible hose according to any one of Claims 39 to 50, wherein the inner liner layer is
  coupled to the hose coupling by a crimped or swaged connection.
  52.       A flexible hose according to any one of Claims 39 to 51, wherein all adjacent layers of the
  flexible hose are partially or fully bonded in a permanent connection.
  53.       A flexible hose according to any one of Claims 39 to 52, wherein an outer cover layer
  surrounds the armour layer and comprises a semi-crystalline thermoplastic material.
  54.       A flexible hose according to Claim 53, wherein a reinforcement material is provided within
  the outer cover layer.
  55.       A flexible hose according to Claim 54, wherein the reinforcement material comprises one
  or more materials selected from the list comprising steel cord, steel strands, fibre strands and fibre
0 rovings.
  56.       A flexible hose according to Claim 55, wherein the fibre strands or rovings comprise one
  or more fibres selected from the list comprising glass fibres, carbon fibres, UHmwPE (ultra-high
  molecular weight polyethylene) fibres and aramid fibres.
  57.       A flexible hose according to any one of Claims 54 to 56, wherein the reinforcement
S material within the outer cover is aligned in a unidirectional, bi-directional or multi-directional
  manner.
  58.       A flexible hose according to any one of Claims 54 to 57, wherein the reinforcement
  material within the outer cover layer is provided within a fabric or a plied tape.

                                                      25
  59.       A flexible hose according to any one of Claims 39 to 58, wherein a stainless steel interlock
  cover layer surrounds the exterior of the flexible hose.
  60.       A method of manufacturing an elastomeric flexible hose for the transportation of high
  pressure and/or temperature hydrocarbon liquids or gases, comprising the steps of:
            providing a hose coupling comprising a recessed portion defining a sealing area;
            providing a hose comprising a semi-crystalline thermoplastic inner liner layer, and an
  armour layer surrounding the inner liner layer at an end of the flexible hose;
            providing a semi-crystalline thermoplastic sealing material for introduction into the
  sealing area;
            providing a reinforcement material wholly within the inner liner layer;
            fitting the pipe coupling to the end of the hose; and
            establishing a permanent chemical bond within the sealing area between the hose end and
  the sealing material; and the hose coupling and the sealing material respectively.
  61.       A method according to Claim 60, wherein the step of establishing a permanent chemical
  bond within the sealing area involves introducing the sealing material into the sealing area by
  mounting a solid meltable seal proximate the hose end before fitting the hose coupling to the hose
  end.
  62.       A method according to Claim 61, wherein the step of fitting the hose coupling to the hose
  end is followed by the step of introducing a supporting member beneath an inner surface of said
  hose end, the supporting member incorporating a heater which melts the solid meltable seal within
  the sealing area.
  63.       A method according to Claim 62, wherein the step of introducing the supporting member
  involves employing an inflatable supporting member which is temporarily inflated against the
  inner surface of said hose end whilst the permanent chemical bond is established.
5 64.       A method according to Claim 62, wherein the step of introducing a supporting member is
  followed by permanently swaging it against the inner surface of said hose end.
  65.       A method according to any one of Claims 60 to 64, wherein the step of melting the solid
  meltable seal within the sealing area is accompanied by the step of applying a vacuum to remove
  substantially all air from the sealing area.
0

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
