ABSTRACT
A removable seat cover with stabilising portions including a seat cover adapted to be securely, but
releasably mounted relative to a backrest portion of a vehicle seat, a pair of adjustable stabilising
portions, one on either lateral side of the seat cover and adapted to protrude forwardly of the vehicle
seat, each stabilising portion too closely abut a seated user's torso between armpit and hip in order to
minimise lateral motion of the torso.
1254336 1

A STABILISING DEVICE
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]       The present invention relates to seats or chairs and the like and particularly to a
removable seat cover or an attachment therefor with stabilising portions or retrofit stabilising
device.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002]       A variety of vehicle seat covers are available in the art. Many of the seat covers are
simply covers to protect the seat from various spills or liquids.
[0003]       In long-haul commercial truck driving, a driver will frequently be sitting for extended
periods of time. Further, there can be a significant amount of swaying from left to right whilst
driving due to cornering which involves excessive work on the muscles of the torso and lower
back in order to maintain positioning and orientation. This is thought to be one reason why long
distance truck drivers frequently suffer from chronic back pain.
[0004]       It will be clearly understood that, if a prior art publication is referred to herein, this
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms part of the common general
knowledge in the art in Australia or in any other country.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0005]       The present invention is directed to a stabilising device, which may at least partially
overcome at least one of the abovementioned disadvantages or provide the consumer with a
useful or commercial choice.
[00061       With the foregoing in view, the present invention in one form, resides broadly in a
removable seat cover with stabilising portions including a seat cover adapted to be securely, but
releasably mounted relative to a backrest portion of a vehicle seat, a pair of adjustable stabilising
portions, one on either lateral side of the seat cover and adapted to protrude forwardly of the
vehicle seat, each stabilising portion to closely abut a seated user's torso between armpit and hip
in order to minimise lateral motion of the torso.
[00071       In an alternative form, the present invention resides in a stabilising device including
an abutment plate to abut a forward surface of a backrest portion of a seat or chair, a pair of
adjustable stabilising portions mounted relative to the abutment plate, one stabilising portion on

either lateral side of the abutment plate and adapted to protrude forwardly of the seat or chair,
each stabilising portion to closely abut a seated user's torso between armpit and hip in order to
minimise lateral motion of the torso.
[00081        The removable seat cover of the present invention will preferably be used in vehicles
including cars, trucks and the like. However, it is clear from the configuration of the device of
the present invention that it can also be used for other seats or chairs that have a backrest portion
and relative to which stabilisation may be required. This may particularly be the case in terms of
people with back problems or for example those with motor control issues.
[0009]        The seat cover may be manufactured from any material and may have any
configuration suitable for the purpose. Typically, the seat cover will be attached relative to the
backrest portion of the seat only, leaving the seat portion of the vehicle seat unchanged. Further,
the seat cover of the present invention may or may not cover the head rest of the vehicle seat.
[0010]        In one form, the invention includes a seat cover adapted to be securely but releasably
mounted relative to a backrest portion of a vehicle seat.
[0011]        Preferably, the seat cover is manufactured from a fabric material but any material
may be used. It is preferred that the seat cover is manufactured from a material which is flexible
and also resilient.
[0012]        The resilience of the material will typically mean that the seat cover is slightly size
adjustable in order to fit backrest portions of slightly different sizes and shapes. In the alternative,
the seat cover itself may be size adjustable and provided with means to size the cover to fit a seat
of any shape or configuration. Straps could be used for this purpose.
[00131        The seat cover will typically be configured as a hollow, tubular portion with one
closed end and one open end. This will basically form a "sock" configuration.
[0014]        Typically, the seat cover will include an opening in the rear of the seat cover.
Normally, the opening will be elongate and will overlie central portion of the backrest. The size
of the opening is preferably adjustable with suitable means in order to tighten the seat cover
relative to the backrest portion of the seat.
[0015]        Any means may be used to at least partially close the opening or tighten the seat
cover, including elongate straps for example. According to one preferred embodiment, a plurality
of straps are provided over the height of the opening which each engage with a buckle or similar

mechanism (such as a friction lock) on the opposite side of the opening in order to tighten the
seat cover relative to the backrest portion.
[00161       It is also preferred that the seat cover be provided with elongate means extending
from a lower portion thereof. The elongate means will preferably pass underneath a portion of the
backrest portion and engage with a portion of the seat cover or other mechanism on the opposite
side of the backrest portion in order to fix the seat cover relative to the backrest portion.
Normally, at least one and preferably, a plurality of straps are provided which extend beneath the
backrest portion and engage with a buckle or similar mechanism (such as a friction lock) on the
opposite side. The elongate means will preferably act to hold the seat cover and therefore the
stabilising portions in place vertically.
[00171       Preferably, any attachment points for straps or buckles or the like will be low profile
in order to increase comfort for the user. Cushioning material may be used as well as providing a
low profile configuration or in the alternative.
[00181       The seat cover may be or include cushioning material for added comfort.
[0019]       The seat cover includes a pair of stabilising portions. Typically, the stabilising
portions are mounted relative to the seat cover for attachment and removal with the seat cover. A
mounting assembly will typically be used in order to mount the stabilising portions relative to the
seat cover by attachment of the mounting assembly to the seat cover. Preferably, each of the
stabilising portions is movable relative to the mounting portion and the seat cover in order to
adjust the position of the stabilising portion for different seats, and for different users.
[0020]       According to one embodiment, the stabilising portions will each be movable in two
axes, namely substantially vertically and substantially horizontally. According to a more
preferred embodiment, the stabilising portions will each be movable in a horizontal direction
only.
[0021]       Further, one of the stabilising portions may be fixed relative to the mounting
assembly and the other of the stabilising portions is movable relative to the mounting assembly.
This configuration may be preferred if only substantially horizontal movement is required.
[0022]       The mounting assembly will typically include a rigid or semirigid mounting plate
which is attached to or relative to the seat cover. Preferably, the mounting plate is shaped to suit
the seat on one side in order to minimise movement of the mounting plate relative to the seat
once the seat cover is attached.

                                                     _r
[00231        The mounting plate will typically be generally rectangular but may have any shape.
[0024]       Normally, at least one and preferably a plurality of rails will be associated with the
mounting plate on an outwardly facing side in order to engage with corresponding mounting
portions on each of the stabilising portions. Each of the rails will preferably allow for adjustable
movement of the stabilising portions. A variety of mechanisms may be used in association with
the rails in order to provide for adjustable movement, but secure fastening of the stabilising
portions relative to the rails and therefore the mounting plate. These mechanisms may include
pins and slots or clamps or the like. An easy and quick adjustment mechanism is preferred.
[0025]        It is also preferred that the movement is equal bilaterally if both stabilising portions
are movable. Basically, moving one of the stabilising portions will preferably move the other of
the stabilising portions and equal distance in the opposite direction whether towards or away
from the other stabilising portion.
[0026]        The stabilising portions may be infinitely adjustable or there may be a series of
spaced positions into which stabilising portions can be fixed. As mentioned above, it is
preferable that the stabilising portions only be capable of substantially horizontal movement with
the substantially vertical location of the stabilising portions fixed by the attachment of the seat
cover relative to the seat.
[00271        Each of the stabilising portions will preferably be shaped in order to abut a user's
torso and be comfortable whilst preventing undue movement. Each of the stabilising portions
will typically have an arcuate forward portion. Normally, the arcuate forward portions will be
oriented in opposite directions to one another such that a substantial C-shaped depression is
formed between the stabilising portions.
[0028]        Each stabilising portion will typically have a substantially triangular right angled
triangle shape with a concave wall on the hypotenuse side when viewed in plan. The preferred
shape of each stabilising portion includes a triangular cross-section which tapers to a thin edge or
portion at the front and outside of the stabilising portion and tapering to a thin edge or portion at
the rear on the inside of the stabilising portion.
[0029]        Probably, the stabiliser has a planar base wall in order to abut the substantially planar
mounting plate. Typically, engagement means to engage the rails located on the mounting plate
are provided on the base wall of each stabiliser.
[0030]        Probably, the stabilising portion will either be or include a cushioning material in

order to allow the user comfort when the stabilising portions are but the uses torso. Preferably,
each stabilising portion is made from a rigid or semi-rigid material but also a material which is
slightly resilient. Preferred materials include materials like viscoelastic memory foam or Latex
foam, polyurethane foam or the like.
[00311       The seat cover of the present invention will therefore typically be a combination of
materials including one or more rubbers, one or more foams or alternatives thereto.
[0032]       Each stabilising portion is located in a region between the user's armpit and hip when
the user is properly seated in the vehicle seat. The stabilising portions may extend entirely
between the armpit and the hip or only a portion of the height thereof.
[00331       The mounting plate preferably has at least two layers, the first rear layer of rubber or
similar and a forward layer of foam or similar. The rails are typically sandwiched between the
two layers. Preferably, the seat cover will also be sandwiched between the two layers with the
foam layer in front of the seat cover.
[0034]       Preferably, the mounting assembly of the present invention is formed partially
including the exterior seat cover in order to provide a single integrated unit for installation and
removal.
[00351       Where provided in the abutment plate configuration, the abutment plate will
preferably be adapted to be securely, but releasably mounted relative to a seat or chair. In this
configuration, the stabilising device may be similar to the first embodiment of the vehicle seat
cover, simply without the seat cover. Therefore, the abutment plate will usually have features
similar to the mounting plate of the first embodiment.
[00361       The abutment plate will typically be capable of attachment to or relative to the
vehicle seat. In the method attachment may be used but a preferred method of attachment is to
provide one or more straps or similar that can extend from each lateral side, as well as an upper
and a lower side of the abutment plate about the vehicle seat with a buckle, Velcro or similar as a
releasable attachment means to attach the straps to one another.
[00371       The abutment plate will typically be a shaped plate. The abutment plate will typically
have a lower, torso portion which when the abutment plate is positioned correctly relative to a
vehicle seat, will typically be located or extend over the lumbar and lower thoracic vertebral
portions of the user. The torso portion is typically substantially rectangular. The torso portion of
the abutment plate will normally have a shaped rear in order to correspond generally to the shape

of a vehicle seat and further, will normally have a substantially planar forward surface.
[00381        The abutment plate will also typically have an upper portion which when the
abutment plate is positioned correctly relative to a vehicle seat, will typically be located or extend
over the upper thoracic and/or cervical vertebral portion of the user. Preferably, the upper portion
of the abutment plate will converge upwardly. This portion will typically have a flattened top
edge.
[0039]        It is preferred that the abutment plate extend only to the upper edge of the seat and
not over any headrest which may be provided in relation to the vehicle seat.
[0040]        Padding or similar may be associated with the upper portion of the abutment plate in
order to provide comfort for the user.
[0041]        The stabilizing portions of the stabilizing device are preferably mounted to, or
relative to a forward surface of the abutment plate, preferably in the lower torso portion of the
abutment plate. The stabilizing portions are preferably as described above in relation to the first
embodiment. However according to the second embodiment, there will typically be a centrally
located spine support portion mounted directly to the forward surface of the abutment plate
between the stabilizing portions. Typically, a forward surface of the spine support portion will be
located relative to the forward surface of the stabilizing portions to support the spine directly and
allow the stabilizing portions to support the lateral sides of the user's back. The central spine
support portion will typically be as tall as the inner portions of the stabilizing portions.
[0042]        Typically, a mounting system is provided to mount the stabilizing portions to the
abutment plate for movement relative thereto. As mentioned above, the central spine support
portion will typically be fixed to the abutment plate and the lateral stabilizing portions movable
relative to the central spine support portion.
[0043]        The mounting system will typically include at least one transverse guide rod and
normally a pair of guide rods. Preferably, the at least one transverse guide rod extends through
the centrally located spine support portion which assists with bracing the guide rods against
movement.
[0044]        There will also typically be at least one, and preferably only one elongate threaded
rod. Preferably, the elongate threaded rod extends substantially parallel to the at least one guide
rod. The threaded rod may be a unitary rod which is continuously threaded. Alternatively, the
threaded rod maybe a unitary rod which is threaded on one lateral side thereof or one end thereof

with a left-hand thread and on the other lateral side of thereof or end thereof, with a right-hand
thread. Still further in the alternative, the threaded rod may be a two-piece rod being threaded in
opposite directions on opposite ends and connected together in the middle of the rod.
[0045]       The thread of the threaded rod may be provided in one or more threaded portions, but
a continuous thread, at least on each lateral side of the threaded rod is preferred.
[00461       The threaded rod is preferably mounted relative to the abutment plate for rotation.
One or more gripping means may be provided in order to allow the user to easily rotate the rod
even when seated on the vehicle seat relative to which the stabilizing device is attached.
Normally, two gripping means are provided, one on either end of the rod. Preferably, the rod is
located relative to the abutment plate approximately in line with the small of the user's back.
[00471       The mounting system further includes a carriage for each stabilizing portion. The
carriage will typically mount each stabilizing portion relative to the threaded rod allowing
translation of the carriage along the board when the rod is rotated in order to adjust the position
of the stabilizing portions. Preferably, each carriage has an internally threaded bore
corresponding to the thread on the threaded rod. Preferably, each carriage is mounted relative to
the rod such that rotation of the rod in one direction results in movement of both carriages
outwardly and rotation of the rod in the opposite direction results in movement of both carriages
inwardly.
[00481       The carriage can be any shape, but preferably, is substantially rectangular when
viewed in plan. The carriage will also preferably function to space the rear of each of the
stabilizing portions from the front of the abutment plate. Each carriage will itself typically be
spaced from the front of the abutment plate.
[0049]       There are typically a number of openings through the carriage including the internally
threaded bore. For example, depending on how many guide rods are provided, a corresponding
number of openings will be provided through the carriage in order to allow the carriage to move
along the guide rods, driven by the rotation of the threaded rod.
[0050]       A collar assembly is preferably provided at either end of the threaded rod, adjacent
each lateral side of the abutment plate in order to provide further support at either end of the
threaded rods and/or for the guide rods. Preferably, the collar will include a bearing assembly or
race in order to allow or smooth rotation of the threaded rod. Where provided, the collar and/or
bearing assembly or race will preferably be a two-piece assembly to allow removal of the

                                                   0
threaded rod if required. Further, the collar will normally have a central opening for the threaded
rod but also one or more openings in order to allow the guide rod(s) to be mounted relative to the
collar.
[0051]      Typically, a lock nut or similar device is provided on the threaded rod on either side
of each collar in order to prevent removal of the threaded rod as well as to prevent lateral
movement of the threaded rod unless required.
[0052]      A locking mechanism may be provided in order to prevent accidental movement of
the threaded rod and therefore the stabilizing portions, and/or the gripping means. Any suitable
locking mechanism can be used.
[00531      The seat or chair embodiment will normally have the same basic features as the
vehicle seat embodiment. The attachment assembly to attach the stabilising device to the seat or
chair embodiment is normally configured and sized to allow attachment of the device to any type
or configuration of seat or chair quickly and easily but also securely so that the device does not
move relative to the seat or chair.
[0054]      Any of the features described herein can be combined in any combination with any
one or more of the other features described herein within the scope of the invention.
[0055]      The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as
an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[00561      Various embodiments of the invention will be described with reference to the
following drawings, in which:
[00571      Figure 1 is an axonometric view from the front of a first embodiment of the
removable seat cover of the present invention.
[00581      Figure 2 is an axonometric view from the rear of the embodiment illustrated in
Figure 1.
[0059]      Figure 3 is a front elevation view of a second embodiment of the removable seat
cover of the present invention.

[00601       Figure 3A is a front elevation view of an alternative upper portion of the removable
seat cover illustrating Figure 3.
[0061]       Figure 4 is a rear elevation view of a second embodiment of the removable seat cover
of the present invention.
[0062]       Figure 4A is a rear elevation view of an alternative upper portion of the removable
seat cover illustrating Figure 4.
[0063]       Figure 5 is an elevation view from the front of a preferred mounting assembly used in
a preferred embodiment of the present invention.
[0064]       Figure 5A is an elevation view from the front of a preferred mounting plate used in a
preferred embodiment of the present invention.
[0065]       Figure 6 is an elevation view from the front of a vehicle seat stabilizing device
according to a second embodiment of the present invention.
[0066]       Figure 7 is a view from below of the stabilizing device illustrated in Figure 6.
[00671       Figure 8 is an axonometric view of the stabilizing device illustrated in Figure 6.
[0068]       Figure 9 is a view from the side of the stabilizing device illustrated in Figure 9.
[0069]       Figure 10 is an exploded view of the stabilizing device illustrated in Figure 6.
[00701       Figure 11 is an exploded view of a stabilising device according to an alternative
preferred embodiment.
[00711       Figure 12 is an exploded view of the stabilising device illustrated in Figure 11, but
exploded to a further degree.
[0072]       Figure 13 is an exploded view of a preferred embodiment of an attachment
mechanism used according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention.
[0073]       Figure 14 is a rear view of the configurations illustrated in Figure 13.
[0074]       Figure 15 is a detailed view of the portion identified by reference letter "A" in Figure
14.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS

                                                   IV
[00751      According to the particularly preferred embodiments illustrated in the Figures, a
removable seat cover with stabilising portions is provided.
[0076]      Both preferred embodiments illustrated in the Figures show a removable seat cover
10 with stabilising portions 11 including a seat cover adapted to be securely but releasably
mounted relative to a backrest portion 12 of a vehicle seat 13. The cover includes a pair of
adjustable stabilising portions 11, one on either lateral side of the seat cover 10 and adapted to
protrude forwardly of the vehicle seat 13. Each stabilising portion 11 closely abuts a seated user's
torso between armpit and hip in order to minimise lateral motion of the torso.
[00771      According to the embodiments illustrated, the seat cover 10 is attached relative to the
backrest portion 12 of the seat only leaving the seat portion 14 of the vehicle seat 13 unchanged.
[0078]      The invention includes a seat cover 10 adapted to be securely but release of the
mounted relative to a backrest portion 12 of a vehicle seat 13. Further, the seat cover of may or
may not cover the head rest 50 of the vehicle seat. Figure 3A and 4A provide a view of the
embodiment illustrated in Figures 3 and 4 respectively but of a version of the invention used
without a headrest on the seat to which the set cover is attached.
[00791      The seat cover 10 is manufactured from a fabric material which is flexible and also
resilient.
[00801       [The resilience of the material will typically mean that the seat cover is slightly size
adjustable in order to fit backrest portions of slightly different sizes and shapes.
[00811      The seat cover 10 of the preferred embodiments is configured as a hollow, tubular
portion with one closed end and one open end. This will basically form a "sock" configuration.
[0082]       [Typically, the seat cover will include an opening 15 in the rear of the seat cover.
Normally, the opening 15 is elongate and overlies central portion of the backrest 12.
[00831      The opening 15 is adjustable with a plurality of straps 16 provided over the height of
the opening 15 which each engage with a buckle 17 or similar mechanism (such as a friction
lock) on the opposite side of the opening 15 in order to tighten the seat cover 10 relative to the
backrest portion 12.
[0084]      The seat cover can be provided with elongate straps 18 extending from a lower
portion thereof. The elongate straps 18 pass underneath a portion of the backrest portion 12 and

engage with a portion of the seat cover or other mechanism on the opposite side of the backrest
portion 12 in order to fix the seat cover 10 relative to the backrest portion 12. The elongate straps
act to hold the seat cover 10 and therefore the stabilising portions 11 in place vertically. In the
embodiment illustrated in Figures 4 and 4A, a pair of upper straps 21 are also provided to ensure
a good fit with the seat.
[0085]       The seat cover 10 illustrated in both embodiments includes a pair of stabilising
portions 11 mounted relative to the seat cover 10 for attachment and removal with the seat cover.
[0086]       According to the illustrated preferred embodiments, the stabilising portions 11 are
movable in a horizontal direction only.
[00871       Further, as illustrated in Figure 5, one of the stabilising portions 11 is fixed relative
to the seat and the other of the stabilising portions 11 is movable relative to the seat.
[0088]       A mounting assembly as illustrated in Figure 5 is provided including a rigid or semi
rigid mounting plate 19 which is attached to or relative to the seat cover 10. Preferably, the
mounting plate 19 is shaped to suit the seat on one side in order to minimise movement of the
mounting plate relative to the seat once the seat cover is attached.
[0089]       The mounting plate 19 is generally rectangular but may have any shape. The
mounting plate illustrated has two layers, the first rear layer 25 of rubber or similar and a forward
layer 26 of foam or similar.
[0090]       As illustrated in Figure 5 in particular, a plurality of rails 20 are associated with the
mounting plate 19 on an outwardly facing side in order to engage with corresponding mounting
portions on each of the stabilising portions 11. Each of the rails 20 allow for adjustable
movement of the stabilising portions 11. The mechanism illustrated in Figure 5 to provide for
adjustable movement, but secure fastening of the stabilising portions relative to the rails and
therefore the mounting plate, includes in inner fixed rail 22 with a plurality of openings 23
therein, an inner slide rail 24 which engages and slides relative to the fixed rail 22 and a pin to
extend into one of the openings 23 to fix the length of the fixed 22 and sliding rails 24. The rails
are preferably sandwiched between the rear layer 25 and the forward layer 26.
[0091]       A series of spaced positions are provided by the spaced slots into which stabilising
portions can be fixed.
[0092]       Each of the stabilising portions 11 is shaped in order to abut a user's torso and be

comfortable whilst preventing undue movement. Each of the stabilising portions will typically
have an arcuate forward portion. Normally, the arcuate forward portions will be oriented in
opposite directions to one another such that a substantial C-shaped depression is formed between
the stabilising portions 11.
[0093]        Each stabilising portion 11 will typically have a substantially right angled triangle
shape with a concave wall on the hypotenuse side when viewed in plan. The preferred the shape
of stabilising portion 11 includes a triangular cross-section which tapers to a thin edge or portion
at the front and outside of the stabilising portion and tapering to a thin edge or portion at the rear
on the inside of the stabilising portion.
[0094]        The stabilising portions have a planar base wall in order to abut the substantially
planar mounting plate 19. Typically, engagement means to engage the rails located on the
mounting plate are provided on the base wall of each stabiliser.
[0095]        Each stabilising portion 11 is located in a region between the user's armpit 27 and hip
28 when the user is properly seated in the vehicle seat. The stabilising portions may extend
entirely between the armpit 27 and the hip 28 or only a portion of the height thereof.
[0096]        Figure 5A is an elevation view from the front of a preferred mounting plate used in a
preferred embodiment of the present invention.
[00971        [In the alternative form illustrated in Figures 6 to 10, the vehicle seat stabilising
device 30 includes an abutment plate 31 to abut a forward surface of a backrest portion of a
vehicle seat, a pair of adjustable stabilising portions 11 mounted relative to the abutment plate
31, one stabilising portion 11 on either lateral side of the abutment plate 31 and adapted to
protrude forwardly of the vehicle seat, each stabilising portion 11 to closely abut a seated user's
torso between armpit and hip in order to minimise lateral motion of the torso.
[0098]        The abutment plate 31 is adapted to be securely, but releasably mounted relative to
the vehicle seat.
[0099]        The abutment plate illustrated is a shaped plate having a lower, torso portion 32
which when the abutment plate 31 is positioned correctly relative to a vehicle seat, extends over
the lumbar and lower thoracic vertebral portions of the user and an upper portion 33 which when
the abutment plate 31 is positioned correctly relative to a vehicle seat, extends over the upper
thoracic and/or cervical vertebral portion of the user.

[0100]        The torso portion 32 is substantially rectangular and the upper portion 33 converges
upwardly with a flattened top edge.
[0101]        Padding 34 is provided in a forward surface of the upper portion 33 of the abutment
plate 31 in order to provide comfort for the user.
[0102]        The stabilizing portions 11 of the device are mounted relative to a forward surface of
the abutment plate 31 in the lower, torso portion 32. The stabilizing portions are preferably as
described above in relation to the first embodiment.
[0103]        A centrally located spine support portion 35 is mounted directly to the forward
surface of the abutment plate 31 between the stabilizing portions 11. As best illustrated in Figure
7, a forward surface of the spine support portion 35 is located relative to the forward surface of
the stabilizing portions 11 to support the spine directly and allow the stabilizing portions 11 to
support the lateral sides of the user's back.
[0104]        The preferred embodiment of the mounting system provided to mount the stabilizing
portions 11 to the abutment plate 31 for movement relative thereto. The central spine support
portion 35 is fixed to the abutment plate 31 and the lateral stabilizing portions 11 movable
relative to the central spine support portion 35.
[0105]        The mounting system includes a pair of transverse guide rods 36 extending through
the centrally located spine support portion 35 which assists with bracing the guide rods 36
against movement.
[0106]        An elongate threaded rod 37 extends substantially parallel to the guide rods. The
threaded rod of the illustrated embodiment is a unitary rod which is threaded on one lateral side
end thereof with a left-hand thread and on the other lateral end thereof, with a right-hand thread.
[01071        The threaded rod 37 is mounted relative to the abutment plate for rotation. Normally,
two gripping knobs 38 are provided, one on either end of the threaded rod 37 allowing rotation of
the threaded rod 37 even when seated on the vehicle seat relative to which the stabilizing device
30 is attached. A split pin 43 is provided to attach each knob 38 to the threaded rod 37.
[01081        The mounting system further includes a carriage 39 for each stabilizing portion 11. A
carriage is attached to each stabilizing portion using threaded fasteners 40 to mount each
stabilizing portion 11 relative to the threaded rod 37 allowing translation of the carriage 39 along
the threaded rod 37 when the threaded rod 37is rotated in order to adjust the position of the

                                                   1 -r
stabilizing portions 11. Each carriage 39 has an internally threaded bore corresponding to the
thread on the threaded rod 37. According to the illustrated embodiment, each carriage 39 is
mounted relative to the threaded rod 37such that rotation of the threaded rod 37in one direction
results in movement of both carriages 39 outwardly and rotation of the threaded rod 37in the
opposite direction results in movement of both carriages 39 inwardly.
[0109]        The carriage 39 also functions to space the rear of each of the stabilizing portions 11
from the front of the abutment plate 31. Each carriage 39 is itself spaced from the front of the
abutment plate 31.
[0110]        There are typically a number of openings through the carriage 39 including the
internally threaded bore. For example, a corresponding number of openings are provided through
the carriage 39 in order to allow the carriage 39 to move along the guide rods 36, driven by the
rotation of the threaded rod 37.
[0111]        A collar 51 is provided at either end of the threaded rod 37, adjacent each lateral side
of the abutment plate 31 in order to provide further support at either end of the threaded rod 37
and/or for the guide rods 36. The collar 51 is a two part assembly having two halves 41 and
housing a bearing assembly or race 42 in order to allow or smooth rotation of the threaded rod
37. The collar 51 also has a pair of openings in order to allow the guide rods 36 to be mounted
relative to the collar 51.
[0112]        Typically, a lock nut 44 is provided on the threaded rod 37 on either side of each
collar 51 in order to prevent removal of the threaded rod 37 as well as to prevent lateral
movement of the threaded rod 37 unless required. Washers 45 are also provided.
[01131        A locking mechanism 46 is provided in order to prevent accidental movement of the
threaded rod 37 and therefore the stabilizing portions 11, and/or the gripping knob 38.
[0114]        An alternative embodiment of the device is illustrated in Figures 11 to 15. In the
view illustrated in Figure 11, the device includes a forward portion 52 which mounts the
stabilising portions 11 relative thereto stabilising portions 11 mounted for movement relative to
the forward portion 52 through the rotation of knobs 53 using an adjustment assembly which is
further explained in relation to Figure 12.
[0115]        Two pieces of webbing are provided, namely an outer webbing strip 54 which is a
nylon strip approximately 30 mm wide and a rear webbing strip 55 which is also nylon and
approximately 16 mm wide in order to attach the forward portion 52 to the backrest mount

portion 56. A shaped peripheral channel 57 is also provided to attach the forward portion 52 to
the backrest mount portion 56 about the periphery of the respective portions.
[0116]       In the configuration illustrated in Figure 12 which details the adjustment assembly,
the rear of the forward portion 52 is substantially closed using a single piece of structural plastic
58 which is attached to the forward portion 52 using a plurality of fasteners 59 and which also
mounts the adjustment assembly using the same fasteners 59.
[01171       The adjustment assembly is broken into two parts, one on each lateral side of the
forward portion 52 and each part being responsible for moving a single stabilising portion 11.
Each part of the adjustment assembly has a mechanism enclosure base 60 which is mounted to
the forward portion 52 using the fasteners 59 and the other portions of the adjustment assembly
are mounted into the respective mechanism enclosure base 60.
[0118]       Each mechanism enclosure base 60 is provided with a mechanism enclosure top 61
which provides a housing to contain the adjustment assembly components. Each mechanism
enclosure housing is provided with a forward piece of padding 62.
[0119]       As to the mechanism itself, each mechanism is provided with a sliding block 63. The
sliding block has a pair of rods extending laterally outwardly away from the other of the
mechanisms, one of the rod is being threaded rod 64 and one being a guide rod 65. The threaded
rod 64 is mounted in the mechanism enclosure base to be rotatable such that when the knob 53
which is attached to the end of the threaded rod 64 is rotated, the sliding block 63 moves laterally
along the threaded rod 64 guided by the guide rod 65. In the illustrated embodiment, the threaded
rod 64 engages with a marked 66 which is mounted within a cavity in these sliding block 63 to
move the sliding block when the threaded rod 64 is rotated.
[0120]       Other nuts 67 and washers 68 are provided to mount the threaded rod 64 relative to
the mechanism enclosure base 60.
[0121]       A preferred form of the backrest mount portion 56 is illustrated in Figure 13. This
portion has a main fabric backing 67 to which are attached an upper support 68 and a lower
support 69. The upper support 68 and lower support 69 are both open at both the upper and lower
sides in order to allow the backrest mount portion 56 to simply be attached relative to the
backrest of the seat or chair by sliding these supports over the backrest of the seat or chair.
[0122]       In addition to the supports, a number of straps can be provided. The ends of straps
70, both vertical and horizontal straps, are generally stitched to the fabric backing 67. The straps

are both length adjustable and also provided with a clip or similar construction over their length
in order to adjust the length of the strap and then detach the strap portions from one another in
order to attach the backrest mount portion 56 relative to the backrest of the seat and attach the
straps 70 thereabouts. The clips illustrated in Figure 13 are of a conventional type with a male
portion 71 that is received at least partially within a female cavity 72 with a pair of press portions
which are pressed to release the male portion 71 from the female cavity 72. This configuration
provides two different manners in which the device can be located relative to a seat or chair. An
alternative view of the rear of the preferred backrest mount portion 56 is illustrated in Figure 14
with the detailed Figure 15 disclosing be location of the upper and lower support relative to the
fabric backing 67.
[01231       In the present specification and claims (if any), the word "comprising" and its
derivatives including "comprises" and "comprise" include each of the stated integers but does not
exclude the inclusion of one or more further integers.
[0124]       Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment" or "an embodiment"
means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the
embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, the
appearance of the phrases "in one embodiment" or "in an embodiment" in various places
throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.
Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in any
suitable manner in one or more combinations.
[0125]       In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language more or
less specific to structural or methodical features. It is to be understood that the invention is not
limited to specific features shown or described since the means herein described comprises
preferred forms of putting the invention into effect. The invention is, therefore, claimed in any of
its forms or modifications within the proper scope of the appended claims (if any) appropriately
interpreted by those skilled in the art.

CLAIMS
1. A removable seat cover with stabilising portions including a seat cover adapted to be
   securely, but releasably mounted relative to a backrest portion of a vehicle seat, a pair of
   adjustable stabilising portions, one on either lateral side of the seat cover and adapted to
   protrude forwardly of the vehicle seat, each stabilising portion to closely abut a seated user's
   torso between armpit and hip in order to minimise lateral motion of the torso.
2. A removable seat cover as claimed in claim 1 including a sleeve, at least a part of which is
   resilient material to be deformable in order to mount relative to a backrest portion of a
   vehicle seat.
3. A removable seat cover as claimed in claim 2 wherein the sleeve is configured as a hollow,
   tubular portion with one closed end and one open end.
4. A removable seat cover as claimed in any one of the preceding claims further including one
   or more length adjustable straps in order to mount relative to a backrest portion of a vehicle
   seat.
5. A removable seat cover as claimed in any one of the preceding claims further including
   elongate means extending from a lower portion thereof to pass underneath a portion of the
   backrest portion and engage with a portion of the seat cover or other mechanism on an
   opposite side of the backrest portion in order to fix the seat cover relative to the backrest
   portion.
6. A removable seat cover as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the stabilising
   portions are each movable at least substantially horizontally.
7. A removable seat cover as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the stabilising
   portions are mounted relative to the seat cover for attachment and removal with the seat
   cover via a mounting assembly configured to allow each of the stabilising portions to move
   relative to the mounting assembly and the seat cover in order to adjust the position of the
   stabilising portion for different seats, and for different users.
8. A removable seat cover as claimed in claim 7 wherein the mounting assembly includes a
   rigid or semi-rigid mounting plate attached to or relative to the seat cover.
9. A removable seat cover as claimed in claim 8 wherein at least one rail is associated with the
   mounting plate on an outwardly facing side in order to engage with corresponding mounting

                                                 10
    portions on each of the stabilising portions to allow for adjustable movement of the
    stabilising portions.
10. A removable seat cover as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the stabilising
    portions are infinitely adjustable or there may be a series of spaced positions into which
    stabilising portions can be fixed.
11. A removable seat cover as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein each of the
    stabilising portions is shaped in order to abut a user's torso and be comfortable whilst
    preventing undue movement.
12. A removable seat cover as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein each of the
    stabilising portions have an arcuate forward portion oriented in opposite directions to one
    another such that a substantial C-shaped depression is formed between the stabilising
    portions.
13. A removable seat cover as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the stabilising
    portion be or include a cushioning material in order to allow the user comfort when the
    stabilising portions abuts a user's torso.
14. A removable seat cover as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the stabilising
    portions extend entirely between an armpit and a hip region of a user.
15. A removable seat cover as claimed in any one of the preceding claims further including a
    centrally located spine support portion mounted between the stabilizing portions.
16. A removable seat cover as claimed in claim 15 wherein the central spine support portion is
    fixed in position.
17. A removable seat cover as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the adjustable
    stabilising portions are mounted relative to an elongate threaded rod for guided adjustment
    of a separation between the adjustable stabilising portions.
18. A removable seat cover as claimed in claim 17 including a carriage for each stabilizing
    portion to mount each stabilizing portion relative to the threaded rod allowing translation of
    the respective carriage along the rod when the rod is rotated in order to adjust the position of
    the stabilizing portions.
19. A removable seat cover as claimed in claim 18 including a locking mechanism provided in

                                                   I-/
    order to prevent accidental movement of the threaded rod and therefore the stabilizing
    portions.
20. A stabilising device including an abutment plate to abut a forward surface of a backrest
    portion of a seat or chair, a pair of adjustable stabilising portions mounted relative to the
    abutment plate, one stabilising portion on either lateral side of the abutment plate and
    adapted to protrude forwardly of the seat or chair, each stabilising portion to closely abut a
    seated user's torso between armpit and hip in order to minimise lateral motion of the torso.
21. A seat including an integrated seat cover as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 19.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/13

                           7/13
<removed-date>
                                               30
              33
<removed-apn>
                                                11
                                                     38
                                                     46
                    40   35
                          Figure 6
                                          44
               11                    11
                                                      37
                         35
                         Figure 7

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                              34
                                               31
                                                    8/13
            11           11
                 31
51 `   32
                                    Figure 9

                                      <removed-apn>            <removed-date>
41
     39
          31
     42   44
               41
                                                 36
                                                      41                    9/13
                                                             42
                                                                  44
                                                                       43
                                       39   44
                                 35                    41
                    11
          37
                         Figure 10

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
             56
52
                                   57
                                                 10/13
                                        57
     11                 52
          Figure 11

                                                <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
     52
                                                                     59
60
                                                                                11/13
                                                             58
67
          68
                                 64
                                      68
                66    65                           60
               61                          67
                     Figure 12

                      <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
68
                           70
                                71
                                72
                                                   12/13
                                70
                      69
     Figure 13   67

        <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
    A
                                    13/13
          Figure 15
4

