                                   ABSTRACT
      A sugarcane green sustainable high-yield planting method includes the
steps of selecting a healthy good sugarcane species, digging a sugarcane ditch,
fertilizing scientifically, seeding and covering soil, covering film and soil,
harvesting sugarcane and performing ratoon management, and enhances
scientific planting and harvesting during two key periods of planting and
harvest. In the period of planting sugarcane,          the chemical fertilizer
consumption is reduced, and a slow-release fertilizer dedicated to sugarcane is
applied and a bio-organic fertilizer is added and a bio-degradation plastic film
is used for covering to promote the growth of sugarcane. In the period of
harvesting sugarcane, the conventional cutting method is substituted by a
buried deep-cut method, and then the fertilizer required by ratoon sugarcane is
applied to the sugarcane ditch to complete fine soil cultivation and full film
cover, so as to complete the ratoon sugarcane management. This disclosure has
the effects of achieving a green production of sugarcane, improving the yield
and sucrose content, reducing the application of chemical fertilizer, improving
the fertility and utilization rate of the soil, improving the ecological
environment of the sugarcane land, promoting the growth of sugarcane,
increasing the income of sugarcane farmers, and providing easy promotions
and applications.

                                    DESCRIPTION
      SUGARCANE GREEN SUSTAINABLE HIGH-YIELD PLANTING
                                       METHOD
                               FIELD OF INVENTION
[0001] The present disclosure relates to a planting technique, in particular to a sugarcane
green sustainable high-yield planting method.
                         BACKGROUND OF INVENTION
1. Description of the Related Art
[0002] Sugarcane is an important sugar crop in China and a main source of sugar, and the
green development and sustainable high-yield sugarcane planting are an important
guarantee to national sugar security. Internationally, there are two mainstreams of
researches on the high yield sugarcane planting technology, and one of them is sugarcane
production technology by modern equipment such as agricultural mechanization
technology and irritation technology, and the other one is high-yield high sugar effective
planting method such as free-plowing direct-seeding technology and formula fertilization.
At present, developed countries including United States, Australia, and Brazil use
sugarcane mechanization technology to achieve the effects of fully mechanizing the
processes of ploughing, planting, managing and harvesting sugarcane, improving the
labor productivity significantly, and lowering the production cost of sugarcane
effectively. Australia conducted research and development on the sugarcane high-yield
high-sugar sustainable technology and widely used the integrated technology primarily
based on the sugarcane leaf returning technology and N, P, K balanced formula
fertilization. Although the sugarcane planting technology still has a big gap from those of
the developed countries such as United States and Australia, the study on cost-effective
and efficient cultivation of sugarcane in dryland has gained great progress and obtained a
large number of scientific research achievements in recent two decades, and these
                                             I

achievements include the high-yield high-sugar cultivation technology of sugarcane in
dryland, good-breeding good-method supporting cultivation technology of sugarcane,
"Tons of Sugar Field' production technology sugarcane, healthy-seeding sugarcane
production     technology,    and  other  high-yield    high-sugar   sugarcane    cultivation
technologies. Since the " 12 th Five Year Plan", the sugarcane areas have accelerated the
use of novel simple production resources such as the weed mulch, specific formula
compound fertilizer, and high-efficiency low-toxicity pesticide for sugarcane, and have
played a certain role of promoting the sugarcane production to improve the sugarcane
yield.
[0003]With the increasing shortage of water resources, countries around the world are
exploring water-saving irrigation methods. Some advanced countries such as United
States, Israel, and Canada apply computer control, fuzzy control and neural network
control methods for smart irrigation, so that the precision control and level of intelligence
become increasingly higher, the reliability becomes increasingly better, and the operation
becomes increasingly simpler and more convenient. The drip irrigation technology rises
in countries with poor water resources such as Israel and its application becomes popular
in countries such as United States, Mexico, Australia, and Japan now. The sugarcane drip
irrigation technology has been used widely in China as well. Sugarcane underground
irrigation technology is a more eco-friendly, water-saving and more prospective
irrigation technology. In 1974, China introduced the drip irrigation equipment from
Mexico for the first time. In 2003, Golden Farm in Guangxi established a sugarcane drip
irrigation demonstration area of 6.7hm 2 for the first time in China. In 2004, Zhanjiang
Agricultural Cultivation introduced the Israel geographical drip irrigation technology and
its promotion area reaches 1100 hm 2 , and the sugarcane yield adopting the drip irrigation
technology is up to 120t/hm 2, which is much higher than the world's average standard of
70.5t/hm 2 . In recent years, Guangxi has set the development of sugarcane water-saving
irrigation as the focus of Guangxi agriculture and implemented a million-hectare highly
efficient water-saving project. During the " 1 2 th Five Year Plan" period, Guangxi
developed a highly-efficient water-saving sugarcane irrigation area of 200,000 hm2 . In
2014, Sugarcane Research Institute of Yunnan Academy of Agricultural Science started
                                            2

the research and development of integrated water and fertilizer technologies for
sugarcane and the demonstration area was 2.3hm2 .
[0004] For more than a decade, the sugarcane drip irrigation technology has not created
applications with a large scale or promotion area in China's dryland sugarcane areas,
mainly because the sugarcane drip irrigation equipment is very expensive, and the
economic benefit of sugarcane is low, and thus the sugarcane drip irrigation technology is
still in the research demonstration stage. On the other hand, the sugarcane water-saving
drought-resistant cultivation technology has been used extensively in China's main
producing areas. For example, the sugarcane deep-ditch soil cultivation technology, the
groove cultivation technology, the plastic film mulch cultivation technology, the autumn
cultivation technology, the early-winder cultivation technology, etc. Yunnan is situated at
a low-latitude plateau sugarcane area with adequate sunlight, uneven distribution of
rainfall, and droughts in winters and springs. Therefore, it is necessary to analyze the
shortage of water source in dryland sugarcane areas and the fact of the seriously lagging
water facilities and fully utilizes the water in the soil of sugarcane areas and natural rain
in China's dryland sugarcane areas, particularly Yunnan mountain sugarcane areas in
order to integrate and create sugarcane water-saving drought-resistant cultivation
technology and novel industrial materials such as sugarcane plastic film, etc., and study
the mainstream direction of using sugarcane water-saving drought-resistant green
planting technology as the development of the modem sugarcane industry.
[0005] Sugarcane cultivation has a long history, and the fertilization technology is
improved constantly with the extension of cultivation time. With the establishment of
plant nutrition theory, the emergence of the fertilizer industry, the large-scale application
of fertilizer, and the increasing awareness of environmental protection, formula
fertilization technology (particularly the slow-release fertilizer technology) is gradually
accepted and used by farmers. The production of slow-release fertilizers has a history of
more than 40 years. In the recent decade, countries with high fertilization rate
increasingly emphasize on the adverse effects of excessive fertilization and the expensive
labor force in developed countries. To save labor and reduce environmental pollution,
slow-release fertilizer is gradually developed and the development speed is much greater

than that of the conventional fertilizer. Up to now, some institutes, universities, and
industrial departments of countries like Australia, Canada, and China have carried out
numerous studies on slow-release fertilizers, and countries like Denmark, Czech
Republic, and Egypt have investigated the slow-release fertilizers. Obviously, the slow
release fertilizers have attracted the attentions of countries all over the world. In the late
1970, China has already started its initial contact and study of the controlled release
fertilization technology, and also developed a calcium-magnesium-phosphate fertilizer
package containing ammonium bicarbonate and long-acting ammonium bicarbonate. The
ammonium bicarbonate is granulated and packed by the calcium-magnesium-phosphate
fertilizer. The scale was small and only some of the organization conducted trial
production of such fertilizer. In the late 1980, Professor Xu, Xincheng of School of
Engineering of Zhengzhou University led a task force to develop an inorganic packaged
fertilizer (which is the phosphorus-soluble         packaged compound fertilizer).       Such
technology was originally entrusted to San Men Xia Shi Compound Fertilizer Plant to
carry out the industrialization pilot test, and the test was passed in 1987. Thereafter
Shandong, Szechuan, Henan, Yunnan and United States have established approximately
ten packaged fertilizer manufacturing companies. Since 2011, Sugarcane Institute of
Yunnan Academy of Agricultural Science and Gejiu Green Compound Fertilizer
Company, Ltd. jointly conducted a research on the control of slow-release fertilizers
dedicated to sugarcane and obtained a corresponding technical achievement. With the
shift of rural labor force, the increase of planting cost, and the zero growth of the
chemical fertilizer application rate requested by China, the market expectation of the
slow-release fertilizers dedicated to sugarcane is very broad, slow-release fertilizer, and
the high-efficiency fertilization technology related research and development are very
popular.
[0006] Therefore, the industrial development method must be changed to achieve the
effects of transforming and upgrading the sugarcane industry, so as to change the
conventional ways of applying a large quantity for the planting sugarcane and using non
degradable plastic film or non-recyclable plastic films or cutting sugarcane for harvest,
and achieve the effects of improving the soil structure and fertility of the sugarcane land,
                                              4

increasing the sugarcane yield, and improving the quality, while reducing lowering the
sugarcane labor cost and increasing the industrial benefits.
2. Summary of the Invention
[0007] In view of the drawbacks of the conventional sugarcane planting method including
water shortage, high consumption of fertilizer, soil pollution, high planting cost and large
cane file remained after cutting, it is a primary objective of this disclosure to provide a
reform of the planting technology and an industrial transformation or upgrade
[0008] This disclosure provides a sugarcane green sustainable high-yield planting method
that integrates    the industrial green    development requirements       and changes    the
conventional planting method of applying a large quantity of fertilizer and an ordinary
white plastic film covering for sugarcane planting, and this disclosure reasonably
collocates a slow-release fertilizer with a bio-organic fertilizer dedicated to sugarcane
and reduces the consumption of chemical fertilizer by increasing the consumption of
organic fertilizer, and uses a completely bio-degradable weed mulch for a full coverage
to minimize the white pollution. During the sugarcane harvest, a reform of sugarcane
cutting and harvesting technology is conducted, and a buried deep-cut is implemented to
increase the sugarcane yield and improve the sucrose content, so as to increase the
sugarcane farmers' income and improve the business benefits.
[0009] To achieve the aforementioned and other objectives, this disclosure provides a
sugarcane green sustainable high-yield planting method comprises the following steps:
[0010] Step (1): Select a good healthy sugarcane species, wherein a good healthy pest
free sugarcane species is selected as seedling and planted in winter or spring.
[0011] Step (2): Prepare land and ditch, wherein the sugarcane land is deeply plowed,
deeply loosened and finely raked, and a sugarcane ditch is evacuated along a contour line
before the sugarcane is planted, with the requirements of crushed clumps, a ditch depth of
30-40cm, a ditch bottom width of 20-25cm, and a line spacing of 90~1 10cm.
[0012] Step (3): Scientific Fertilization: Apply a bio-organic fertilizer with a quantity of
100~120kg/acre      and a slow-release     fertilizer for sugarcane    with a quantity of
50-70kg/acre in the sugarcane ditch, wherein the bio-organic fertilizer has an organic
                                             5

matter content >40% (calculated on the basis of streak), an effective viable count
20.2billion /g, a water content <30%, and a pH value of 5.5~8.0
[0013]Step (4): Seeding and Soil Covering: Carry out the seeding timely after the
fertilization, wherein the amount of seeding per acre is 8000~10000 buds, and then
covering the seedling with a soil of 7~9cm thick.
[0014] Step (5): Film and Soil Covering: Apply a completely bio-degradable weed mulch
along the vertical direction of the sugarcane ditch for the coverage until the sugarcane
land is covered completely, while using a method of covering a plastic film onto the soil
of each ditch in order to cover the soil onto the plastic film precisely above the sugarcane
ditch along the direction of the sugarcane ditch, wherein the soil covering thickness is
3-4cm, and the plastic film is surely and tightly attached to the soil of the sugarcane
ditch.
[0015] Step (6): Sugarcane Harvest: Apply a buried deep-cut with an in-soil depth 6~8cm
after the newly planted sugarcane matures.
[0016]Step (7): Ratoon Management: Directly apply the fertilizer required by the
sugarcane ratoon into a sugarcane ditch pit remained after the deep cut for one time, and
then apply the fine soil dressing and full film coverage, wherein the type of fertilizer and
the amount of fertilizer are the same as those described in the step (3); the soil dressing
requires a complete coverage of fertilizer; and the full film coverage method is the same
as that described in the Step (5).
[0017]Further, the good sugarcane species described in the Step (1) is preferably the
New Taiwan Sugar No. 22, New Taiwan Sugar No. 25, Yunnan sugar 0551, Funong No,
41, Guangdong Sugar 93-159, Guangxi Sugar No. 32, Liucheng 05-136 or Dehong sugar
03-83.
[0018]Further, an amount of 5 kg/acre of Poison Sheen uniformly mixed with the
fertilizer is preferably applied to the sugarcane ditch in one time if the sugarcane land has
underground pests while conducting the scientific fertilization of the Step (3), and an
amount of 50ml/acre of Durivo or an amount of 40g/acre of Virtako uniformly mixed
with the fertilizer is preferably applied to the sugarcane ditch for one time if the
sugarcane land has aphids and/or stem borers.
                                              6

[0019] Further, the bio-organic fertilizer in the Step (3) is preferably composed of a sugar
factory sludge, a chimney ash, a bagasse, a cow dung and a bacterial species and
purchased from Gengma Nanhua Meng Yong Bio-organic Fertilizer Co., Ltd.
[0020] Further, the slow-release fertilizer dedicated to sugarcane described in the Step (3)
preferably has a N:P:K proportion of 23:13:18.
[0021]Further, the timely seeding described in the Step (4) is preferably carried out by
taking the advantage of the newly dug sugarcane ditch being still wet, wherein the
acreage yield is 10000 buds for a sugarcane ditch with a line spacing of 90~100 cm, and
the acreage yield is 9000 buds for a sugarcane ditch with a line spacing of 100~ 110 cm.
[0022] Further, the Step (5) of covering the film and soil is preferably carried out timely
when the water content of the soil in the sugarcane ditch soil is 20%~30%.
[0023] Further, the completely bio-degradable weed mulch as described in the Step (5)
preferably has a thickness of 0.012±0.002mm and a width of 2.0-2.4m.
[0024] Further, the completely bio-degradable weed mulch as described in the Step (5)
preferably has a degradation time of 3-6 months.
[0025] Further, the plastic film as described in the Step (5) is preferably covered onto the
sugarcane ditch along the vertical direction of the sugarcane ditch while covering the soil
onto the fine oil on the sugarcane ridge at the connecting position of the plastic film and
performing a soil compaction, wherein the soil covering thickness is 3-4cm, and the
intersection of the plastic films has a film intersection width of 5~10cm, and a soil
compaction is required at the connection position of the plastic film on the sugarcane
ridge, and there is no specific requirement on the thickness of soil.
[0026] Compared with the prior art, this disclosure has the following beneficial effects:
[0027] (1) Fertilizing the soil of the sugarcane land soil reduces the chemical fertilizer
consumption. This disclosure adopts the use of a bio-organic fertilizer together with a
slow-release fertilizer dedicated to sugarcane to effectively reduce the chemical fertilizer
application rate and fertilize the soil of the sugarcane land soil and achieve the effect of
promoting the ecological environment of the sugarcane area. Compared with the use of a
conventional slow-release fertilizer dedicated for sugarcane (80-120 Kg/acre) and a
general three-element     complex fertilizer (120-160        Kg/acre), this disclosure   can
                                              7

effectively reduce the consumption of the slow-release fertilizer dedicated to sugarcane
by 10-70 Kg /acre and the consumption of the general three-element complex fertilizer
by 50-110Kg/acre, and thus achieves the effect of reducing the chemical fertilizer
consumption. Meanwhile, this disclosure applies a bio-organic fertilizer with raw
materials primarily coming from the byproducts of exquisite livestock and poultry
excrement, sugar factory sludge, chimney ash, bagasse, sugarcane leaf, etc. and promotes
the extension of the industry chain and the recycle and reuse, so as to achieve the effects
of turning waste into treasure, and promoting green development, ecological and
environmental protection.
[0028] (2) This disclosure avoids the "white pollution" and saves labor cost. At present,
the sugarcane achieves its insulation and moisturizing purposes through plastic film
mulching to promote the improvement of the sugarcane yield. However, with the
promotion and application of sugarcane plastic films in recent years, the "white plastic
film pollution" in sugarcane areas becomes obvious year by year, and many plastic films
covered onto the sugarcane land are not uncovered and automatic degradations cannot be
done in the intertillage management, and the plastic films remained in the sugarcane land
affects the cultivation and soil structure of the sugarcane land and brings an adverse
effect to the sustainable development of the sugarcane industry. This disclosure adopting
the complete bio-degradable weed mulch and scientific film coating method can prevent
the "white plastic film pollution" of sugarcane land effectively and waive the intertillage
management and the process of uncovering the plastic film, This disclosure protects the
soil structure of sugarcane land, while reducing the cost of uncovering the plastic film
during the sugarcane production process by at least 1-2 labor/acre. In other words, this
disclosure can save a labor cost of 80-240 dollars/acre based on the calculation of the
labor cost by 80-120 dollars/labor/day.
[0029] (3) This disclosure improves the sugarcane yield and sucrose content and achieves
the effects of increasing sugarcane farmers'       income and business benefits. This
disclosure emphasizes on the green development of the planting technology while
considering the sustainable high yield of the sugarcane industry at the same time. This
disclosure improves the sugarcane yield and the sucrose content significantly, and the
                                            8

field test results show that this disclosure can improve the agricultural yield of the
sugarcane by 1.64-2.81t/acre and the sucrose content by 0.3~0.7%. As to the sugarcane
farmers' income, the sugarcane yield is increased by at least 1.64 t/acre, so that the
income is increased by 688.80 dollars /acre (calculated according to the purchase price of
the sugarcane raw material of 420 dollars/t). In addition, the market price of the weed
mulch dedicated to sugarcane is 17 dollars/kg, and the market price of the completely
bio-degradable weed mulch is 35 dollars/kg and the film consumption per acre is 10kg,
and after the production cost of applying the completely bio-degradable weed mulch is
deducted, the increase of income is 180 dollars /acre, so that the sugarcane farmer's
sugarcane net income is 508.80 dollars/acre. In the meantime, a greater ecological benefit
is brought to the sugarcane area to promote the green development of the sugarcane
industry. As to business benefits, this disclosure improves the sucrose content by at least
0.3%, and the sugar yield by 0.2%. If the sugar price is 5200 dollars/t, the production per
acre is 6.50t, and the average sugar yield is 12.7%, the sugar production is increased by
0.218t/acre, so that a sugar company applying this disclosure can increase the business
benefit by 1133.6 dollars per acre. In addition, the benefits resulted from other by
products and the inventive technology is applied extensively and constantly, so that the
business benefit is further increased.
[0030] (4) This disclosure simplifies the ratoon management program to lower the ratoon
sugarcane production cost. During the newly planted sugarcane harvest, this disclosure
adopting the buried deep-cut technology not just increases the raw material yield of
sugarcane and the strain growth rate of the ratoon sugarcane only, but also has a pit with
a depth of 6~8 cm remained in the sugarcane ditch stump, and such pit is a very good
fertilizing pit for the fertilization of the ratoon sugarcane and capable of waiving an
important formula for the ratoon sugarcane strip-till to save the strip-till management cost
by 100 dollars /acre. In the ratoon sugarcane management, the fertilizer required by the
ratoon sugarcane is applied into the pit remained in the sugarcane ditch stump for one
time after the deep cut, and then the soil dressing and full film coverage is conducted. As
a result, the program of the ratoon sugarcane management is simplified significantly, and
the management and labor costs are reduce to lower the sugarcane farmer's production
                                             9

cost. In addition, the buried deep-cut greater promotes the bud germination of the ratoon
sugarcane and improves the strain growth rate by 8.4-16.1% to provides a good
foundation for the sustainable high yield of the ratoon sugarcane.
                       DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS
[0031]To understand the technical characteristics of this disclosure intuitively and
comprehensively, exemplary embodiments are used to illustrate the disclosure. It is
intended that the embodiments disclosed herein are to be considered illustrative rather
than restrictive. It is noteworthy that the manufacturers of all testing agents or
instruments have not been stated, since they are regular commercially available products.
[0032]In an embodiment of this disclosure, the bio-organic fertilizer may be purchased
from Gengma Nanhua Meng Yong Bio-organic Fertilizer Co., Ltd.
[0033]The slow-release fertilizer dedicated to sugarcane may be purchased from
Tianmeng Agricultural Chain Limited Liability Company.
[0034]The completely bio-degradable weed mulch may be purchased from Shi Weite
Economic and Technical Development Company.
[0035]In an embodiment of this disclosure, the bio-organic fertilizer has an organic
matter content >40% (calculated on the basis of streak), an effective viable count
>0.2billion /g, a water content <30%, and a pH value of 5.5~8.0. The slow-release
fertilizer dedicated to sugarcane has a N:P:K proportion of 23:13:18. The completely bio
degradable weed mulch has a thickness of 0.012+0.002mm, a width of 2.0~2.4m, and a
degradation time of 3~6 months.
[0036] Embodiment 1
[0037]A sugarcane green sustainable high-yield planting method of this embodiment
comprises the following steps:
[0038](1) Select a good healthy sugarcane species such as New Taiwan Sugar No. 22
sugarcane seedling for the planting in winter.
[0039] (2) Land Preparation and Ditching: The sugarcane land is deeply plowed, deeply
loosened and finely raked, wherein a sugarcane ditch is evacuated along a contour line
before the sugarcane is planted, with the requirements of crushed clumps, a ditch depth of
35cm, a ditch bottom width of 20 cm, and a line spacing of 100cm.
                                            10

[0040] (3) Scientific Fertilization: Apply a bio-organic fertilizer (120 kg/acre) and a slow
release fertilizer dedicated to sugarcane (50 kg/acre) to the sugarcane ditch. Apply a
slow-release low-toxicity high-efficiency pesticide Virtako (40 g/acre) uniformly mixed
with the fertilizer to the sugarcane ditch for one time if there are aphids or stem borers.
[0041](4) Seeding and Soil Covering: Timely carry out the seeding by taking the
advantage of the newly dug sugarcane ditch being still wet, wherein the acreage yield is
9000 buds, and timely cover the seedling by a soil with 7 cm thick.
[0042] (5) Film and Soil Covering: Use a completely bio-degradable weed mulch of the
sugarcane for a full coverage, and cover a plastic film onto the sugarcane ditch in a
direction perpendicular to the sugarcane ditch (which is the horizontal direction), and use
the fine soil on the sugarcane ridge at the connecting position of the plastic film for
compaction along the sugarcane ditch, wherein the soil covering thickness is 4 cm and if
the plastic films are intersected, the intersection of the plastic films has a film intersection
width of 8 cm, and a soil compaction is required at the connecting position of the plastic
film on the sugarcane ridge.
[0043] (6) Sugarcane Harvest: Apply a buried deep-cut with an in-soil depth 6 cm after
the newly planted sugarcane matures.
[0044] (7) Ratoon Management: Directly apply the fertilizer required by the sugarcane
ratoon into a sugarcane ditch pit remained after the deep cut for one time and then apply
the soil dressing and full film coverage, wherein the consumption of fertilizer and the
plastic film covering method are the same as those of the newly planted sugarcane; and
the soil dressing requires a complete coverage of fertilizer.
[0045] Embodiment 2
[0046] A sugarcane green sustainable high-yield planting method of this embodiment
comprises the following steps:
[0047] (1) Select a good healthy sugarcane species such as New Taiwan Sugar No. 25
sugarcane seedling for the planting in spring.
[0048] (2) Land Preparation and Ditching: The sugarcane land is deeply plowed, deeply
loosened and finely raked, wherein a sugarcane ditch is evacuated along a contour line
before the sugarcane is planted, with the requirements of crushed clumps, a ditch depth of
                                              11

40cm, a ditch bottom width of 25 cm, and a line spacing of 110cm.
[0049] (3) Scientific Fertilization: Apply a bio-organic fertilizer (120 kg/acre) and a slow
release fertilizer dedicated to sugarcane (50 kg/acre) to the sugarcane ditch. Apply a
slow-release low-toxicity high-efficiency pesticide Poison Sheen (5 kg/acre) uniformly
mixed with the fertilizer to the sugarcane ditch for one time if there are aphids in the
sugarcane land, and apply a slow-release low-toxicity high-efficiency pesticide Durivo
(50 ml/acre) uniformly mixed with the fertilizer to the sugarcane ditch for one time if
there are stem borers in the sugarcane land.
[0050] (4) Seeding and Soil Covering: Timely carry out the seeding, wherein the acreage
yield is 8000 buds, and timely cover the seedling by a soil with 9 cm thick after the
seeding.
[0051] (5) Film and Soil Covering: Use a completely bio-degradable weed mulch of the
sugarcane for a full coverage after the sugarcane ditch is irrigated, and cover a plastic
film onto the sugarcane ditch in a direction perpendicular to the sugarcane ditch (which is
the horizontal direction), and use the fine soil on the sugarcane ridge at the connecting
position of the plastic film for compaction along the sugarcane ditch, wherein the soil
covering thickness is 3 cm and if the plastic films are intersected, the intersection of the
plastic films has a film intersection width of 6 cm, and a soil compaction is required at
the connecting position of the plastic film on the sugarcane ridge.
[0052] (6) Sugarcane Harvest: Apply a buried deep-cut with an in-soil depth 8 cm after
the newly planted sugarcane matures.
[0053](7) Ratoon Management: Directly apply the fertilizer required by the sugarcane
ratoon into a sugarcane ditch pit remained after the deep cut for one time and then apply
the soil dressing and full film coverage, wherein the consumption of fertilizer and the
plastic film covering method are the same as those of the newly planted sugarcane; and
the soil dressing requires a complete coverage of fertilizer.
[0054] Embodiment 3
[0055]A sugarcane green sustainable high-yield planting method of this embodiment
comprises the following steps:
[0056] (1) Select a good healthy sugarcane species such as Yunnan Sugar 0551 sugarcane
                                             12

seedling for the planting in spring.
[0057] (2) Land Preparation and Ditching: The sugarcane land is deeply plowed, deeply
loosened and finely raked, wherein a sugarcane ditch is evacuated along a contour line
before the sugarcane is planted, with the requirements of crushed clumps, a ditch depth of
30 cm, a ditch bottom width of 20 cm, and a line spacing of 90cm.
[0058] (3) Scientific Fertilization: Apply a bio-organic fertilizer (100 kg/acre) and a slow
release fertilizer dedicated to sugarcane (50 kg/acre) to the sugarcane ditch. Apply a
slow-release low-toxicity high-efficiency pesticide Poison Sheen (5 kg/acre) uniformly
mixed with the fertilizer to the sugarcane ditch for one time if there are underground
pests in the sugarcane land, and apply a slow-release low-toxicity high-efficiency
pesticide Virtako (40 g/acre) uniformly mixed with the fertilizer to the sugarcane ditch
for one time if there are stem borers in the sugarcane land.
[0059] (4) Seeding and Soil Covering: Timely carry out the seeding by taking advantage
of the newly dug sugarcane ditch still being wet, wherein the acreage yield is 10000 buds.
Timely cover the seedling by a soil with 8 cm thick after the seeding.
[0060] (5) Film and Soil Covering: Use a completely bio-degradable weed mulch of the
sugarcane for a full coverage, and cover a plastic film onto the sugarcane ditch in a
direction perpendicular to the sugarcane ditch (which is the horizontal direction), and use
the fine soil on the sugarcane ridge at the connecting position of the plastic film for
compaction along the sugarcane ditch, wherein the soil covering thickness is 3 cm and if
the plastic films are intersected, the intersection of the plastic films has a film intersection
width of 10cm, and a soil compaction is required at the connecting position of the plastic
film on the sugarcane ridge.
[0061] (6) Sugarcane Harvest: Apply a buried deep-cut with an in-soil depth 7 cm after
the newly planted sugarcane matures.
[0062] (7) Ratoon Management: Directly apply the fertilizer required by the sugarcane
ratoon into a sugarcane ditch pit remained after the deep cut for one time and then apply
the soil dressing and full film coverage, wherein the consumption of fertilizer and the
plastic film covering method are the same as those of the newly planted sugarcane; and
the soil dressing requires a complete coverage of fertilizer.
                                              13

[0063] Embodiment 4
[0064] A sugarcane green sustainable high-yield planting method of this embodiment
comprises the following steps:
[0065](1) Select a good healthy sugarcane species such as Funong No. 41sugarcane
seedling for the planting in spring.
[0066] (2) Land Preparation and Ditching: The sugarcane land is deeply plowed, deeply
loosened and finely raked, wherein a sugarcane ditch is evacuated along a contour line
before the sugarcane is planted, with the requirements of crushed clumps, a ditch depth of
35cm, a ditch bottom width of 20 cm, and a line spacing of 100cm.
[0067] (3) Scientific Fertilization: Apply a bio-organic fertilizer (110 kg/acre) and a slow
release fertilizer dedicated to sugarcane (60 kg/acre) to the sugarcane ditch. Apply a
slow-release low-toxicity high-efficiency pesticide Virtako (40 g/acre) uniformly mixed
with the fertilizer to the sugarcane ditch for one time if there are stem borers in the
sugarcane land.
[0068] (4) Seeding and Soil Covering: Timely carry out the seeding by taking advantage
of the newly dug sugarcane ditch still being wet, wherein the acreage yield is 10000 buds.
Timely cover the seedling by a soil with 9 cm thick after the seeding.
[0069] (5) Film and Soil Covering: Use a completely bio-degradable weed mulch of the
sugarcane for a full coverage, and cover a plastic film onto the sugarcane ditch in a
direction perpendicular to the sugarcane ditch (which is the horizontal direction), and use
the fine soil on the sugarcane ridge at the connecting position of the plastic film for
compaction along the sugarcane ditch, wherein the soil covering thickness is 3 cm and if
the plastic films are intersected, the intersection of the plastic films has a film intersection
width of 6 cm, and a soil compaction is required at the connecting position of the plastic
film on the sugarcane ridge.
[0070] (6) Sugarcane Harvest: Apply a buried deep-cut with an in-soil depth 6 cm after
the newly planted sugarcane matures.
[0071] (7) Ratoon Management: Directly apply the fertilizer required by the sugarcane
ratoon into a sugarcane ditch pit remained after the deep cut for one time and then apply
the soil dressing and full film coverage, wherein the consumption of fertilizer and the
                                              14

plastic film covering method are the same as those of the newly planted sugarcane; and
the soil dressing requires a complete coverage of fertilizer.
[0072] Embodiment 5
[0073]A sugarcane green sustainable high-yield planting method of this embodiment
comprises the following steps:
[0074] (1) Select a good healthy sugarcane species such as Guangdong Sugar 3-159
sugarcane seedling for the planting in winter.
[0075] (2) Land Preparation and Ditching: The sugarcane land is deeply plowed, deeply
loosened and finely raked, wherein a sugarcane ditch is evacuated along a contour line
before the sugarcane is planted, with the requirements of crushed clumps, a ditch depth of
30 cm, a ditch bottom width of 20 cm, and a line spacing of 98 cm.
[0076] (3) Scientific Fertilization: Apply a bio-organic fertilizer (120 kg/acre) and a slow
release fertilizer dedicated to sugarcane (50 kg/acre) to the sugarcane ditch. Apply a
slow-release low-toxicity high-efficiency pesticide Poison Sheen (5 kg/acre) uniformly
mixed with the fertilizer to the sugarcane ditch for one time if there are underground
pests in the sugarcane land.
[0077] (4) Seeding and Soil Covering: Timely carry out the seeding by taking advantage
of the newly dug sugarcane ditch still being wet, wherein the acreage yield is 9200 buds.
Timely cover the seedling by a soil with 7 cm thick after the seeding.
[0078] (5) Film and Soil Covering: Use a completely bio-degradable weed mulch of the
sugarcane for a full coverage, and cover a plastic film onto the sugarcane ditch in a
direction perpendicular to the sugarcane ditch (which is the horizontal direction), and use
the fine soil on the sugarcane ridge at the connecting position of the plastic film for
compaction along the sugarcane ditch, wherein the soil covering thickness is 3 cm and if
the plastic films are intersected, the intersection of the plastic films has a film intersection
width of 8 cm, and a soil compaction is required at the connecting position of the plastic
film on the sugarcane ridge.
[0079] (6) Sugarcane Harvest: Apply a buried deep-cut with an in-soil depth 6 cm after
the newly planted sugarcane matures.
[0080] (7) Ratoon Management: Directly apply the fertilizer required by the sugarcane
                                              15

ratoon into a sugarcane ditch pit remained after the deep cut for one time and then apply
the soil dressing and full film coverage, wherein the consumption of fertilizer and the
plastic film covering method are the same as those of the newly planted sugarcane; and
the soil dressing requires a complete coverage of fertilizer.
[0081] Embodiment 6
[0082] A sugarcane green sustainable high-yield planting method of this embodiment
comprises the following steps:
[0083] (1) Select a good healthy sugarcane species such as Guangxi Sugar No. 32
sugarcane seedling for the planting in spring.
[0084] (2) Land Preparation and Ditching: The sugarcane land is deeply plowed, deeply
loosened and finely raked, wherein a sugarcane ditch is evacuated along a contour line
before the sugarcane is planted, with the requirements of crushed clumps, a ditch depth of
40 cm, a ditch bottom width of 25 cm, and a line spacing of 110cm.
[0085] (3) Scientific Fertilization: Apply a bio-organic fertilizer (120 kg/acre) and a slow
release fertilizer dedicated to sugarcane (50 kg/acre) to the sugarcane ditch. Apply slow
release low-toxicity high-efficiency pesticides Virtako (40 g/acre) and Poison Sheen
(5Kg/acre) uniformly mixed with the fertilizer to the sugarcane ditch for one time if there
are underground pests, aphids and stem borers in the sugarcane land.
[0086] (4) Seeding and Soil Covering: Timely carry out the seeding by taking advantage
of the newly dug sugarcane ditch still being wet, wherein the acreage yield is 8000 buds.
Timely cover the seedling by a soil with 7 cm thick after the seeding.
[0087] (5) Film and Soil Covering: Use a completely bio-degradable weed mulch of the
sugarcane for a full coverage, and cover a plastic film onto the sugarcane ditch in a
direction perpendicular to the sugarcane ditch (which is the horizontal direction), and use
the fine soil on the sugarcane ridge at the connecting position of the plastic film for
compaction along the sugarcane ditch, wherein the soil covering thickness is 4 cm and if
the plastic films are intersected, the intersection of the plastic films has a film intersection
width of 8 cm, and a soil compaction is required at the connecting position of the plastic
film on the sugarcane ridge.
[0088] (6) Sugarcane Harvest: Apply a buried deep-cut with an in-soil depth 6 cm after
                                              16

the newly planted sugarcane matures.
[0089] (7) Ratoon Management: Directly apply the fertilizer required by the sugarcane
ratoon into a sugarcane ditch pit remained after the deep cut for one time and then apply
the soil dressing and full film coverage, wherein the consumption of fertilizer and the
plastic film covering method are the same as those of the newly planted sugarcane; and
the soil dressing requires a complete coverage of fertilizer.
[0090] Embodiment 7
[0091]A sugarcane green sustainable high-yield planting method of this embodiment
comprises the following steps:
[0092](1) Select a good healthy sugarcane species such as Liucheng 05-136 sugarcane
seedling for the planting in spring.
[0093] (2) Land Preparation and Ditching: The sugarcane land is deeply plowed, deeply
loosened and finely raked, wherein a sugarcane ditch is evacuated along a contour line
before the sugarcane is planted, with the requirements of crushed clumps, a ditch depth of
35 cm, a ditch bottom width of 23 cm, and a line spacing of 105cm.
[0094] (3) Scientific Fertilization: Apply a bio-organic fertilizer (100 kg/acre) and a slow
release fertilizer dedicated to sugarcane (70 kg/acre) to the sugarcane ditch. Apply slow
release low-toxicity high-efficiency pesticides Virtako (40 g/acre) uniformly mixed with
the fertilizer to the sugarcane ditch for one time if there are underground pests in the
sugarcane land.
[0095] (4) Seeding and Soil Covering: Timely carry out the seeding by taking advantage
of the newly dug sugarcane ditch still being wet, wherein the acreage yield is 9500 buds.
Timely cover the seedling by a soil with 8 cm thick after the seeding.
[0096] (5) Film and Soil Covering: Use a completely bio-degradable weed mulch of the
sugarcane for a full coverage, and cover a plastic film onto the sugarcane ditch in a
direction perpendicular to the sugarcane ditch (which is the horizontal direction), and use
the fine soil on the sugarcane ridge at the connecting position of the plastic film for
compaction along the sugarcane ditch, wherein the soil covering thickness is 3.5 cm and
if the plastic films are intersected, the intersection of the plastic films has a film
intersection width of 5cm, and a soil compaction is required at the connecting position of
                                             17

the plastic film on the sugarcane ridge.
[0097] (6) Sugarcane Harvest: Apply a buried deep-cut with an in-soil depth 7 cm after
the newly planted sugarcane matures.
[0098] (7) Ratoon Management: Directly apply the fertilizer required by the sugarcane
ratoon into a sugarcane ditch pit remained after the deep cut for one time and then apply
the soil dressing and full film coverage, wherein the consumption of fertilizer and the
plastic film covering method are the same as those of the newly planted sugarcane; and
the soil dressing requires a complete coverage of fertilizer.
[0099] Embodiment 8
[00100]      A sugarcane green sustainable high-yield planting method of this embodiment
comprises the following steps:
[00101]      (1) Select a good healthy sugarcane species such as Dehong Sugar 03-83
sugarcane seedling for the planting in spring.
[00102]      (2) Land Preparation and Ditching: The sugarcane land is deeply plowed,
deeply loosened and finely raked, wherein a sugarcane ditch is evacuated along a contour
line before the sugarcane is planted, with the requirements of crushed clumps, a ditch
depth of 30 cm, a ditch bottom width of 20 cm, and a line spacing of 105cm.
[00103]      (3) Scientific Fertilization: Apply a bio-organic fertilizer (100 kg/acre) and a
slow-release fertilizer dedicated to sugarcane (70 kg/acre) to the sugarcane ditch.
[00104]      (4) Seeding and Soil Covering: Timely carry out the seeding by taking
advantage of the newly dug sugarcane ditch still being wet, wherein the acreage yield is
9000 buds. Timely cover the seedling by a soil with 8 cm thick after the seeding.
[00105]      (5) Film and Soil Covering: Use a completely bio-degradable weed mulch of
the sugarcane for a full coverage, and cover a plastic film onto the sugarcane ditch in a
direction perpendicular to the sugarcane ditch (which is the horizontal direction), and use
the fine soil on the sugarcane ridge at the connecting position of the plastic film for
compaction along the sugarcane ditch, wherein the soil covering thickness is 3 cm and if
the plastic films are intersected, the intersection of the plastic films has a film intersection
width of 10 cm, and a soil compaction is required at the connecting position of the plastic
film on the sugarcane ridge.
                                              18

[00106]     (6) Sugarcane Harvest: Apply a buried deep-cut with an in-soil depth 7 cm
after the newly planted sugarcane matures.
[00107]      (7) Ratoon Management: Directly apply the fertilizer required by the
sugarcane ratoon into a sugarcane ditch pit remained after the deep cut for one time and
then apply the soil dressing and full film coverage, wherein the consumption of fertilizer
and the plastic film covering method are the same as those of the newly planted
sugarcane; and the soil dressing requires a complete coverage of fertilizer.
[00108]     While this disclosure has been described by means of specific embodiments,
numerous modifications and variations could be made thereto by those skilled in the art
without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention set forth in the claims.
                                            19

                                  CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A sugarcane green sustainable high-yield planting method,
   comprising the steps of:
   Step (1): selecting a good healthy sugarcane species, wherein a good
   healthy pest-free sugarcane species is selected as seedling and planted
   in winter or spring;
   Step (2): Land Preparation and Ditching, the sugarcane land is deeply
   plowed, deeply loosened and finely raked, wherein a sugarcane ditch
   is evacuated along a contour line before the sugarcane is planted, with
   the requirements of crushed clumps, a ditch depth of 30~40cm, a
   ditch bottom width of 20~25cm, and a line spacing of 90~110cm;
   Step (3): Scientific Fertilization: applying a bio-organic fertilizer with
   a quantity of 100-120kg/acre and a slow-release fertilizer for
   sugarcane with a quantity of 50~70kg/acre in the sugarcane ditch,
   wherein the bio-organic fertilizer has an organic matter content >40%
   (calculated on the basis of streak), an effective viable count
   20.2billion /g, a water content    30%, and a pH value of 5.5-8.0;
   Step (4): Seeding and Soil Covering: carrying out the seeding timely
   after the fertilization, wherein the amount of seeding per acre is
   8000~10000 buds, and then covering the seedling with a soil of
   7~9cm thick;
                                       1

Step (5): Film and Soil Covering: applying a completely
bio-degradable weed mulch along the vertical direction of the
sugarcane ditch for the coverage until the sugarcane land is covered
completely, while using a method of covering a plastic film onto the
soil of each ditch in order to cover the soil onto the plastic film
precisely above the sugarcane ditch along the direction of the
sugarcane ditch, wherein the soil covering thickness is 3-4cm, and
the plastic film is surely and tightly attached to the soil of the
sugarcane ditch; and the soil covering adopts a fine soil on the
sugarcane ridge at the connecting position of the plastic film, and the
intersection of the plastic films has a film intersection width of
5~10cm, and a soil compaction is required at the connection position
of the plastic film on the sugarcane ridge; and the completely
bio-degradable weed mulch requires a thickness of 0.012±0.002mm, a
width of 2.0-2.4m, and a degradation time of 3-6 months;
Step (6): Sugarcane Harvest: Applying a buried deep-cut with an
in-soil depth 6-8cm after the newly planted sugarcane matures;
Step (7): Ratoon Management: directly applying the fertilizer
required by the sugarcane ratoon into a sugarcane ditch pit remained
after the deep cut for one time, and then applying the fine soil
dressing and full film coverage, wherein the type of fertilizer and the
amount of fertilizer are the same as those described in the step (3); the
                                   2

   soil dressing requires a complete coverage of fertilizer; and the full
   film coverage method is the same as that described in the Step (5).
2. The sugarcane green sustainable high-yield planting method of claim
   1, wherein the good sugarcane species described in the Step (1) is
   New Taiwan Sugar No. 22, New Taiwan Sugar No. 25, Yunnan sugar
   0551, Funong No. 41, Guangdong Sugar 93-159, Guangxi Sugar No.
   32, Liucheng 05-136 or Dehong sugar 03-83.
3. The sugarcane green sustainable high-yield planting method of claim
   1, wherein an amount of 5 kg/acre of Poison Sheen uniformly mixed
   with the fertilizer is applied to the sugarcane ditch in one time if the
   sugarcane land has underground pests while conducting the scientific
   fertilization of the Step (3), and an amount of 50ml/acre of Durivo or
   an amount of 40g/acre of Virtako uniformly mixed with the fertilizer
   is applied to the sugarcane ditch for one time if the sugarcane land has
   aphids and/or stem borers.
4. The sugarcane green sustainable high-yield planting method of claim
   1, wherein the bio-organic fertilizer in the Step (3) is composed of a
   sugar factory sludge, a chimney ash, a bagasse, a cow dung and a
   bacterial species.
5. The sugarcane green sustainable high-yield planting method of claim
   1, wherein the slow-release fertilizer dedicated to sugarcane described
   in the Step (3) has a N:P:K proportion of 23:13:18.
                                      3

6. The sugarcane green sustainable high-yield planting method of claim
    1, wherein the timely seeding described in the Step (4) is carried out
   by taking the advantage of the newly dug sugarcane ditch being still
   wet, wherein the acreage yield is 10000 buds for a sugarcane ditch
   with a line spacing of 90~100 cm, and the acreage yield is 9000 buds
   for a sugarcane ditch with a line spacing of 100~-110 cm.
7. The sugarcane green sustainable high-yield planting method of claim
    1, wherein the Step (5) of covering the film and soil is carried out
   timely when the water content of the soil in the sugarcane ditch soil is
   20%~30%.
                                     4

