                                               - 27
   ABSTRACT
   This invention relates to a conduit or spigot fabrication comprising at least one
   protuberance or shoulder acting to keep a nut deployed locally to the end of the conduit
   or spigot for thread-wise engagement of the nut to a waste outlet or inlet; a slide nut or
 5 trap nut moulded and/or machined and/or evolved to have at least one continuous or
   discontinuous groove in its exterior in a plane perpendicular to the thread axis of the nut;
   a moulded annulus comprising a resilient material capable of being parted transversely
   along its longitudinal extent to provide one or both of a washer for a smaller size pipe,
   and/or a washer for a larger size pipe, and a waste or water trap assembly and/or
10 fabrication comprising linked conduiting able to provide a trap in at least one
   configuration utilising the conduit, nut and washer above.
   Figure to accompany abstract: Figure 12A

            711
       7
         13     3
       58
22
   A
     FIGURE 12A

                                                  - 1
                          "WASTE TRAPS AND THEIR COMPONENTRY"
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   The present invention relates to water or waste traps and their componentry, in
 5 particular though not solely, to plumbing components assemblies and related procedures
   and methods, including but not limited to components used in trap assemblies.
   BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
   We have recognised that trap assemblies typified by those in New Zealand:
10            m of the Dux Limited with its Dux "Fast Fit TM" polypropylene waste system are
   reliant on acrylonitrile compression and sealing rings (see www.dux.co.nz/waste-water
   traps), and
              " of AQUALINE    TM Space Traps (see www.aqualine.co.nz).
15 The forms of these trap assemblies (including the form of their nuts) are typical of those
   of many manufacturers overseas (See Figures 19 and 21). We favour the less
   pronounced wider rib options widespread throughout the world.
   Also to be found overseas are hybridised forms of the delicate high ribs of one or the
20 lower wide ribs of the other.
   Also, there are peripherally cylindrical rib variants that link the castellation provided by
   the axially extending peripheral ribs, whether of the delicate high rib kind or the lower
   wide rib kind. See Figures 20 and 21 hereafter.
25
   Despite their availability in a swivellable 'P' and 'S' configuration, the trap assemblies of
   all such suppliers still provide some difficulties for users.
   The present invention relates to providing aspects of the present invention whereby
30 plumbers and do-it-yourself ("DIY") persons can overcome at least one or more of such
   difficulties.
   A difficulty we recognise is that often the access to the waste fitting for attaching the trap
   nut captive to the spigot or conduit fitting is restricted and may only allow for one hand
35 to be used. Difficulties often include:
              - a long reach into fitting,
              - one hand only able to enter space to tighten trap nut,
              " restricted access through access panels,

                                                   - 2
              - other restrictions e.g. floor joists and beams,
              " typically under a bath where reaching in and between floor joists.
   Typically the nut falls down to the bottom of the "U" and is located on the side of the
 5 hand location from the end of the trap.
   It is at least an object of the present invention to provide a user with a useful choice.
   It is therefore at least an object of the present invention to provide a water or waste trap
10 and their componentry and/or which will go at least some way towards addressing the
   foregoing problems or which will at least provide the industry and/or public with a useful
   choice.
   In this specification where reference has been made to patent specifications, other
15 external documents, or other sources of information, this is generally for the purpose of
   providing a context for discussing the features of the invention. Unless specifically stated
   otherwise, reference to such external documents is not to be construed as an admission
   that such documents, or such sources of information, in any jurisdiction, are prior art, or
   form part of the common general knowledge in the art.
20
   Further aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the
   ensuing description which is given by way of example only.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
25 In a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a conduit or spigot fabrication, said
   fabrication comprising at least one protuberance or shoulder of the conduit or spigot
   acting to keep a nut deployed locally to the end of the conduit or spigot for thread-wise
   engagement of the nut to a waste outlet or inlet.
30 Preferably, said at least one protuberance or shoulder comprises a radially extending
   projection, continuous or discontinuous, about an exterior surface of the conduit or
   spigot, located at least in a region of the conduit or spigot to retain the nut locally of the
   conduit or spigot end for said thread-wise engagement.
35 Preferably, said at least one protuberance or shoulder comprising
             at least a first radially extending projection, continuous or discontinuous, about
   an exterior surface of the conduit or spigot, said first projection located substantially
   adjacent or in proximity to the end of the conduit or spigot; and

                                                 -3
             at least a second radially extending projection, continuous or discontinuous,
   about an exterior surface of the conduit or spigot, said second projection located further
   away from the end of the conduit or spigot and away from the first projection(s).
 5 Preferably, the protuberance or shoulder are configured or dimensioned to prevent a nut
   from becoming deployed away from the local region adjacent or in proximity to the end
   of the conduit or spigot.
   Preferably, the protuberance or shoulder provide for a limit or limits for retaining of the
10 nut in a region of the conduit or spigot, the region defined between said limit and the end
   of the conduit or spigot or between at least a first limit (or first projection) and a second
   limit (or second projection).
   Preferably, the conduit or spigot provides for an assembly (e.g. the conduit or spigot,
15 whether reliant on any interposed washer(s) or not, and being, for example, all or part of
   an 'S' bend type trap), wherein the nut is captive on the conduit between two limits (or
   two protuberances or shoulders) at an end region thereof, one of said limits to provide a
   fluid tight connection to the conduit at that end region and the other of said limits to
   keep the nut at or near the end region.
20
   Preferably, said nut is that as defined by any one of the aspects below.
   Preferably, a moulded annulus or washer or compression seal as defined by any one of
   the aspects below may also be incorporated for sealing engagement between the nut and
25 a threaded connection receivable of the nut.
   In a second aspect of the invention, there is provided a slide nut or trap nut (hereafter
   "nut") and conduit or spigot fabrication where at least one protuberance or shoulder of
   the conduit or spigot acts to keep the nut deployed locally to the end of the conduit or
30 spigot for thread-wise engagement of the nut to a waste outlet or inlet.
   In a third aspect of the invention, there is provided a slide nut or trap nut (hereafter
   "nut") and conduit or spigot assembly (e.g. the conduit or spigot, whether reliant on any
   interposed washer(s) or not, and being, for example, all or part of an 'S' bend type trap),
35 wherein the nut is captive on the conduit between two limits at an end region thereof,
   one of said limits to provide a fluid tight connection to the conduit at that end region and
   the other of said limits to keep the nut at or near the end region.

                                                 -4
   In a fourth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a waste or water trap
   assembly and/or fabrication comprising or including:
          linked conduiting (or conduit) able to provide a trap in at least one configuration,
                and
 5        a trap or slide nut at at least one end region of the linked conduiting, and
          a washer disposed at the one, or either one or both, end regions(s) to assist sealing
                 upon a threaded connection of the linked conduiting (or conduit) by the nut to
                an outlet and/or inlet of a drainage system;
   wherein at least one or more of the following applies:
10          said conduit is as defined in any one aspects one to three above,
            said nut is as defined in any one of the aspects below,
            said washer is as defined in any one of the aspects below.
   In a fifth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a waste or water trap
15 assembly and/or fabrication comprising or including:
          linked conduiting (or conduit) able to provide a trap in at least one configuration,
                and
          a trap or slide nut at at least one end region of the linked conduiting, and
          a washer, compression seal, or compression ring disposed at the one, or either one
20              or both, end regions(s) to assist sealing upon a threaded connection of the
                 linked conduiting (or conduit) by the nut to an outlet and/or inlet of a
                drainage system;
   wherein at least one or more of the following applies:
              " at least one nut is provided with a groove, continuous or discontinuous, about
25 its girth or circumference to assist sawing or cutting in a plane transverse to the thread
   axis,
              " the nut has such groove, continuous or discontinuous, placed asymmetrically
   of the length of the thread,
              - the nut has an inward retention flange end further from the groove,
30 continuous or discontinuous, and then such groove is from the other end,
              " the washer, seal or ring is a detached part of a moulding defining two types of
   detachable parts,
              " the nut is able to be supported by an abutment with a component of the
   linked conduiting (or conduit) so as to be adjacent where it can conveniently be thread
35 engaged to an outlet fitting or the like.
   Preferably, the nut is a trap or slide nut and is provided at both end regions of the linked
   conduiting (or conduit).

                                                  - 5
   In a sixth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a waste or water trap
   assembly and/or fabrication comprising or including:
          linked conduiting (or conduit) able to provide a trap in at least one configuration,
 5              and
          a trap or slide nut at least at one end region of the linked conduiting, preferably
                both); and
          optionally a washer, compression seal, or compression ring disposed at the one, or
                either one or both, end regions(s) to assist sealing upon a threaded
10              connection of the linked conduiting (or conduit) by the nut to an outlet and/or
                inlet of a drainage system;
   wherein at least one or more of the following applies:
              " at least one nut is provided with a groove, continuous or discontinuous, about
   its girth or circumference to assist sawing or cutting in a plane transverse to the thread
15 axis,
              " the nut has such groove, continuous or discontinuous, placed asymmetrically
   of the length of the thread,
              - the nut has an inward retention flange end further from the groove,
   continuous or discontinuous, and then such groove is from the other end,
20            - the washer, seal or ring is a detached part of a moulding defining two types of
   detachable parts,
              - the nut is able to be supported by an abutment with a component of the
   linked conduiting (or conduit) so as to be adjacent where it can conveniently be thread
   engaged to an outlet fitting or the like.
25
   A difficulty we recognise is that often the thread on the waste is not long enough to allow
   the top slide nut on the trap to engage the end of the waste onto the top slide nut
   washer to create a seal. The reasons are often:
              - different standards for waste fittings - i.e. European and Asian wastes
30 generally have very short threads (3-7 mm).
              - if the thickness of the sink, basin, bath or shower is different and if the
   thickness is too thick, after the "backnut" of the waste is tightened only a small amount
   of thread is left exposed (for example, as in Figure 18 to be compared to a standard
   installation in Figure 17).
35
   Sometimes it is required to have a vertical distance to the weir of the trap. This can occur
   when a basin is replaced and the new one is slightly deeper or thicker than the original.

                                                  -6
   The outlet of the trap must still line up, therefore the waste is cut shorter to
   accommodate the vertical height difference. A fix is a transverse cutting of the nut.
   However, it is very difficult to cut a plastic nut exactly square as it is difficult to hold and
 5 cut as the hacksaw will tend to run with the threads.
   It is also important that the cut location is in the best position, not too short and
   therefore cutting the trap spigot.
10 The cut must be clean and make and/or allow for starting the nut onto the waste outlet's
   male thread easy. If the cut is not straight it is very hard not to cross-thread the female
   thread of the plastic slide or trap nut onto the male thread (waste fitting).
   In a seventh aspect, the present invention relates to a slide nut or trap nut (hereafter
15 "nut") characterised in that, or wherein, said nut has been moulded and/or machined
   and/or evolved to have at least one continuous or discontinuous groove (or other location
   profile (hereafter "groove")) in its exterior in a plane perpendicular to the thread axis of
   the nut.
20 Preferably, said nut comprises said continuous or discontinuous said groove(s)
   circumferentially about the exterior surface.
   Preferably, each of said groove(s) is a region of surface relief of the wall defining the nut.
25 Preferably, each of said groove(s) is a region of thinned wall thickness compared to the
   average thickness of the remainder of the wall of the nut.
   Preferably, the thinned wall thickness is sufficient so as to allow the nut to be threaded
   onto a connection with a suitable connecting torque without failure.
30
   Preferably, each of said groove(s) is dimensioned to receive a blade of a cutting tool.
   Preferably, each of said groove(s) is dimensioned to guide a bladed cutting tool in a
   cutting operation.
35
   Preferably, each said groove(s) provides for an associated region of frangibility.

                                                 - 7
   Preferably, where the nut comprises a first section, and at least a second section defined
   by a first groove, and wherein each such subsequent groove defines a further section of
   the nut.
 5 Preferably, wherein each such nut section can be separated from adjacent nut sections in
   the region of adjoining groove(s).
   Preferably, where the nut comprises a first section and a section second, separated by a
   single groove, the first section is of greater axial length than the second section.
10
   Preferably, where a single groove is provided about the exterior of the nut, the groove is
   located asymmetrically of the length of the thread, or is located asymmetrically from the
   mid-point of the axial length of the nut.
15 Preferably, wherein the nut is provided with said groove, said groove being continuous or
   discontinuous about its circumference or girth to assist sawing or cutting in a plane
   transverse to the thread axis.
   Preferably, the nut exterior comprises one or more axially aligned, radially spaced apart,
20 ribs or castellations.
   Preferably, the ribs or castellations are finger grips for gripping by a user.
   Preferably, said nut has an inward retention flange end further from the groove, said
25 inward retention flange being continuous or discontinuous.
   In an eighth aspect, the present invention also consists in an assembly or fabrication of a
   slide nut or trap nut ("nut") characterised in that, or wherein, the nut has been moulded
   and/or machined and/or evolved to have a continuous or discontinuous groove in its
30 exterior in a plane perpendicular to the thread axis of the nut, and
             a spigot or conduit to be held by the nut (whether through and/or involving
   compression packers(s), sealing ring(s), washer(s) and/or the like, or not).
   Preferably the plane of the continuous or discontinuous groove is positioned on the nut,
35 and the nut is captive, yet slidable, relative to the conduit or spigot sufficiently to allow
   cut through (whether a blade cut or a saw cut) beyond the end of the conduit or spigot.

                                                -8
   Another difficulty we recognise is that the waste pipe connector requires fitment of both
   32 mm and 40 mm pipe or conduit. Therefore, all other manufacturers provide two
   washers separately for individual use (e.g. a 40 mm washer for 40 mm pipe and a 32
   mm washer for 32 mm pipe). As such:
 5          " This requires more inventory.
            - Often a washer is lost.
            " Manufacturing process is in two parts.
            " Assembly in factory is 1 additional part.
            - Cost is increased - extra part and labour.
10          m  Packing of washers often deforms the second washer which is pushed into the
               nut housing leaving it in an oval shape.
   In a ninth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a moulded annulus, the
   moulded annulus comprises a resilient material capable of being parted (e.g. by cutting,
15 tearing or other action) transversely along its longitudinal extent to provide one or both
   of:
            a washer for a smaller size pipe, and/or
            a washer for a larger size pipe.
20 Preferably, optionally the washer for the larger size pipe size is axially shorter than that
   for the smaller pipe size. Alternatively, optionally the washer for the smaller size pipe is
   axially shorter than that for the larger pipe size.
   Preferably, the moulded annulus comprises a lumen, said lumen having at least a first
25 section of a first internal diameter and one or more additional sections, each additional
   section having the same or a different internal diameter to that of the first section.
   Preferably, the moulded annulus comprises a lumen, said lumen having at least a first
   section of a first internal diameter and at least a second section of a second internal
30 diameter different to the first internal diameter.
   Preferably, between each of said lumen sections of different internal diameter the
   moulded annulus comprises a circumferentially extending frangible region such that each
   of such lumen sections are separable from each other.
35
   Preferably, wherein between each such lumen section there is provided a line of
   weakness in or through the wall of the moulded annulus defining said lumens, said line of
   weakness being in a plane perpendicular to the axis of the moulded annulus.

                                                 -9
   Preferably, said line of weakness provides for a frangible region extending substantially
   circumferentially about said moulded annulus.
 5 Preferably, an exterior surface of the moulded annulus has an interrupted contour form,
   each of said interruptions defining a surface for sealing.
   Preferably, ribs extend from an exterior surface of the moulded annulus.
10 Preferably, an exterior surface of the moulded annulus comprises one or more, or a
   series, of circumferentially (or radially outward) extending ribs projecting from the
   exterior surface.
   Preferably, an internal surface of the moulded annulus is of a substantially uninterrupted
15 contour.
   Preferably, wherein at a terminal end of said moulded annulus, the internal surface
   comprises at least one radially inward extending projection or lip from a wall defining the
   lumen.
20
   Preferably, wherein the radially inward extending projection or lip is a locator to locate an
   end of a conduit to be subsequently sleeved or housed within the lumen of the moulded
   annulus.
25 Preferably, the radially inward extending projection or lip is a stop member, said stop
   member preventing over insertion of a conduit into the lumen.
   Preferably, the rib or ribs are compressible or deformable to compress or deform in
   providing a sealing arrangement with a surface with which they contact.
30
   Preferably, the radially inward extending projection or lip provides for a sealing surface
   with the cross-section of the end of a wall in contact therein or therewith.
   Preferably, the each section of lumen with a different internal diameter of the moulded
35 annulus may be dimensioned so as to receive a conduit of pre-determined external
   diameter.

                                               - 10
   Preferably, a section of the lumen with a greater internal diameter has an internal
   diameter of 40 mm.
   Preferably, a section of the lumen with a smaller internal diameter has an internal
 5 diameter of 32 mm.
   Preferably, the moulded annulus is a polymeric material. More preferably, is an acrylic
   material, even more preferably is an acrylonitrile, such as a polyacrylonitrile.
10 Preferably, the moulded annulus is formed or moulded of a material comprising a rubber,
   or is formed of a rubber.
   In a tenth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a moulded annulus in a
   resilient material capable of being parted (e.g. by cutting, tearing or other action)
15 transversely along its longitudinal extent to provide one or both of:
          a washer for a smaller size pipe substantially as shown in the drawings,
          a washer for a larger size pipe substantially as shown in the drawings.
   The present invention also relates to components to address each of such degrees
20 irrespective of whether or not the components, sub-assemblies or assemblies that form
   aspects of the present invention are to be used together or not. Each of the above-noted
   aspects can be considered in isolation or in conjunction with any one or more component,
   sub-assembly or assembly of the present invention.
25 It will be appreciated each of the above described aspects may be utilised in conjunction
   with details of the other aforementioned aspects. The further details of which are
   generally described herein.
   As used herein the term "and/or" means "and" or "or", or both. As used herein the term
30 "(s)" following a noun includes, as might be appropriate, the singular or plural forms of
   that noun.
   The term "comprising" as used in this specification means "consisting at least in part of".
   When interpreting each statement in this specification that includes the term
35 "comprising", features other than that or those prefaced by the term may also be
   present. Related terms such as "comprise" and "comprises" are to be interpreted in the
   same manner.

                                                - 11
   This invention may also be said broadly to consist in the parts, elements and features
   referred to or indicated in the specification of the application, individually or collectively,
   and any or all combinations of any two or more of said parts, elements or features, and
   where specific integers are mentioned herein which have known equivalents in the art to
 5 which this invention relates, such known equivalents are deemed to be incorporated
   herein as if individually set forth.
   The invention consists in the foregoing and also envisages constructions of which the
   following gives examples only.
10
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   A preferred form of the present invention will now be described with reference to the
   accompany drawings in which:
15 Figure 1A shows a trap assembly with a swivel capability in its 'S' rather than 'P'
   configuration and with a full depth slide nut or trap nut on the top end region of a spigot
   or conduit component.
   Figure 1B shows the arrangement of Figure 1A with the trap nut having been threadedly
   engaged to the male thread of an outlet fitting.
20 Figure 1C shows the arrangement of Figure 1B where the trap nut was cut or sawn
   transversely through its surrounding groove as a cutting or sawing guide,
   Figure 2 shows the arrangement of Figure 1A in sectioning.
   Figure 3 shows the nut of Figures 1A and 1B in isometric from below.
   Figure 4 shows the nut of Figure 3 in side elevation.
25 Figure 5 shows the nut of Figures 3 and 4 in pan.
   Figure 6 shows the nut of Figures 3 to 5 in elevation section A-A of Figure 5.
   Figure 7 shows the moulded double washer, ring or the like annular member in
   isometric from above.
   Figure 8 shows the member of Figure 7 inverted and in side elevation.
30 Figure 9 shows the member of figure 7 and 8 as a plan view to that of Figure 8.
   Figure 10 shows an elevation view of the member as in Figure 7 as a section B-B with
   respect to Figure 9.
   Figure 11 shows post cleavage, cutting, tearing, or the like a washer as might be used
   with, for example, a 40 mm diameter pipe.
35 Figure 12 shows post cleavage, cutting, tearing or the like a washer as might be used
   with, for example, a 32 mm diameter pipe.
   Figure 12A shows in cross section a 32 mm washer on a 32 mm pipe inserted into the
   40 mm trap.

                                               - 12
   Figure 12B shows a 40 mm washer on a 40 mm pipe inserted into a 40 mm trap.
   Figure 13 shows in isometric the U bend of the trap with spigot.
   Figure 14 shows a slide elevation of the conduit or spigot of Figure 13.
   Figure 15 shows a plan view of Figure 14.
 5 Figure 16 shows the section at A-A, when rotated, and in elevation.
   Figure 17 shows a standard installation of the trap connected easily to a standard basin
   waste.
   Figure 18 shows an overflow basin where the base is a lot thicker allowing for the
   overflow and where the "trap" has had the trap nut shortened by cutting through the
10 groove line on the nut in order to be able to fit with sufficient thread on the waste to
   engage the full length of the nut, tighten and seal onto the waste.
   Figure 19 is typical of many wide rib nuts throughout the world.
   Figure 20 is a variant of the form of Figure 19, i.e. with an encircling rib.
   Figure 21 is typical of many narrow high rib nuts throughout the world.
15 Figure 22 is a variant of the form of Figure 21, i.e. with an encircling rib.
   Preferred forms of the present invention will now be described with reference to
   accompanying drawings.
20 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
   Figure 1 shows an 'S' bend form of assembly and/or fabrication of a water or waste trap
   configuration, A.
   As used herein the term "assembly" or "fabrication" should be considered as somewhat
25 equivalent, although in the case of a fabrication there may need to be a sequence of
   creation of one of the components in order to enable assembly.
   For example, the nut association with a component of the linked conduits of a trap
   assembly or fabrication may require some post-location distortion or other arrangement.
30 In some embodiments, the captive association of the nut may be dependent upon the
   appropriate positioning of the washer, or a compression ring or seal.
   In one embodiment, such as that shown in Figures 1A to 2, there is a linked series of
   conduits 1 made up of a primary component 2, the preferred embodiment of which is
35 shown in Figures 13 to 16. The other major component is a secondary component 3 that
   supports a swivel link 4.

                                                - 13
   A nut referred to herein as a "slide" or "trap" nut 5 is at the top end region of the
   component 2 to be thread engaged by its thread 6 to the male thread of an outlet 7, as
   shown for example in Figure 1B. The nut 8 at the other end of the assembly or conduit
   or spigot can likewise be engaged in any known manner.
 5
   Different sealing arrangements can be employed in conjunction with each nut 5, 8
   depending on how it is to associate with the remainder of the water or waste trap or
   drainage system assemblage.
10 Shown as part of the component 2 (e.g. of polypropylene) is a support shoulder 9 or
   protuberance onto which the lower region 10 with its in-turned flange of the nut 5 can be
   supported.
   Shown in Figure 2 is the interaction at 11 between the thread 6 of the trap nut 5 and the
15 male thread of the outlet fitting 7. It will be appreciated the option for female threads
   can be utilised for such fittings.
   In respect of the present invention, our product allows the installer to push the spigot
   into the waste and ensure the nut 5 is in close enough proximity to the end of the trap to
20 allow finger movement (for example single-handed finger movement) of the nut 5 onto
   the beginning of the waste thread without needing to move the location of that one hand.
   In such an installation, it is important to hold or place a hand (or other locator) on the
   trap to ensure trap spigot engagement into the waste while starting to turn the nut 5
25 onto the waste thread. The spigot engagement provides aliment of both parts to ensure
   less likelihood of cross threading of the nut 5 onto the waste thread.
   The supporting protuberance 9 is shown as a full annulus shoulder or projection, but it
   will be appreciated that any equivalent continuous or discontinuous abutment or shoulder
30 profile that is able to be readily moulded can be employed for the purpose.
   An additional shoulder or protuberance 22 may additionally be provided. In this manner,
   a pair of limits 9, 22 are provided for retaining the nut 5 in a region local to the end of
   the conduit 2. Such a second protuberance 22 may additionally provide for a shoulder
35 upon which the nut 5 may bear when in a threaded engagement with the outlet fitting 7,
   thereby helping to further ensure the conduit 2 remains in a locked location/position.

                                                - 14
   The purpose of the supporting protuberance 9 is to hold the nut 5 until the thread is
   engaged with the outlet fitting 7. Thus, the nut 5 is supported in a proximity so that a
   single hand hold (or single-handed fitment or operation) allows sufficient movement with
   the fingers of the same hand to commence or initiate thread engagement. And, to
 5 thereafter allow sufficient turn of the nut to ensure an adequate mesh.
   Figures 13-16 illustrate one embodiment of a conduit or spigot component 2 comprising
   the at least one protuberance or shoulder 9, 22 for location or retention of a nut.
10 A feature of the nut 5, is the provision of the annular groove 13 at an asymmetric (or off
   set) position so that, if needed, a small end region 14 of the nut 5 can be removed by
   any convenient form of cutting. By way of example, a nut of a suitable material (e.g.
   polypropylene) can be left with a wall thickness of about 1.5 mm from the base of the
   groove 13. Such asymmetry or off-set for the groove or recess (or surface relief) can be
15 provided in relation to the longitudinal length or axial length, i.e. the circumference of
   external surface provided by the nut 5. In various embodiments, the annular groove 13
   can be continuous about the nut 5, or may be of discontinuous form, such that,
   application of a cutting implement allows for a clean cut or break of the small end region
   14 from the nut 5, without interference to accessing of the thread of the nut 5 for
20 subsequent threading engagement.
   In the form of the nut as shown in the figures, preferably the nut has a continuous
   groove that not only provides a groove through the longitudinally extending ribs or
   castellations 15, but also into the intervening wall (e.g. flutes) between such ribs or
25 castellations.
   The castellations can be of any kind. For example, they can be protuberant ribs as in the
   Dux product range or they can be more circumferentially extensive formations,
   preferably of lower profile, as are common throughout the world and are often preferred
30 by plumbers.
   The cutting groove / location groove 13 enables the use of a sharp blade rather than a
   hacksaw to cut the nut, as the thickness of the plastic nut is provided in that region to be
   of thin enough dimension to be cut with a blade, but thick enough to give enough tensile
35 strength to ensure the nut does not elongate when under load. Standard threaded
   connections in this industry may typically require a minimum torque of 30 + Nm.

                                                - 15
   It should be noted Australian Standard AS2887 (1993) requires the nut to be
   manufactured to an internal length of 12.7 mm. However, these nuts do not fit all waste
   thread lengths.
 5 In a further embodiment, there is provided a preferred annulus moulding 17 of a suitable
   resilient washer compression ring or seal material (e.g. acrylonitrile) is as shown in
   Figures 7 to 10 which is able to be cleaved by any appropriate process ranging from
   simple tearing apart, circumscribing with a blade (e.g. of a substantially rigid blade, such
   as a Stanley "I Knife) or other cutting implements. Preferably, avoided is the need for a
10 hack-saw or other oscillating toothed cutting tool which can result in burred or uneven
   cuts, and may impede upon or compromise the thread's integrity or shape.
   The resultant cleavage is to be on the plane indicated by numeral 16 shown in the
   sectional view of Figure 10. This plane 16 enables the component 17 to be readily parted
15 into the form of the smaller section washer 18 as shown in Figure 11, or into the more
   longitudinally extensive seal arrangement 19, for example as shown in Figure 12, or to
   provide both such washer seal sections for use.
   The following is a set of features, one or more of which may apply to the single washer
20 embodiment described herein:
             - "Tear off" by installer to make two washers, one which can be used, the other
   one of which can be used or discarded.
             " Lower production cost.
             " Less tooling cost.
25           - Less material cost.
             " Less labour assembly costs.
             - No deformation of washers.
   The design of the washer for a 32 mm pipe or conduit needs to support the pipe evenly
30 and provide for sealing. For example, a 32 mm washer, such as that indicated by
   numeral 19, features ribs 21 that run around the diameter of the pipe to create more
   than one seal, more particularly Figure 12 illustrates a washer providing for four sealing
   surfaces or seals.
35 An internal lip 20 can optionally be provided on the inside of the washer, such an internal
   lip 20 can be utilised to locate or stop the end of a pipe protruding too far into the trap
   and blocking the water pathway (for example, see Figure 12A).

                                                - 16
   Further, in one embodiment, for example where the design of the 40 mm washer section
   18, the design of the rib or ribs provided on the exterior surface can be of a wedge
   shape, as to provide a lock between the trap end and the pipe to create a seal (see for
   example Figure 12B).
 5
   Conduit or spigot fabrication
   Further to the description above, in one embodiment of the invention, there is provided a
   conduit or spigot fabrication A. Such a fabrication comprises at least one protuberance
   or shoulder 9, 22 of the conduit or spigot 2 acting to keep a nut 5 deployed locally to the
10 end of the conduit or spigot for thread-wise engagement of the nut 5 to a waste outlet or
   inlet 7.
   The at least one protuberance or shoulder 9, 22 is generally a radially extending
   projection, which may be continuous or discontinuous, about an exterior surface of the
15 conduit or spigot, and which is located at least in a region of the conduit or spigot to
   retain the nut 5 locally of the conduit or spigot end for subsequent thread-wise
   engagement.
   It will be appreciated, the at least one protuberance or shoulder may comprise at least a
20 first radially extending projection (such as 9), continuous or discontinuous, about an
   exterior surface of the conduit or spigot, the first projection located substantially
   adjacent or in proximity to the end of the conduit or spigot; and, at least a second
   radially extending projection (such as 22), continuous or discontinuous, about an exterior
   surface of the conduit or spigot, the second projection located further away from the end
25 of the conduit or spigot 2 and away from the first projection(s) 9.
   The protuberance or shoulder portions can be configured or dimensioned to prevent a nut
   5 from becoming deployed away from the local region adjacent or in proximity to the end
   of the conduit or spigot. Further, the protuberance or shoulder can provide for a limit or
30 limits for retaining of the nut 5 in a region of the conduit or spigot, the region defined
   between the limit and the end of the conduit or spigot or between at least a first limit (or
   first projection, say 9) and a second limit (or second projection, say 22).
   The conduit or spigot provides for an assembly such as that indicated by A (e.g. the
35 conduit or spigot, whether reliant on any interposed washer(s) or not, and being, for
   example, all or part of an 'S' bend type trap), wherein the nut 5 is captive on the conduit
   2 between two limits (or two protuberances or shoulders) at an end region thereof. One

                                                 - 17
   of the limits to thereby provide for a fluid tight connection (e.g. 22) to the conduit at that
   end region and the other of the limits (e.g. 9) to keep the nut at or near the end region.
   Slide nut or trap nut
 5 In a further embodiment of the invention there is provided a slide nut or trap nut
   (hereafter "nut") 5. Such a nut is moulded and/or machined and/or evolved to have at
   least one continuous or discontinuous groove (or other location profile (hereafter
   "groove")) 13 in its exterior in a plane perpendicular to the thread axis of the nut 5.
10 Such a nut 5 comprises the continuous or discontinuous the groove(s) 13
   circumferentially about its exterior surface 23.
   The groove(s) 13 is a region of surface relief of or in the wall 24 defining the nut 5.
15 In various embodiments, the groove(s) 13 can be a region of thinned wall thickness
   compared to the average thickness of the remainder of the wall of the nut 5.
   The thinned wall thickness is yet still sufficient so as to allow the nut 5 to be threaded
   onto a connection, such as 7, with a suitable connecting torque without structural failure
20 of the nut at the groove 13.
   The groove(s) 13 is advantageously dimensioned to receive a blade of a cutting tool, or
   is dimensioned to guide a bladed cutting tool in a cutting operation.
25 The groove(s) 13 provides for an associated region defined by the groove 13 of
   frangibility.
   Where the nut 5 comprises a first section (e.g. say 25), and at least a second section
   (e.g. say 14) defined by a first groove 13, and wherein each such subsequent groove
30 defines or would define a further section of the nut 5 which is capable of being separated.
   For example, each such nut section (e.g. 14, 25) can be separated from adjacent nut
   sections in the region of adjoining groove(s) 13.
   In one example, as shown specifically by figures 3-6, the nut 5 comprises a first section
35 25 and a section second 14, separated by a single groove 13, the first section 25 is of
   greater axial length than the second section 14.

                                               - 18
   Where a single groove 13 is provided about the exterior surface 23 of the nut 5, the
   groove 13 can be located asymmetrically of the length of the thread, or is located
   asymmetrically from the mid-point of the axial length of the nut 5, for example as shown
   in figures 3, 4, 6.
 5
   From the above, it will therefore be appreciated a particular advantage of the nut is the
   provision of the groove 13, where the groove either continuous or discontinuous about its
   circumference or girth to assist sawing or cutting in a plane transverse to the thread axis
   of the nut 5.
10
   The nut 5 exterior surface 23 may optionally comprise one or more (optionally) axially
   aligned, radially spaced apart, ribs or castellations. Such the ribs or castellations are
   finger grips for gripping by a user, or may provided for an improved frictional surface for
   a user's fingers.
15
   Yet further, the nut 5 may comprise of an inward retention flange projection or lip 26
   located further away from the groove 13, the inward retention flange 26 being
   continuous or discontinuous.
20 Washer, compression seal, ring
   In yet a further embodiment of the invention, there is provided a moulded annulus 17.
   Such a moulded annulus 17 comprises a resilient material capable of being parted (e.g.
   by cutting, tearing or other action) transversely along its longitudinal extent to provide
   one or both of:
25          a washer for a smaller size pipe, and/or
            a washer for a larger size pipe.
   Optionally the washer for the larger size pipe size is axially shorter than that for the
   smaller pipe size. Alternatively, optionally the washer for the smaller size pipe is axially
30 shorter than that for the larger pipe size. Or vice versa.
   The moulded annulus 5 comprises a lumen 27. The lumen 27 having at least a first
   section of a first internal diameter, such as that indicated by the section 28 and one or
   more additional sections, such as that indicated by section 18, each additional section
35 having the same or a different internal diameter to that of the first section.

                                                - 19
   The moulded annulus comprising the lumen 27 has at least a first section 28 of a first
   internal diameter and at least a second section 18 of a second internal diameter different
   to the first internal diameter.
 5 Located between each of the lumen sections of different internal diameter the moulded
   annulus comprises a circumferentially extending frangible region 16 such that each of
   such lumen sections are capable of being separable or separated from each other.
   For example, between each such lumen sections there can be provided a line of
10 weakness in or through the wall of the moulded annulus 17 defining the lumen of each
   such section of different internal diameter, the line of weakness being in a plane 16
   perpendicular to the axis of the moulded annulus.
   The line of weakness 16 provides for a frangible region extending substantially
15 circumferentially about said moulded annulus.
   An exterior surface of the moulded annulus 5 can have an interrupted contour form, each
   of the interruptions or ribs or projections 21 defining a surface for sealing. For example,
   ribs 21 can extend from an exterior surface of the moulded annulus.
20
   An exterior surface of the moulded annulus 5 can comprises one or more, or a series, of
   circumferentially (or radially outward) extending ribs 21 projecting from the exterior
   surface.
25 In another form, an internal surface of the moulded annulus 5 is of a substantially
   uninterrupted contour. In this manner, a smooth surface is provided for receiving or
   sleeving of a conduit therein.
   Yet further, at a terminal end of the moulded annulus 5, the internal surface can
30 comprise at least one radially inward extending projection or lip 20 from a wall defining
   the lumen 27. The radially inward extending projection or lip 20 can be used as a locator
   to locate an end of a conduit to be subsequently sleeved or housed within the lumen of
   the moulded annulus 5.
35 The radially inward extending projection or lip 20 is a stop member, such a stop member
   preventing over insertion of a conduit into the lumen.

                                               - 20
   Generally, the rib or ribs 21 may optionally be compressible or deformable to compress
   or deform in providing a sealing arrangement with a surface with which they contact.
   But, such ribs 21 may also be provided in a non-compressible form for the reasons
   mentioned previously.
 5
   The radially inward extending projection or lip 20 provides for a sealing surface with the
   cross-section of the end of a wall in contact therein or therewith.
   Each each section of lumen with a different internal diameter of the moulded annulus 5
10 can be dimensioned so as to receive a conduit of pre-determined external diameter. For
   example, a section of the lumen with a greater internal diameter has an internal
   diameter of 40 mm; a section of the lumen with a smaller internal diameter has an
   internal diameter of 32 mm.
15 It will be appreciated the moulded annulus can be formed of any suitable material,
   particularly preferred are polymeric materials. More preferably, are acrylic materials, and
   even more preferably are acrylonitrile, such as a polyacrylonitrile, materials or rubber
   materials.
20 Waste or water trap
   The arrangement B as shown in figures 17 and 18 illustrate an assemblage of a conduit
   or spigot fabrication 2 as defined above, in conjunction with a basin or sink 29, and the
   installation of a nut 5 as described located by protuberance or shoulders 9, 22. Further
   embodiments are additionally described above.

                                                 - 21
   CLAIMS:
   1.        A conduit or spigot fabrication, said fabrication comprising at least one
   protuberance or shoulder of the conduit or spigot acting to keep a nut deployed locally to
 5 the end of the conduit or spigot for thread-wise engagement of the nut to a waste outlet
   or inlet.
   2.        The fabrication as claimed in claim 1, wherein said at least one protuberance or
   shoulder comprises a radially extending projection, continuous or discontinuous, about an
10 exterior surface of the conduit or spigot, located at least in a region of the conduit or
   spigot to retain the nut locally of the conduit or spigot end for said thread-wise
   engagement.
   3.        The fabrication as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said at least one
15 protuberance or shoulder comprises:
             at least a first radially extending projection, continuous or discontinuous, about
   an exterior surface of the conduit or spigot, said first projection located substantially
   adjacent or in proximity to the end of the conduit or spigot; and
             at least a second radially extending projection, continuous or discontinuous,
20 about an exterior surface of the conduit or spigot, said second projection located further
   away from the end of the conduit or spigot and away from the first projection(s).
   4.        The fabrication as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the protuberance
   or shoulder are configured or dimensioned to prevent a nut from becoming deployed
25 away from the local region adjacent or in proximity to the end of the conduit or spigot.
   5.        The fabrication as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the protuberance
   or shoulder provide for a limit or limits for retaining of the nut in a region of the conduit
   or spigot, the region defined between said limit and the end of the conduit or spigot or
30 between at least a first limit (or first projection) and a second limit (or second
   projection).
   6.        The fabrication as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the conduit or
   spigot provides for an assembly (e.g. the conduit or spigot, whether reliant on any
35 interposed washer(s) or not, and being, for example, all or part of an 'S' bend type trap),
   wherein the nut is captive on the conduit between two limits (or two protuberances or
   shoulders) at an end region thereof, one of said limits to provide a fluid tight connection

                                                - 22
   to the conduit at that end region and the other of said limits to keep the nut at or near
   the end region.
   7.       A slide nut or trap nut (hereafter "nut") and conduit or spigot fabrication where
 5 at least one protuberance or shoulder of the conduit or spigot acts to keep the nut
   deployed locally to the end of the conduit or spigot for thread-wise engagement of the
   nut to a waste outlet or inlet.
   8.       A slide nut or trap nut (hereafter "nut") and conduit or spigot assembly (e.g. the
10 conduit or spigot, whether reliant on any interposed washer(s) or not, and being, for
   example, all or part of an 'S' bend type trap), wherein the nut is captive on the conduit
   between two limits at an end region thereof, one of said limits to provide a fluid tight
   connection to the conduit at that end region and the other of said limits to keep the nut
   at or near the end region.
15
   9.       A slide nut or trap nut (hereafter "nut") wherein said nut has been moulded
   and/or machined and/or evolved to have at least one continuous or discontinuous groove
   (or other location profile (hereafter "groove")) in its exterior in a plane perpendicular to
   the thread axis of the nut.
20
   10.      The nut as claimed in claim 9, wherein the continuous or discontinuous said
   groove(s) is positioned circumferentially about the exterior surface.
   11.      The nut as claimed in claim 9 or claim 10, wherein each of said groove(s) is a
25 region of surface relief of the wall defining the nut.
   12.      The nut as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 11, wherein each of said groove(s)
   is a region of thinned wall thickness compared to the average thickness of the remainder
   of the wall of the nut.
30
   13.      The nut as claimed in claim 12, wherein the thinned wall thickness is sufficient so
   as to allow the nut to be threaded onto a connection with a suitable connecting torque
   without failure.
35 14.      The nut as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 13, wherein each of said groove(s)
   is dimensioned to receive a blade of a cutting tool.

                                               - 23
   15.      The nut as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 14, wherein each of said groove(s)
   is dimensioned to guide a bladed cutting tool in a cutting operation.
   16.      The nut as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 15, wherein each said groove(s)
 5 provides for an associated region of frangibility.
   17.      The nut as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 16, wherein the nut comprises a
   first section, and at least a second section defined by a first groove, and wherein each
   such subsequent groove defines a further section of the nut.
10
   18.      The nut as claimed in claim 17, wherein each such nut section is separaable from
   adjacent nut sections in the region of adjoining groove(s).
   19.      The nut as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 18, wherein the nut comprises a
15 first section and a section second, separated by a single groove, the first section is of
   greater axial length than the second section.
   20.      The nut as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 19, wherein a single groove is
   provided about the exterior of the nut, the groove is located asymmetrically of the length
20 of the thread, or is located asymmetrically from the mid-point of the axial length of the
   nut.
   21.      The nut as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 20, wherein the nut is provided with
   said groove, said groove being continuous or discontinuous about its circumference or
25 girth to assist sawing or cutting in a plane transverse to the thread axis.
   22.      The nut as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 21, wherein the nut exterior
   comprises one or more axially aligned, radially spaced apart, ribs or castellations.
30 23.      The nut as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 22, wherein said nut has an inward
   retention flange end further from the groove, said inward retention flange being
   continuous or discontinuous.
   24.      A moulded annulus, the moulded annulus comprising a resilient material capable
35 of being parted (e.g. by cutting, tearing or other action) transversely along its
   longitudinal extent to provide one or both of:
             a washer for a smaller size pipe, and/or
             a washer for a larger size pipe.

                                               - 24
   25.      The annulus as claimed in claim 24, wherein
            the washer for the larger size pipe size is of an axially shorter length than that
   for the smaller pipe size, or
 5          the washer for the smaller size pipe is of an axially shorter length than that for
   the larger pipe size.
   26.      The annulus as claimed in claim 24 or claim 25, wherein said annulus defines a
   lumen, said lumen having at least a first section of a first internal diameter and one or
10 more additional sections, each additional section having the same or a different internal
   diameter to that of the first section.
   27.         The annulus as claimed in claim 24 or claim 25, wherein the annulus defines a
   lumen, said lumen having at least a first section of a first internal diameter and at least a
15 second section of a second internal diameter different to the first internal diameter.
   28.         The annulus as claimed in claim 26 or claim 27, wherein between each of said
   lumen sections of different internal diameter the moulded annulus comprises a
   circumferentially extending frangible region such that each of such lumen sections are
20 separable from each other.
   29.         The annulus as claimed in any one of claims 26 to 28, wherein between each
   such lumen section there is provided a line of weakness in or through the wall of the
   moulded annulus defining said lumen, said line of weakness being in a plane
25 perpendicular to the axis of the moulded annulus.
   30.         The annulus as claimed in claim 29, wherein said line of weakness provides
   for a frangible region extending substantially circumferentially about said moulded
   annulus.
30
   31.         The annulus as claimed in any one of claims 24 to 30, wherein the moulded
   annulus exterior surface has an interrupted contour form, each of said interruptions
   defining a surface for sealing.
35 32.         The annulus as claimed in any one of claims 24 to 31, wherein ribs extend
   from an exterior surface of the moulded annulus.

                                                - 25
   33.         The annulus as claimed in any one of claims 24 to 32, wherein the moulded
   annulus exterior surface comprises one or more, or a series, of circumferentially (or
   radially outward) extending ribs projecting from the exterior surface.
 5 34.         The annulus as claimed in any one of claims 24 to 33, wherein an internal
   surface of the moulded annulus is of a substantially uninterrupted contour.
   35.         The annulus as claimed in any one of claims 24 to 34, wherein at a terminal
   end of said moulded annulus, the internal surface comprises at least one radially inward
10 extending projection or lip from a wall defining the lumen.
   36.         The annulus as claimed in claim 35, wherein the radially inward extending
   projection or lip is a locator to locate an end of a conduit to be subsequently sleeved or
   housed within the lumen of the moulded annulus.
15
   37.         The annulus as claimed in claim 35 or claim 36, wherein the radially inward
   extending projection or lip is a stop member, said stop member preventing over insertion
   of a conduit into the lumen.
20 38.         The annulus as claimed in any one of claims 35 to 37, wherein the radially
   inward extending projection or lip provides for a sealing surface with the cross-section of
   the end of a wall in contact therein or therewith.
   39.         The annulus as claimed in any one of claims 32 to 38, wherein the rib or ribs
25 are compressible or deformable to compress or deform in providing a sealing
   arrangement with a surface with which they contact.
   40.         The annulus as claimed in any one of claims 24 to 39, wherein each section of
   lumen with a different internal diameter of the moulded annulus may be dimensioned so
30 as to receive a conduit of pre-determined external diameter.
   41.         The annulus as claimed in any one of claims 24 to 40, wherein a section of the
   moulded annulus has a lumen with a greater internal diameter, said greater internal
   diameter being about 40 mm.
35
   42.         The annulus as claimed in any one of claims 24 to 41, wherein a section of the
   moulded annulus has a lumen with a smaller internal diameter, said smaller internal
   diameter being about 32 mm.

                                                 - 26
   43.         The annulus as claimed in any one of claims 24 to 42, wherein the moulded
   annulus is, or is comprised of, one or more of: a polymeric material, an acrylic material,
   an acrylonitrile material, a polyacrylonitrile material, a rubber material.
 5
   44.    A waste or water trap assembly and/or fabrication comprising or including:
          linked conduiting (or conduit) able to provide a trap in at least one configuration,
               and
        a trap or slide nut at at least one end region of the linked conduiting (or conduit),
10             and
        a washer disposed at the one, or either one or both, end regions(s) to assist sealing
               upon a threaded connection of the linked conduiting (or conduit) by the nut to
               an outlet and/or inlet of a drainage system,
   wherein at least one or more of the following applies:
15                     said conduit is as defined in any one claims 1 to 6, and/or
                       said nut is as defined in any one of claim 7 to 23, and/or
                       said washer is as defined in any one of claims 24 to 43.
20

                                    <U+271E><U+271F><U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                           <U+273B>
<removed-apn>
                                           <U+2738>
                                <U+2736>
                                               <U+2739>
               <U+273A>
              <U+2736><U+2720>
                   <U+273E>
                                                   <U+273D>
                       <U+2737>
                               <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D>

                               <U+2737><U+271F><U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                           <U+273C>
<removed-apn>
                                      <U+2736>
                                          <U+2738>
                                              <U+2739>
              <U+273A>       <U+2736><U+2720>
              <U+273E>
                  <U+2737>                               <U+273D>
                                          <U+2746>
                      <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+274B>

                               <U+2738><U+271F><U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                           <U+273C>
<removed-apn>
                                      <U+2736>
                                          <U+2738>
                      <U+2736><U+2720>                      <U+2739>
              <U+273A>
              <U+273E>
                                                  <U+273D>
                  <U+2737>
                                          <U+2746>
                      <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+274B>

                           <U+2739><U+271F><U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                            <U+273C>
<removed-apn>
                <U+2736><U+2736>                  <U+2736>
              <U+2736><U+2739>                            <U+2738>
              <U+2736><U+2738>
                                                <U+2739>
               <U+273A>
               <U+2736><U+2720>
                <U+273E>
                                                    <U+273D>
                     <U+2737>
                                        <U+2746>
                         <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+274B>

                                <U+273A><U+271F><U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                                       <U+2736><U+273A>
                                             <U+2736><U+2739>
                                                  <U+273A>
                       <U+274B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
                                                  <U+2737><U+273A>
                                            <U+2736><U+2739>
                                                       <U+2736><U+2738>
              <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
                                                         <U+273A>
                                             <U+2737><U+273A>
                                                         <U+273A>
              <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>   <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2737><U+2739>
                                                         <U+273A>
                           <U+2736><U+2739>
                                                       <U+2736><U+2738>
              <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>   <U+2702>
                           <U+2737><U+273A>                       <U+2737><U+2738>
                                                  <U+2737><U+2739>

                                          <U+273B><U+271F><U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                             <U+2737><U+273C>
                                          <U+2736><U+273D>
                                          <U+2736><U+273C>                                 <U+2736><U+273C>
<removed-apn>
                                         <U+2737><U+2736>
                                                                            <U+2737><U+2736>
                                         <U+2737><U+273D>
                       <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>   <U+274B>                       <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
                  <U+2737><U+273C>                     <U+2736><U+273C>             <U+2737><U+273C>              <U+2736><U+273D>
                                                                          <U+2736><U+273B>
                                                                                 <U+2736><U+273C>
              <U+2747>                               <U+2747>                             <U+2737><U+2736>
                                                                                 <U+2737><U+273D>
                                                             <U+2737><U+2720>
                       <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>     <U+2701>                     <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2736><U+273E>
                                              <U+2736><U+273D>                       <U+2737><U+2736>
                                    <U+2736><U+273D>                                      <U+2736><U+273C>
                                                                            <U+2737><U+2736>
                                                   <U+2737><U+273D>
                       <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+2706>                        <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+274B>

                                  <U+273C><U+271F><U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                            <U+273C>
                                         <U+2736>
                             <U+2736><U+2738>              <U+2738>
                            <U+273A>                    <U+2739>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2737><U+2737>
              <U+273E>
                                                     <U+2736><U+273E>
                                                     <U+273D>
                   <U+2737>
                       <U+2746>
                           <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+274B><U+271D>

                                  <U+273D><U+271F><U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>                              <U+2736>
                             <U+2736><U+2738>              <U+2738>
                            <U+273A>                    <U+2739>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2737><U+2737>
              <U+273E>
                                                          <U+273D>
                                                     <U+2736><U+273D>
                   <U+2737>
                       <U+2746>
                           <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+274B><U+274B>

                                <U+273E><U+271F><U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>                                           <U+2737><U+2737>
                                                      <U+273E>
                   <U+2737><U+2737>          <U+2737><U+2737>
<removed-apn>
                        <U+273E>
                                                                  <U+2737><U+2737>
                                <U+2737>                <U+2737>
                   <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+274B>                 <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706>
                                    <U+2737>
                                             <U+2737>               <U+2737><U+2737>
                                                             <U+273E>
              <U+2737><U+2737>               <U+2737><U+2737>
                                        <U+2737><U+2737>
                   <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+2701>
                                                 <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+2702>

                          <U+271E><U+2736><U+271F><U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                <U+2747>                 <U+2737><U+273E>
              <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+274B>
                 <U+2747>
                                  <U+2737><U+273E>
              <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706>

                          <U+271E><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+2701>           <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>   <U+274B><U+2702>
              <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+274B><U+2706>           <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>   <U+274B><U+274B>

