Abstract
 A combination tool (1) for installing and tensioning a cable bolt comprising: an inner drive body
(3) and an outer drive body (2), each drive body comprising a drive receptacle at one end (5, 8),
and the outer drive body having one end (6) configured to mount a drill rig chuck or like device
for rotating the outer drive body, the inner drive tool being slidably and substantially co-axially
mounted within the outer drive body, the inner drive body being moveable relative to and
substantially longitudinally within the outer drive body; and a releasable holding means on the
inner and outer drive bodies whereby the inner drive body is moveable between: a holding
condition in which the holding means substantially maintains the drive receptacle of the inner
drive body proximal the drive receptacle of the outer drive body for locating the drive receptacle
of the inner drive body on a drive portion of the cable bolt for installing by inserting and spinning
the cable within a bore hole, and a released condition whereby the inner drive body is released
from a holding condition by the holding means and thereafter adapted for displacement within
the outer body to a position remote from the drive receptacle of the outer drive body such that
the drive receptacle of the outer drive body can preferentially engage a tensioning nut of the
cable bolt for tensioning the cable bolt.

    WO 2013/104019                                                                PCT/AU2013/000014
      Title: A combination Tool for installing and tensioning a cable bolt
      Field of the invention
  5   The present invention relates to a tool for installing and tensioning a cable bolt or the like
      as used in the strengthening, support and stability of underground excavations. In
      particular the present invention relates to a combination tool which can be used for both
      installing and tensioning flexible cable bolts and the like used for the support and
      stabilization of the walls and roofs of openings formed during underground mining
 10   operations and the like.
     Background of the invention
     In underground mining and tunnel construction, excavation is usually performed by a
 15  miner or a boring machine and subterranean conveyor system. The boring machine
     provides a cutting head comprising a circular plate covered with disc cutters. As the
     circular plate slowly rotates, the disc cutters slice into the coal or rock which falls onto the
     conveyor system. The conveyor system carries the coal or rock to the rear of the machine,
     and motors or hydraulic cylinders attached to the boring machine propel the machine
20   forward a few feet at a time.
     It is well known that during underground excavation, the walls and roofs so formed must
     withstand tremendous pressures, and geological conditions often change very rapidly on
     the tunnel route particularly in the case of engineering tunnels giving rise to risks of tunnel
25   collapse. A characteristic feature of tunnel collapse is that very little movement is
     required in the rock mass. Failure can occur as new surface is exposed by excavation of
     the opening. Hence as a boring machine advances and exposes new rock face for
     example, it is critical to stabilize the underground openings as soon as practicable for
     working safety of a crew.
30
     Reinforcement such as cable bolts are widely used as secondary support close to the board
     face in underground mining to maintain safe working conditions for the crew. Cable bolts
     are installed within bore holes located in a predetermined pattern based on various
     geological conditions in the tunnel

    WO 2013/104019                                                               PCT/AU2013/000014
      Many different types of cable bolts have been produced in the past. Generally, a cable
     bolt includes a number of closely spaced wires which have a first end adapted for fitting
      into a bore hole, and a second end including a drive portion and a cylindrical sleeve,
      whereby the drive portion is adapted for engagement with an industry standard drill rig
  5   chuck or the like for installing by inserting and spinning the cable bolt into a drilled hole.
      The cylindrical sleeve includes a threaded external surface to receive a tensioning nut for
      tightening against an anchor plate so as to tension the cable bolt.
      A cable bolt of the foregoing type is usually installed by:
 10   (1)     forming a bore hole by drilling into rock,
      (ii)    positioning a resin composition or quick setting adhesive principally in two
              components including a chemical resin and catalyst, separately retained within a
              breakable cartridge, within the drilled bore hole,
     (iii)    installing the cable bolt by advancing and spinning the cable bolt so as to puncture
15            the cartridge and mix the resin and catalyst components whereby the resin cures to
              secure the first end of the cable bolt in the hole, and
     (iv)     once set, the cable bolt is tensioned so that the strata surrounding the bolt hole is
              held in compression.
20   Forming a bore hole is usually accomplished by use of a conventional rotary drill rig
     mounted to a boring machine behind the cutters, which bore into roof as the machine
     advances. Once a bore hole is made, the drill rods are removed and replaced with an
     installation socket or like device adapted to fit the drill rig chuck and engage the drive end
     of the cable for insertion and rotation of the cable to puncture and mix the separate resin
25   and catalyst cartridges, and anchor the first end within the bore hole. Once the resin is set,
     the rig operator is required to remove the installation socket device and replace with a
     second socket device to rotate the tensioning nut and thereby tension the cable.
     One particular drawback with installation of a cable bolt of the foregoing type is that
30  different tools are required for installation of the cable, and subsequent tensioning of the
    cable. In a particularly confined space, a rig operator is therefore required to manually
    change tools between installation and tensioning. This is a time consuming task, which
    adds to labor costs and safety issues.
                                                      2

    WO 2013/104019                                                               PCT/AU2013/000014
     In terms of work safety, it is imperative to install reinforcement support such as cable bolts
     or the like as quickly as possible in new rock face which is exposed during excavation so
     that the bolts begin to support or knit the rock as soon as they are tensioned, i.e., the rock
     does not have time to begin to move before the bolt becomes effective.
  5
     Further, and in terms of labor cost, any reduction in time required to install and tension a
     cable bolt would translate into a very significant cost saving in an overall mining operation
     particularly given the very large numbers of cable bolts required.
 to  It would therefore be advantageous both in safety and economy of scale to provide an
     efficient means for reducing operator time involved in changing tools for installation and
     tensioning a cable bolt.
     It is an object of the present invention to address one or more of the foregoing problems of
 15  the prior art or at least provides a useful alternative.
     A further object of the present invention is to provide a practical means to help reduce
     time taken for installing and tensioning a cable bolt for supporting underground
     excavations and therefore work safety while minimizing labor costs associated with prior
20   art methods of installation and tensioning of cable bolts.
    The above discussion of background art is included to explain the context of the present
     invention. It is not to be -taken as an admission that any material referred to was published,
     known or part of the common general knowledge in Australia or elsewhere at the priority
25   date of any one of the claims of this specification.
    Summary of the invention
    In accordance with the invention there is provided a combination tool for installation and
30  tensioning a cable bolt in underground excavation works, the tool including:
              an. outer drive body having a first end adapted for operable engagement with a drill
    rig chuck or like rotary drill rig, and an opposite drive receptacle end having a cut-out
    shaped opening forming a drive receptacle for releasably engaging a tensioning nut of the
                                                      3

    WO 2013/104019                                                               PCT/AU2013/000014
      cable bolt in a tensioning condition, the first and second ends being interconnected by a
      wall wherein the outer drive body is at least partially hollow forming an internal chamber;
               an inner drive body slidably received within the internal chamber of the outer drive
  5   body whereby the inner drive body comprises a first end and opposite drive receptacle end
      interconnected by a wall, and wherein the drive receptacle end includes a cut-out shaped
      portion forming a drive receptacle for releasably engaging the drive portion of a cable bolt
      for installing the cable within a bore hole;
 10           a releasable holding means on the outer and inner drive bodies for releasably
      holding the inner drive body relative to the outer drive body within the chamber of the
     outer drive body in an installation condition, whereby in an installation condition the
     holding means substantially maintains the drive receptacle end of the inner drive body
     proximal the drive receptacle end of the outer drive body to allow operating engagement
15   of the drive receptacle of the inner drive body with the drive portion of the cable, whereby
     the drive end, and consequently cable bolt, is urged to advance and spin within a bore hole
     by action of a drill rig against the outer drive body; and
              wherein in a tensioning condition the holding means releases the inner drive body
20   from the holding condition to allow the inner drive body to slidably move within the
     chamber to a position such that the drive receptacle end of the inner drive body is distal
     the drive receptacle end of the outer drive body, thereby allowing operational engagement
     of the drive receptacle of the outer drive body with a tensioning nut of the cable bolt,
     whereby the tensioning nut is urged to advance about a threaded sleeve portion of the
25   cable bolt with rotary action of the drill rig against the outer drive body to tension the
     cable.
     The present invention represents an advance over the prior art because a single tool can be
     used to perform both (a) installing a cable bolt by inserting and spinning the cable bolt
30   within a bore hole, and (b) tension the cable bolt by rotating a tensioning nut about a
     threaded sleeve once the cable bolt has been anchored within the bore hole by a quick
    setting resin.
                                                      4

    WO 2013/104019                                                                PCT/AU2013/000014
      Compared to the prior art, because the present invention allows multiple steps with a
      single tool, the rate at which cable bolts can be installed is increased thereby improving
      work safety, and because a drill rig operator no longer needs to separately replace one
      device for installation with a second device for tensioning, the time taken to install a cable
  5   bolt effectively reduces labor costs of an overall mining or similar underground operation.
     The releasable holding means can include:
               a pair of oppositely disposed recesses located in a portion of the wall of the outer
      drive body proximal the second end thereof; and
 10            a pair of oppositely disposed guide pins located on part of the wall of the inner
      drive body, wherein in a holding condition the oppositely disposed guide pins engage
     within the oppositely disposed recesses, and whereby rotation of the outer drive body
     substantially retains the guide pins within the respective recesses.
 15  The outer drive body can include a pair of oppositely disposed lateral cut out portions
     forming the recesses of the holding means, wherein the outer drive body further includes a
     pair of oppositely disposed longitudinal cut out guide portions each intersecting a
     respective cut out recess, and whereby the pair of longitudinal cut out portions form a
     pathway for slidably receiving the oppositely disposed guide pins of the inner drive body
20   when the guide pins are released from a holding condition so that the inner drive body can
     be displaced within the chamber away from the second end of the outer drive body.
     In a related aspect of the present invention there is described a combination tool for
     installing and tensioning a cable bolt comprising:
25            an inner drive body and an outer drive body, each drive body comprising a drive
     receptacle at one end, and the outer drive body having one end configured to mount a drill
     rig chuck or like device for rotating the outer drive body, the inner drive tool being
     slidably and substantially co-axially mounted within the outer drive body, the inner drive
     body being moveable relative to and substantially longitudinally within the outer drive
30  body; and
              a releasable holding means on the inner and outer drive bodies whereby the inner
     drive body is moveable between:
                           a holding condition in which the holding means substantially maintains
              the drive receptacle of the inner drive body proximal the drive receptacle of the
                                                     5

    WO 2013/104019                                                               PCT/AU2013/000014
              outer drive body for locating the drive receptacle of the inner drive body on a drive
              portion of the cable bolt for installing by inserting and spinning the cable within a
              bore hole, and
                           a released condition whereby the inner drive body is released from a
  5           holding condition by the holding means and thereafter adapted for displacement
              within the outer body to a position remote from the drive receptacle of the outer
              drive body such that the drive receptacle of the outer drive body can preferentially.
              engage a tensioning nut of the cable bolt for tensioning the cable bolt.
 10  The inner drive body and outer drive body can have longitudinally extending, substantially
     cylindrical bodies, which are open at least at one end.
     The holding means can include:
              a lateral recess opening in the outer drive body; and
 15           a mating guide pin on the inner drive body; and
              wherein in a holding condition the guide pin is received in the lateral opening of
      the outer drive body and substantially biased to remain in the holding condition by rotation
     of the outer drive body in an opposing direction.
20   The holding means can further include a longitudinal guide aperture which intersects a
     portion of the lateral recess, wherein when the holding means is released the longitudinal
     guide aperture slidably receives the guide pin of the inner drive body therein, whereby the
     inner drive body is slidably displaced within the outer drive body away from the drive
     receptacle of the outer drive body.
25
     The outer drive body can further include an inner shoulder located distal the drive
     receptacle for receiving a lower surface portion of the inner drive body in a seated
     condition when the holding means is released.
30   The inner drive body can include a stop surface beneath the drive receptacle for seating on
     the inner shoulder of the outer drive body.
                                                      6

    WO 2013/104019                                                                 PCT/AU2013/000014
      For a better understanding of the invention, and to show how it may be carried into effect,
      embodiments of it are shown, by way of non-limiting example only, in the accompanying
      drawings.
  5   Brief description of the drawings
      In the drawings:
      figure 1 is an isometric view of an embodiment of the present invention;
      figure 2 is an exploded isometric view of the device figure 1;
      figure 3 is a view, partly in section and partly in side elevation, illustrating the use of the
 10   device of figure 1;
     figure 4 is a further representation, part section and part side elevation, of the device in
     figure 1.
     Detailed Description of preferred embodiments of the invention with reference to the
 15  drawings
     Referring to the figures there is shown a combination tool 1 for use in installing a cable
     bolt into a bore hole (not shown) by inserting and spinning the cable, and thereafter
     tensioning the cable bolt. The tool I includes an outer drive body 2 and an inner drive
20   body 3, wherein the inner drive body is adapted to move within the outer body between an
     installation condition and a tensioning condition.
     The outer drive body 2 includes an upper drive receptacle end 120 and an opposite or
     lower open end 6 interconnected by a wall 12, whereby the lower end is adapted for
25   receiving a drill rig or the like (not shown) for rotating the outer drive body. The outer
     drive body further includes a hollow chamber 4 (best seen in figures 3 and 4) between the
     drive receptacle end and lower opposite end. The inner drive body 3 is sized to fit
     substantially co-axially within the outer drive body to allow sliding movement of the inner
     drive body within the hollow chamber 4 relative to the outer drive body, between a tool
30   installation condition (best seen in figures 1 and 3) and a tool tensioning condition (best
     seen in figure 4).
     As seen in figures 1 and 2, the outer body 2 includes a drive receptacle 5 adjacent the drive
     receptacle end 120 comprising a shaped cut out portion adapted to engage with a
                                                      7

    WO 2013/104019                                                               PCT/AU2013/000014
      tensioning nut 23 (refer figure 4) of the cable bolt in a tensioning position (figure 4). The
      lower end 6 of the outer drive body 2 forms a neck which is adapted for mounting or
      otherwise engaging with a conventional drill rig chuck (not shown) for advancing and
      rotation thereof. Alternatively in figure I there is shown neck 6 of the outer drive body
  5   having mounted thereon a drive shaft 7. The drive receptacle end 120 and opposite end 6
      of the outer drive body are interconnected by a wall 12 forming a substantially cylindrical
      body. In the wall 12 of the outer drive body 2 there is shown a pair of oppositely disposed
      guide apertures 13 and 13a
 10   Referring to figure 2, the inner drive body 3 includes an upper drive receptacle end 121
      and an opposite or lower open end 122 interconnected by a wall 123 forming a
     substantially cylindrical structure. The inner drive body includes a drive receptacle 8
     adjacent the drive receptacle end comprising a shaped cut out portion for operatingly
     engaging with a drive portion 22 or the like of a cable bolt in an installation condition.
 15  The inner drive body also includes a pair of oppositely located guide pins 9 and 9a and a
     stop member 10 mounted to the body opposite the drive receptacle end by a pin 11.
     The tool I further includes a holding means comprising mating components on the outer
     drive body and the inner drive body. As best seen in figure 2, guide pins 9 and 9a on the
20   inner drive body 3, and guide apertures 13 and 13a respectively on the outer drive body 2
     combine to hold the guide pins in recesses 14 and 14a in an installation condition. As
     shown, guide apertures 13 and 13a include a pair of oppositely disposed lateral recess
     portions 14 and 14a extending in opposite directions, and longitudinal recess openings 15
     and 15a which intersect the lateral recess portion forming oppositely disposed seats 16 and
25    16a.
     Referring to figure 3, the holding means is shown in a holding condition in which guide
     pins 9 and 9a are seated within lateral recess portions 14 and 14a in seats 16 and 16a. In
     this condition, the drive receptacle 8 of the inner drive body 3 is shown in engagement
30   with a drive end 22 of the cable bolt, and tensioning nut 23 of the cable bolt is shown in a
     substantially non-tensioned condition on threaded sleeve 40 (best seen in figure 4). As a
     drill rig (not shown), connected to neck portion of the outer drive body 2, begins to
     advance and rotate the outer body 2, the direction of rotation maintains the guide pins 9
     and 9a in a seated position within the lateral recesses 14 and 14a. In this particular

    WO 2013/104019                                                               PCT/AU2013/000014
     embodiment with the lateral recesses 14 and 14a extending to the left and away from
     respective longitudinal guide apertures, the drill rig will rotate the outer drive body away
     from the direction of the lateral recesses, i.e. clockwise so that centrifugal forces from
     rotation maintain an opposite force on the guide pins to retain the guide pins in the
  5  recesses in a seated condition. When the outer drive body spins or advances as urged by
     the drill rig (not shown), the inner drive body rotates in concert with rotation of the outer
     body, and while being maintained in a holding condition by the holding means, the drive
     receptacle of the inner drive body rotates the drive portion 22 and in turn advances and
     spins the cable within a bore hole (not shown).
 10
     During installation of a cable bolt, once the cable 25 has been advanced and rotated
     sufficiently to rupture and mix resin and catalyst cartridges placed within the bore hole
     (not shown), the drill rig maintains a force against the outer drive body for a period of time
     effective to maintain contact between roof plate 26 and ceiling of tunnel (not shown) and
15   to allow setting of the resin and anchoring of one end of the cable within the bore hole.
     Once the resin is set, the cable bolt can be tensioned. Ordinarily tensioning of the cable
     would require a drill rig operator to manually remove an installation socket and replace
     with a second tensioning socket. Not only is this time consuming because an operator has
    minimal space to move in hence cannot easily remove and replace tools, but working
20   safety may be compromised the longer it takes to undertake tensioning of the cable.
    Figure 4 shows the tool in a cable tensioning condition required by the present
    combination tool to apply tension to the cable. As shown in figure 4, the inner drive body
    has been ejected from its holding condition by displacing the guide pins from seated
25  locations, thereafter the inner body is slidably displaced within the chamber 4 of the outer
    drive body as guide pins allow slidable movement along longitudinal apertures 15 and
     15a. To achieve this condition the holding means has released the guide pins 9 and 9a (not
    shown) from the seated position in recesses 14 and 14a by spinning the outer body counter
    to the seated position. Once released from the seated position, the guide pins 9 and 9a
30  extend into longitudinal guide apertures, 15 and 15a respectively so that the inner drive
    body can slide away from the drive receptacle of the outer drive body and within the
    chamber 4. Outer drive body includes an internal annular shoulder 30 against which stop
    member 10 of the inner drive body is seated while the tool 1 is in a tensioning condition.
                                                     9

    WO 2013/104019                                                              PCT/AU2013/000014
      In the tool tensioning condition as shown in figure 4, the drive receptacle end 121 of the
     inner drive body is located within the chamber 4 remote from the drive receptacle 5 of the
     outer drive body 2 with stop member 10 seated against shoulder 30. In this released
     condition the drive receptacle of the outer drive body engages the cable bolt tensioning nut
  5  23. When a drill rig (not shown) starts to rotate, the outer drive body spins accordingly to
     wind the tensioning nut 23 on the threaded section 40 of the sleeve, thereby urging a
     domed washer 50 against an anchor plate 26, and in turn tensioning the cable to between
     about 4 to 6 ton and improving compressive forces by the cable against the rock (not
     shown).
 10
     While the present invention has been described with reference to a few specific
     embodiments, the description is illustrative of the invention and is not to be construed as
     limiting the invention. Various modifications may occur to those skilled in the art without
     departing from the true spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended
 15  claims.
     A reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
     acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that the referenced prior art forms part of the
     common general knowledge, whether in Australia or elsewhere.
20
     Throughout this specification, the words "comprise", "comprised", "comprising" and
     "comprises" are to be taken to specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps or
     components but does not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features,
     integers, steps, components or groups thereof.
25
     In the claims, each dependent claim is to be read as being within the scope of its parent
     claim or claims, in the sense that a dependent claim is not to be interpreted as infringed
     unless its parent claims are also infringed.
                                                     I0

      WO 2013/104019                                                           PCT/AU2013/000014
     The claims defining the invention are as follows:
     1.     A combination tool for installing and tensioning a cable bolt comprising:
            an inner drive body and an outer drive body, each drive body comprising a drive
  5  receptacle at one end, and the outer drive body having one end configured to mount a drill
     rig chuck or like device for rotating the outer drive body, the inner drive tool being
    slidably and substantially co-axially mounted within the outer drive body, the inner drive
    body being moveable relative to and substantially longitudinally within the outer drive
    body; and
 10         a releasable holding means on the inner and outer drive bodies whereby the inner
    drive body is moveable between:
                         a holding condition in which the holding means substantially maintains
            the drive receptacle of the inner drive body proximal the drive receptacle of the
            outer drive body for locating the drive receptacle of the inner drive body on a drive
 15         portion of the cable bolt for installing by inserting and spinning the cable within a
            bore hole, and
                         a released condition whereby the inner drive body is released from a
            holding condition by the holding means and thereafter adapted for displacement
            within the outer body to a position remote from the drive receptacle of the outer
20          drive body such that the drive receptacle of the outer drive body can preferentially
            engage a tensioning nut of the cable bolt for tensioning the cable bolt.
    2.      A combination tool for installation and tensioning a cable bolt according to claim 1
    wherein the inner drive body and outer drive body have longitudinally extending,
25  substantially cylindrical bodies, which are open at least at one end.
    3.      A combination tool for installation and tensioning a cable bolt according to claim I
    wherein the holding means includes:
            a lateral recess opening in the outer drive body; and
30          a mating guide pin on the inner drive body; and
            wherein in a holding condition the guide pin is received in the lateral opening of
    the outer drive body and substantially biased to remain in the holding condition by rotation
    of the outer drive body in an opposing direction.

    WO 2013/104019                                                           PCT/AU2013/000014
   4.       A combination tool for installation and tensioning a cable bolt according to claim 3
   wherein the holding means further includes a longitudinal guide aperture which intersects
   a portion of the lateral recess, wherein when the holding means is released the longitudinal
   guide aperture slidably receives the guide pin of the inner drive body therein, whereby the
 5 inner drive body is slidably displaced within the outer drive body away from the drive
   receptacle of the outer drive body.
   5.      A combination tool for installation and tensioning a cable bolt according to claim I
   wherein the outer drive body further includes an inner shoulder located distal the drive
1o receptacle for receiving a lower surface portion of the inner drive body in a seated
   condition when the holding means is released.
   6.      A combination tool for installation and tensioning a cable bolt according to claim 5
   wherein the inner drive body includes a stop surface beneath the drive receptacle for
15 seating on the inner shoulder of the outer drive body.
   7.      A combination tool for installation and tensioning a cable bolt in underground
   excavation works, the tool including:
20         an outer drive body having a first end adapted for operable engagement with a drill
   rig chuck or like rotary drill rig, and an opposite drive receptacle end having a cut-out
   shaped opening forming a drive receptacle for releasably engaging a tensioning nut of the
   cable bolt in a tensioning condition, the first and second ends being interconnected by a
   wall wherein the outer drive body is at least partially hollow forming an internal chamber;
25
           an inner drive body slidably received within the internal chamber of the outer drive
   body whereby the inner drive body comprises a first end and opposite drive receptacle end
   interconnected by a wall, and wherein the drive receptacle end includes a cut-out shaped
   portion forming a drive receptacle for releasably engaging the drive portion of a cable bolt
30 for installing the cable within a bore hole;
           a releasable holding means on the outer and inner drive bodies for releasably
   holding the inner drive body relative to the outer drive body within the chamber of the
   outer drive body in an installation condition, whereby in an installation condition the
                                                   12

     WO 2013/104019                                                            PCT/AU2013/000014
     holding means substantially maintains the drive receptacle end of the inner drive body
     proximal the drive receptacle end of the outer drive body to allow operating engagement
    of the drive receptacle of the inner drive body with the drive portion of the cable, whereby
    the drive end, and consequently cable bolt, is urgcd to advance and spin within a bore hole
  5 by action of a drill rig against the outer drive body; and
             wherein in a tensioning condition the holding means releases the inner drive body
    from the holding condition to allow the inner drive body to slidably move within the
    chamber to a position such that the drive receptacle end of the inner drive body is distal
 1o the drive receptacle end of the outer drive body, thereby allowing operational engagement
    of the drive receptacle of the outer drive body with a tensioning nut of the cable bolt,
    whereby the tensioning nut is urged to advance about a threaded sleeve portion of the
    cable bolt with rotary action of the drill rig against the outer drive body to tension the
    cable.
 15
    8.      A combination tool for installation and tensioning a cable bolt according to claim 7
    wherein the releasable holding means includes:
            a pair of oppositely disposed recesses located in a portion of the wall of the outer
    drive body proximal the second end thereof; and
20          a pair of oppositely disposed guide pins located on part of the wall of the inner
    drive body, wherein in a holding condition the oppositely disposed guide pins engage
    within the oppositely disposed recesses, and whereby rotation of the outer drive body
    substantially retains the guide pins within the respective recesses.
25  9.      A combination tool for installation and tensioning a cable bolt according to claim 8
    wherein the outer drive body includes a pair of oppositely disposed lateral cut out portions
    forming the recesses of the holding means, wherein the outer drive body further includes a
    pair of oppositely disposed longitudinal cut out guide portions each intersecting a
    respective cut out recess, and whereby the pair of longitudinal cut out portions form a
30  pathway for slidably receiving the oppositely disposed guide pins of the inner drive body
    when the guide pins are released from a holding condition so that the inner drive body can
    be displaced within the chamber away from the second end of the outer drive body.
                                                    13

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
